Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance statement Ensuring that our businesses are governed effectively, with Our governance framework strong controls, but without being constrained unnecessarily, is the challenge we set ourselves.
It is vital that we ensure G4S plc board this philosophy operates throughout the group.
Creating an effective board is part of that process and if the board is to do its job well it needs to reect the diversity of the CEO CFO organisation it governs, it must continually refresh and renew itself through planned succession and it must measure its own performance as well as monitoring the performance of the Risk Remuneration Audit CSR Nomination group.
In line with these principles, a number of steps have Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee been taken.
Two non-executive directors are due to retire after the companys Annual General Meeting on 6 June 2013 Regional Risk Group and the board has welcomed new members.
The committees Committees Internal Audit and their memberships have been reviewed and changes made.
In addition, the Risk Committee has been made a full board committee.
This report explains how the principles of the UK Regional Executive Capex Corporate Governance Code are applied as part of the way in Finance Committee Committee which we seek to achieve these aims.
John Connolly, Chairman Regional Management Compliance with the UK Corporate GovernanceCode The board sits at the top of the companys governance framework, The boards statement on the companys corporate governance setting broad strategic targets, monitoring progress, approving proposed performance is based on the UK Corporate Governance Code published actions and ensuring appropriate controls are in place and effective.
in June 2010 the Code which is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website https: www.
uk our-work publications Management decisions, development of strategies and policies and corporate-governance .
implementation of board decisions fall to the executive committee.
The Listing Rules require companies to disclose how they apply Regional management teams have responsibility for businesses within the Codes main principles and report how they have done so.
their regions and are tasked with implementing policies and controls TheCode recognises that alternatives to following its provisions at business levels, as well as ensuring they meet agreed financial goals.
may be justied in particular circumstances if good governance The presence of a majority of independent non-executive directors can beachieved by other means, provided the reasons are on the board ensures objectivity, challenge and debate.
It is the explained clearly and carefully.
In such cases, companies must primary responsibility of the board to provide effective leadership also illustrate how their actual practices are consistent with the for the group and this is done by, amongst other things, ensuring that principle in question and contribute to good governance.
decision making is conducted throughout the group within a strong The company complied throughout the year under review with internal control framework and by setting values and standards.
the provisions of the Code.
This section of the report sets out There is a detailed schedule of matters reserved to the board which how the company has applied these provisions.
is set out under 12 separate categories: strategy and management: structure and capital: financial reporting and controls: internal controls: contracts: communication: board membership and other appointments: remuneration: delegation of authority: corporate governance matters: policies: and other.
By way of example, board approval is required for: major investments, including the acquisition or disposal of any business worth more than 5m: entering into a sales contract where annual revenue is to be more than 50m: any changes to the groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: and the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
The board fulls a number of its most important functions through its committees.
Descriptions of the work of four of these committees are set out elsewhere in this report.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65 Governance Corporate governance statement continued In addition, the board has constituted a new Risk Committee, Conicts of interest which reports to both the chief executive and to the board, has Each of the directors has disclosed to the board any situations non-executive director representation and is chaired by the which apply to them as a result of which they have or may have an chairman of the board.
Its activities will be reported on in greater interest which conicts or may conict with the interests of the detail in the companys 2013 annual report.
In accordance with the companys articles of association, the board has authorised such matters.
The affected directors The terms of reference of the above committees are available on did not vote when their own positions were considered.
com the board deemed it appropriate, such authorisation was given subject to certain conditions.
The board reviews such matters Board balance onaregularbasis.
Board composition Board meetings, information ow, development The board comprises the non-executive chairman John Connolly, eight other non-executive directors, the chief executive NickBuckles, and induction the chief financial officer Trevor Dighton and the chief executive Meeting attendance in 2012 for the Americas region Grahame Gibson.
Theboard considers Scheduled Unscheduled all the non-executive directors to be independent.
The senior meetings meetings independent director is Lord Condon.
Executive directors The directors bring a wide range of skills and experience to the board.
Nick Buckles CEO 7 7 5 5 This experience and their roles on the board is described inmore Trevor Dighton CFO 7 7 5 5 detail on pages 54 to 57.
Grahame Gibson COO 7 7 3 5 Succession Non-executive directors John Connolly succeeded Alf Duch-Pedersen as chairman on Alf Duch-Pedersen chairman 4 4 1 1 8June 2012.
Adam Crozier and Paul Spence were appointed to the board as non-executive directors with effect from 1 January John Connolly chairman 3 3 4 4 2013.
Tim Weller, who has a broad knowledge of the energy and Mark Seligman deputy chairman 7 7 5 5 utilities sectors together with his experience of leading complex Lord Condon senior projects in strong international businesses, will join the board, also independent director 7 7 5 5 as a non-executive director, with effect from 1 April 2013.
Tim is an accountant by training and was a partner at KPMG before Mark Elliott 7 7 5 5 joining Granada plc as director of financial control.
Thereafter, Winnie Fok 7 7 4 5 heheld CFO positions with Innogy, RWE Thames Water, United Bo Lerenius 7 7 4 5 Utilities Group PLC and Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc.
He is Clare Spottiswoode 7 7 5 5 currently CFO of Petrofac Limited, the FTSE 100 international oil and gas service provider.
Board meetings and information ow Having completed nine years service as non-executive directors, Seven scheduled board meetings were held during the year ended Lord Condon and Bo Lerenius will retire from the board at 31 December 2012 and there were a further five additional full the conclusion of the companys AGM in 2013, at which time board meetings.
These additional meetings were mostly called Mark Elliott will take on the role of senior independent director.
at short notice and it was not always possible for all directors to The board will then comprise three executive directors, the attend.
Because of the circumstances surrounding the Olympic non-executive chairman and six other independent nonGames contract, a number of other conference calls and meetings executivedirectors.
were attended by many of the directors, albeit such meetings did not constitute full board meetings.
The process for selecting the new chairman was conducted by One of the scheduled board meetings was an extended strategy the Nomination Committee led by Lord Condon and assisted by review session at which presentations on development and anexternal recruitment consultant Zygos.
Mr Duch-Pedersen implementation of the companys strategy were made to the was not involved directly in the selection process for his successor.
board by senior executives and the board debated the companys The process for selecting the three other new non-executive strategy and business plans.
To further their understanding of directors was also conducted by the Nomination Committee the group and their relationship with the operating businesses, assisted by a different external recruitment consultant Spencer some non-executive directors were able to attend meetings and Stuart.
Mark Seligman, as deputy chairman, was co-opted conferences held by various regions and business units, following ontothecommittee for the purposes of both exercises.
which they reported back to the board on matters of interest.
Director re-election Prior to each meeting, comprehensive board papers are circulated The companys articles of association require that all continuing to the directors addressing not only the regular agenda items directors are subject to election by shareholders at the next on which the executives will report, but also details of any areas Annual General Meeting following their appointment and that requiring approval or decisions such as significant acquisitions or they submit themselves for re-election at least every three important market issues.
years and that at least one-third of the directors not standing for election for the first time stand for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
However, in accordance with the Code provision on re-election of directors, all the continuing directors will stand for re-election at that meeting.
66 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information At each meeting, the board then receives reports from the t A common risk management framework is used to provide chairman, the chief executive, the chief financial officer and the a prole of those risks which may have an impact on the company secretary, an HR report which includes summaries achievement of business objectives of developments on HR and health and safety matters and an t Each significant risk is documented, showing an overview of the investor relations report which includes analysts reviews and any risk, how the risk is managed, and any improvement actions.
comments received from major shareholders since the previous Riskappetite tolerance is considered in the context of the net after board meeting.
After meetings of the board committees, the controls and mitigation risk with a particular focus on High netrisks.
respective committee chairmen report to the board on the Tobe categorised as High a risk must meet at least one of the matters considered by each committee.
In addition, each month the following criteria: board receives management accounts, trading and financial updates, investor relations and HR reports.
major impact on the achievement of the business strategy: serious damage to business reputation: There are seven board meetings scheduled for the current year, including a two-day board and strategy meeting.
severe business disruption: impact of 5% 25m on operating profit or assets.
Induction and professional development When new non-executive directors are recruited, they have the t The risk proles ensure that internal audit reviews of the adequacy, opportunity to spend time with the executive directors and other application and effectiveness of risk management and internal senior executives to understand the business, its structure and controls are targeted on the key risks people as well as the companys strategy and financial performance.
t Risk management committees have been established at regional and In March 2013, Messrs Crozier, Spence and Weller met the Regional group level.
The regional committees meet at least annually and the CEOs who each presented an overview of their region.
This was group committee met quarterly.
A standard agenda covering risk followed by a question and answer session also attended by the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer.
and control issues is considered at each meeting and risk proles are reviewed and updated at each meeting In addition, the new directors are given the opportunity to visit t Risk and control self-evaluation exercises are undertaken for businesses, usually within a number of countries so they can each operating company, for most companies at least twice a begin to understand the groups operations.
In January 2013, John year, andupdated risk proles are prepared.
Similar exercises Connolly and Nick Buckles, visited the regional management team in the Asia and Middle East Region in Hong Kong and Delhi before are undertaken as part of the integration process for all major attending the regional conference of the Middle East in Dubai, acquisitions.
The results of the company risk evaluations are at which they met the regional and country management teams.
assessed by the regional risk management committees In February 2013, John Connolly, Mark Elliott and Paul Spence The process, which is reviewed regularly by the board in accordance attended the North American regional management conference with the internal control guidance for directors in the UK Corporate in Miami.
Prior to the conference, as part of his induction, Governance Code, is carried out under the overall supervision of Mr Spence attended a session with the Americas regional the group risk committee.
This committee includes all the members management team, who provided an overview of the businesses of the group executive.
In 2013, a new Risk Committee, which in region, as well as opportunities and challenges there.
reports to the board and the chief executive has been constituted.
Meeting regional and country staff continues throughout a Both the divisional risk management committees and the group risk directors time on the board, as does continuing professional committee receive internal audit reports and regular reports on development, usually in areas where the director has specic risks.
They monitor the actions taken to manage risks.
The internal control system includes clearly dened reporting lines and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and Risk management and internal control monthly reporting system, and written policies and procedures.
The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the groups In addition to a wide range of internal audit reports, senior system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
management also receive assurance from other sources including The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the security inspections, third party reviews, company financial risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only controlreviews, external audit reports, summaries of whistleprovide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material blowing activity, fraud reports and risk and control self-evaluations.
The group has in place robust internal control and risk The risks associated with the groups activities are reviewed management systems for financial reporting.
The group has a regularly by the board, which assesses the groups risk appetite single global consolidation system which is used for both internal tolerance, considers major risks and evaluates their impact on management reporting, budgeting and planning as well as external the group.
Policies and procedures, which are reviewed and reporting.
Thegroup has a comprehensive budgeting process monitored by the head of group internal audit, are in place to with the budget being approved by the board.
Forecasts for the deal with any matters which may be considered by the board year are reported at least quarterly.
Actual results at business topresent significant exposure.
unit, region and group level are reported monthly and variances are reviewed.
Aprogramme of business internal financial reviews is The key features of the groups risk management process, which was in place throughout the year under review and, subject to performed by a finance team from either region or group to check the accuracy of financial reporting and compliance with the group the changes to the Risk Committee described elsewhere in this report, since, are: finance manual.
Because G4S Government Solutions, Inc. GSI is governed through a proxy agreement under which the group is excluded from access to operational information, it is not subject to the same risk management process as is applied to other group companies.
The board has however satisfied itself as to the adequacy of the internal control processes adopted by GSI which include a risk review by an external advisor.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67 Governance Corporate governance statement continued The Audit Committee undertakes a high level review of risk Board performance review management and internal control each year.
As well as the above In 2012, the performance of the board and its committees was processes and sources of assurance the Audit Committee also evaluated using a questionnaire-based self assessment process considers the following year end reporting in conducting this review: which was then interpreted and reported on by the external consultancy Lintstock which conducted an externally facilitated t Summary of 2012 internal audit work including update on all open evaluation of the board and its committees performance in audits with a deficient rating, analysis of results by region, common audit 2011.
Reports generated by this process were considered by the findings and areas identied for improvement in internal controls board, the chairman and by each of the Audit, Remuneration, t Summary of 2012 Internal Financial Reviews including Nomination and CSR committees.
significant accounting or financial control issues and common Following consideration of the reports, the board has agreed a concerns identied setof primary objectives for its work in 2013 which will include: t Overview of year end financial control status reports completed effectively transitioning to the revised board membership: by all businesses conrming adherence to group standards withany exceptions reported articulating clearly the companys strategy: t A broad overview of the general risk management and internal reviewing senior executive succession planning: control systems in place during the year.
building closer relationships with shareholders: t Year end group risk prole spending more time understanding the operations undertaken t External audit year end reporting on financial controls by the group: and and accounting reviewing the approach to providing information to the board.
The Audit Committee has confirmed that it is satisfied that the In addition, the reports considered the performance of the groups risk management and internal control processes and chairman and each board member and were used to inform procedures are appropriate.
the discussion about the chairmans performance, which was conducted by the senior independent director without the The board has reviewed the groups risk management and internal chairman beingpresent.
The chairman has also conducted control system for the year to 31 December 2012 by considering discussions with individual directors which, amongst other reports from the Audit Committee and has taken account of things, allowed the chairman to review directors training events since 31 December 2012. anddevelopment needs.
The chairman also held meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives being present.
Relations with shareholders The company actively seeks to engage with shareholders and, during 2012, senior management had extensive contact with shareholders representing more than 60% of the share register via more than 200 individual meetings and 100 telephone conversations.
If index passive fund shareholders are excluded, senior management had contact with more than 80% of the share register in 2012.
In May, the chief executive, chief financial officer and regional CEOs presented to institutional investors at the groups annual Capital Markets Day which is video webcast and available on the group website.
Additional results meetings are held twice a year for the preliminary and half-yearly results announcements and conference calls are arranged for the Interim Management Statements.
Upon taking up his position as chairman in June, John Connolly met with most of the companys major shareholders.
Subsequently, Mr Connolly maintained contact with those shareholders during the Olympics contract issues and following the board review into the Olympics contract.
It is intended that all the directors will attend, and be available to answer questions at, the Annual General Meeting which is an important opportunity for communication between the board and shareholders, particularly private shareholders.
Atthe Annual General Meeting, the meeting is informed of the numbers of proxy votes cast and the same information ispublished subsequently onthe companys website.
68 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Audit Committee Board committees The Audit Committee oversees financial reporting and the effectiveness of financial and regulatory compliance, controls The Nomination Committee and systems.
It also manages the boards relationship with This year proved to be a busy one for the Nomination the groups external auditor, which includes agreeing its fee Committee and there have been several changes to the board.
and assessing its independence and effectiveness, as well as I joined the board when I took over the role as chairman after discussing the nature and scope of the audit and reviewing the the AGM in June 2012.
In light of the forthcoming retirements external auditors quality control procedures and steps taken of Lord Condon and Bo Lerenius after the AGM in 2013, the to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements.
committee initiated an extensive selection process to identify The work of the committee supports key events in the groups suitable candidates to both replace them and to ensure that financial calendar and financial reporting cycle.
In addition, the board membership represents the wide range of skills and committee monitors the effectiveness of the groups internal experience it needs.
audit function and reviews its material findings.
John Connolly Mark Seligman Membership and meeting attendance in 2012 Membership and meeting attendance in 2012 Director Meetings attended Director Meetings attended Alf Duch-Pedersen former Mark Seligman chairman 4 4 chairman 4 4 Lord Condon 4 4 John Connolly chairman 3 3 Winnie Fok 4 4 Lord Condon 7 7 Bo Lerenius 3 4 Mark Elliott 7 7 Mr Seligman is the member of the Audit Committee with recent Mr Duch-Pedersen left the committee and Mr Connolly took and relevant financial experience.
Since 24 January 2013, Adam over as its chairman upon Mr Duch-Pedersens retirement and Crozier and Paul Spence have been members of the committee MrConnollys appointment following the companys 2012 AGM.
and Lord Condon and Ms Fok have left.
Tim Weller will join Since 24 January 2013, the membership of the committee has the committee when he is appointed to the board on 1 April changed and Adam Crozier has joined and Lord Condon has left.
and MrLerenius will leave upon his retirement following the companys 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Role The Nomination Committee is responsible for making Audit Committee meetings are attended by representatives of recommendations on board appointments and on maintaining a the group auditor, the chief financial officer, the group financial balance ofskills and experience on the board and its committees.
controller, the head of group internal audit and the company Succession planning for the board is a matter which is devolved secretary.
The chairman of the board will in future attend primarily tothe Nomination Committee, although the meetings from time to time in agreement with the chairman of committees deliberations are reported to and debated by the the committee.
The board itself also regularly reviews more general Role succession planning for the senior management of the group.
The committee considers the groups annual and half-yearly Key activities during 2012 financial statements as well as interim management statements The committee led the process by which the new chairman was in certain circumstances and any questions raised by the auditor appointed by the board.
It has also been responsible for the on the financial statements and financial systems.
It also reviews, process whereby three new non-executive directors have been amongst other matters, the groups financial reporting and recruited in order to refresh the board in readiness for the internal auditing processes, whistle-blowing arrangements, risk retirement of Lord Condon and Bo Lerenius and to strengthen management procedures and internal controls.
the board generally in light of the findings of the Olympics contract review conducted by the board.
The board committee memberships of the non-executive directors were evaluated and proposals for changes in 2013 were proposed.
The changes have now been implemented and further details of these changes can be found in the relevant section relating to eachcommittee.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 69 Governance Corporate governance statement continued External auditor The CSR Committee The Audit Committee recommended that the board should The CSR Committee, established in January 2011, aims to re-appoint the existing external auditor having reviewed its ensure that corporate social responsibility is an integral performance of audit services for the company, reports on the part of the groups strategy and that the group continues to performance of the rm as a whole, its independence given the have a positive impact on people and communities, whilst non-audit services it provides to the group and its policy and contributing to a sustainable future for the business and practice on audit partner rotation, as well as the cost of its services.
2012 was a busy year for the In accordance with that policy, the lead audit partner changed committee, which oversaw the preparation and roll-out during the year.
On 31 December 2011, Tony Cates completed of several initiatives ranging from human rights to road two years as audit lead partner and five years before that as a safety.
Committee members also engaged with investors on key partner, and so was succeeded by John Luke as lead partner.
CSR issues and hosted a meeting with socially responsible The committee will continue to keep the matter of the choice of investors to update them on the groups corporate external auditor under review at regular intervals.
So as to ensure that the independence of the audit is not Mark Elliott compromised, the Audit Committee maintains a policy on the provision by the external auditor of non-audit services.
Besides its formal audit function, the auditor is permitted to provide consultation Membership and meeting attendance in 2012 and due diligence services related to mergers and acquisitions, audits Director Meeting attendance of employee benefit plans, reviews of internal accounting and control policies and general advice on financial reporting standards.
Where Mark Elliott chairman 5 5 the fees for such services are significant, prior approval of the Winnie Fok 3 5 committee is required.
The auditor is also prohibited from providing Bo Lerenius 4 5 other services without specic permission from the Audit Committee.
Clare Spottiswoode 5 5 The provision of any non-audit services by the audit rm must in any event comply with the requirements in that regard of the Auditing Practices Board.
Paul Spence joined the committee on 24 January 2013.
Following the companys 2013 AGM, Mr Lerenius will leave the committee Particular areas of focus when he retires from the board and Mr Elliott will also leave the t consideration of the financial impact and disclosure of issues committee.
Ms Spottiswoode will then become its chair.
relating to delivery of the Olympics contract Role t review of the treatment of other exceptional items The CSR Committees duties include reviewing and agreeing the t consideration of the decisions to treat certain businesses as groups CSR strategy, developing policies on various CSR related discontinued, and their presentation in the nancialstatements matters for consideration by the board, reviewing the activities t agreeing the scope of the work for both the external auditor of the executives who are responsible for matters which are and the group internal audit function, including the linkage to the CSR related and monitoring performance of the group against its principal risks identied for the group and materiality limits to policies and any associated targets.
It also takes responsibility for the companys CSR report.
The companys separate CSR report beapplied for 2012 provides more detail on the groups CSR strategy and the t review of the companys status as a going concern progress it has made during the year.
A brief summary of some the t monitoring of the implementation of enhanced business ethics issues which that report addresses are set out on pages 48 to 52. policies intended to ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act Key activities during 2012 and other relevant legislation The CSR Committees first meeting as a full board committee was held t consideration of and decision on how best to use the groups in January 2012.
It has agreed with the board its terms of reference and external auditor to supplement the groups internal audit team in inuenced the tone and content of the companys 2011 CSR Report.
testing key financial controls It has also similarly reviewed the content of the companys 2012 CSR t receiving presentations on financial controls and significant issues Report.
In addition, during the year the committee has overseen the from the finance directors for each of the groupsregions groups implementation of its revised business ethics policy, approved a human rights policy and guidelines and examined the way the group t receiving a presentation from the groups director of operates whistle-blowing hotlines and is working to improve health and reconciliations, dealing with the operational integrity of the cash safety for its employees, and particularly in relation to road safety.
With solutionsbusinesses regard to road safety, a number of initiatives have taken place around t receiving a presentation from the groups head of IT security the group.
The CSR Committee reviewed the work of a new road safety steering group, which was set up in 2012.
Its aim is to produce and disseminate basic road safety guidance to employees who operate The auditor has written to the Audit Committee conrming that, in its opinion, it is independent.
in those countries with the highest road incident records.
The scheme is currently being piloted in a number of countries.
Other initiatives include speed limiters and monitoring equipment being tted on company vehicles.
70 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration Committee Membership and meeting attendance in 2012 Director Meeting attendance Lord Condon chairman 5 5 Mark Elliott 5 5 Mark Seligman 5 5 Clare Spottiswoode 5 5 The role and work of the Remuneration Committee is more fully described in the Directors remuneration report which appears on pages 72 to 81.
Risk Committee Membership Director John Connolly chairman Nick Buckles Trevor Dighton Paul Spence Tim Weller will become a member of the Risk Committee when he joins the board on 1 April 2013.
Role The Risk Committee will advise the board on the groups overall risk appetite, develop the groups risk management strategy, advise the board on risk exposures, review the level of risk within the group and assess the effectiveness of the groups risk management systems.
Key activities Since the Risk Committee did not exist as a board committee until 2013, its activities will be reported on in the companys 2013report.
By order of the board Peter David Secretary 12 March 2013 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71
