Strategic review Resources and relationships Organisational structure Employees G4S is managed through a regional G4S has more than 620,000 employees structure, led by four regional and operations in over 125 countries.
As at the end of December 2012, G4S employees were located as follows: Theregional CEOs are members ofthe Group Executive team.
By geographical segment 2012 Europe 124,100 20% At a strategic level, the CEO and CFO monitor the groups North America 58,600 9% investments and performance across the two main service Asia 207,800 34% lines of secure solutions and cash solutions, which have different business models.
At an operational level, our Middle East 44,500 7% business is managed on a geographic basis.
Africa 111,400 18% Latin America and Caribbean 74,100 12% Regional performance is reviewed by the group CEO and CFO on a monthly basis and a business review Total average number of employees 620,500 100% process is implemented throughout each region to ensure good visibility of business performance and issues on an Of the total workforce, approximately 90% are employed ongoingbasis.
in front-line positions delivering services to customers with the remainder working in management, supervisory Our structure enables us to deliver our strategic objectives, maintain a strong governance framework, and support roles.
develop integrated solutions, target key regional markets and build long-term customer relationships.
G4S has set standards to ensure that all employees are treated with respect, dignity and fairness.
These standards cover issues such as health and safety, diversity and See pages 58 to 61 for Group Executive inclusion, transparent and fair procedures for dealing with teambiographies.
disciplinary matters, grievances and redundancies, reward and recognition, and labour relations and freedom of Revenue by region association.
Local line and human resources managers are % responsible for ensuring compliance with these standards.
7% Africa See pages 48 to 52 or the G4S 2012 CSR Report 28% Americas 17% Asia Middle East for more information on employee representation and engagement.
The G4S brand The group was created in 2004 through the merger of the 24% Europe security business of Group 4 Falck and Securicor.
Today, 24% UK and Ireland just nine years later, the G4S brand is widely recognised as a leader in security solutions.
This is particularly the case in our major developed markets and in some key developing markets where we are one of the few international security companies with a localpresence.
Financial resources The group continues to have strong cash ow generation, equivalent to 95% of PBITA in 2012, well above the target of 85%, and this is one of the key performance indicators for G4S management.
In addition, the groups funding position is strong, with sufficient headroom and available committed facilities to finance current investment plans.
See the Financial review on pages 42 and 45.
30 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Grahame Gibson Dan Ryan Willem van fide Ven Richard Morris Regional CEO Regional CEO Regional CEO Regional CEO Americas Asia Middle East Europe UK and Ireland Our role in society Stakeholder relationships G4S plays an important role in society.
G4S engages with multiple We make a difference by helping stakeholders on a variety of issues.
people to operate in safe and secure Customers The very nature of G4Ss business requires its environments where they can thrive management and employees to understand its and prosper and we believe this role customers business issues and risks and provide appropriate solutions.
Customer engagement also can only grow in importance.
helps to improve customer service and to develop new Furthermore, managing our relationships with customers, services to help customers achieve their own goals.
employees and communities, and mitigating our impact on Employees and their representatives the environment is fundamental to our strategy because As a service business, G4S is judged on its service delivery it reinforces employee loyalty and helps us attract new and the difference it can make for customers it is essential employees.
It helps us secure new customers and retain that employees understand their role in service delivery, are existing ones.
Investors expect high standards of ethics and trained well, rewarded appropriately, have the right tools responsible business practices.
for the job and are motivated to deliver a quality service.
Athird of the groups employees are represented by a union Our values or collective bargaining method.
G4S works with unions, union federations and other employee representatives to Customer focus improve standards for employees and to make sure any We have close, open relationships with our issues are dealt with appropriately and consistently.
customers that generate trust and we work See the 2012 CSR report for more detail.
in partnership for the mutual benefit of ourorganisations Investors Attracting appropriate investment in the group enables G4S to develop its business and to continue to invest in its Expertise growth strategies.
Ensuring that its strategies and practices We develop and demonstrate our expertise are aligned to investor needs and principles is a core through our innovative and leading-edge approach element of developing investor confidence and ensuring to creating and delivering the right solution that the group continues to attract the investment itrequires.
Performance Industry bodies We challenge ourselves to improve performance As an international leader in its sector G4S willingly takes year-on-year and to create long-term sustainability on responsibility for establishing strong benchmarks wherever it operates, and plays a pivotal role in raising standards in the wider industry and society as a whole.
Many G4S managers and employees play an active role in Best people industry bodies and associations across the world.
We always take care to employ the best people, develop their competence, provide opportunities Governments and legislators and inspire them to live our values In addition to creating and implementing legislation, governments are also some of the groups largest customers and are therefore an important stakeholder for the group.
G4S supports regulation which is designed to improve Integrity standards and proactively encourages it where possible.
We can always be trusted to do the right thing It is important to ensure that legislative developments do not create unfair competitive environments or unnecessary burdens on businessactivities.
Teamwork and collaboration Experts We collaborate for the benefit of G4S as a whole Experts on specic topics help the group to ensure that its policies and practices are aligned with best practice in many areas such as its environmental impact, health and safety and human rights.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31
