COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Genus is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
Throughout the year ended 30 June 2012, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which is publicly available at www.
This Statement, which forms partof the Directors Report together with the Audit Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 66, describe how the Company has applied the principles ofcorporate governance as set out in the Code.
THE WORKINGS OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES THE BOARD The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and currently comprises two Executive Directors, the Non-Executive Chairman and three other Non-Executive Directors.
Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 38 and 39.
The Board considers that the Directors have a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring effective judgement to bear onissues of strategy, performance, resourcing and standards of conduct which are vital to the success of the Group.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent.
The Board met eight times in the period of this report and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval including setting and monitoring Group strategy, reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining major capital expenditure projects and acquisition possibilities, approval of material contracts, formulating policy on key issues and reporting to shareholders.
Additional Board meetings can be held if necessary to consider matters that are time critical.
The Board delegates authority to the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, other members of the Genus Executive Leadership Team and their management teams to make day-to-day operating decisions to ensure the proper management of the Groups business and implementation of the Boards approved strategy.
In turn, they recommend strategy and plans to the Board, make routine decisions on resources and ensure that robust operational and financial controls are in place.
Members of the regional management teams are invited on a regular basis to make presentations to the Board and participate in certain aspects of strategic reviews.
The Chairman, Bob Lawson, has primary responsibility for running the Board.
The Chief Executive, Karim Bitar, has executive responsibility for achieving operational and financial targets and for executing the Groups strategy.
Clear divisions of accountability and responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive have been agreed by the Board and are set out in writing.
The Companys Senior Non-Executive Director is Nigel Turner who is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel and to independent professional advice as required.
In addition, the Company ensures that the Directors receive appropriate training as and when necessary.
To ensure the Board is able to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information, with Board packs being issued to all Directors well in advance of Board meetings.
The Group Company Secretary & General Counsel ensures that Board procedures are followed and that statutory and regulatory requirements are complied with.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 47 Corporate Governance Statement continued The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2012 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman Non-Executive Bob Lawson 8 8 3 2 2 0 0 Executive Directors Karim Bitar 8 8 3 2 0 0 0 Richard Wood 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 John Worby 8 8 3 2 n a Non-Executive Directors Nigel Turner 8 8 3 3 2 2 0 0 Mike Buzzacott 7 8 3 3 2 2 0 0 Barry Furr 6 8 2 3 2 0 0 Note: Figures in brackets indicate maximum number of meetings in the period when the individual was a Board member, as a member of the relevant Committee.
On 25 May 2011, the Company announced the retirement of Richard Wood with effect from 30 September 2011 and the appointment of Karim Bitar as a Director with effect from 1 September 2011 and as Chief Executive of the Company with effect from 30September2011.
The Nomination Committee met in the period since the end of the financial year and before the date of this report.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee, comprising Mike Buzzacott Chairman, Nigel Turner and Barry Furr, met three times in the period of this report and has formal terms of reference that are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
At the invitation of the Committee, meetings are attended by the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Groups internal and external auditors.
Minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring a wide range of matters including the financial reporting process, the integrity of the Groups financial statements, the effectiveness of the Groups accounting systems and control environment including risk management, the Groups internal audit function, the effectiveness and independence of the Groups external auditors including the provision of any additional services to the Group, and the Groups reporting to shareholders.
The Audit Committee Report set out on pages 52 and 53 provides details of the role and activities of the Committee and its relationship with the internal and external auditors.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee, comprising Nigel Turner Chairman, Bob Lawson, Mike Buzzacott and Barry Furr, met twice in the period of this report to review the performance of the Executive Directors and the Genus Executive Leadership Team, and to recommend their remuneration and other benefit packages, including performance related bonus schemes, pension rights and share incentives.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Board as a whole sets the remuneration of the Non-Executives.
The Remuneration Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee which includes details of Directors remuneration and Directors interests in share awards is shown on pages 54 to 66.
THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee, comprising Bob Lawson Chairman, Nigel Turner, Mike Buzzacott, Barry Furr and Karim Bitar, is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance and structure of the Board.
The Committee has written terms of reference covering the authority delegated to it by the Board.
Its duties include reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes, giving full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior executives taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates on merit to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise with due regard for the benets of diversity on the Board, including gender, it being acknowledged that the Committees primary goal is to identify the most appropriate candidates to join the Board.
48 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SCIENCE COMMITTEE During the financial year the Boards Science Committee was chaired by Professor Barry Furr and had the responsibility of developing and recommending to the Board the Companys research and development strategy that would allow Genus to extend its leading position in livestock breeding by scientific innovation and monitoring progress of individual projects.
The Committee met three times in the period.
With effect from 1 July 2012, the Science Committee was dissolved and its responsibilities assumed by a Research & Development Project Management Team with Professor Barry Furr being retained as scientific Advisor.
TERMS OF REFERENCE The terms of reference for the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee are available on the Companys website: www.
BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Company.
Each year the Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Board, led by the Chairman and supported by the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel, carried out an evaluation of performance in the period using a system based on the use of a questionnaire and one-to-one meetings between the Chairman andthe individual Directors.
The Board met to discuss the conclusions of the evaluation exercise.
The performance evaluation exercise focused on matters such as the effectiveness, expertise and dynamics of the Board together with matters such as Board support, strategic and operational risk management and internal controls, succession planning and management of human resources, corporate governance and the effectiveness of the Boards Committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation exercise showed the Board and its Committees to be working well.
Recommendations for improvement have been agreed and will be implemented in the currentnancial year.
These have included 1 increasing the number of Board meetings to be held across the Groups global operations enabling the Board to gain a greater understanding of the geographic and operational opportunities: 2 continuing to increase the strategic element of Board meetings: and 3 continue the Boards greater focus on succession planning and people development.
The Board is satisfied that each Director has sufficient skills, knowledge and familiarity withtheCompany to full their role: continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to their role.
The Chairman ensures that the Directors continually update their skillsand the knowledge and familiarity with the Company required to full their role both on theBoard and on Board Committees.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating its Directors knowledge and capabilities.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Group Company Secretary & General Counsels responsibilities include ensuring good information ows within the Board and its Committees and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required.
All Directors receive induction on joining the Board.
As part of their role as members of a unitary Board, Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting ofperformance.
They satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
They are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors and have a prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing, Executive Directors, and in succession planning.
During the period, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met regularly as a group without the Executive Directors present.
Under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, the Non-Executive Directors have also met without the Chairman present to discuss appropriate issues and appraise the Chairmans performance, taking account of the views expressed by the Executive Directors.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 49 Corporate Governance Statement continued SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS The Company has a continuing dialogue with institutional investors through a planned programme of investor relations.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director meet frequently with representatives of institutional shareholders and private client brokers and from time to time the Chairman attends some of these meetings.
Feedback from these meetings including that prepared by independent brokers and advisors is discussed at Board meetings enabling all Directors, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, to understand the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director also maintain contact with major shareholders.
The Board takes the opportunity at the Annual General Meeting to meet and communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their involvement.
The Company Overview and Business Review on pages 2 to 37 provide a detailed review of the Groups performance and future developments.
Bob Lawson, Mike Buzzacott, Nigel Turner and Barry Furr will be available to answer questions as Chairmen of the Board and its Committees at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 November 2012.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board has applied the Code by establishing a structured risk management system which identies, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties affecting the Group and actively reviews control and mitigation activities.
The system applies on an ongoing basis to each business unit of the Group worldwide, divisional business reviews, the Genus Executive Leadership Team, the Companys Audit Committee and the Main Board.
The Companys management structure is described further below.
The Main Board has continued to enhance the Groups risk management system during the year by each of the regional businesses conducting facilitated risk management workshops, the results of which were reviewed by the Genus Executive Leadership Team, the Audit Committee and the Main Board.
During the period, the Groups internal audit activities were the responsibility of an internal Head of Internal Audit and the internal audit activities were outsourced to Ernst & Young LLP and KPMG LLP who were tasked to audit specic key business risks identied by the Companys risk management system and agreed by the Board.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with the Code, the Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and the Groups financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by this report.
The assessment considered the work programme of the Companys internal audit function and management reports prepared at the time of the approval of the Companys interim and final reports and financial statements to consider whether significant risks were identied, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses had arisen and the remedial action that had been taken.
The management reports were based on the output of detailed risk workshops conducted by the Group centrally and regionally in the year, and responses received to comprehensive questionnaires issued to each of the Groups business units and regional management.
In addition, risk events and controls that had been recognised through the Groups other means of day-to-day risk management namely the divisional business reviews, Genus Executive Leadership Team meetings, Main Board meetings and insurers reviews were considered.
Whilst areas are routinely identied for improvement, during the course of its review of the system of internal control the Board has neither identied nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be material or significant.
The key elements of the Groups internal control and risk management systems are as follows: MANAGEMENT OF BUSINESS RISK The Board is ultimately responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group.
The key risks identied as part of this process and the mitigating actions to control such risks are summarised on pages 32 and 33.
The Board, the Genus Executive Leadership Team and their management teams are tasked with the responsibility for the ongoing identication, assessment, management, monitoring and reporting to risks that ensure the significant risks affecting the Company are properly identied and managed.
Further enhancements were madein the Companys management of business risk in the year by the constructive use ofGroup-wide facilitated risk management workshops.
50 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Authority to operate the Groups subsidiary companies is delegated to the Chief Executive, GenusExecutive Leadership Team, and their management teams within limits set by the Board.
The appointment of executives to the most senior positions within the Group requires the approval of the Board.
Formal empowerment levels, which set out delegation of authority, authorisation levels and other control procedures, are in place.
These procedures are supplemented by operating standards set by the Genus Executive Leadership Team and their management teams, as required for the type of business and the geographical location of each subsidiary.
The Genus Executive Leadership Team, chaired by the Chief Executive and comprising the Group Finance Director, the Chief Operating Ofcers, the Chief Science officer, the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel, the Group HR Director and other executives by invitation meets on a regular basis to review the Groups performance against its budget, longand short-term strategies, risk management and other key business issues, indicators and activities.
In addition, monthly business review meetings are held between each business unit and the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel and the Group Financial Controller.
INFORMATION AND FINANCIAL REPORTING SYSTEMS The Groups current planning and financial reporting procedures include detailed operational budgets for the year ahead together with the preparation of three-year strategic plans, which theBoard reviews and approves.
Performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year through monthly reporting of financial results, key performance indicators and variances, updated full year forecasts and information on key business risk areas.
The main features of internal control and risk management systems in relation to the process for preparing consolidated accounts are segregation of duties, a robust consolidation and reporting system, various levels of management review and reconciliation processes.
QUALITY AND INTEGRITY OF PERSONNEL The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards enhanced by post-recruitment training courses.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment as is the maintenance of high ethical standards.
INVESTMENT APPRAISAL Capital expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and predetermined authorisation levels.
For expenditure above specic levels, detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the Board.
Due diligence work is carried out if a business is to be acquired.
Major projects and all acquisitions are subject to post-implementation reviews on a timely basis.
Areas of under performance against expectations and any significant overspends are investigated and corrective action is taken where required.
APPROVAL This statement was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: BOB LAWSON CHAIRMAN 3 SEPTEMBER 2012 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 51 Audit Committee Report SUMMARY OF THE ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that at least one member of the Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience and the Company fulls this requirement.
All members of the Committee are expected to be nancially literate.
The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: ` monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: MIKE BUZZACOTT ` CHAIRMAN OF THE reviewing the Groups financial systems, internal financial controls and the Groups internal AUDITCOMMITTEE control and risk management systems: ` monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function in the context of the Groups overall risk management system: ` making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: ` reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: ` reviewing the policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant professional and regulatory guidance and monitoring compliance: ` ensuring the Company maintains suitable arrangements for employees to raise matters of concern in confidence: and ` reviewing the Companys systems and controls for the prevention of bribery.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
MEETINGS The Audit Committee is required to meet at least three times a year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar in the period.
Each Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on matters relevant to its terms of reference in addition to the cyclical items.
The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend its meetings.
The Companys Chairman is not a member of the Committee but does attend its meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
Other members of management are invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
OVERVIEW OF THE ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE TO DISCHARGE ITS DUTIES In the year ended 30 June 2012 and up to the date of this report the Audit Committee has: ` reviewed the Financial Statements in the 2012 Annual Report and the Financial Statements inthe 2012 Interim Report.
As part of this review the Committee received reports from management on significant issues affecting the Financial Statements, and reports from the external auditors on their audit of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and review of the Interim Report: ` considered the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: ` reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and disclosures made in the Annual Report and Financial Statements on this matter: ` reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors: ` met with the external auditors, without management being present: ` agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of the 2012 Financial Statements and review of the Interim Report: ` reviewed the independence and performance of the external auditors: ` agreed a work programme for the Companys internal audit function: ` received reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the work undertaken by internal audit and management responses to proposals made in the audit reports issued by the function during the year: ` reviewed the performance of the internal audit function: ` met with the Head of Internal Audit, without management being present: ` reviewed its own effectiveness and terms of reference: ` reviewed the Groups tax strategy and the Groups pension arrangements: ` reviewed the Companys policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: and ` reviewed the Groups whistle-blowing policy and bribery prevention procedures.
52 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EXTERNAL AUDITORS Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the independence, objectivity and performance of the external auditors, and for making a recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment of external auditors on an annual basis.
The Groups external auditors, Deloitte LLP, were first appointed as external auditor of the Company for the period ended 30 June 2006 following a formal tender process.
The Groups policy on non-audit services sets out services which the external auditors will and willnot be allowed to provide to the Group, addressing both the nature of services and monetary thresholds requiring approval by the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee Chairman.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte are retained for tax advisory and tax compliance services.
Note 8 to the Financial Statements sets out the fees paid to Deloitte during the year for audit services, audit related services and non-audit services.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the use of Deloitte for such services does not impair their independence as the Groups external auditors.
The Companys Non-Audit Services by Auditors Policy can be found on the Companys website www.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee has reviewed a report from management on the effectiveness of the external audit work based on questionnaires completed by key financial staff and members of the Audit Committee covering matters such as: ` the external auditors fullment of the agreed audit plan: ` the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: ` the content of the external auditors reports: and ` cost effectiveness.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the external auditors be reappointed for a further year.
A new senior statutory audit partner was selected by the Company in 2011 due tothe previous senior audit partner having held ofce for five years.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function in the context of the Groups overall risk management system.
The Companys Head of Internal Audit is responsible for the overall management of internal audit.
In fullling its responsibilities, the Committee has reviewed the following in the period: ` the scope, terms of reference, resource and activities of the internal audit function within theGroup: ` internal audits plans and its achievement of the planned activity: ` the internal auditors reports on the results of individual audits and other significant findings, the adequacy of managements response and the timeliness of resolution of the matters raised in such reports: ` the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by internal audit: and ` the performance of the internal auditors.
The Groups whistle-blowing policy contains arrangements for the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to the Audit Committee.
OVERVIEW As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference.
It has also ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, and has assisted the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
APPROVAL This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: MIKE BUZZACOTT CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 3 SEPTEMBER 2012 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 53 Directors Remuneration Report LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 3 September 2012 Dear Shareholder As highlighted in the Company Overview and Business Review, the year ended 30 June 2012 has been another year of progress which has seen substantial organic growth delivered at the same time as the completion of a strategic review of the business that identied the potential for an improved rate of growth from 2014 onwards.
With regards to the performance delivered during the year under review, the Group achieved year on year profit growth of 19%, a reduction in net debt of 17% and made substantial progress in terms of the delivery of certain key strategic milestones.
As a result, bonuses were paid to the NIGEL TURNER current Chief Executive and Group Finance Director at 77% of the salary earned respectively CHAIRMAN OF THE during the year under review.
In current economic conditions, the level of performance achieved REMUNERATION COMMITTEE is considered by the Committee to be an excellent result.
With regards to our long-term performance, the 2009 Performance Share Plan awards, with performance measured over the three-year period ending 30 June 2012, will vest at 100%.
This relates to annualised growth in adjusted EPS over the period of 10% above RPI which results in the maximum performance requirement having been achieved over the performance period and thus full vesting.
Given the background of difficult economic conditions over the past three years, this is considered an exceptional result delivered by the executive management team.
The annual and long-term levels of performance delivered demonstrate the strength of our underlying business model and, subject to the continuing implementation of the conclusions of the strategic review, set a clear platform from which we will look to deliver improved longer-term growth rates.
The results delivered also reect the unique balance of skills we have in our executive team and the effective leadership provided by the Board.
To support the delivery of our revised strategy, we implemented a new organisational structure during the year and further strengthened our executive leadership team.
As part of this process, and to ensure that we were offering a competitive total remuneration package that supports our clear focus on long-term growth, the Committee undertook a review of its remuneration policy during the year.
In summary, the key revisions and points to note from the review included: 1. a revised annual bonus framework that includes a higher bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive but with deferral and clawback applying to both Executive Directors: 2. the introduction of an enhanced long-term incentive opportunity with tougher performance targets.
Up to an additional 75% of salary annual award of performance shares is proposed subject to shareholder approval at the AGM but this will only vest in full for annual adjusted EPS growth well above the maximum targets set for historic awards: and 3. share ownership guidelines to be established for both Executive Directors.
The Committee believes that the amended remuneration policy better aligns the Executive Directors with the long-term performance of the Group and, therefore, shareholders interests.
Inaddition, deferral of part of annual bonus and share ownership guidelines will operate for the entire Genus Executive Leadership Team so that there is clear alignment of interests between the Executive Directors and the wider executive team.
In terms of risk, the Committee is comfortable that the current arrangements do not inadvertently encourage undue risk taking given the clear long-term focus in our policy.
The operation of a performance share plan, in addition to requiring deferral of part of future annual bonus awards into the Companys shares, operating clawback provisions in the annual bonus arrangements and share ownership guidelines, ensures that executives are clearly aligned with the long-term objectives of the Company and its shareholders.
As a result, the Committee looks forward to your support of our remuneration policy at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Yours sincerely NIGEL TURNER SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 54 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The report also describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to Directors remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In accordance with the regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 8 November 2012.
The Companies Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain parts of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Company has established a Remuneration Committee the Committee which is constituted in accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on an overall remuneration package for the Executive Directors and members of the wider Genus Executive Leadership Team.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
The Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors Nigel Turner Chairman, Mike Buzzacott and Barry Furr, and also the Companys Non-Executive Chairman, Bob Lawson, who was considered by the Board to be independent at the time of his appointment to the Board.
None of the Committee members has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders, conicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board and no Director plays a part in any discussion about his own remuneration.
During the year to 30 June 2012 the Committee met twice and the following matters werecovered: ` review of the market competitiveness of the remuneration policy and the remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors and the Genus Executive Leadership Team: ` review of the salary levels for the Executive Directors and members of the Genus Executive Leadership Team: ` agreement of the terms of the 20112012 Executive Annual Bonus Plan and of the individual bonuses payable in light of the Groups and individuals performance: ` agreement of the individual long-term share incentive awards under the Companys 2004 Performance Share Plan and 2004 Executive Share Option Plan: ` review of the performance measures and targets to apply to these awards: ` testing of the performance conditions and approval of the vesting levels of long-term share incentive awards: ` approval of the Directors Remuneration Report: and ` review of the current investor guidelines on executive remuneration.
In determining the Executive Directors remuneration for the year, the Committee consulted the Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director about its proposals, although neither is involved with determining their own remuneration.
The Committee also appointed New Bridge Street an Aon Hewitt Limited company to provide benchmarking advice on the remuneration packages applicable to the Executive Directors, members of the Genus Executive Leadership Team and the Non-Executive Directors.
New Bridge Street is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its Code of Conduct.
Aon Hewitt Limited did not provide other services to the Company during the year.
REMUNERATION POLICY The Companys executive and senior management remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain individuals of the high calibre required to maintain the Groups position as a market leader and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.
The performance measurement of the Executive Directors and key members of Genus Executive Leadership Team and the determination of their annual remuneration packages isundertaken by the Committee.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 55 Directors Remuneration Report continued The key principles that are applied when reviewing and setting remuneration include: ` offering a competitive level of total remuneration that enables the attraction, retention and motivation of the highest calibre individuals with an appropriate proportion linked to performance: ` ensuring that salaries are set at a market competitive level given the calibre and experience of each individual after taking due account of salary levels in appropriate external comparators, internal pay relativities and current pay and general conditions in the wider Group: ` supporting a high performance culture and align long-term rewards with shareholders interests: ` maintaining an appropriate balance of xed and performance related pay that rewards for the delivery of the Companys shortand longer-term objectives: ` to have shortand long-term performance targets that are specic, measurable and fully aligned with the Companys business objectives: and ` ensuring that the overall package reects market practice, good corporate governance and does not inadvertently encourage undue risk taking.
The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Genus Executive Leadership Team should be based on corporate and individual performance related targets that are challenging and support the Companys strategy and objectives.
The policy is intended to create a strong link between business performance and reward and to generate value to shareholders, employees and the Company.
Subject to the modications detailed below, it is intended that the above policy that applied during the year under review, will continue to operate in future years.
REMUNERATION POLICY REVIEW In light of the conclusions of the Companys strategic review described in detail on pages 14 to 19, a review of the Companys existing remuneration policy has taken place.
A key outcome of this review was that while the current remuneration policy and structure continues to remain appropriate in many respects, a number of changes should be implemented to better align the executives with i the higher growth potential identied for the Group during the strategy review from 2014 and ii developments in institutional investors best practice guidance.
Accordingly, a number of changes are to be implemented to the remuneration policy that applied during the year under review for the current financial year.
These are described in detail below but in summary the changes include: ` a reworking of the current annual bonus framework with a higher bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive but with deferral and clawback applying to both Executive Directors and other members of the Genus Executive Leadership Team: ` an enhanced long-term incentive opportunity but with tougher performance targets operating that are aligned with the conclusions of the strategic review: and ` 100% of salary share ownership guidelines to apply to both Executive Directors with share ownership guidelines also introduced for members of the Genus Executive Leadership Team at 100% of salary.
The above changes result in a substantially greater proportion of total remuneration being linkedto the long-term performance of the Company.
This is considered appropriate given theCompanys focus on delivering above market levels of long-term growth and improving alignment between executives and shareholders in the Companys remuneration policy.
The changes will result in less annual bonus becoming payable in cash with the introduction of deferral of part of annual bonus into the Companys shares, share ownership guidelines applying to both Executive Directors and the operation of clawback provisions ensuring that remuneration policy should not result in undue risk taking.
RISK The Committees general approach to managing risk from a remuneration perspective includes annually reviewing performance metrics, targets, levels of awards and eligible participants to ensure they remain appropriate and do not inadvertently raise any environmental, social or governance issues.
The Committee also considers how overall remuneration, in its entirety and as individual components, may inuence an employees attitude towards excessive caution or risk.
In assessing risk in the proposed 201213 remuneration policy, the range of metrics used in the Companys shortand long-term incentive plans, allied to the operation of deferral and clawback provisions in the annual bonus plan, and general weighting towards long-term performance overall, ensures that the current remuneration policy is not considered to encourage undue risk taking.
The Committee also takes further comfort in this regard from the introduction of share ownership guidelines for both Executive Director positions.
56 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW OF REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK FOR THE CURRENT EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element Purpose Opportunity Summary details Salary To provide competitive xed remuneration 201112 Reviewed annually.
that will attract and retain key employees CEO 500,000 Benchmarked against relevant market comparators and reect their experience and position FD 300,000 asappropriate reecting the size and nature of the in the Company.
role, individual performance, increases awarded to other employees, Company performance and broader economicconditions.
201213 The increases for 201213, at 3.3%, are broadly in line with CEO 516,500 those awarded to the workforce more generally.
FD 310,000 Annual bonus Incentivises achievement of annual 201112 % salary Bonus awards are subject to achievement against objectives which support the short-term CEO 100% challenging profit 60%, net debt 20% and personal performance goals of the Company.
Bonus is earned based on achievement against a challenging sliding scale of targets set in respect of each performance measure.
Payments under the annual bonus plan are subject to aclawback in the event of a material misstatement of theCompanys financial results.
201213 % salary From 201213, 25% of any bonus earned will be subject CEO 125% to a compulsory deferral into the Companys shares for FD 100% aperiod of three years.
Long-term Performance Share Plan incentivises 201112 % salary 201112 share executives to achieve superior returns to CEO 125% As detailed in last years Directors Remuneration Report, incentives shareholders over a three-year period, to FD 100% theCEO received an award under the Performance Share retain key individuals and align interests Plan at 125% of salary.
The FD received an award at 100% with shareholders.
Awards were subject to a challenging range of EPS growth targets RPI 4% to 11% p. a.. 201213 % salary 201213 CEO 200% It is proposed that CEO and FD will receive the same level FD 175% of award as for 201112, subject to the same performance targets.
In addition, and subject to shareholder approval, a further award of up to 75% of salary is anticipated being granted but with tougher performance targets RPI 9% to 20% p. a. linked to the outcomes of the strategic review undertaken during the year under review.
The awards will also be subject to an underpin that enables the Committee to scale back but not scale up vesting if the Companys financial performance over the performance period is not considered reective of the progress made against the Companys strategic business targets.
Share To provide alignment between executives 201112 % salary 201112 ownership and shareholders.
CEO 100% On appointment it was agreed with the CEO that he would guidelines FD N A retain half the after tax number of vested shares until such time as he achieved a shareholding of equal value to his base salary.
He will also retain the entire after tax number of Restricted Shares that were granted to him shortly following his appointment as disclosed in last years Remuneration Report as part of working towards satisfaction of the guideline.
201213 % salary 201213 CEO 100% of salary For the current financial year, a 100% of salary guideline is FD 100% of salary also to be introduced for the FD which, in respect of future Performance Share Plan awards, will require the retention of half the after tax number of vested shares until the guideline is achieved.
The recruitment incentive granted to the Chief Executive following joining Genus has not been included in the above table since this related to the buy-out of long-term incentive awards forfeit on joining Genus.
Full details were set out in last years Directors Remuneration Report with summary details on page 62 of this report.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 57 Directors Remuneration Report continued The extent to which the performance conditions that apply to the performance related elements of the remuneration framework are met is assessed by the Committee, following sign off of the audited Annual Report and Accounts.
This process ensures that incentive payments are made following independently audited results being known.
Remuneration received in respect of each of these elements by the Executive Directors is shown on pages 58 to 61.
BALANCE BETWEEN FIXED AND VARIABLE PAY Based on the remuneration structure that will apply in the Companys 201213 financial year, for achievement of target levels of performance, around 45% of total remuneration will be delivered from business performance related elements of our remuneration structure.
Should the maximum performance targets be achieved, this proportion increases to over 75%.
The variable elements of remuneration are linked to the key financial and strategic measures of performance that are used internally to monitor the performance of the business and, in turn, are considered to underpin value creation for shareholders.
The following charts show the total remuneration packages for the Chief Executive Karim Bitar and the Group Finance Director John Worby split between xed pay and pay at risk at both target and maximum levels of performance.
FIXED AND VARIABLE PAY: CHIEF EXECUTIVE KARIM BITAR AT TARGET AND MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE LEVELS 100% 90% 80% 70% Performance Share Plan 60% Annual Bonus 50% Pension 40% Base Salary 30% 20% 10% 0% Target Maximum Assumptions: Target: 50% of maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 50% vesting of the 201213 Performance Share Plan award based on the first 125% of salary awarded.
Maximum: maximum annual bonus award plus full vesting under the 201213 Performance Share Plan award i. e. the entire 200% of salary award vests in full.
Performance Share Plan taken at the face value at grant for simplicity.
FIXED AND VARIABLE PAY: GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR JOHN WORBY AT TARGET AND MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE LEVELS 100% 90% 80% 70% Performance Share Plan 60% Annual Bonus 50% Pension 40% Base Salary 30% 20% 10% 0% Target Maximum Assumptions: Target: 50% of maximum 201213 annual bonus opportunity plus 50% vesting of the 201213 Performance Share Plan award based on the first 100% of salary awarded.
Maximum: maximum annual bonus award plus full vesting under the 201213 Performance Share Plan award i. e. the entire 175% of salary award vests in full.
BASE SALARY The Executive Directors basic salary levels are reviewed by the Committee prior to the beginning of each financial year, taking into account individual and corporate performance, an assessment ofcomparator companies, wider economic conditions and levels of increases applicable to other employees in the Company.
58 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The current salary levels of the Executive Directors with effect from 1 July 2012 are as follows: ` Karim Bitar: 516,500 increased from 500,000 i. e. 3.3% ` John Worby: 310,000 increased from 300,000 i. e. 3.3% The increases made to both Executive Directors are broadly consistent with the cost of living adjustments made across the Group.
When setting pay the Committee considers relevant external benchmark data from time to time forcomparable roles in companies of broadly similar size, international scope of operations and complexity.
Given there are few direct comparator companies operating in the listed environment, the Committee considers general market data.
The Committee is careful in its use of benchmark pay data e. g. it does not target median market positioning for each Executive Director each year and takes into account a broad range of factors when setting pay e. g. the experience, calibre and performance in post of the individual and salary increases across the Company.
ANNUAL BONUS The Committee establishes the objectives that must be met for each financial year if a cash bonus is to be paid.
The maximum bonus and the proportion paid for on-target performance are considered in the light of market practice for companies of a similar size.
For the year under review, the maximum bonus potential was set at a maximum of 100% of basic salary dependent on stretching targets relating to profit, net debt and challenging personal objectives.
A maximum of 60% of the bonus opportunity is normally based on corporate performance as measured on adjusted profit, 20% of the bonus opportunity is normally based on the achievement of net debt targets and the remaining 20% of the bonus opportunity is normally based on the achievement of personal objectives.
50% of salary is normally payable for the achievement of on-target performance with a sliding scale of targets operating around the on-target performance level.
With regards to the current Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, for the year ended 30June 2012, the Committee determined that 61% of the adjusted profit performance measure included in the annual bonus plan had been achieved following growth of 19% in adjusted proton the prior years result which was above the on-target level of performance set and that 100%of the net debt targets had been achieved based on a 17% reduction in net debt which exceededthe maximum target set and 100% of the short-term personal objectives had been met.
With regards to the personal objectives for the Chief Executive, these included completion of a strategicreview and early stage implementation of its conclusions, strengthening and developing the executive team and improving the Companys approach in relation to taking products to appropriate markets.
For the Group Finance Director, his personal objectives included embedding a new financial reporting system in the business, effective management of the Groups tax rates and cash management within pre-set limits.
The Committee considered these targets to have been achieved in full.
This resulted in total bonuses becoming payable at 77% of salary based onthe salary earned by each Executive Director during the year under review.
With regards to the former Chief Executive, who retired on 30 September 2011, the Committee determined that a pro rata bonus of 100,000 had been earned based on performance from 1July 2011 to 30 September 2011.
Following the conclusions of the remuneration review noted earlier, the maximum annual bonusavailable under the annual bonus plan for the current financial year will be 125% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
This level of bonus opportunity was considered to be appropriate given the challenging nature of the targets set with the level of performance required to be achieved for a payout to be earned at all levels well ahead of those set for the year under review, the results of a market analysis and after taking into account the calibre of the individuals.
Furthermore, for the current financial year, reecting developments in institutional investors best practice requirements, 25% of any bonus earned will be deferred by way of shares for a period ofthree years and vest subject to continued employment other than in certain good leaver circumstances.
Deferral will ensure there is a continued link between the achievement of shortterm financial targets and the longer-term delivery of the Companys growth strategy.
This reduces the amount of cash bonus that will be received by both Executive Directors against the previous policy.
Annual bonuses will also be the subject of clawback provisions which will enable the Committee to clawback any element of bonuses that should not have been paid in the event ofamaterial misstatement of the Companys annual results.
The performance metrics and weightings remain unchanged from the previous year.
In terms ofthe range of targets set, the financial targets have been set as a sliding scale around budget with this years budget set at a significant premium to last years.
Given last years budget was a record high for the Company, and noting the growth premium in this years budget vis--vis last years, this years financial targets are considered appropriately demanding.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 59 Directors Remuneration Report continued Personal objectives are linked to the successful implementation of the strategic elements identied in the strategic review with the targets quantiable and stretching.
The achievement of these targets is central to unlocking the growth potential we are proposing to target through the revisions to our Performance Share Plan described below.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Long-term share awards are granted under the Genus plc 2004 Performance Share Plan thePSP.
Under the PSP, incentives can take the form of conditional share awards or nil cost options with vesting determined based on achievement against challenging growth in adjusted earnings per share performance normally tested over a three-year period.
With regard to the awards that were granted in the year ended 30 June 2012, the Group Finance Director received an award over shares with a market value of 100% of salary while the Chief Executive, reecting what was agreed at the time of his appointment, received an award over shares with a market value of 125% of salary.
The awards granted during the year under review were subject to tougher targets, both in terms of the proportion of the award vesting at the threshold level 30% from 40% and the range of targets set RPI 11% from RPI 10% for maximum vesting, than those operated in prior years.
The targets that applied to the awards granted during the year under review are shown in the table below: Per annum growth in Per annum growth in adjustedEPS % of award vesting adjustedEPS % of award vesting RPI 4% Nil RPI 7% 60% RPI 4% 30% RPI 8% 70% RPI 5% 40% RPI 9% 80% RPI 6% 50% RPI 10% 90% RPI 11% 100% Growth in adjusted EPS over the three-year performance period will be computed based on a simple average annual growth rate.
A linear scale will be applied when performance falls between the bands.
Details of awards made to Directors are shown in the table of Directors interests on page 43 and details of the performance criteria for the Companys previous share awards and share option schemes are also included in note 29 to the Financial Statements.
201213 PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARDS To ensure that our remuneration policy is weighted towards delivery of the long-term levels ofgrowth identied in the conclusions of the Companys strategic review described in detail onpages 14 to 19, it is proposed that the PSP be amended at the forthcoming Annual GeneralMeeting.
For the 201213 financial year, it is intended that the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director will again receive awards at 125% of salary and 100% of salary respectively under the PSP subject to the performance targets described above.
However, to ensure that the Executive Directors are fully aligned with the Companys potential forhigher growth rates from 2014, as described in the Chief Executives Report on page 8, shareholder approval is being sought to amend the PSP at the Annual General Meeting.
This amendment will enable awards under the PSP to be granted up to 200% of salary in future years.
Subject to receiving shareholder approval, it is intended that the awards to be granted above 125% of salary for the Chief Executive and above 100% for the Group Finance Director in 201213 will be subject to tougher performance targets.
In both cases the additional award is proposed to be 75% of salary i. e. a total award of 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 175% for the Group Finance Director.
These targets will be set to provide alignment with the Companys higher growth potential from 2014.
The range of targets that are proposed for the additional part of the 201213 PSP awards is as follows: Per annum growth in % of additional award Per annum growth in % of additional award adjustedEPS vesting adjustedEPS vesting RPI 9% Nil RPI 14% 57% RPI 9% 10% RPI 15% 64% RPI 10% 20% RPI 16% 71% RPI 11% 35% RPI 17% 78% RPI 12% 42% RPI 18% 86% RPI 13% 49% RPI 19% 93% RPI 20% 100% Growth in adjusted EPS over the three-year performance period will be computed based on a simple average annual growth rate.
60 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Delivery of the higher range of growth targets is, in part, aspirational and requires the Company to deliver accelerated progress in a number of areas e. g. accelerating the pace of genetic improvements, operating a more tailored business model, further expansion in the large markets of Brazil, Russia, India and China, however, it is considered appropriate to provide a tangible incentive to reward for the delivery of our high growth agenda.
The first potential vesting would take place in 2015, following the potential higher earnings growth feeding through the Companys financial results as per the conclusions of the strategy review.
Maintaining the current range of targets for the lower tier of awards is considered appropriate to continue to provide a clear incentive to deliver on our long established growth trajectory to ensure that a balanced approach to incentivising the delivery of our future growth potential is achieved.
In addition to the targets described above, the awards shall also be subject to an underpin thatrequires the Remuneration Committee to be satisfied that, in its opinion, the financial performance of the Company over the performance period fairly reects the progress made by the Company against its strategic business targets.
If this is not considered to be the case, the Remuneration Committee has the power to scale back but not scale up the extent to which an award may vest.
The above targets are considered to be appropriately demanding given the quantum of the awards proposed and are consistent with the long-term growth aspirations of the Company.
In formulating the above proposal, the Committee considered a range of metrics including relativetotal shareholder return and the potential to set milestone strategic targets as the primary measures of performance.
However, given the limited number of comparator companies to Genus from which a total shareholder return peer group could be selected and the lack of transparency that would inevitably be associated with the use of strategic targets as the primary performance metric, it was considered appropriate to retain EPS as the sole primary performance metric.
However, so that the financial performance of the Company is aligned with progress being made against the Companys strategic business targets, an underpin was introduced to the EPS targets.
EPS is well understood by the executive population and remains the key long-term financial measure of growth in the Company and, in tandem with a strategic business underpin, was considered to provide a clear incentive to deliver the Companys long-term growth prospects.
Therefore, on this basis, the Committee is comfortable with the approach proposed.
Details of the proposed amendment to the PSP are set out in the Directors Report on pages 44 and 45.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES The Committee believes that Executive Directors and the wider Genus Executive Leadership Team should hold a substantial shareholding in the Company to ensure a clear alignment with shareholder interests.
For this reason the Committee will introduce shareholding guidelines to beapplied for the Executive Directors and members of the Genus Executive Leadership Team.
The Chief Executive is already subject to a 100% of salary guideline which was agreed at recruitment.
However, a 100% of salary guideline will also now apply to the Group Finance Director.
It is expected that at least half the after tax number of future vested shares would be retained from future PSP awards until such time as the guideline has been met.
Shares deferred through the revised bonus structure are also eligible to be counted towards the guideline albeit after making an allowance for the number of shares likely to be sold to pay tax.
In addition, the Chief Executive must also retain the entire after tax number of Restricted Shares that were granted to him shortly following his appointment as disclosed in last years Remuneration Report as part of working towards satisfaction of the guideline.
A 100% of salary guideline will also be introduced, calculated on the same basis i. e. requiring half the after tax number of vested shares to be retained from future PSP awards, for the Genus Executive Leadership Team.
Introduction of the above share ownership guidelines is considered an integral part of the changes to the remuneration structure from 201213 which, along with the deferral requirement for part of annual bonus, further enhances the focus on long-term performance in the overall remuneration structure.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 61 Directors Remuneration Report continued RECRUITMENT OF KARIM BITAR As disclosed in full in last years Remuneration Report, Karim Bitar, who was appointed as aDirector of the Company from 1 September 2011 and became Chief Executive with effect from 30 September 2011, was compensated for the forfeiture of outstanding incentive awards with his former employer on joining Genus.
In summary, the compensation agreed with Karim Bitar to facilitate his recruitment was as follows: 1. an award of shares under the Performance Share Plan over shares worth 125% of salary as described previously in the Long-Term Incentive section: 2. a restricted stock award granted using provision 9.4.
2 2 of the Listing Rules over 77,259 shares.
Of this award, 36,685 shares vested on 21 February 2012 with 40,574 due to vest in February 2013 subject to continued employment: and 3. a cash payment that was made in September 2011 of 163,000.
As required under the relevant legislation, the other key features of the restricted stock award described in 2 above were as follows: ` the award was non-pensionable and non-transferable other than on death : ` if Karim Bitar ceases employment with the Group before any part of the award vests the relevant part of the award will lapse, unless he leaves in certain good leaver situations where the award will vest on cessation: ` the award will vest in full on a change of control of the Company.
The award may also vest early in the event of a demerger, special dividend or other similar event which, in the Committees opinion, materially affects the price of the Companys shares.
The award will not, unless the Committee decides otherwise, vest on an internal reorganisation but will instead be exchanged for an equivalent award over shares in the new holding company: ` the award will not confer any shareholder rights on Karim Bitar unless and until it vests: ` in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, a demerger, a special dividend or other similar event which materially affects the price of the Companys shares, the award may be adjusted in such manner as the Committee sees t: and ` the terms of the award may be amended in such manner as the Committee may determine, provided that amendments to Karim Bitars benefit may only be made with the prior consent of shareholders.
EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION PLAN Under the Companys 2004 Executive Share Option Plan, grants are made to incentivise middle management Executive Directors do not participate in this plan and the vesting of options is also conditional on achievement of growth in adjusted earnings per share exceeding RPI 5% over a three-year period.
It is the Companys policy to phase the granting of share options ratherthan to award them in a single large block to any individual.
BENEFITS-IN-KIND The Executive Directors receive certain benets-in-kind, principally a car or car allowance, lifeassurance and private medical insurance.
In lieu of Company pension contributions, the Company has agreed to pay Karim Bitar and John Worby a taxable pension allowance of 25% and 12% of basic salary per annum respectively.
DIRECTORS CONTRACTS Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and the terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are set out below.
Director Contract date Expiry date Notice period months Executives Karim Bitar 24 May 2011 n a 12 from Company 6 from Executive Richard Wood 8 November 1996 30 September 2011 n a John Worby 25 February 2009 n a 12 from Company 6 from Executive Non-Executives Bob Lawson 11 November 2010 10 November 2013 1 Nigel Turner 16 January 2011 15 January 2014 1 Mike Buzzacott 6 May 2012 5 May 2015 1 Barry Furr 1 December 2006 30 November 2012 1 Richard Wood retired as Chief Executive with effect 30 September 2011.
62 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE It is the Companys policy for the notice periods of Executive Directors normally to be of twelve months or less.
The Executive Directors contracts do not include liquidated damages clauses that provide for a predetermined level of compensation in the event of termination.
The Committees policy is that payments on termination should reect the circumstances that prevail at that time, also taking account of Directors duty to mitigate.
There are no enhanced provisions in the event of a change of control.
Executive Directors contracts of service which include details of remuneration will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 November 2012.
All Non-Executive Directors have specic terms of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the Board having regard to the time devoted to the Companys affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys incentive schemes or pension schemes.
Their appointment is for a xed term of three years and is subject to one months notice of termination being given by either the Company or the Non-Executive Director and to annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The current total fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors per annum are as follows: ` Chairman: 140,000 ` Other Non-Executive Directors 50,000 previously 47,000 in 201112 The fee payable to the Chairman was benchmarked for the current year against companies of similar size and complexity with the assistance of New Bridge Street and is considered to be set at an appropriate level by the Board and no change has been made in respect of this fee in the current year.
The fees payable to the other Non-Executive Directors have also been reviewed for the current year taking into account practice in companies of a comparable size, internationality and complexity and, more particularly, the anticipated time commitment of the roles as the Company moves forward.
The revised total fees payable have been set at 50,000 per annum from 1 July 2012 in light of this analysis inclusive of the fees payable for chairmanship of the relevant Board Committees that include the Remuneration, Audit and Science Committees described in the Corporate Governance Report for each Non-Executive Director.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph shows the Companys performance, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 Index, also measured by total shareholder return.
The FTSE 250 Index was selected as it represents a broad equity market in which the Company is a constituent member.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN Source: Thomson Reuters 200 180 Genus 160 FTSE250 140 Index 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 30 Jun 07 30 Jun 08 30 Jun 09 30 Jun 10 30 Jun 11 30 Jun 12 This graph shows the value, by 30 June 2012, of 100 invested in Genus plc on 30 June 2007 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 63 Value Directors Remuneration Report continued AUDITED INFORMATION AGGREGATE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The total amounts for Directors remuneration were as follows: 2012 2011 000 000 Emoluments 1,111 997 Bonus schemes 812 1,025 1,923 2,022 Gains on exercise of share options and awards 2,153 1,191 Total 4,076 3,213 DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS Salary Total Total and fees Bonus Benets 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Richard Wood 113 100 18 231 1,160 Karim Bitar 417 482 122 1,021 n a John Worby 300 230 49 579 710 Non-Executive Directors Bob Lawson 140 140 89 Nigel Turner 47 47 40 Mike Buzzacott 47 47 40 Barry Furr 47 47 40 Total 1,111 812 189 2,112 2,079 As set out in the policy section above, for the year ended 30 June 2012 performance against the profit before tax, net debt andpersonal targets resulted in an annual bonus of 77% of salary earned during the year which related to a part year given his appointment to the Board on 1 September 2011 becoming payable to Karim Bitar and an annual bonus of 77% of salary becoming payable to John Worby.
The bonus payment included in the above column to Karim Bitar also includes a cash payment made in September 2011 of 163,000 in respect of anticipated loss of annual bonus entitlement for the part year served prior to leaving his former employer as described in last years Remuneration Report and above.
Richard Wood retired with effect 30 September 2011.
As described on page 59, he was paid a pro rata bonus of 100,000.
OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that this can help broaden the skills and experience of a Director.
Upon appointment as the Group Finance Director of the Company in February 2009, John Worby was permitted to retain his existing non-executive directorships of Cranswick plc and Smiths News plc and John Worby has been permitted to retain the associated remuneration of 85,383 in the period.
DIRECTORS SHARE AWARDS AND SHARE OPTIONS The Directors at 30 June 2012 had the following beneficial interests in share awards and shareoptions: KARIM BITAR Market At 30 June At 30 June price at 2012 2011 Grant date Award Vesting period grant date Number Number 1 9 September 2011 Restricted stock 9 September 2011 977.83p 40,574 to 31 January 2013 2 9 September 2011 PSP 9 September 2011 to 977.83p 63,917 8 September 2014 Total 104,491 With regard to 1 above, in accordance with the compensation agreed with Karim Bitar to facilitate his recruitment, a restricted stock award granted using provision 9.4.
2 2 of the Listing Rules over 77,259 shares was granted to Karim Bitar on his appointment.
Of this award 36,685 shares vested on 21 February 2012 and were exercised, of which 19,134 shares were sold at 1,115 pence per share to cover tax and National Insurance liabilities and the remaining 17,551 shares are held by Karim Bitar.
The targets applying to 2 above are set out on page 60.
64 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RICHARD WOOD At 30 Market June At 30 June price at 2012 2011 Grant date Award Vesting period grant date Number Number 1 15 October 2008 PSP 15 October 2008 to 651.5p 69,071 14 October 2011 2 15 September 2009 PSP 15 September 2009 to 654.5p 68,755 14September2012 3 22 September 2010 PSP 22 September 2010 to 780.84p 57,631 21September2013 Total 195,457 The targets applying to 1 were as follows: Per annum growth in Per annum growth in adjustedEPS % of award vesting adjustedEPS % of award vesting RPI 3% Nil RPI 6% 70% RPI 3% 40% RPI 7% 80% RPI 4% 50% RPI 8% 90% RPI 5% 60% RPI 9% 100% Growth in adjusted EPS over the three-year performance period will be computed based on a simple average annual growth rate.
The targets applying to 2 and 3 were as follows: Per annum growth in Per annum growth in adjustedEPS % of award vesting adjustedEPS % of award vesting RPI 4% Nil RPI 7% 70% RPI 4% 40% RPI 8% 80% RPI 5% 50% RPI 9% 90% RPI 6% 60% RPI 10% 100% Growth in adjusted EPS over the three-year performance period will be computed based on a simple average annual growth rate.
Due to the retirement of Richard Wood on 30 September 2011, in line with the rules of the Plan, he was treated by the Committee as a good leaver in respect of his share awards under 1, 2 and 3 above and these awards vested early.
Such early vesting was subject to the testing of the performance targets as above based on the Companys audited results, was subject to a pro rata reduction to reect Richard Woods length of service compared with the performance period of the relevant share awards and was subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions attaching to the relevant share awards as stated in the Plan.
Accordingly under 1 above, a vesting percentage of 91% applied as to the grant leading to the vesting of 62,855 ordinary shares in the Company in September 2011.
Actual adjusted EPS growth over the performance period was 9.1% above RPI on an annualised basis and thus fell between the minimum and maximum performance levels and resulted in partial vesting.
Under 2 above, a vesting percentage of 77% applied as to two-thirds of the grant leading to the vesting of 35,294 ordinary shares in the Company in September 2011.
This level of vesting relates to annual adjusted EPS performance over the relevant performance period of 9.1% above RPI on an annualised basis and thus fell towards the maximum performance levels which resulted in a partial vesting.
Under 3 above, a vesting percentage of 100% applied as to one-third of the grant leading to the vesting of 19,210 ordinary shares in the Company in September 2011.
Thislevel of vesting relates to annual adjusted EPS performance over the relevant performanceperiod of 17.8% above RPI on an annualised basis and thus fell above the maximum performance levels which resulted in full vesting.
All of the vested shares under 1, 2 and 3 were sold at a price of 1,000 pence per share in September 2011 by Richard Wood.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 65 Directors Remuneration Report continued JOHN WORBY At 30 At 30 Share price June 2012 June 2011 Grant Date Award Vesting period at grant Number Number 1 3 March 2009 PSP 3 March 2009 to 635.67p 43,262 86,523 2March 2012 2 15 September 2009 PSP 15 September 2009 to 654.5p 42,017 42,017 14 September 2012 3 10 September 2010 PSP 10 September 2010 to 729.83p 37,680 37,680 9September 2013 4 9 September 2011 PSP 9 September 2011 to 977.83p 30,680 8September 2014 Total 153,639 166,220 Under 1 above, on 14 March 2012 John Worby exercised and sold 43,261 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the Company Share s at a price of 1,318.41 pence per share.
This sale was made further to the vesting of 86,523 conditional nil-cost share options on 5 March 2012 on a 100% basis under the Companys Performance Share Plan and represents the exercise by John Worby of one half of his vesting entitlement.
The remaining 43,262 share options that vested on 5 March 2012 have been retained by John Worby and have not been exercised.
Actual adjusted EPS growth over the relevant performance period was 10.4% above RPI on an annualised basis and thus fell above the maximum performance levels which resulted in a full vesting.
Under 2 above, the award vested at 100%.
This related to annualised growth in adjusted EPS over the performance period of 10% above RPI which results in the maximum performance requirement having been achieved over the performance period and thus full vesting.
The targets applying to 1 2 and 3 were as follows: Per annum growth in Per annum growth in adjustedEPS % of award vesting adjustedEPS % of award vesting RPI 4% Nil RPI 7% 70% RPI 4% 40% RPI 8% 80% RPI 5% 50% RPI 9% 90% RPI 6% 60% RPI 10% 100% Growth in adjusted EPS over the three-year performance period will be computed based on a simple average annual growth rate.
The targets applying to 4 are set out on page 60.
DILUTION The current dilution under all share plans is 7.3% in 10 years.
The Committee believes that the current proposals and the anticipated ow rate will continue to operate within the agreed dilution limits for all share plans.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST The Company has established an Employee benefit Trust to be the custodian of any shares purchased in respect of the 2004 Performance Share Plan on behalf of the Executive Directors and certain senior management.
As at 30 June 2012, 56,530 ordinary shares in the Company were held by the trust.
COMPANY SHARE PRICE The market price of the Companys shares on 30 June 2012 was 1,241 pence and the low and high share prices during the financial year were 850 pence and 1,457 pence respectively.
APPROVAL This report was approved by the Committee and signed on its behalf by: NIGEL TURNER CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 3 SEPTEMBER 2012 66 Genus plc Annual Report 2012
