GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Nominations Committee report.
CC Composition 2012 Activities The Nominations Committee comprises the following Directors: The Committee met on five occasions in 2012.
Members attendance at these meetings is set out in the table on page 50.
Michael Turner Chairman The Committees focus during the year was on succession planning for Angus Cockburn future executive Director and other senior executive appointments, as Tufan Erginbilgic well as strengthening the non-executive composition of the Board.
An Shonaid Jemmett-Page in-depth succession planning review was held mid-year with a follow-up Richard Parry-Jones towards the end of the year.
The Committee was supportive of two John Sheldrick internal promotions made during the year to Divisional Chief Executive Nigel Stein of GKN Driveline and GKN Powder Metallurgy respectively.
In light of the fact that John Sheldricks term of office as a non-executive Roy Brown chaired the Committee until his retirement from the Board on Director was due to expire in 2013, the Committee identified in 2012 the 3 May 2012.
Upon his retirement Michael Turner, until then a member of need for a new non-executive Director with a proven track record in the Committee, became its Chairman.
Angus Cockburn became a international business and a strong financial background.
In line with member of the Committee on his appointment as a non-executive the Companys aim of extending the female composition of the Board as Director on 1 January 2013. vacancies arise and suitable candidates are identified, the Committee ensured that female candidates who matched the agreed criteria were In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, included for consideration for the position.
Following a thorough the majority of members are independent non-executive Directors.
process, and taking into account the skills and expertise required for The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, Company Secretary.
the role, the Board approved the Committees recommendation to appoint Angus Cockburn with effect from 1 January 2013.
Role Since the end of the year and after due consideration, the Committee The role of the Nominations Committee is to lead the process for identifying, and making recommendations to the Board on, candidates recommended to the Board the appointment of Shonaid Jemmett-Page as Chairman of the Audit Committee to succeed John Sheldrick on his for appointment as Directors of the Company and as Company Secretary, giving full consideration to succession planning and the retirement from the Board on 2 May 2013 at the conclusion of the AGM.
The Board accepted this recommendation.
leadership needs of the Group.
It also: Performance evaluation makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the No changes were considered necessary to the Committees terms of Nominations Committee and the composition and chairmanship reference as a result of the Committee evaluation process which took of the Audit and Remuneration Committees: place during the year, and the Committee was considered to be effective keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the in fulfilling its role throughout 2012.
Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, ethnicity and gender and the independence of the non-executive On behalf of the Committee Directors: and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Nominations Committee follows Board-approved procedures in making its recommendations.
Mike Turner CBE Written terms of reference that outline the Committee's authority and Chairman of the Nominations Committee responsibility are available on our website at www.
25 February 2013 Advice provided to the Committee From time to time the Committee appoints external search consultants to provide support in recruiting and selecting individuals for potential appointment to the Board.
During 2012 MWM Consulting was engaged by the Committee: it does not provide any other services to the Group.
