BF Corporate governance In this section Leadership page 49 Effectiveness page 51 Accountability page 52 Relations with shareholders page 53 Compliance statement page 54 Introduction The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
The demonstration by those leading the Group of behaviours that uphold GKNs Values is of paramount importance in this regard, particularly as the Group grows in size and extends its global footprint.
I recognise fully my role in this leadership and in promoting equivalent high standards of behaviour throughout the whole of the Group.
To support this commitment, during the year we approved the appointment of a new nonexecutive Director to strengthen the Board further, increased our focus on executive succession planning to the Board and the level below the Board, implemented a revised remuneration policy including new long term incentive arrangements which received strong support from shareholders at the 2012 AGM, and approved the strengthening of the role of the Executive Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk with specific reference to risk assurance processes.
All of these actions, which are described more fully throughout this annual report, further strengthen our governance framework and will, I believe, contribute to the continuing success of the Group.
Mike Turner CBE Chairman 25 February 2013 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
BG Leadership The Board recognises that to maintain good governance requires considerable and continuing effort.
Governance is therefore an integral part of the way in which the Board and its Committees operate.
GKN's governance framework is designed to facilitate a combination of effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management required both to safeguard shareholders' interests and to sustain the success of GKN over the longer term.
It is underpinned by GKN's Values, which require Directors and employees to act with integrity at all times, combining high standards of business performance with equivalent standards of corporate governance and risk management.
Directors also have a statutory duty to take into account the long term consequences of their decisions, the interests of employees, relationships with suppliers, customers and others, the impact of the Group's operations on local communities and the environment, and the need to maintain a reputation for high standards of business conduct.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Michael Turner succeeded Roy Brown as Chairman in May 2012 and in this role is responsible for leading the Board and for its effectiveness.
He was considered to be independent on appointment as Chairman.
Nigel Stein leads the business as Chief Executive having been appointed in January 2012 and, with the support of the Executive Committee, he is responsible for the execution of the Group's strategy and the day-to-day running of the Group.
The Board The GKN Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Group.
Key aspects of the Board's role include setting the Group's strategic objectives, ensuring that the necessary capabilities to deliver the strategy are in place, reviewing operational performance and ensuring that an appropriate and effective framework of control and risk management exists.
A full description of the role of the Board, which includes a number of specific responsibilities reserved for its decision, is available on our website at www.
Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, who maintains a 12 month rolling programme of items for discussion by the Board to ensure that all matters reserved to the Board and other key issues are considered at the appropriate time.
Agendas are closely aligned to the key aspects of the Board's role: below are examples of areas of the Board's focus in 2012.
Strategy Capabilities Performance Risk Control Reviewed and approved Considered succession Reviewed divisional Assessed the risks to Assessed, with the the Groups strategic planning for the Board strategic and the achievement of the support of the Audit plans and annual and for senior executive operational Group strategy, Committee, the budget positions within the performance including consideration effectiveness of internal Group as well as the of a risk analysis in control and audit Approved the strategic Considered Group succession planning relation to the processes acquisition of Volvo financial performance framework acquisition of Volvo Aero and the associated against budget and Evaluated the Aero funding including an Reviewed technology forecast effectiveness of the equity placing and plans to support the Considered further fideBoard Considered health and bond issue delivery of the risking opportunities in safety performance business strategy respect of the Groups throughout the Group pension arrangements Agreed proposals to strengthen further the risk management framework The Board meets formally at least eight times a year.
At least one meeting is combined with a Board visit to the Group's business locations: in 2012 the Board visited Driveline, Powder Metallurgy and Land Systems facilities located in Bruneck, Italy.
A number of informal meetings are also held during the year which help to strengthen relations between Directors.
There are sufficient opportunities for the Chairman to meet with the nonexecutive Directors, without the executive Directors being present, should this be deemed appropriate.
C0 Corporate governance continued Board Committees The Board has appointed a number of Committees which play an important governance role through the detailed work they carry out to fulfil the responsibilities delegated to them.
Their terms of reference are available on our website.
All Board Committees are supported by the Company Secretariat.
Corporate Governance Committees Audit Committee monitors the integrity of financial reporting and audit processes and reviews the effectiveness of the Group's systems of internal control and risk management.
A report on its activities in 2012 is given on pages 56 and 57.
Remuneration Committee determines and makes recommendations on the Group's remuneration policy and framework to recruit, retain and reward executive Directors and senior executives.
The remuneration report is set out on pages 58 to 72.
Nominations Committee recommends Board and Board Committee appointments and reviews succession planning against the leadership needs of the Group.
A report on its activities during the year is set out on page 55.
All independent non-executive Directors are members of these Committees.
This gives them detailed insight into matters critical to the success of the Group and helps to inform Board discussions.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive are also members of the Nominations Committee.
Briefing papers are prepared and circulated to Committee members in advance of each meeting and, in respect of the Audit Committee, made available to other Directors.
In order that the Board remains fully appraised of their work, the Committee Chairmen report formally on Committee activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
These Committees can obtain external professional advice at the cost of the Company if deemed necessary.
Operational Governance Executive Committee chaired by Nigel Stein is responsible for executing strategy by leading, overseeing and directing the activities of the Group.
Its work is supported by a number of sub-committees: Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee is responsible for driving operational best practice globally through the application of Lean business processes.
Group Technology Strategy Board is responsible for development of the Groups technology plan, driving the development of appropriate technologies across the Group and the strengthening of external relationships including access to sources of funding.
It also reviews the plans for and progress of major technology projects across the Group.
Governance and Risk Sub-Committee has responsibility for monitoring and reviewing matters relating to governance and compliance, risk management and corporate social responsibility.
In addition, the Chief Executives Council assists in shaping the Groups strategy and operations.
Chaired by the Chief Executive, the Council comprises members of the Executive Committee and 20 senior executives from divisional leadership teams involved in the day-to-day running of the businesses.
Board and Committee attendance The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2012 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Director 11 meetings 4 meetings 8 meetings 5 meetings Chairman a Michael Turner 11 1 1 4 4 5 Executive Directors Nigel Stein 11 5 Marcus Bryson 11 Andrew Reynolds Smith 11 William Seeger 11 Non-executive Directors b Tufan Erginbilgic 10 4 8 5 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 11 4 8 5 Richard Parry-Jones 11 4 8 5 John Sheldrick 11 4 8 5 Former non-Executive Director c Roy Brown 3 3 1 1 Actual attendance maximum number of meetings Director could attend based on date of appointment retirement change in role.
a Michael Turner ceased to be a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees following his appointment as Chairman on 3 May 2012. b Tufan Erginbilgic was unable to attend a Board meeting in March due to a prior business commitment.
c Roy Brown retired as Chairman and from the Board on 3 May 2012.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
C1 Effectiveness Board composition The Board currently comprises four executive and six non-executive Directors, including the Chairman.
Biographical details of all Directors are given on pages 46 and 47.
The Board considers that all of the non-executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, are independent and is not aware of any relationship or circumstance likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
On 3 May 2012 Roy Brown retired as Chairman of the Board and was succeeded by Michael Turner.
On the same date Richard Parry-Jones succeeded Michael Turner as Senior Independent Director.
Angus Cockburn was appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2013.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, he will retire and offer himself for election at the AGM on 2 May 2013.
All other Directors, with the exception of John Sheldrick who retires at the conclusion of the AGM, will seek re-election in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Descriptions of the role of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary are available on our website.
The nonexecutive Directors provide constructive challenge and bring independence to the Board and its decision making process.
Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by the Nominations Committee.
The Committee follows Board approved procedures available on our website which provide a framework for the different types of Board appointments on which the Committee may be expected to make recommendations.
Appointments are made on merit, and against objective criteria with due regard to diversity including skills, experience and gender.
Non-executive appointees are also required to demonstrate that they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
These procedures were used by the Nominations Committee in recommending to the Board the appointment of Michael Turner as Chairman, Richard Parry-Jones as Senior Independent Director and Angus Cockburn as a non-executive Director.
The Committee engaged the services of an external search consultant in relation to the appointment of Chairman and the new non-executive Director: further information is set out in the Nominations Committee report on page 55.
At Board level, it is our stated aim to have an appropriate level of diversity to reflect the diverse nature of the Companys operations.
However, we are clear that our responsibility to maintain a strong Board takes priority and our overriding obligation in any new appointments must always be to select the best candidate.
Development Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses, the markets in which they operate and changes to the competitive and regulatory environment through briefings to the Board and meetings with senior executives.
Board visits to Group business locations enable the Directors to meet local management and employees and to update and maintain their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups operations.
Non-executive Directors are also encouraged to visit Group operations throughout their tenure to increase their exposure to the business.
Training and development needs are discussed with each Director by the Chairman as part of the individual performance review process.
The suitability of external courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary such that any needs identified either through the review process or on an ad hoc basis can be addressed.
Directors attended external training courses on a number of matters during the year including remuneration, risk and compliance.
Information and support The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The provision of information to the Board was reviewed during the year as part of the performance evaluation exercise referred to below.
To ensure that adequate time is available for Board discussion and to enable informed decision making, briefing papers are prepared and circulated to Directors one week prior to scheduled Board meetings.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is tasked with ensuring that the Board is fully briefed on legislative, regulatory and corporate governance developments.
In addition, Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary also supports the Committee Chairmen by ensuring that agendas are appropriate and address all matters for which the Committee has specific responsibility.
On joining the Board, a Director receives a comprehensive induction pack which includes background information about GKN and its Directors, and details of Board meeting procedures, Directors duties and responsibilities, procedures for dealing in GKN shares and a number of other governancerelated issues.
This is supplemented by a briefing with the Company Secretary who is charged with facilitating the induction of new Directors both into the Group and as to their roles and responsibilities as Directors.
The Director meets with the Chief Executive and with relevant senior executives to be briefed on the Group strategy and each individual business portfolio.
Plant visits and external training, particularly on matters relating to the role of a Director and the role and responsibilities of Board Committees, are arranged as appropriate.
This induction process was applied following the appointment of Angus Cockburn as a non-executive Director.
C2 Corporate governance continued Performance evaluation Accountability The board and board committee evaluation process for 2012 involved Financial and business reporting in-depth one-to-one interviews conducted by the Company Secretary with When reporting externally the Board aims to present a balanced and each Director.
These focused on progress in areas highlighted through understandable assessment of the Group's position and prospects.
the 2011 board evaluation process, believed to be critical to informing Such assessment is provided in the business review sections of this and assisting the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees: annual report.
The responsibilities of the Directors in respect of the preparation of the annual report are set out on page 76 and the strategy and process: auditors' report on page 77 includes a statement by PwC about their risk and risk management systems: reporting responsibilities.
As set out on page 35, the Directors are of the opinion that GKN's business is a going concern.
monitoring financial and non-financial performance: Risk management and internal control succession planning: and Risk management is critical to the long-term success of the Group and overall Board and Committee working efficiency.
accordingly GKN has in place an extensive risk management framework designed to identify, assess and manage risk.
No significant issues were identified in relation to the effectiveness of the Board or its Committees.
The strategy process, which culminated in The Board is responsible for the maintenance of the Groups internal a full day Board review and discussion in October 2012, was considered control and risk management systems and receives regular reports in to be robust with agreement to review progress against key actions at a respect of this matter.
It delegates responsibility for risk management to Board strategy update in April 2013.
It was also agreed that an the Executive Committee: this includes the identification, evaluation additional half day would be devoted to the Board strategy review in and monitoring of risks facing the Group.
The occurrence of any material 2013.
The Board was supportive of proposals to strengthen the role of control issues, serious accidents or events that have had a major the Executive Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk to enhance the commercial, financial or reputational impact, or the identification of Groups risk identification, mitigation and assurance processes.
The significant new risks are reported to the next Board meeting and or current financial KPIs were confirmed as appropriate with a further Audit Committee meeting as appropriate.
review to be carried out of non-financial KPIs.
Actions to strengthen Identification, evaluation and monitoring of risk further the succession planning process were identified, including a GKNs enterprise risk management ERM programme facilitates a greater focus on diversity.
Overall Board working and efficiency was common, Group-wide approach to the identification and assessment of considered to be strong with an appropriate mix of skills, experience risks and the way in which these are monitored, managed and and diversity in the Boards composition.
Through the use of an ERM software tool, risk profiling is As the last external board evaluation was conducted in 2010, it is undertaken at plant, region business stream, divisional and corporate intended that the board evaluation process for 2013 will be externally levels.
The ERM tool provides a consistent set of risk definitions and a facilitated.
common approach to risk evaluation with reference to probability and impact.
A summary of those risks which could have a material impact on The individual performance of the Directors was also evaluated, against the Group is given on pages 36 and 37. a number of assessment areas, through one-to-one interviews with the Chairman.
An evaluation of the Chairman was undertaken by the Senior A broad spectrum of risks is considered in the ERM process, including Independent Director taking into account the views of the other those relating to strategy, operational performance, finance including Directors.
Through this process, it was confirmed that each Director credit risk, risk financing and fraud, product engineering and continues to make a valuable contribution to the Board and, where technology, business reputation, human resources, health and safety, relevant, its Committees and devotes sufficient time to the role.
Mitigating actions designed to control the identified risks are also recorded.
Output from the ERM tool, in the form of consolidated risk maps, is reviewed at various points throughout the year by divisional management, the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board.
As part of its remit, the Governance and Risk Sub-Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing matters relating to risk management.
During the year, the role of the Sub-Committee was strengthened to include oversight of risk assurance processes and enhancement of the application of ERM.
CA Managing risk Relations with shareholders In addition to consideration of mitigating controls for enterprise risk The Board maintains a dialogue with shareholders directed towards undertaken as part of the process described above, the Group also has ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
in place systems and procedures for exercising control and managing Major shareholders risk in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated Communication with major institutional shareholders is undertaken as accounts.
These include: part of GKNs investor relations programme, in which non-executive the implementation of Group accounting policies and procedures, Directors are encouraged to participate.
supported by regular bulletins from the central and divisional The Chairman, with support from the Company Secretary, meets with finance teams on the application of accounting standards and institutional shareholders and investor representatives to discuss reporting protocols: matters relating to governance and strategy.
Any issues raised are fed Group and divisional policies governing the maintenance of back to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to accounting records, transaction reporting and key financial control discuss issues with shareholders where concerns cannot be addressed procedures: through normal channels of communication.
a proprietary internal control monitoring system, GKN Reporting and The Remuneration Committee Chairman also engages in discussion with Integrity Procedures GRiP, to assess compliance with key financial shareholders on matters relating to executive remuneration.
In early controls on monthly, quarterly and annual cycles: 2012, he consulted extensively with major shareholders on proposed changes to the remuneration framework for executive Directors prior to monthly operational review meetings which include, as necessary, submission of those proposals for shareholder approval at the 2012 AGM.
reviews of internal financial reporting issues and financial control monitoring: and The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations meet regularly with major shareholders to discuss strategy, financial ongoing training and development of financial reporting personnel.
Feedback is sought by the Companys Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review their brokers after meetings and presentations to ensure that the Groups business risks and to report on whether there has been any material strategy and performance is being communicated effectively and to breakdown in their internal controls.
This formal review is develop further an understanding of shareholder views.
This feedback is supplemented by an interim review conducted at the half year.
included in a twice-yearly report to the Board which also provides an Companies also have to confirm annually whether they have complied update on investor relations activity, highlights changes in holdings of with statutory and regulatory obligations as well as with the policies substantial shareholders and reports on share price movements.
In which support the GKN Code.
addition, external brokers reports on GKN are circulated to all Directors.
The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify, manage GKN hosted a number of events for institutional investors in 2012, which and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of the risk of included site visits to its facilities in the UK and China and divisional failure to achieve business objectives.
They are not designed to presentations on strategy, growth opportunities and technology eliminate such risk, recognising that any system can only provide innovations.
A recording of the presentations and slide material shown reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement is available on our website.
Communications with shareholders Process for review of effectiveness Written responses are given to letters or email received from The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing control shareholders and all shareholders receive, or can access electronically, processes, and the actions undertaken by the Committee to discharge copies of the annual and half year reports.
The investor relations this responsibility are described in the Audit Committees report on section of our website provides further detail about the Group, pages 56 and 57. including share price information, webcasts and presentations of annual and half year results, other presentations made to the The Board receives an annual report from the Audit Committee investment community, and copies of financial reports.
concerning the operation of the systems of internal control and risk management.
This report is considered by the Board in forming its own Annual General Meeting view on the effectiveness of the systems.
Information regarding the 2013 AGM is given on page 73.
Shareholders who attend the AGM are invited to ask questions during the meeting and The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
internal control and risk management during the period covered by this Resolutions for consideration at the AGM are voted on by way of a poll annual report.
It confirms that the processes described above, which rather than by show of hands.
This is a more transparent method of accord with the guidance on internal control the revised Turnbull voting as it allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including Guidance, have been in place throughout that period and up to the those cast by proxy.
The results of the poll vote will be announced to the date of approval of the annual report.
The Board also confirms that no London Stock Exchange and published on our website after the meeting.
significant failings or weaknesses were identified in relation to the review.
CB Corporate governance continued Compliance statement This corporate governance statement, together with the Nominations Committee report on page 55, the Audit Committee report on pages 56 and 57 and the remuneration report on pages 58 to 72, provide a description of how the main principles of the 2010 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have been applied within GKN during 2012.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and is available on its website at www.
It is the Boards view that, throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2012, GKN was in compliance with the relevant provisions set out in the Code.
This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1, 2.2 1, 2.3 1, 2.5, 2.7 and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown on pages 73 to 75.
