CD Audit Committee report Composition Advice provided to the Committee The Audit Committee comprises the following independent nonIn the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent access executive Directors: to the services of Corporate Audit and to the external auditors, and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary.
During 2012 no member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, sought such John Sheldrick Chairman outside professional advice beyond that which was provided directly to Angus Cockburn the Committee by the external auditors.
Both the Head of Corporate Tufan Erginbilgic Audit and the external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of Shonaid Jemmett-Page the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
Richard Parry-Jones 2012 Activities The Committee met on four occasions in 2012 timed to coincide with the Michael Turner was a member of the Committee until his appointment financial and reporting cycles of the Company.
Members attendance at as Chairman of the Board on 3 May 2012.
Angus Cockburn became a these meetings is set out in the table on page 50. member of the Committee on his appointment as a non-executive Director on 1 January 2013.
The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Corporate Audit, the engagement partner of  LLP PwC and The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, Company Secretary.
other members of senior management attended meetings by invitation.
The Head of Corporate Audit and PwC each had the opportunity to discuss The Committee's members have, in the Boards view, recent and relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate matters with the Committee without any executive management being present at two meetings.
In addition, the members of the Committee met Governance Code.
In particular, John Sheldrick, the Committee Chairman, was Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc from 1995 separately at the start of each meeting to discuss matters in the absence of any persons attending by invitation.
until his retirement in September 2009 and has chaired GKNs Audit Committee since 2006: and Shonaid Jemmett-Page has held a number Financial reporting of senior finance roles in Unilever and is a former partner at KPMG and During the year the Audit Committee reviewed a wide range of financial former Chief Operating Officer at CDC Group plc, the UK Governments reporting and related matters in respect of the Companys half year development finance institution.
Angus Cockburn is currently the Chief and annual results statements and its annual report prior to their Financial Officer of Aggreko plc and previously held senior finance consideration by the Board.
In particular, the Committee reviewed the positions within international organisations.
significant accounting judgements made in respect of business combination accounting, including the accounting methodologies used Role The primary role of the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to establish a fair value opening balance sheet for the Volvo Aero acquisition, recognition of deferred tax assets, development costs on to the Board, is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of sound internal control and risk Aerospace contracts and assumptions in respect of post-employment obligations.
Key points of disclosure and presentation to ensure the management systems.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing: adequacy, clarity and completeness of the financial statements were also considered.
Reports highlighting key accounting matters and the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the significant judgements were also received from PwC in respect of each significant reporting judgements contained in them: set of financial statements: these were discussed in Committee meetings with the auditors.
Analysis to support the going concern the appropriateness of the Groups relationship with the external judgement given on page 35 was also reviewed.
auditors, including auditor independence, fees and provision of non-audit services: External auditors Independence the effectiveness of the external audit process, making The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the and monitoring of the Companys policies on external audit.
The external auditors: policies, designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function external auditors, regulate the appointment of former employees of the Corporate Audit : external audit firm to positions in the Group and set out the approach to be taken when using the external auditors for non-audit work.
the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: and the Groups policies and practices concerning business conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing.
Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and responsibility are available on our website at www.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
CE As a general principle the external auditors are excluded from consultancy Internal control work and cannot be engaged by GKN for other non-audit work unless there In 2012 the Committee reviewed the results of the audits undertaken are compelling reasons to do so, for example where PwC can draw upon by Corporate Audit and considered the adequacy of managements significant historic knowledge gained through the audit process.
Any response to the matters raised, including the implementation of any proposal to use the external auditors for non-audit work must be recommendations made.
The Committee considered and approved submitted to the Finance Director, via the Group Financial Controller, for the 2013 Corporate Audit programme, including the proposed audit approval prior to appointment.
The Finance Director will, depending on the approach, coverage and allocation of resources.
The effectiveness of nature of the service, seek the prior authorisation of the Chairman of the Corporate Audit was formally reviewed, taking into account the views of Audit Committee.
Directors and senior management on matters such as independence, proficiency, resourcing, and audit strategy, planning and methodology.
Details of the fees paid to PwC in 2012 can be found in note 4 a to the financial statements.
Non-audit fees incurred during 2012 amounted to The Committee reviewed regular reports on control issues of Group level 1.6 million which related principally to corporate finance transaction significance, including details of any remedial action being taken: these services 0.7 million and tax compliance services 0.6 million with tax reports included updates on the status of the Group's proprietary advisory services totalling 0.2 million and other services pursuant to internal financial control monitoring system GKN Reporting and legislation equalling 0.1 million.
All activities remained within the policy Integrity Procedures.
It considered reports from Corporate Audit and approved by the Board.
PwC on the Groups systems of internal control and reported to the Board on the results of its review.
The Committee also examined reports The Committee receives annual confirmation from PwC as to their detailing the Groups actual or potential material litigation, monitored independence and objectivity within the context of applicable compliance with the Groups policy for the appointment of agents and regulatory requirements and professional standards, as well as consultants, and reviewed the Directors and Company Secretarys management confirmation of compliance with the Groups policies on expenses.
the employment of former employees of the external auditors and the use of the external auditors for non-audit work.
The objectivity and Further information on the Groups systems of internal control and risk independence of PwC is also considered as part of Corporate Audit's management is given on pages 52 and 53. annual review of the effectiveness of both the external auditors and the Whistleblowing audit process.
To support the Groups Employee Disclosure Procedures Policy which Effectiveness and reappointment is available on our website, GKN operates a Group-wide international During the year, the Committee undertook a thorough review of the whistleblowing hotline.
Run by an external and independent third party, performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the the hotline facilitates arrangements whereby employees can make external audit process.
This included consideration of the responses on an anonymous basis if preferred confidential disclosures about from interviews conducted with Directors and senior management suspected impropriety and wrongdoing.
Any matters reported are concerning the audit strategy, independence and objectivity of PwC.
investigated and escalated to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
The Committee also took into consideration the recent rotation of the Statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures made audit partner in March 2011 and the matters reviewed as part of the are reported to the Committee on an annual basis.
subsequent tender proposal by the new audit partner for future GKN Performance evaluation audits which covered such matters as qualification, expertise, resourcing, No changes were considered necessary to the Committees terms of independence, objectivity and value for money.
The tender proposal reference as a result of the Committee evaluation process which took was subject to thorough review by the Committee.
place during the year, and the Committee was considered to be effective In light of the above, the Committee concluded that it was appropriate in fulfilling its role throughout 2012. to recommend to the Board PwCs reappointment as the Companys On behalf of the Committee auditors for a further year.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
The revised UK Corporate Governance Code, which will apply to GKN from the 2013 financial year, will require listed companies to put the audit services contract out to tender at least every ten years or explain John Sheldrick why they have not done so.
On the recommendation of the Audit Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee, the Board is proposing to put the audit contract out to competitive tender no later than the time of the rotation of the current 25 February 2013 audit partner which is scheduled for 2016.
Mindful of FRC advice on the impracticality of all companies conducting a tender exercise at the same time, the precise timing of this exercise will be kept under review.
