3.3 | Corporate governance report BOARd GOVeRNANCe the functioning of our Audit Committee and our going concern statement.
Overview The Board believes that the Company has throughout the year Details of the Companys significant shareholders, voting rights, complied with all relevant provisions contained in the Code Directors powers and rules concerning the appointment and except with regard to the implementation of an evaluation replacement of Directors and amendments to the articles of asprocess as described below.
The governance section sets out sociation are either contained in this section 3.3 or section 3.4. how Glencore has applied the main principles of the Code in Glencores Board comprises six Non-Executive Directors ina manner which enables shareholders to evaluate how these cluding the Chairman and two Executive Directors.
A list of the principles have been applied.
Directors, with brief biographical details, is provided in section 3.2.
For the Chairman, those details include his other significant The disclosures in this report relate to our responsibilities for commitments.
preparing the annual report including compliance with the Code to the extent required, our report on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems, Board of Directors Risk management Independent Non-Executive Chairman Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors Internal audit CEO CFO Audit Remuneration Nomination HSEC Committee Committee Committee Committee Corporate finance Legal & compliance Sustainability Business segment heads Treasury, accounting & tax Metals and minerals Energy products Agricultural products IT Zinc copper lead Oil Grains Alumina aluminium Coal coke Oils oilseeds Ferroalloys nickel cobalt iron ore Cotton sugar Human resources NB: All board committees are chaired by Independent Non-Executive Directors Chairman and Chief Executive Officer structive challenge to the Executive Directors.
All of them are Glencore has established a clear division between the respecregarded by the Company as independent Non-Executive Ditive responsibilities of the Non-Executive Chairman of the rectors within the meaning of independent as defined in the Board, and the Chief Executive Officer, which are set out in Code and free from any business or other relationship which a schedule of responsibilities that has been approved by the could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Board.
While the Non-Executive Chairman is responsible for judgment.
This view has been taken having regard to all facts leading the Boards discussions and decision-making, the Chief including the following: Executive Officer is responsible for leading Glencores operating performance and day-to-day management.
This, coupled William Macaulay is chairman and chief executive of First Rewith the schedule of reserved matters described below, enserve Corporation First Reserve.
First Reserve was, on Mr Masures that no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
caulays appointment to the Board, the holder of a tranche of $2.3billion Convertible Bonds due 2014 issued by Glencore Non-Executive Directors Finance Europe S. A.
First Reserve subsequently sold these The Companys Non-Executive Directors provide a broad range bonds and now holds shares, or economic interests in respect of skills and experience to the Board which assists in their roles of shares, totalling 160,909,810 in number, as further detailed in in formulating the Companys strategy and in providing consection 3.5.
86 | Annual Report 2012 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Peter Coates was until April 2011 the independent non-execuBoard Meetings tive chairman of Minara Resources Ltd. while that company was The Board has approved a formal schedule which sets out those 70.6% owned by Glencore, and was until August 2009 a non-exmatters which are reserved for its decision making alone such ecutive chairman of Xstrata Australia and a former chief execuas strategy, the annual budget and material acquisitions and tive of Xstrata Coal, part of Xstrata plc, a listed entity in which disposals.
Mr Coates joined Xstrata in 2002 with Glencores coal assets in Australia and South Africa The Board held 5 scheduled meetings during the year togethwhen they were sold to Xstrata, simultaneous with its primary er with numerous additional meetings as required.
All of the listing and capital raising in London.
Boards scheduled meetings were held at the Companys headquarters in Baar, Switzerland.
Board Committees There are in place the following Committees to assist the Board The Board and its Committees have standing agenda items to in exercising its functions: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration cover their proposed business at their scheduled meetings.
The and Health, Safety, Environmental and Communities HSEC.
A Chairman seeks to ensure that the very significant work of the report from each Committee is set out in section 3.3.
Committees feeds into, and benefits as to feedback from, the full Board.
Most Board meetings also benefit from a presentaEach Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference tion by the head of a division and some technical and investor approved by, the Board and the minutes of the Committee relations updates.
meetings are reviewed by the Board.
These terms of reference are available at www.
The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present, and at least once a year the Senior Non-Executive Director chairs a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
Attendance during the year for all scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings is given in the table below: Board Audit Nomination Remuneration HSEC of 5 of 4 of 1 of 3 of 5 Simon Murray 5 1 Ivan Glasenberg 5 1 5 Steven Kalmin 5 Peter Coates 5 4 5 Leonhard Fischer 4 4 3 Anthony Hayward 5 1 3 5 William Macaulay 5 4 3 Li Ning 5 1 In addition, two unscheduled meetings of the Audit Committee took place and numerous unscheduled meetings of the Board took place, mainly concerning the Xstrata Merger.
Appointment and re-election of Directors any subsidiary undertaking of the Company in which any DirecThe work of the Nomination Committee in respect of the aptor was materially interested subsisted during or at the end of pointment and reappointment of Directors is contained in the the financial year.
Information and professional development As previously announced, changes to the composition of the It is considered of great importance that the Non-Executive Board and its Committes are due to take place upon compleDirectors 1 attain a good knowledge of the Company and tion of the Merger with Xstrata.
Specific details will be set out in its business and 2 allocate sufficient time to Glencore to disthe Notice of the 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM.
All concharge those responsibilities effectively.
New Directors receive tinuing members of the Board as described above including a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, inthe Xstrata appointees will be offering themselves for election cluding meetings with senior management and advisers and or re-election at the 2013 AGM.
visits to the Groups operational locations.
The Board calendar is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a wide range All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of of topics.
Directors are also given the opportunity to visit the appointment and the details of their terms are set out in the Groups industrial assets and discuss aspects of the business Remuneration Report.
No other contract with the Company or with employees, and regularly meet the heads of the Groups | Annual Report 2012 | 87 main departments.
As well as internal briefings, Directors atACCOUNtABiLitY ANd AUdit tend appropriate external seminars and briefings.
Financial reporting All Directors have access to the advice and services of the ComThe Group has in place a comprehensive financial review cycle, pany Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring which includes a detailed annual budgeting process where busithe Board procedures are complied with, and have access to ness units prepare budgets for approval by the Board.
The Group independent and professional advice at the Companys exuses a large number of performance indicators to measure both pense, where they judge this to be necessary to discharge their operational and financial activity in the business.
Depending on responsibilities as Directors.
the measure these are reported and reviewed on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
In addition, management in the business reBoard performance evaluation ceive weekly and monthly reports of indicators which are the We have reviewed the interests declared by the Directors which basis of regular operational meetings, where corrective action could conflict with those of the Company, and we are satisfied is taken if necessary.
At a Group level a well-developed manthat the Boards powers to authorise potential conflicts is operatagement accounts pack, including income statement, balance ing effectively.
sheet, cash flow statement as well as key ratios is prepared and reviewed monthly by management.
As part of the monthly reGiven that a majority of new Directors has been proposed to be porting process a forecast of the current year numbers is carried appointed as part of the Xstrata Merger, the Board concluded out.
To ensure consistency of reporting, the Group has a global that a full evaluation process should not be carried out in respect consolidation system as well as a common accounting policies of 2012. and procedures manual.
Management monitors the publication of new reporting standards and work closely with their external Remuneration auditors in evaluating the impact of these standards.
Remuneration is covered in the Remuneration report in section 3.4 which includes a description of the work of the RemuneraRisk management and internal control tion Committee.
The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks that are considered significant by the Group in accordance with the revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control published by the Financial Reporting Council.
This process has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
This review excludes associates of the Group as Glencore does not have the ability to dictate or modify the internal controls of these entities.
This report describes how the effectiveness of the Groups structure of internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems is reviewed.
1 Approach to risk management Effective risk management is crucial in helping the Group to achieve its objectives of preserving its overall financial strength for the benefit of all shareholders and other stakeholders and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern while generating sustainable long term profitability.
Spanning the organisational structure, Glencores disciplined approach to risk management and control originates with strategic responsibility in the hands of the Board, which also retains operational authority on matters exceeding agreed thresholds of materiality.
The Board retains final authority for assessing and approving the Groups overall risk appetite and sets overall limits which are subject for review annually.
Through delegation to the Audit Committee for oversight and to senior management for day-today operational issues, an effective risk management governance apparatus has been established for the Group.
88 | Annual Report 2012 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN The Audit Committee retains responsibility for reviewing the physical marketing exposures and related derivative positions.
overall effectiveness of Glencores risk management approach VaR estimates the potential loss in value of open positions that and systems.
could occur as a result of adverse market movements over a defined time horizon, given a specific level of confidence.
The As a primary oversight and control, the CEO engages in a regumethodology is a statistically defined, probability based aplar and ongoing interrogatory exchange with the management proach that takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk team.
He is supported in this challenge process by the Groups diversification benefits by recognising offsetting positions and organisational structure with its concentration of major decision correlations between commodities and markets.
In this way, making, as well as by the alignment of the economic interest of risks can be compared across all markets and commodities and key senior staff with the medium term performance of the comrisk exposures can be aggregated to derive a single risk value.
The significant dilution of these shareholdings upon completion of the likely merger with Xstrata, The Board has maintained a one day, 95% VaR limit of $100milimplying a meaningful reduction in the proportionality of the lion which is typically subject to review and approval on an anexisting senior managements alignment although no change nual basis, and will be reviewed again following the proposed to the dollar size of stakes and the addition of new senior figXstrata Merger.
The purpose of this Group limit is to assist ures from outside the existing shareholder model, look set to, senior management in controlling the Groups overall risk proover time, render the existing operational governance structure file.
During 2012 Glencores average VaR was approximately of the combined Group more generically that of a PLC.
CRO, the Group Risk Management Team and the multi-sourced reporting available to them, help to equip the CEO and senior Glencores VaR computation covers the key base metals, coal, management with appropriate analysis in order to allow them to oil natural gas and the main risks in the Agricultural products conduct appropriate risk management of the group.
department grain, oil seeds, sugar and cotton.
It assesses open priced positions and those which are subject to price risk, The CRO and Group Risk Management Team act as facilitators but due to a lack of liquid terminal market, Glencore does not of the control process with elements of consolidated reporting extend its VaR calculation to a number of business lines where including counterparty credit exposure, the co-ordination of price transparency is less dependable.
Glencore reports VaR Group and departmental Value at Risk VaR, stress and sceacross the Group and also by commodity department, as well nario testing amongst others.
The departments and Group risk as at a variety of more detailed levels.
team are engaged in an ongoing dialogue concerning general aspects of risk management policy and the central team proVaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in vide oversight and input on those aspects of risk management fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does and risk mitigation that remain the functional responsibility of Glencore claim that these VaR results are indicative of future the Groups individual departments.
The internal audit, complimarket movements or representative of any actual impact on ance and business ethics committees also play key roles in manits future results.
VaR should always be viewed in the context of aging Group operational risk and verifying process controls.
its limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and risks assoGlencore recognises the need for continuous focus on this key ciated with longer time horizons as well as tail risks.
The Group area in the context of both the evolution of its business risks, and recognises these limitations and so complements and refines the unpredictable and volatile global economic environment.
its risk analysis through the use of stress and scenario analysis.
The Group continues to maintain and expand the resources and Glencore regularly backtests its VaR to establish adequacy of information systems used in its centralised risk management, accuracy and to facilitate analysis of breaks.
whilst also adopting and following policies which are intended to mitigate and manage market price and credit risks.
Whilst it is Glencores policy to actively make use of hedging strategies to manage unwanted commodity price risk associ- 2 Risk assessment and control tools ated with its marketing businesses, there remains the possibility Glencores finance and risk professionals, working in coordinathat the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide tion with the Groups departments, monitor and report regularly effective mitigation of the underlying price risk.
The hedging to management on the financial risks and exposures Glencore is instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ facing.
The Group monitors its commodity price risk exposure in specific characteristics to the risk exposure to the hedged, by using a VaR computation assessing open commodity posiresulting in an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure.
tions which are subject to price risk.
The credit quality of its counResidual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for terparties is actively and continuously monitored by the Group Glencores commodity department teams who actively engage through internal reviews and a credit scoring process which in the management of such.
includes, where available, public credit ratings.
The Group makes active and widespread use of credit enhancement through the Internal and External Audit use of products such as letters of credit and credit insurance Glencore has a dedicated Internal Audit function reporting to help manage and mitigate credit risk exposures.
directly to the Audit Committee.
The role of Internal Audit is to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, VaR is a risk measurement technique which Glencore uses to control, and governance processes.
monitor and limit its primary market exposure related to its | Annual Report 2012 | 89 Internal Audit reviews areas of potential risk within the business The Companys next AGM is due to be held in Zug on 16 May and suggests control solutions to mitigate exposures iden- 2013.
Full details of the meeting are set out in the letter from the tified.
The Audit Committee is regularly informed on audits Chairman and Notice of Meeting.
Shareholders unable to attend performed and relevant findings, as well as the progress on are encouraged to vote using the proxy card mailed to them or implementing the actions agreed with management.
electronically as detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
All documents relating to the AGM are available on the Companys website at: During each financial year the Audit Committee reviews the www.
external and internal audit work programmes and considers reports from internal and external auditors on the system of internal control and any material control weaknesses.
It also receives responses from management regarding the actions taken on issues identified in audit reports.
The Groups policy on non-audit services provided by the external auditors is designed to ensure the external auditors independence and objectivity is safeguarded.
A specified wide range of services may not be provided as they have the potential to impair the external auditors independence Excluded Services.
The Audit Committees approval is required for 1 any Excluded Service 2 and other engagement where either i the fee is contingent, ii the fee may exceed $500,000, or iii where the fees for all non-audit work may exceed $ 15million.
The external auditors are requested to provide certain non-audit services when it is concluded that they are the most appropriate supplier due to efficiency and status as a leading firm for the specific services being requested.
For 2012 the total non-audit fees paid to the auditors were $ 15 million, $ 4million of which related to the auditors role as Reporting Accountant in connection with the pending Xstrata merger: further details are contained in note27 to the financial statements.
Relationships with shareholders The Board aims to present a balanced and clear view of the Group in communications with shareholders and believes that being transparent in describing how we see the market and the prospects for the business is extremely important.
We communicate with shareholders in a number of different ways.
The formal reporting of our full and half year results and interim management statements are a combination of presentations, group calls and one on one meetings.
The full and half year reporting is then followed by investor meetings in a variety of locations where we have institutional shareholders.
We also regularly meet with existing and prospective shareholders to update or to introduce them to the Company and periodically arrange visits to the business to give analysts and major shareholders a better understanding of how we manage our operations.
These visits and meetings are principally undertaken by the CEO, CFO and Head of Investor Relations.
In addition, many major shareholders have meetings with the Chairman and appropriate senior personnel of the Group including other Non-Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and Head of Sustainability.
The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through a briefing, which is a standing agenda item for all Board meetings, from the Companys Head of Investor Relations, which is supplemented by input from the Chairman, CEO and CFO.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders if they wish to raise issues separately from the arrangements as described above.
90 | Annual Report 2012 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN AUdit COMMittee RePORt Main Activities During the year, the Committees principal work included the Chairman following: Leonhard Fischer reviewed the Companys policy for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: Other members reviewed material engagements with the auditors in respect of Peter Coates non-audit services: William Macaulay reviewed the policies detecting, reporting and preventing fraud and serious breaches of business conduct and whistleAll members of the Committee served throughout the year.
blowing procedures: Each is considered to be an independent Non-Executive  Director and deemed to be financially literate by virtue of their and the performance assessment of the Internal Audit function: business experience.
Each of Leonhard Fischer and William : caulay is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant fireviewed and agreed the global audit plan, scope and fees of financial experience and has competence in accounting.
The Comthe audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors: mittee met five times two meetings being unscheduled during considered the output from the Group-wide process used to the year and all the Committee members attended all of the identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: scheduled meetings.
John Burton is Secretary to the Committee.
monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of Glencores interfinal controls: Role and responsibilities reviewed and discussed the full year audited, and half-year The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the unaudited, financial statements with management and the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with regard to financial external auditors: reporting, external and internal audit, risk management and discussed various material accounting issues with managecontrols.
This includes: ment and the external auditors, particularly those involving  judgements and estimates primarily in relation to business ing policies and practices: combinations, fair value measurements, taxation and  considerations: and cial statements and any formal announcements relating to the reviewed and agreed the preparation and scope of the yearGroups financial performance and reviewing significant finanend reporting process.
cial reporting judgments relating to them: : Reappointment of external Auditor  The Committee has recommended to the Board that a prowork undertaken by external auditors: posal be put to shareholders at the 2013 AGM for the  pointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor.
There are no auditor and the provision of additional services by it: contractual restrictions on the Companys choice of external , and in making our recommendation we took into actation of accounts and key figures: count, amongst other matters, the objectivity and ,  of Deloitte LLP and their continuing effectiveness and pliance controls and internal controls and risk management cost.
systems:  audit function: Leonhard Fischer  Chairman of the Audit Committee handling allegations from whistleblowers: and 22 March 2013  put to the shareholders for their approval on the appointment of the external auditors and to authorise the Board to fix the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors.
Governance processes The Audit Committee usually invites the CEO, CFO, Group Financial Controller, Head of Risk and Head of Internal Audit and the lead partner from the external auditors to attend each meeting.
Other members of management may attend as and when required.
The Committee also holds private sessions with the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit without members of management being present.
The Committee has adopted guidelines allowing non-audit services to be contracted with the external auditors on the basis as set out above.
| Annual Report 2012 | 91 NOMiNAtiON COMMittee HeALtH, sAfetY, eNViRONMeNt & COMMUNities HseC COMMittee Chairman Anthony Hayward Chairman Peter Coates Other members Simon Murray Other members Ivan Glasenberg Ivan Glasenberg Li Ning Anthony Hayward Michael Fahrbach As part of the deliberations concerning the Xstrata Merger, the Board agreed with the Xstrata Board the composition of the The Committee met five times during the year and each Comenlarged Board upon the Merger taking effect.
Accordingly, mittee member attended all of the meetings.
Every meeting there were no meetings of the Committee during 2012 other had a substantial agenda, reflecting the Committees objective than to consider the composition of the Board prior to the 2012 of providing leadership for the Group to achieve higher HSEC AGM.
It was agreed that the Board operated in a satisfactory standards over time.
manner and the Board agreed with the Committees view that all current serving Directors be recommended to shareRole and responsibilities holders for re-election at that following meeting, subject to The main responsibilities of the Committee are, in respect of the changes contemplated in connection with the proposed the Group, to: Xstrata Merger.
 and managing environmental, health, safety and community risks: Anthony Hayward  Chairman of the Nomination Committee environmental, health and safety regulatory requirements: 22 March 2013  decisions and actions upon employees, communities and other third parties:  and actions taken as a result of such incidents:  to external stakeholders concerning HSEC matters: and  in regard to HSEC matters and strategies and action plans developed by management in response to issues raised.
Main Activities During the year, the Committee  Group, approved ongoing changes and reviewed their implementation and practice:  2011: Undertooksitevisits: .
Forthispurposeit received a report on, reviewed and made recommendations in respect of, each fatality:  health, safety and environmental standards for the Groups main zinc copper assets in South America, Africa and Kazakhstan: and  resettlement programmes, incident reporting and emergency response preparedness.
Peter Coates Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environmental and Communities Committee 22 March 2013 92 | Annual Report 2012 |
