overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 3.2 | Officers BOARd Of diReCtORs All of the Directors were appointed in March or April 2011, shortly before the Companys IPO.
4 siMON MURRAY Chairman age72 Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Chairman in April 2011.
He is the founder and current chairman of GEMS Limited, a private equity investment group operating across Asia.
Previously, Mr Murray led Jardine Mathesons engineering and trading operations from 1966 to 1980, after which he set up Davenham Investments, a project advisory company.
From 1984 until 1993, Mr Murray was group managing director of Hutchison Whampoa, leading its entry into the mobile telecommunication business, developing its energy business and expanding its container and port operations.
Mr Murray served as a member of the Hutchison Whampoa Board until May 2007.
From 1994 to 1997, Mr Murray was the executive chairman of Deutsche Bank group for the Asia Pacific region.
Mr Murray is currently a member of the Board of Directors of a number of public companies including IRC, Essar Energy, Orient Overseas, Wing Tai Properties, Greenheart and Compagnie Financiere Richemont.
Mr Murray was a non-executive director of Vodafone between July 2007 and July 2010.
In 1993, Mr Murray was appointed a CBE in honour of his contribution to the Hong Kong community.
Mr Murray has also been awarded the Order of Merit of the French Republic and is a Chevalier fide la Legion dhonneur.
A. degree in law from Bath University and has attended the Stanford Executive Programme SEP in the U. S. 2, 4 iVAN GLAseNBeRG Chief Executive Officer age56 Ivan Glasenberg joined Glencore in April 1984 and has been Chief Executive Officer since January 2002.
Mr Glasenberg initially spent three years working in the coal coke commodity department in South Africa as a marketer, before spending two years in Australia as head of the Asian coal coke commodity division.
Between 1988 and 1989, he was based in Hong Kong as head of Glencores Hong Kong and Beijing offices, as well as head of coal marketing in Asia, where his responsibilities included overseeing the Asian coal marketing business of Glencore and managing the administrative functions of the Hong Kong and Beijing offices.
In January 1990, he was made responsible for the worldwide coal business of Glencore for both marketing and industrial assets, and remained in this role until he became Chief Executive Officer in January 2002.
Mr Glasenberg is a Chartered Accountant of South Africa and holds a Bachelor of Accountancy from the University of Witwatersrand.
Mr Glasenberg also holds an M. B.
A. from the University of Southern California.
He is currently a director of Xstrata plc, United Company Rusal plc and JSC Zarubezhneft.
Before joining Glencore, Mr Glasenberg worked for five years at Levitt Kirson Chartered Accountants in South Africa.
steVeN KALMiN Chief Financial Officer age42 Steven Kalmin joined Glencore in September 1999 as general manager of finance and treasury functions at Glencores coal industrial unit now part of Xstrata.
Mr Kalmin moved to Glencores Baar head office in October 2003 to oversee Glencores accounting and reporting functions, becoming Chief Financial Officer in June 2005.
Mr Kalmin holds a Bachelor of Business with distinction from the University of Technology, Sydney and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Australia and the Financial Services Institute of Australasia.
He is currently a director of Century Aluminum Co. Before joining Glencore, Mr Kalmin worked for nine years at Horwath Chartered Accountants in Sydney, leaving the firm as a director.
| Annual Report 2012 | 83 2, 3, 4 ANtHONY HAYWARd Senior Independent Director age55 He is CEO of Genel Energy plc, a partner and member of the European advisory Board of AEA Capital and a Member of the Advisory Board of Numis Corporation plc.
He was group chief executive of BP plc from 2007 to 2010, having joined BP in 1982 as a rig geologist in the North Sea.
Following a series of technical and commercial roles in Europe, Asia and South America, he returned to London in 1997 as a member of the upstream executive committee.
He became group treasurer in 2000, chief executive for BP upstream activities and member of the main Board of BP in 2003.
Dr. Hayward studied geology at Aston University in Birmingham and completed a PhD at Edinburgh University.
He is also a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh and holds honorary doctorates from the University of Edinburgh, Aston University and the University of Birmingham.
4 Li NiNG Non-Executive Director age56 Li Ning has been an executive director of Henderson Land Development Company Limited since 1992.
He was also an executive director of Henderson Investment Company Limited from 1990 to 2010.
He has also been an executive director of Hong Kong Ferry Holdings Company Limited since 1989.
Prior to joining the Henderson group, he began his career in the banking industry with Chekiang First Bank Limited.
Mr Li also graduated in 1983 from the University of Southern California with an M. B.
1, 2 PeteR COAtes Non-Executive Director age67 Currently a non-executive director and chairman of Santos Ltd. and a non-executive director of Amalgamated Holdings.
Until April 2011, he was a non-executive director and chairman of Minara Resources Ltd, a position he had held since May 2008.
Mr Coates has occupied many senior positions in a diverse range of resource companies, including those mining silver, lead, zinc, nickel, iron ore, bauxite and coal.
Mr Coates was previously the chief executive of Xstratas coal business, having joined the company in 2002 when Glencore sold its Australian and South African coal assets to Xstrata.
Mr Coates is a past chairman of the Minerals Council of Australia, the NSW Minerals Council and the Australian Coal Association.
He was appointed to the Office of the Order of Australia in June 2009 and awarded the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Medal for 2010.
He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Mining Engineering from the University of New South Wales.
84 | Annual Report 2012 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 1, 3 LeONHARd fisCHeR Non-Executive Director age50 Leonhard Fischer was appointed chief executive officer of RHJ International S. A. in January 2009, having been co-chief executive officer from May 2007.
He has been a member of the board of directors of RHJ International S. A. since 18September, 2007.
He is also chief executive officer of Kleinwort Benson Group and chairman of the board of directors at Kleinwort Benson Bank Ltd.
He is also a member of the board of directors at Julius Baer Gruppe AG formerly Julius Br Holding AG.
Mr Fischer was chief executive officer of Winterthur Group from 2003 to 2006 and a member of the executive board of Credit Suisse Group from 2003 to March 2007.
He joined Credit Suisse Group from Allianz AG, where he had been a member of the management board and head of the Corporates and Markets Division.
Prior to this, he had been a member of the executive boards of Dresdner Bank AG in Frankfurt.
Mr Fischer holds an M. A. in Finance from the University of Georgia.
1, 3 WiLLiAM MACAULAY Non-Executive Director age 67 He is the chairman and chief executive officer of First Reserve Corporation, a private equity investment firm focused on the energy industry, and has been with the company since its founding in 1983.
Prior to joining First Reserve he was a co-founder of Meridien Capital Company, a private equity buyout firm.
From 1972 to 1982, he was with Oppenheimer & Co. where he served as director of corporate finance with direct responsibility for the firms buyout business.
He also served as president of Oppenheimer Energy Corporation.
Mr Macaulay is chairman of the Board of Dresser-Rand and is a director of Weatherford International.
He also serves on numerous private energy company Boards.
In addition, he is chairman of the advisory Board of the City University of New York.
A. degree with honours in Economics from City College of New York, and an M. B.
A. from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
He has also received an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree from Baruch College.
Committee membership for 2012 is designated as follows: 1 Audit 2 Health, Safety, Environment and Communities HSEC 3 Remuneration 4 Nomination denotes Committee chair COMPANY seCRetARY JOHN BURtON Company Secretary age 48 John Burton was appointed Company Secretary in September 2011.
He was formerly Company Secretary and General Counsel of Informa plc and before that a partner at CMS Cameron McKenna in London specialising in corporate law.
A. degree in Law from Durham University.
He was admitted as a Solicitor in England and Wales in 1990.
