Corporate governance continued The Nomination Committee regularly assess the other commitments of the Non-Executive Directors.
This year, the Committee is again satisfied there are no conicts of interest and that Balance of Non Executive and the Non-Executives Directors, particularly the Chairmen of Committees, have sufficient time to Executive Directors full their responsibilities.
Prior to any new commitments being made by Directors, agreement is sought from the Chairman.
The Board aims to ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the Board and the appropriate balance of Board experience relative to length of tenure.
Further details of succession planning can be found in the Nomination Committees Report on page 68.
How we ensure Board effectiveness Role of the Board The Board sets the Groups strategy, vision and values, providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Group.
It regularly, prudently and effectively assesses the governance framework of the Group, reviewing internal controls and maintaining a robust system of risk management.
Each year, the Board reviews the formal Schedule of Matters reserved for its decision.
Examples of some of the key governance and business matters discussed by the Board during the year Non-Executive Chairman 14% are shown below: Independent Non-Executive Directors 43% Approving the appointment of Nick, orler and changes to Board and Committee composition Non-independent Non-Executive Director 14% Approving acquisitions of bus companies Executive Directors 29% Reviewing and agreeing Group strategy Discussing internal Board evaluation results from the previous year and agreeing objectives of external evaluation Approving Annual Report & Accounts, interim dividend, and recommending final dividend for shareholder approval The Board has delegated specic responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each of which has Terms of Reference which detail their authority and duties.
While the Board delegates some of its responsibilities to these Committees, it still retains full responsibility for a number of key areas such as health & safety, corporate social responsibility and risk management.
Day to day management of the Group and the implementation of strategies agreed by the Board across Group companies, have been delegated to the Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with senior management in the Group and across our businesses, both formally via monthly meetings, and less formally on a regular basis.
The Board and Management Structure can be found on page 56.
The Board believes that this infrastructure, with the right balance between local initiatives and ones that can add up for the Groups benefit, is fundamental to the success of the business.
The full Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board and Terms of Reference for the Committees can be found on the Groups corporate website, www.
With a new Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director from the start of this financial year, the main focus and time commitment of the Board have been on reviewing the Groups strategic focus.
This has included the corporate planning process and functional support plans within the new and evolving structure of performance management, leadership and behavioural frameworks.
Leadership of the Board The ofces of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held separately, with a clear division of responsibility, and the Board has adopted a written Statement of Division of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
While the Chairman provides leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness by promoting challenge and debate and managing a regular evaluation process, the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the performance, management and supervision of the Group in accordance with the strategies and values set by the Board.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive have an effective and co-operative working relationship.
They are supported by the Senior Independent Director who provides a sounding board to the Chairman and is an alternative point of contact for Directors and shareholders, where contact with the Chairman or Group Chief Executive is inappropriate.
58 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
