Corporate governance continued The Committees in Action The Board has established the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees to deal with specic delegated aspects of the Groups affairs.
The responsibilities of each Committee are determined by its Terms of Reference which are summarised in the following Committee Reports and are also available in full on the corporate website or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
The Committees Terms of Reference are reviewed and updated, if appropriate, annually.
No person other than the Committee Chairman and members is entitled to be present at a meeting of these Committees.
Others may attend upon invitation only.
Andrew Allner Committee Chairman Audit Committee Report The Committee has worked closely with both the external and internal Members 1 Andrew Allner auditors this year, with all parties working better together to maximise Senior Independent Director the effectiveness of the audit activities.
The Committee has also continued to improve the effective management of risk and internal controls Katherine Innes Ker Independent Non-Executive Director throughout the business so as to help support the delivery of the 2 Groups strategic objectives.
Rupert Pennant-Rea Non-Executive Director Meetings During the year, the Committee met four times excluding meetings held to review its 3 Nick Horler effectiveness as part of the annual performance evaluation.
At least once a year, the NonIndependent Non-Executive Director Executive Directors meet with the external Auditor, without the Executive Directors being 1.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered present.
Members individual attendance at Committee meetings can be found on page 60.
Accountants England & Wales and having previously held the position of Group Finance Key roles and responsibilities Director at another listed company between 2004 and 2007, Andrew Allner has recent and Key responsibilities of the Committee include monitoring the integrity of financial reporting and relevant financial experience as recommended the accounting judgements adopted within the reporting.
The Audit Committee oversees the by the Code.
Groups relationship with the external Auditor, including reviewing the Groups non-audit 2. aving served on the Board for over nine engagement policy and regularly considering whether a tender of the contract would be years and in accordance with the Code, Rupert Pennant-Rea must now be considered as appropriate.
Reviewing the Groups risk management and internal control system and reporting not independent.
to the Board is also a responsibility of the Committee, as is advising the Board on whether the 3.
Nick, orler was appointed on 14 November 2011. annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, and providing the information necessary to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
Composition compliant with Provision C. 3.1 of the Code The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are available on the corporate website at www.
com or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Committee Secretary The Audit Committees activities 2012 Carolyn Sephton The main activities undertaken during the financial year included: Group Company Secretary receiving and reviewing reports from management relating to the annual and half year profit gures and statements, monitoring statutory audit of the annual consolidated Group and Meetings also regularly Parent Company financial statements, reviewing the effectiveness of the financial reporting, attended, by invitation, by: the controls in force and the key judgemental areas at the half year and year end to ensure Sir Patrick Brown Company Chairman the integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders: David Brown Group Chief Executive Keith Down Group Finance Director receiving and reviewing reports from the Groups external and internal auditors, including Internal Auditors representative s health and safety and information system specialists: External Auditors representative s reviewing the relationship with the external and internal auditors, including their terms of engagement, remuneration, independence, objectivity, expertise, resources and qualication: introducing a new external audit rm to undertake audits in the Groups smaller operating companies to reduce reliance on the principal external auditor and to reduce costs: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control policies, systems and procedures for the identication, assessment and reporting of risk, as outlined on pages 64 and 65, including receiving and reviewing risk registers from Group operating companies, and ensuring improved consistency in reporting: 66 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
