36 Corporate governance Corporate governanCe statement election by shareholders.
Recognising Statement of compliance with the thata number of institutional shareholders UK Corporate Governance Code were not in favour of annual re-election of The company became subject to the new the entire board and in view of the specific UK Corporate Governance Code for the circumstances applying to the board last first time during the year.
The code sets summer, the board decided not to ask out guidance in the form of principles and alldirectors to submit themselves for provisions on how companies should be re-election.
The specific circumstances directed and controlled to follow good were that the board comprised just governance practice.
The Financial fivedirectors, three of whom had been Services Authority FSA requires re-elected during 2010.
The remaining two companies listed in the UK to disclose directors at that time submitted themselves how they have applied the main principles for re-election at last years AGM, along and whether they have complied with its with the two new board members.
provisions throughout the financial year.
Where the provisions have not been C. 3.1 complied with companies must provide C. 3.1 requires the audit committee to anexplanation.
comprise at least three directors, all independent non-executive directors.
The board considers that the company Thisrequirement was not met between hascomplied with the UK Corporate 2May and 26 July, in that the committee Governance Code dated June 2010 had just two members during that short throughout the year, except in the period.
The position was rectified with followingareas: theappointment of Mike Coupe as a new B.
7.1 requires that all directors of FTSE 350 amember of the audit committee.
companies should be subject to annual role.
As well as supporting the chairman, Chairmans introduction The board akey responsibility for him is to be available Board composition The board is committed to ensuring for direct contact from shareholders.
As at the year end the board comprised the that high standards of corporate chairman, two executive directors and four Diversity governance are maintained as we non-executive directors.
The non-executive The board approves of the principle recognise that good governance is chairman is Tim Bridge, the chief executive oftryingto recruit more women into is Rooney Anand and the senior independent important in helping the business to seniormanagement and director roles director is Norman Murray.
and, although currently we have no female deliver its strategy, generate shareholder directors on the board, we have had a female The directors biographies are on page 34. value and safeguard our shareholders non-executive director in the past.
When The board believes that the structure and long-term interests.
I am pleased making new appointments, the policy of size of the board is appropriate and that no therefore to introduce the corporate thecompany is to recruit the best possible single individual or group dominates the individual for each role on offer, whether governance report for 2011 12. decision making process.
We set out a Independence of The report contains details of the jobspecification and a profile of the likely  characteristics, qualifications, experience wide range of matters considered by In compliance with the UK Corporate and merits required before starting a search, the board and its committees during Governance Code, more than half of the board, and aim to find the individual who is best the year.
During a year in which two excluding the chairman, are non-executive suited to the role, without prejudice between new directors joined the board, directors and the board is satisfied that all of male and female candidates.
these were independent throughout the year, oneexecutive and one non-executive, Conscious of the desire expressed by in that they satisfied the independence criteria it also covers the issue of diversity.
LordDavies for targets to be set and looking of the code on their appointment and continue forward to where we may be by 2015, we do Information is also provided on the to satisfy those criteria.
not think a percentage target is the right way board evaluation exercise which we Tim Bridge, the chairman, was not independent to address the issue of women on boards for conducted in 2011, the first time that on appointment, having previously served as a board of seven people, where the key will chief executive.
However, the board is satisfied we have used an external facilitator.
be to ensure a suitable range of skills, experience that he shows independent judgment, that his and knowledge across the board members.
We will continue to monitor performance as chairman is effective and that Wewould, however, like to have at least one he demonstrates continued commitment to corporate governance developments woman on our board by then, in order to therole.
achieve that particular aspect of diversity.
going forwardand will endeavour to Norman Murray, the senior independent ensure that we maintain good standards Leadership non-executive director, was appointed to ofcorporate governance.
He has never Role of the board The board is collectively responsible for been employed by the company and has haddiverse business interests.
The board thelong-term success of the company.
The chairman is responsible for the leadership considers that he has remained independent in both character and judgment, that his and effectiveness of the board.
The chief Tim Bridge executive has responsibility for executing performance has been effective and that Chairman hehas demonstrated commitment to the the companys strategy, achieving Greene King plc Annual report 2012 0 gnk ar12 middle RB LH.
co. uk 37 operational and financial goals and leading Day to day management and control of the to attend meetings in person or by telephone senior management in dealing with the business is delegated to the executive directors they are given the opportunity to be consulted operational requirements of the business.
and the business unit managing directors, and comment in advance of the meeting.
The non-executive directors have a who meet formally on a monthly basis together Attendance at scheduled meetings held particular responsibility to ensure that with other senior managers as appropriate.
during the year is set out on page 38. thestrategies proposed by the executive Board meetings are scheduled to be held eight directors are carefully examined and fully Board papers are circulated seven days times a year, with main meetings linkedto key priorto each board or committee meeting discussed and that the performance of the events in the companys financial calendar, company is monitored and challenged.
toensure that directors have sufficient with the annual results and dividend being timetoreview them before the meeting.
The offices of chairman and chief executive approved in June or Julyandthe interim Documentation includes detailed reports are separate and distinct.
The division of results and dividend inNovember or oncurrent trading and full papers on matters responsibilities between them has been December.
There is a two-day off-site where the board is required to give its approval.
clearly established, set out in writing and meeting for theboard in February each year The chairman holds regular, informal agreed by the board.
The job descriptions focusing onstrategy.
Following approval of meetings with the non-executive directors areavailable on request.
the companys strategy, budgets are prepared without the executive directors being present.
for the next financial year to be approved by The board has delegated certain responsibilities the board in April.
Each of the main business to standing committees, details of which units and function areas is reviewed in detail Board effectiveness areset out below.
By delegating key at least once each year, with the relevant Board performance and evaluation responsibilities to these committees, the managing director attending to present The board believes it is appropriate to board is able to ensure that adequate time andanswer questions.
undertake a regular performance evaluation isdevoted by board members to the oversight of itself, its committees and individual of key areas within their responsibility.
Between meetings, as required, the board directors.
An evaluation exercise was can be in frequent contact to progress the Operation of the board completed during the summer of 2011, companys business and, if necessary, board The board has a formal schedule of matters facilitated by Boardroom Review, an meetings can be held at short notice, such as which are reserved for its decision, including independent external firm with no links to that called to deal with the companys offer approval of the long term objectives and the company.
The review took the form of for The Capital Pub Company in July 2011. strategy, approval of budgets and financial confidential interviews with the directors Where possible, however, ad hoc committees statements including the report and accounts, atthe time and a review of selected papers, of the board are appointed to deal with acquisitions and disposals, changes to the with a view to considering the effectiveness matters which it is known will need to structure of the group and overall corporate of the board within the context of three key bedealt with between scheduled board governance issues.
It reviews trading criteria, namely the ability of the board to meetings.
It is expected that all directors performance and considers major capital achieve its objectives, its ability to work attend board and relevant committee meetings, expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
together effectively and the extent to which unless they are prevented from doing so by it maximises its use of time.
If directors are unable ofBoardroom Review, Dr Tracy Long, greene King Board approve the groups long-term objectives, commercial strategy and the overall funding strategy: The board is ultimately responsible for the long term success of the approve the budgets and financial statements, including the report and accounts: company.
Its principal responsibilities approve acquisitions and disposals: and are to: oversee the groups operations and review performance in the light of the groups strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets.
Remuneration Audit Nomination Sets remuneration policy: sets executive Reviews and monitors full year andinterim Reviews structure, size andcomposition director remuneration and incentives: results: monitors internal financial controls: ofthe board: makes recommendations for approves annual performance objectives: oversees external audit relationships: appointments: succession planning.
Tim Bridge Chairman Norman Murray Chairman Ian Durant Chairman John Brady John Brady John Brady Norman Murray Ian Durant Mike Coupe Corporate governance 0 gnk ar12 middle RB LH.
indd 2 25 07 2012 10:54:19 Members Committees 38 Corporate governance Corporate governanCe statement Continued general information on the company, presentations on specific divisions of the Board effectiveness continued itspolicies and procedures, financial and business.
The board receives regular reports Board performance and evaluation from the chief executive on the meetings he operational information and a briefing on continued directors responsibilities.
Matthew Fearn and the finance director have with principal thenattended one of the companys board shareholders and receive copies of analysts received specific refresher training on the meetings to present her findings and facilitate obligations of directors of listed companies reports on the company.
The senior a discussion on areas to be addressed.
independent non-executive director, shortly after his employment commenced.
Particular strengths were perceived to be the Norman Murray, isavailable to shareholders There is an agreed procedure, set out in consideration of shareholder and stakeholder if they have concerns about governance writing, for directors, in furtherance of their views, a thoughtful approach to control issues which the normal channels of contact duties, to take independent professional andrisk and the management of time and fail to resolve.
advice at the companys expense.
Whilst the board was satisfied also have access to the services of the company AGM that it and its committees are operating secretary.
The company has in place directors The AGM is fully utilised as a means effectively, key actions agreed as a result of and officers liability insurance.
ofcommunicating directly with private the review included a greater emphasis on shareholders, who receive a brief long-term strategy, more challenging input Conflicts of interest presentation on the business before the during meetings, greater use of board dinners The board has the right, under the articles substantive part of the meeting begins.
and a clearer policy on diversity.
ofassociation, to approve potential situational Theyalso have the full opportunity to ask conflicts of interest.
A small number of such In conjunction with the board evaluation, questions and to meet directors and senior potential conflicts have been approved by the senior independent director and management informally after the meeting.
theboard following disclosure by certain non-executive directors conducted an The board aims to ensure that all members directors, in each case with the relevant appraisal of the chairmans performance.
of the board, including in particular the director not taking part in any decision The performance of the executive directors chairmen of the board committees, are relating to their own position.
Directors is reviewed annually by the remuneration available to answer questions at the AGM.
arealso aware that the disclosure and committee in conjunction with their annual authorisation of any potential conflict All substantive items of business at pay review and the payment of bonuses.
situation does not detract from their shareholders meetings are dealt with under Training and support requirement to notify the board separately separate resolutions, including a resolution to Each director is responsible for ensuring ofan actual or potential conflict in relation adopt the report and accounts.
The chairman that they remain up to date in their skills and to a proposed transaction by the company.
announces the results of the proxy voting on knowledge of the company and the training each resolution after it has been dealt with needs of the board and its committees are Communication with shareholders ona show of hands.
Particular emphasis is The board is keen to ensure that our Website placed on ensuring that directors are aware shareholders have a good understanding The company maintains a website of proposed legislative changes in areas such ofthe business and its performance, and www.
co. uk to provide as remuneration, corporate governance and thatthe directors are aware of any issues up-to-date, detailed information on the financial reporting and sector specific issues orconcerns which shareholders may have.
companys operations and brands, which such as minimum pricing.
All directors are Communication with shareholders takes includes a dedicated investor relations also encouraged to visit the companys pubs avariety of forms.
All company announcements and restaurants and do so throughout the year.
areavailable on this site, as are copies Institutional shareholders and analysts Newly appointed directors receive a tailored There is a regular dialogue with institutional ofslides used for presentations to induction on joining the board to acquaint investment analysts.
We are happy to shareholders, including meetings after them with the company.
This generally takes theannouncement of the year end and answerquestions by telephone or email the form of meetings with other board investorrelations@greeneking.
Analysts are also invited to members and senior management and the presentations at those times and separately companysecretary@greeneking.
provision of an induction pack containing to analyst trips to visit our premises and hear attendanCe at meetings Nomination Remuneration Audit Board committee committee committee Executive directors Rooney Anand 8 8 Matthew Fearn 6 6 Ian Bull 1 1 Non-executive directors Tim Bridge 8 8 3 3 John Brady 8 8 3 3 3 3 3 3 Ian Durant 8 8 3 3 3 3 Norman Murray 7 8 2 3 3 3 Mike Coupe 7 7 2 2 Matthew Fearn was appointed to the board in September 2011.
Ian Bull left Greene King in July 2011.
Mike Coupe was appointed to the board in July 2011.
Greene King plc Annual report 2012 0 gnk ar12 middle RB LH.
co. uk 39 Board committees ina listed PLC, with direct involvement in ofmulti-site retailing.
Hanson Green was Audit committee report The board has established The audit committee was chaired duringthe appointed toassist in the search and it anomination committee, produced a candidate list containing both year by Ian Durant.
The othermembers of aremuneration committee and an the committee were John Brady and, from men and women.
Ultimately Mike Coupe was selectedas the best proposed appointee.
his appointment inJuly 2011, Mike Coupe.
audit committee, each of which has All members are considered by the board to Arrangements are made for proposed formal terms of reference governing appointees to meet all of the non-executive be independent.
The board is satisfied that its method of operation.
Each of the Ian Durant has recent and relevant financial directors prior to their appointment being terms of reference, which have been recommended to the board.
experience, as the former finance director ofLiberty International plc, since renamed approved by the board, are available Continuing the policy applied in 2011 and as Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC.
on request or to download from onthe recommendation of the nomination committee, the board is not proposing to ask thecompanys website and will be The role of the audit committee is toreview all directors to stand for re-election at the available for inspection at the AGM.
the financial reporting process, and the forthcoming AGM.
Instead, those three related external audit conclusions, of the full directors who were not re-elected during Set out below are reports from year and interim results, in each case prior 2011 will be submitting themselves for eachofthe nomination committee, totheir submission to the board.
It is also re-election this year, for the reasons set responsible for reviewing the companys remuneration committee and outin the AGM notice of meeting.
internal financial control systems, advising auditcommittee.
Norman Murray, the senior independent the board on the appointment ofexternal director who is also chairman of the auditor, overseeing the relationship with the Nomination committee report remuneration committee and a member ofthe external auditor, reviewing the companys During the year the nomination committee nomination committee, will have served for whistle blowing procedures and considering was chaired by Tim Bridge and the other nine years at the end of December 2012 and the need for a full internal audit function.
members of the committee were Norman isproposing to stand down from the board at Italso reviews the groups risk management Murray and John Brady.
A process for recruiting asuccessor policies and procedures prior to submission chairman, all members were considered is already under way.
to the board and receives detailed reports on bythe board to be independent.
the risk management processes within the Remuneration committee report business units.
Regular updates are provided The remuneration committee was chaired to the committee onregulatory, accounting The role of the nomination committee during the year by Norman Murray and and reporting developments under relevant isto identify, evaluate and nominate theother members were Ian Durant and financial standards and codes.
candidates for appointment to the board, John Brady.
All the members are considered to review regularly the structure, size and by the board to be independent.
composition including skills, knowledge and experience of the board and make There is a planned programme of meetings recommendations to the board with The role of the committee includes during the year to deal with all matters within regard to any adjustments that are determining the remuneration policy for the committees sphere of responsibility.
the executive directors, the chairman and committee had three meetings and on each those members of senior management The committee is also responsible for occasion the finance director and senior whose details appear on page 34 and 35. considering the companys succession members of the finance function attended.
It agrees the total individual remuneration plansfor board members and senior One meeting was attended by the chairman of package of each of the executive directors management, taking into account the the company.
The external auditor attended and those senior managers, considers the challenges and opportunities facing the all of the meetings.
There is an opportunity granting of share options and awards company, and what skills and expertise are ateach meeting for the committee to discuss under the long-term incentive plan therefore needed on the board in the future, matters privately with the auditor without anddetermines bonuses payable to the and for reviewing membership of the management present.
In addition, the executive directors and senior managers.
boards committees to ensure that undue chairman of the committee is in regular reliance is not placed upon any individuals.
contact with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the company.
The remuneration committee met three times The committee met three times during the during the year.
The chairman and thechief Financial statements and audit year, with the other non-executive directors executive, at the request of the committee, Before the start of each audit cycle, the frequently in attendance at those meetings.
The chairman does not committee reviewed the audit plan presented chief executive, at the request of the committee, participate in any discussions relating to his by the auditor and agreed the scope of the also attended one meeting.
Attendance at these own remuneration.
The chief executive is audit work.
During the audit process the meetings by the committee members is shown consulted by the committee on its proposals, committee kept under review the consistency in the table on page 38. but does not participate in any discussions of accounting policies on a year to year basis Matters considered by the committee during relating to his own remuneration.
The and across the group, and the methods used to the year included the proposed appointment committees external adviser, NewBridgeStreet account for significant or unusual transactions, of Mike Coupe, a policy regarding board Consultants, attended one of the meetings including in particular the assessment of diversity, board succession planning, topresent a review of the companys impairment losses and tax.
areflection on the board evaluation remuneration structure.
exerciseand the re-election of directors.
Details of the companys policies on With regard to the appointment of remuneration, service contracts and MikeCoupe, the key experience sought compensation payments are set out in the wasfor someone still in an executive role remuneration report on pages 41 to 47.
Corporate governance 0 gnk ar12 middle RB LH.
indd 4 25 07 2012 10:54:21 40 Corporate governance Corporate governanCe statement Continued Audit committee report continued cumulatively, with fees in excess of those limits Committee on internal control, and these being subject to approval of the full committee.
remained in place up to the date of this Financial statements and audit continued During the year the company made limited use report.
The board is satisfied that there are The financial statements and interim results of specialist teams within Ernst & Young LLP no significant weaknesses in these systems.
were reviewed in detail prior to their submission for non-audit work such as taxation advice, to the board.
Following the audit the committee The key elements of the internal control primarily in relation to the resolution of legacy discussed issues arising from the audit, and any framework are: tax issues on which Ernst & Young LLP matters the auditor wished todiscuss.
The the schedule of matters reserved specialists had originally advised.
The total committee also assessed theeffectiveness fortheboard: fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP amounted oftheaudit process through discussion with to324,000, of which 27,000 related to theauditor and by reviewing the management the groups defined management non-audit work.
letter toensure that the auditor had a good structurewith suitable authority understanding of the business and receiving limitsand responsibilities, staffed Internal audit andreviewing a report from the Audit byappropriate personnel: The committee reviewed the companys Inspection Unit on Ernst & Young LLP.
internal audit function, which currently regular updates for the board on strategy: focuses primarily on the groups Retail External auditor a comprehensive planning and financial division, although its remit is being expanded.
During the course of the year the audit reporting procedure including annual Elsewhere within the group a combination of committee monitored the relationship with budgets and a three year strategic plan, the external audit procedures and the types of the auditor and assessed their performance, both of which are reviewed and approved financial risks involved are felt to be such that cost-effectiveness, objectivity, independence by the board: awider internal audit function is not required.
The board Thiswill be reviewed on an annual basis.
ongoing monitoring by both the board is satisfied that theauditor are independent andsenior management of performance ofthe company and that best practice is being Other matters against budgets, through the periodic observed.
Anew audit partner was put in In reviewing the whistle blowing policy forthe reporting of detailed management place during the year, following the planned group the committee recommended achange accounts and key performance indicators: retirement ofthe previous incumbent, and a to the policy which has been implemented by suitable induction programme was arranged management.
The terms ofreference of the ongoing monitoring by the board of for him.
Ernst & Young LLP report to the compliance with financial covenants: committee were also reviewed and updated.
committee regularly to confirm compliance a centralised financial reporting system, with their own policies, procedures and Internal control and risk management with procedures designed to gather and ethical standards in relation to auditor The board has overall responsibility for the present information in a consistent way objectivity and independence.
groups risk management framework and that facilitates the production of the systems of internal control and for reviewing The audit committee has established a policy consolidated accounts: their effectiveness.
The audit committee in relation to the use of Ernst & Young LLP monitors and reviews the groups internal clearly defined evaluation and approval for non-audit work.
The company will award controls and risks on a regular basis, processes for acquisitions and disposals, non-audit work to the firm which provides andreports to the board on its findings.
capital expenditure and project control, the best commercial solution for the work in Theimplementation of risk management with escalating levels of authority question, taking into account the skills and and internal control systems is the including board approval for major experience of the firm, the nature of the responsibility of the executive directors acquisitions and disposals, detailed services involved, the fees payable for the andother senior management.
appraisal and review procedures and work in question, with particular attention post-completion reviews: A summary of the risk management tothe level of fees for non-audit services both for individual services and in aggregate frameworkis set out on page 26. an internal audit team responsible Theriskmanagement framework and relative to the amount of the audit fee and forreviewing controls in the groups whether there are safeguards in place to internal control systems are designed Retail division and the availability of tomanage, and not toeliminate, the risk mitigate to an acceptable level any threat to comprehensive information from the objectivity and independence in the conduct offailure to achieve business objectives.
EPOS till system: and of the audit resulting from such services.
Theycan provide reasonable, but not documented policies to cover bribery absolute, assurance thatthe groups assets Work estimated to cost in excess of 25,000 andwhistle blowing and regular updates aresafeguarded and that the financial and for which the auditor are being on any incidents.
information used within the business considered are put out to tender unless agreed andforexternal reporting isreliable.
otherwise by the chairman of the audit DTR disclosure The company has in place procedures to committee.
The finance director may approve The information required by DTR 7.1 and specific engagements up to 50,000 and assess the key risks to which it is exposed DTR 7.2 is set out in this report, except and has formalised the control environment 100,000 cumulatively, and the chairman forinformation required under DTR 7.2.
6 ofthe audit committee may approve needed to address these and other issues.
which is set out in the directors report.
There are processes in place which engagements up to 100,000 and 200,000 accordwith the guidance of the Turnbull Greene King plc Annual report 2012 0 gnk ar12 middle RB LH.
