Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 29 Greggs plc Audit Committee report I am delighted to welcome Allison Kirkby as a member of the Audit Committee.
Allison will assume the Chairmanship of the Committee following the AGM on 15 May 2013.
Ian Durant Members: Ian Durant, Julie Baddeley, Iain Ferguson, Allison Kirkby Committee Composition It is the practice of the Company for all Independent Non-Executive Directors to serve as members of the Audit Committee.
Accordingly, Allison Kirkby joined the Committee on 30 January 2013 and Roger Whiteside, upon his appointment as Chief Executive stepped down from the Committee on 3 February 2013.
Ian Durant was formerly finance director of Liberty International and Allison Kirkby is currently Chief Financial Officer of Shine Group.
The Board considers that Ian and Allison have recent and relevant financial experience and is confident that the collective experience of the members enables them to act effectively as an Audit Committee.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be accessed at www.
Responsibilities and Activities in 2012 The Audit Committee met four times in 2012, and its activities are set out below.
The Audit Committee has responsibility for: t ensuring that the accounting and financial policies of the Company are proper and effective: t assisting the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by monitoring the integrity of the accounts and information published by the Company and reviewing significant financial judgements contained in them: t reviewing the internal financial controls and the Groups approach to risk management: t oversight of whistle-blowing arrangements: t monitoring compliance with the Listing Rules and the recommendations of the Governance Code: t oversight of the Companys external and internal auditors and reviewing the effectiveness and objectivity of the audit process: and t reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Oversight of External Reporting and Disclosure Oversight of Internal Reviewing Internal Financial Reporting Controls The Audit Committee Reviewing Risk Oversight of Management Whistleblowing Processes Oversight of Oversight of External Audit Internal Audit | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 30 Greggs plc Audit Committee report continued In addition to regular reports from the Finance Director, matters considered by the Audit Committee each year include: t adequacy and integrity of the Preliminary Results, Interim Results and Annual Report: t monitoring compliance with Financial Reporting Standards and evolving best practice: t accounting treatment of matters requiring the use of judgement and estimates: t assessment of the Going Concern basis of accounting: t regulatory and governance developments: t taxation compliance: t risk management process review: t financial control environment: t Internal Audit plan and reports: t whistle-blowing events: t external audit plan: t external auditor performance: t reappointment of external auditors and representation letters: t review of Audit Committee and Internal Audit effectiveness: and t noting of dormant subsidiary accounts.
During 2012 the Audit Committee also considered: t whether the Committees terms of reference are up to date and relevant: t the Audit Quality Review Teams report on KPMG Audit Plcs audit of Greggs plc: t auto-enrolment implementation and contingency plans: t the potential impact of the requirement by the UK Financial Reporting Council the FRC and the European Commission the Commission to mandatorily retender audit services see below : t pensions accounting: t improving the internal documentation and disclosure for the Going Concern analysis: t enhancing the internal documentation of asset impairment decisions: and t reviewing the organisation and scope and resources of Internal Audit.
The Committee normally invites the Company Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Internal Audit Manager, and the external auditors to attend its meetings.
Time is set aside bi-annually for discussion with the external auditors and with the Internal Audit Manager, in each case in the absence of all Executive Directors.
The Committee also has access to the Companys management team and to its auditors and can seek further professional advice, at the Companys cost, if required.
The Chairman has regular contact with the Finance Director, and internal and external auditors, in addition to scheduled Committee meetings to ensure that emerging issues are addressed.
He also has access to and, in 2012, met with an audit partner independent of the partner responsible for the audit.
UK Corporate Governance Code As noted above the FRC has published changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and its Guidance for Audit Committees.
The changes take effect for financial years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, and although the Company is not required to adopt the changes for the period covered by this report the Audit Committee has given consideration to changes that may be required.
These include the retender of the external audit within every ten years.
Retendering the External Audit The Committee currently intends to retender the audit during the financial year ending 27 December 2014.
KPMG has been the Companys auditor at least since the Company was floated on the London Stock Exchange in 1984 and in that time there has not been a tender.
The Committee has chosen not to undertake this exercise in 2013 because of changes to the Board, including a change of Chairman, Chief Executive and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Allison Kirkby is to take over the Chair of the Audit Committee following the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2013 and the Committee believes it would be better to allow the new Audit Committee Chair to become established in advance of a formal tender process.
Internal Control The Committee reviewed the Companys internal control environment to satisfy itself that procedures are in place to ensure that assets are well protected, authority levels for expenditure are clear, segregation of duties exists and performance is regularly monitored.
Processes are in place to ensure that key controls are being operated and compliance with these processes is the subject of inspection by the Internal Audit team and review by the Audit Committee.
Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 31 Whistle-blowing There were three whistle-blowing notifications during the year.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee was notified directly by email, phone and letter.
In each case a judgement was made and the issues were investigated with an appropriate level of discretion by senior management and with the involvement of Internal Audit.
Action was taken in all three cases and the outcome reported to the Board Audit Committee.
Risk Management Process The Audit Committee undertakes a review of the risk management process in the Group at least annually.
This process is detailed on page 36, and it was reviewed by the Committee to determine the appropriateness of the process in light of the risks identified.
Audit Committee Effectiveness Each year the Committee reviews critically its own performance and considers where improvements can be made.
Internal Audit The work of the Internal Audit Function is set out in more detail within the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 32 to 36 of this Annual Report.
There are three members of the team, including the Internal Audit Manager.
The Audit Committee approves the annual plan for the team and monitors progress against that plan.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit team and its level of resource is reviewed by the Committee at least annually.
External auditors The Committee also considered and made recommendations to the Board in relation to the independence and objectivity of the external auditor including the impact of any non-audit work undertaken by it and its suitability for re-appointment.
The Committee has reviewed the report by the Audit Quality Review Team on the performance of KPMG Audit Plc in its conducting of the audit of the Company.
The Audit Committee reviewed the scope of the external audit in discussion with the external auditors and agreed their fees in respect of the audit.
The Committee concluded that the audit was effective and that the relationship and effectiveness of the external auditor be kept under review.
The Company has a formal policy to ensure that the provision of non-audit services by external auditors for non-audit work does not compromise the auditors independence or objectivity.
Consequently all use of the external auditor for non-audit work must be reported to and approved by the Committee, and the aggregate of such fees will normally be less than 100% of the audit fee.
In circumstances where such non-audit fees are significant relative to the audit fee an explanation would be provided in the subsequent Audit Committee Report.
In addition, the Audit Committee ensures that the external auditors have their own policies and are subject to professional standards designed to safeguard their independence as auditors.
The Audit Committee has reviewed whether, and is satisfied that, the Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, continues to be objective and independent of the Company.
KPMG Audit Plc does perform non-audit services for the Group but the Audit Committee is satisfied that its objectivity is not impaired by such work.
In 2012, non-audit fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc and related KPMG operations amounted to 92,000 which is 61 per cent of the audit fee for the year and principally related to taxation compliance services and pension scheme audits.
As noted above it is the Audit Committees intention to conduct a formal tender for external audit services in 2014.
Reappointment of auditors In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Ian Durant Chairman of the Audit Committee 20 March 2013
