| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 22 Board of Directors The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three Executive and four Non-Executive Directors.
Bob Bennett retired from the Board on 16 May 2012.
Allison Kirkby was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 30 January 2013.
On 4 February 2013, Roger Whiteside was appointed as Chief Executive, and the previous Chief Executive, Kennedy McMeikan left the Board and the Company on 8 March 2013.
There were no other changes to the Board during the period.
Derek Netherton Roger Whiteside Richard Hutton, FCA Chairman, 68 Chief Executive, 54 Finance Director, 44 Spent his career in investment banking Roger began his career at Marks & Spencer Was appointed to the Board on 13 March 2006. and retired in 1996 from his position as joint where he spent 20 years ultimately becoming He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with head of corporate finance at J Henry Schroder head of its food business.
He was then one of KPMG and gained career experience with & Co Limited.
He was appointed to the Board the founding team of Ocado serving as Joint Procter & Gamble before joining Greggs in on 1 March 2002 and was appointed Chairman MD from 2000 to 2004.
He was appointed Finance Director in August of the same year.
Derek is Chairman led a successful turnaround as Chief Executive on 10 May 2006.
Richard is a trustee of the of Opera North, and a non-executive director of the Thresher Group off-licence chain before Greggs Foundation, and chairs Business in of three companies in the Canada Life group.
joining Punch Taverns ultimately becoming the Communitys Regional Advisory Board.
There have been no significant changes to the Chief Executive.
Derek is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Raymond Reynolds Julie Baddeley Iain Ferguson, CBE Retail Director, 53 Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director, 56 Was appointed to the Board as Retail Director Senior Independent Director, 61 Joined the Board on 31 March 2009.
He joined Greggs in Was appointed to the Board in March 2005.
Chief Executive of Tate & Lyle PLC until October retail management in 1986.
During the late She has held senior executive roles in Woolwich 2009.
Previously, he worked for Unilever where he 1990s, as general manager he built a significant plc, where she was responsible for Information held a number of senior executive positions.
He is new business for Greggs in the Edinburgh Technology and Human Resources, Accenture currently Chairman of Berendson plc, and a nonregion, and in 2002 he was appointed and Sema Consulting.
Julie is a non-executive executive director of Balfour Beatty plc, Honorary Managing Director of Greggs of Scotland.
director and Chairman elect of Harvey Nash Vice President of the British Nutrition Foundation plc and Chairman of Sustain Limited, the and lead Non-Executive Director of the DEFRA environmental consulting group.
Julie is also Management Committee.
Iain is Chairman of the a non-executive director of Chrysalis VCT Remuneration Committee, and is also a member plc.
Julie is a member of the Remuneration, of the Nominations and Audit Committees.
