74 Governance Corporate Governance Report As Chairman, I aim to guide my colleagues on the Board to deliver effective and accountable leadership for the benefit of our shareholders, the Company and other stakeholders.
My colleagues on the Board and I take seriously our collective responsibility for the long-term direction and strategy of the Group.
We are convinced that a strong framework of corporate governance practices contributes to the success and future of our business strategy and processes.
In the following pages of this Corporate Governance Report, we seek to illustrate how we have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code through the use of committees and delegated decision-making, Dennis Millard Chairman supported by risk management and accountability controls, to provide effective leadership to the business.
com cgr Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code For the period ended 30 March 2012, the Board considers that the Group has complied fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council from whom paper and downloadable versions can be obtained via its website: www.
We have outlined in this report how we have complied with the five main principles of the Code using the same headings as the main sections of the Code.
The Board of the Company Date of Original Date of Most Recent Designation Appointment Re-election Dennis Millard Chairman 28 May 2009 28 May 2012 David Wild Chief Executive 4 August 2008 2 August 2011 Paul McClenaghan Commercial Director 31 March 2007 2 August 2011 Andrew Findlay Finance Director 1 February 2011 2 August 2011 Claudia Arney Non-Executive Director 25 January 2011 2 August 2011 David Adams Non-Executive Director 1 March 2011 2 August 2011 Keith Harris Non-Executive Director 17 May 2004 2 August 2011 Bill Ronald Senior Independent Director 17 May 2004 2 August 2011 N. B.
All Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the 2012 AGM.
Effective Accountable Leadership Separate Chairman and Chief 3 Executive Executive Total Number Andrew Findlay of Scheduled Directors Finance Director Board meetings: 6 David Wild Paul McClenaghan Chief Executive Commercial Director Independent Chairman Dennis Millard 2 meetings between the Chairman and Chairman Long-term Non-Executive strategy and Directors without Claudia Arney success the Executive Non-Executive Directors present Director Directors Liability Insurance in place Bill Ronald David Adams 1 meeting Senior Independent Non-Executive between the Senior Director Director Independent Keith Harris Director and the Non-Executive other Directors Schedule of Director without the 5 Non-Executive matters reserved Chairman present for the Board Independent Directors 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Division of Board Responsibilities Meetings Halfords Group plc Online version 75 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Time Spent on Board Business Leadership How the Board Operates Effective Meetings During the year the Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, continued the practice of maintaining a rolling 12-month agenda for Board and Committee meetings.
Agenda items included standing items such as progress reports from the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary, as well as periodic items such as: updates from Key Considerations Committee Chairs, a review of the risk register and internal controls, throughout strategy, and succession planning.
The annual agenda also establishes Reserved Matter the Period the time frame for finalisation and circulation of the pre-meeting papers.
Authority Reports from the Audit, This ensures that the Directors receive the complete information, Remuneration and Nomination sufficiently in advance of the meeting, such that the Board can make Committees on their activities.
effective decisions within the meeting itself.
In this manner, the Company Secretarys Report.
Chairman and the Board can have confidence that the yearly cycle of Board Evaluation.
meetings allows sufficient time for discussion by the Board of each matter, at the most appropriate meeting in the year, enabling them to Strategy and Management Reviewing long-term vision, discharge their duties as Directors effectively.
Additional meetings were financial performance, also held throughout the year when business needs arise.
investment and people initiatives, actual figures against Leadership How the Board Operates Decision-Making forecast and commercial The Board is mindful of its duties and responsibilities to shareholders, initiatives.
Reports from the customers, employees and other stakeholders in determining the Chief Executive, Finance long-term strategy and objectives of the Group.
Such duties and and Commercial Director.
responsibilities encompass: monitoring the achievement of business Group Budget.
Store Refresh objectives and management performance: scrutinising the proposed programme.
contractual relationships of the Group: and safeguarding relationships with, and generating value for, shareholders: within the context of a Structure & Capital Share buyback programme.
sound and robust framework of internal controls and risk management.
Therefore, specific matters which significantly impact on these areas of Investor Relations Discussions with brokers.
the business are reserved for the decision of the Board.
The Board recognises that for productive decision-making at Board meetings, as well as within the Group, certain decisions should be Audit.
Financial Reporting & Consideration and approval considered and made by the Board alone, whilst for other matters it is Controls of: Pre-Close announcement, appropriate to delegate the Boards decision-making authority to its Final and interim dividend Committees or management.
These arrangements are formally approvals.
recorded in a Matters Reserved for the Board document which is Approval of the Annual Report reviewed and updated by the Board annually.
Reserved Matters for the Board Other Business Bribery and CR policies.
Decisions specifically reserved for approval by the Board include those Customer insight.
Coventry concerning the bounds of its authority, the strategy and business plan distribution centre priorities.
of the Group, any changes to the Groups capital structure, significant NED feedback from store corporate transactions and assessments of the Groups risk and control visits.
Car Maintenance and Cycle category plans.
Updates on the Autocentres business.
Delegated Matters to Board Committees The responsibilities of the Board Committees are set out in the individual Terms of Reference of each Committee which comply with the Code.
The contents of these are discussed further within the sub-sections that follow on the Committees starting at page 78 and are also available on the Companys website.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction 76 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Delegated Matters to Executive Directors Leadership How the Board Operates Non-Executive Directors The Executive Directors further delegate their responsibilities, via the Groups Management Structure illustrated below, in line with a The Non-Executive Directors help the Executive Directors by supporting document: Delegated Authorities.
Each Executive Director contributing independent challenge and rigour to the Boards and the Company Secretary has overall responsibility via this document deliberations and assisting in the development of the Companys for the relevant business function.
The procedures for approving strategy.
In addition, they are responsible for monitoring the processes within these functions are clearly outlined establishing how performance of the Executive Directors against agreed goals and and by whom approval of a business decision can be made and the objectives.
Their views are essential in the reporting of performance and required evidence of such approval.
Examples of decisions delegated in the integrity of the financial information, controls and risk in this way are the placement of orders with suppliers, the entering into management processes of the Company.
In order to carry out these a contract with a web design agency, the appointment of professional functions appropriately the Non-Executive Directors meet regularly with health & safety advisors and the agreement of new portfolio deals.
senior management and make periodic site visits and also meet separately without the Executive Directors present.
Senior managers The diagram below illustrates the management structure within are also regularly invited to Board meetings to make business the business.
Leadership How the Board Operates Senior Independent Halfords Group plc Director Bill Ronald is the Senior Independent Director of the Company and as such works alongside the Chairman and is available to serve as an Halfords Limited Halfords Autocentres Ltd intermediary for the other Directors if necessary.
He is also available to shareholders if direct contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Project Board Project Board Project Board other Executive Directors has failed to resolve the concerns of shareholders or for which such contact is inappropriate.
As Senior Independent Director he also led the annual review of the performance Leadership Group Leadership Group Senior of the Chairman.
Management Team In addition, should a Director have a concern over any unresolved business he she is entitled to require the Company Secretary to minute The diagram below summarises how the Board exercises control over the concern.
Should the Director later resign over the issue, the the activities of the business whilst delegating its decision-making Chairman will bring it to the attention of the Board.
authority to the Board Committees or the Executive Directors.
Leadership Board and Committees During the year the Board scheduled eight meetings and the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committee four, three and five Halfords Group plc Board meetings respectively.
Matters reserved for the Board Board and Committee Meeting Attendance by the Directors Group Board Nomination Audit Remuneration Board Committees Executive Directors Terms of Reference Delegated Authorities 8 4 3 5 Dennis Millard 8 4 3 5 David Wild 8 4 2 4 The Matters Reserved for the Board, Terms of Reference and Delegated Paul Authorities documents combine to create a clear authority matrix McClenaghan 8 n a 1 n a across the Group for timely and effective decision-making.
Matters are Andrew Findlay 8 n a 3 1 either: Claudia Arney 7 3 3 4 David Adams 7 4 2 5 Evidenced by Keith Harris 8 4 3 5 Specifically Reserved for the Board: Matters Reserved for the Board Bill Ronald 8 4 3 5 Delegated to a Committee for Matters Reserved for the Board attendance by invitation recommendation, with final Committee Terms of Reference approval given by the Board: Delegated to a Committee: or Matters Reserved for the Board Committee Terms of Reference Delegated to Management.
Matters Reserved for the Board Delegated Authorities 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 77 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Effectiveness Board Composition Throughout the period covered by this report, the Board comprised three Executive Directors, the Chairman and four independent Non-Executive Directors who bring to the Board the following key skills, experience, independence and knowledge: Knowledge Independence of the Group Skills Experience Dennis Millard c. 3 yrs David Wild c. 4 yrs Andrew Findlay c. 1 yr Paul McClenaghan c. 7 yrs Bill Ronald c. 8 yrs David Adams c. 1 yr Claudia Arney c. 1 yr Keith Harris c. 8 yrs Key Skills Experience Leadership Retail Digital Strategy Finance Supply Chain Governance Banking Marketing Business Development Brand Building Corporate Cross-Functional The Board considers that it has the right combination of skills, Currently one member of the Board is female.
This appointment was experience, independence and knowledge to be useful and effective in made on the basis that Claudia Arney was the best-qualified candidate meeting the needs of the business.
More than half of the Board are to provide the Board with the necessary support and expertise in independent Non-Executive Directors.
Dennis Millard was appointed developing the Groups online consumer and media strategy.
Chairman on 28 May 2009 and reappointed on 28 May 2011.
At the The Company is not generally in favour of setting a fixed quota of time of his appointment he was considered to meet the independence women on the Board.
The Nomination Committee will continue to criteria.
The other Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board recommend appointments to the Board based on the existing balance to be independent in character and judgement.
of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, on the merit and This combination of individuals and skills ensures that the Board is capabilities of the nominee and on the time they are able to devote to sufficiently balanced such that no individual or group of individuals can the role in order to promote the success of the Company.
dominate decision-making and allows for an effective division of Induction and Ongoing Training responsibilities within the Board and its Committees.
The positions of Although no new appointments have been made in the year under Chairman and Chief Executive are held separately.
The boundaries of review, an induction programme is maintained for new Directors, which their remit for running the Board and the business respectively are is tailored to include briefings on the activities of the Group and visits to available on the Companys Corporate and IR website.
All Directors are members of the Deloitte Academy, a devotes sufficient time and attention as is necessary in order to perform training resource that provides support and guidance to boards and their duties.
Directors are informed of relevant material changes Diversity to laws and regulations affecting the Groups business and their duties The Board considers itself diverse in terms of the background and as Directors.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on governance experience each individual member brings to the Board.
To maintain matters and is available to all Directors for advice as required.
All this, the considerations to be taken into account in each appointment Non-Executive Directors have embarked on a series of head office and to the Board are stipulated in the Terms of Reference of the Nomination store visits through the year and feedback is provided at Board Committee which are available on the Companys Corporate and IR meetings.
Specifically, the Nomination Committee must consider Effectiveness Board Committees candidates on merit and against objective criteria, and with due regard The Board has established a number of Committees to assist in the for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender in identifying discharge of its responsibilities.
The Company Secretary acts as and recommending candidates.
com cgr 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction 78 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Only the members of each Committee are entitled to attend its Effectiveness Nomination Committee meetings, although other Directors, professional advisors and members of the senior management team attend when invited to do so.
The Chairman Audit Committee will invite the Auditors to certain of its meetings.
In the Dennis Millard cases of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, no member is present when business pertinent to them is under discussion.
A Treasury Committee, composed of senior members of the finance and treasury teams and chaired by the Finance Director, has been The Nomination Committee is pleased that the new Board established to manage the day-to-day treasury needs of the Group.
A members and senior Executives in whose appointment we were Disclosure Committee composed of a minimum of two Directors has involved last year have established themselves well in, and are been established to approve finalised market announcements prior to providing the fresh insight we anticipated.
Committee continues to take an active involvement in succession planning this year with the appointment of a When the need arises, separate ad hoc committees may be set up by number of senior Executives to further boost and complement the Board to consider specific issues.
the skills and experience brought by the Board and senior Effectiveness Directors and their Other Interests Executives.
Each Director has notified the Company of any situation in which he or she has, or can have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or Members Meetings possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company a situational Dennis Millard Total Number of conflict.
These interests were considered and approved by the Board Committee Chairman Committee meetings: 4 in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and each David Adams Terms of Reference: Director was informed of the authorisation and the terms on which it Keith Harris Yes see website was given.
All Directors are aware of the need to consult with the Bill Ronald Company Secretary regarding any further possible situational conflict Claudia Arney that may arise so that prior consideration can be given by the Board as David Wild to whether or not such conflict will be approved.
Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests of Read online: halfords.
com cgr the Directors and their immediate families in the share capital of the Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are With the exception of David Wild, all members of the Committee are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 91. considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Code states Effectiveness Board Evaluation that the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman In May 2011, the Board undertook an internal evaluation process via: after his appointment and the Board feels it is appropriate, as all Nonone-to-one meetings between the Chairman and the other Directors, Executive Directors sit on the Committee, that the Committee should be one-to-one meetings between the Senior Independent Director and the chaired by the Chairman of the Group.
Senior members of management other Directors regarding the performance of the Chairman, and Board and advisors are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
The collated information was reviewed by the Board and the appropriate Committee, and overall Time Spent on Nomination it was concluded that the performance of the Board as a whole, its Committee Business principal Committees and individual Directors was such that each Director performs at the optimum level for the benefit of the Company.
Following this review and in line with the Code, the Board committed to an external evaluation for the period.
The Board engaged Egon Zehnder in April 2011 to facilitate the external evaluation of the Board via a series of one-to-one interviews with each individual Director.
Discussions included: the workings of the Board and its Committees: the balance of skills, expertise and personalities on the Delegated Remit Key Considerations Board: and the need to consider the Boards composition in light of the recommendations to the Board or throughout Companys strategy of Friend of the Motorist, Best Cycle Shop in Town for approval by the Committee the Period and the Starting Point for Great Getaways.
Egon Zehnder are expected to report back to the Board on their findings in June 2012.
Terms of Reference Appropriateness for an efficient and Effectiveness Re-election effective Nomination All Directors on the Board on 30 March 2012 will seek re-election at the Committee.
Companys AGM on 31 July 2012 in compliance with the Code and the Composition of the Board and Board diversity.
Committees, and the appointment of the Senior Independent Director Succession plans for the Board and Executive management senior management team composition, strengths, weaknesses.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 79 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Time Spent on Audit Committee Business The Committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board of the Company, for reviewing senior management succession plans, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors and making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills Key Considerations and experience on the Board.
throughout The Nomination Committee has established a process for Board Delegated Remit approval of the Period appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent and involves the use of external executive recruitment agencies.
This Terms of Reference Suitability for the Audit process includes a review of the skills, experience and knowledge of Committee to deliver the existing Directors, to assess which of the potential shortlisted accountability.
candidates would most benefit the balance of the Board having regard Half-year report and interim results Reflective of the also to the need for succession planning.
financial situation of the Group.
Accountability Audit Committee Significant accounting and treasury Appropriate for the policies practices nature of the Groups Chairman business.
David Adams External Auditors Continued appointment, remuneration including audit and non-audit The role of the Audit Committee is key to ensure full work, independence stakeholder confidence in the financial matters of the business.
It helps to ensure that financial statements are accurate, and that controls, policies and procedures are relevant, up to date Resolutions and corresponding Ensuring that and adhered to.
This is achieved through regular review, documents to shareholders at general shareholders have communication with operational and financial management in meeting including annual report the appropriate the business, through the internal audit function, and reviews information to make with the external Auditors.
Internal audit Approval of head of Members Meetings internal audit function.
David Adams Total Number of Internal control and Committee Chairman Committee meetings: 3 risk management Keith Harris statement within Bill Ronald Terms of Reference: annual report.
Claudia Arney Yes see website External audit External audit report, year end audit strategy and plan.
com cgr Other business Security processes and store assurance.
All the members of the Audit Committee are independent NonExecutive Directors.
David Adams has been the Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director of the House of Fraser Plc and as such is also the preparation of the Interim Report and Annual Report and Financial considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial Statement and reviewing the scope and findings of the audit.
Each of the other independent Non-Executive Directors on Committee assists the Board in achieving its obligations under the the Audit Committee has, through their other business activities, Code in areas of risk management and internal control, focusing significant experience in financial matters.
The Chairman, senior particularly on compliance with legal requirements, accounting members of management and advisors are invited to attend meetings standards and the Listing Rules, and ensures that an effective system as appropriate.
of internal financial and non-financial controls is maintained.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Report The Audit Committee meets according to the requirements of the and Financial Statements remains with the Board.
The meetings of the Audit Committee also provide the opportunity for the independent Non-Executive The Committee will keep under review the Auditors independence Directors to meet without the Executive Directors present and to raise including any non-audit services that are to be provided by the Auditors.
any issues of concern with the Auditors.
There have been three such The Auditors confirm their independence at least annually.
A formal meetings in the period ended 30 March 2012 and nothing of note was policy exists which ensures that the nature of the advice to be provided reported.
could not impair the objectivity of the Auditors opinion on the Groups Financial Statements.
This policy was made more robust throughout the The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the period and only allows the Auditors to be engaged for non-audit Board on the appointment of the Auditors and their remuneration, for services subject to Audit Committee approval being obtained prior to reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction 80 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued any such appointment.
Exceptions to this are the engagement of the reviews of key business risks and of managements controls and Auditors for the half-year review, and internal support services in plans to mitigate these risks: and respect of managements annual internal audit plan.
an annual corporate governance confirmation made to the Board The Audit Committee has approved a formal whistle-blowing policy by all senior Executives on the effectiveness of the identification of whereby staff may, in confidence, disclose issues of concern about major risks and of the monitoring of internal controls within their possible malpractice or wrongdoings by any of the Groups businesses areas of responsibility.
or any of its employees without fear of reprisal.
This includes As part of this process, the Board has established a Risk Management arrangements to investigate such matters and for appropriate follow-up Group to oversee the implementation of the risk management action.
framework, co-ordinate risk management activities throughout the Accountability Internal Control and Risk Management business, and to report to the Board and Audit Committee on risk issues.
The Risk Management Group is chaired by the Company Overall responsibility for the system of internal control, reviewing its Secretary and includes senior managers from Store Operations, effectiveness and ensuring that there is a process to identify, evaluate Business Systems, Health & Safety, Human Resources, Finance, Store and manage any significant risks that may affect the achievement of the Assurance, Business Services, Multi-channel, Logistics, and Supply Groups strategic objectives lies with the Board.
During the financial period to 30 March 2012 and up to The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness the date of this report the Risk Management Group considered the of the Groups internal control and risk management systems in Companys Risk Register and its alignment with the Companys key accordance with the Code for the period ended 30 March 2012, and strategic objectives, reporting the findings to the Board.
The Board up to the date of approving the Annual Report and Financial considered its appetite for risk in relation to the top 25 risks determining Statements.
The internal control and risk management system is that the risks and mitigating actions were appropriate to the level of risk designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve that was both acceptable to, and incumbent within, a FTSE 250 business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, business.
More information on the Companys key risks and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
uncertainties is shown on pages 40 to 43.
The internal audit function principally reviews the effectiveness of the Remuneration Remuneration Committee controls operating within the business by undertaking an agreed schedule of independent audits each year.
The Audit Committee Chairman determines the nature and scope of the annual audit programme at the Keith Harris beginning of each calendar year and revises it from time to time according to changing business circumstances and requirements.
Whilst directed by Andrew Findlay, the Companys Finance Director, the internal audit function is independent in action and reporting, with a Remuneration of the directors and senior management of a direct line of communication to the Audit Committee Chairman.
The business should be clearly linked to the performance of the findings of the independent audits are reported initially to Executive company and the value generated for shareholders.
The management and any necessary corrective actions are agreed.
Remuneration Committee upholds this principle by regularly Summaries of these reports are presented to, and discussed with, the reviewing the remuneration policy and practices of the Audit Committee along with details of progress against action business to ensure that the appropriate balance is maintained.
Currently, the Company has engaged KPMG to support the internal Members Meetings audit process.
The plan and scope of work for the future is determined Keith Harris Total Number of by the Halfords Group Executive management team and the Audit Committee Chairman Committee meetings: 5 Committee.
KPMG act as a resource to allow managerial access to appropriately skilled individuals.
KPMG do not perform a management Dennis Millard Terms of Reference: role.
It is the intention of the Company to move towards a greater Bill Ronald Yes see website internal resourcing of the Internal Audit function, and recruitment is Claudia Arney under way for a suitable qualified Head of Internal Audit, who will build a David Adams team to carry out this work.
The assessment and control of risk are considered by the Board to be Read online: halfords.
com cgr fundamental to achieving corporate objectives.
An ongoing process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of related controls has been established by the Board All members of the Remuneration Committee are considered to to ensure an acceptable risk reward profile across the Group.
The key be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Executive Directors elements of this process are: attend Remuneration Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
a comprehensive system of monthly reporting from key Executives, identifying performance against budget, analysis of variances, major business issues, key performance indicators and regular forecasting: well-defined policies governing appraisal and approval of capital expenditure and treasury operations: 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 81 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Time Spent on Remuneration Committee Business Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 91.
A resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Relations with Shareholders During the period ended 30 March 2012 Bill Ronald served as the Delegated Remit Key Considerations Companys Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent recommendations to the Board or throughout Director is available to meet shareholders upon request if they have for approval by the Committee the Period concerns that contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or Terms of Reference Appropriate for the Executive Directors has failed to resolve, or for which such contact the Remuneration is inappropriate.
Committee to The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining function effectively good relationships with all of the Companys shareholders and Bill in establishing Ronald has indicated his willingness to meet with any shareholders as remuneration policy they request.
During the period under review the Chief Executive, and levels.
Finance Director, Chairman and Remuneration Committee Chairman Remuneration policy Bonuses for FY11 have met with analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them and FY12.
Senior informed of significant developments and report to the Board managers salaries.
accordingly on the views of these stakeholders.
Future Companywide bonus Each of the other Non-Executive Directors is also offered the opportunities.
opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and would do so if requested by any major shareholder.
The Companys investor Awards under the Companys Consideration of relations programme includes formal presentations of full year and employee and executive share plans potential awards.
interim results and meetings with individual investors as appropriate.
Performance Independent feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board.
The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the attention Other business Presentations on of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys current trends shareholders, including private investors.
within Executive The Interim Report and the Annual Report and Financial Statements are remuneration and the the primary means used by the Board for communicating during the use of non-financial year with all of the Companys shareholders.
The Board also recognises KPIs.
Remuneration the importance of the Internet as a means of communicating widely, benchmarking quickly and cost-effectively and a Corporate and Investor Relations presentation by website is maintained to facilitate communications with shareholders.
Information available online includes copies of the full and half-year Remuneration financial statements, press releases and Company news, corporate advisors governance information and statements and the Terms of Reference for independence.
the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The Board is committed to the constructive use of the AGM as a forum to meet with shareholders and to hear their views and answer their The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making questions about the Group and its business.
The AGM of the Group is recommendations to the Board on the Companys policy on to be held on Tuesday, 31 July 2012 at the Hyatt Regency Birmingham, remuneration of Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and Bridge Road, Birmingham, B1 2JZ.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, members of its Executive management team.
Nomination and Audit Committees will be present at the AGM and will The Committee determines, within agreed Terms of Reference, specific be in a position to answer questions relevant to the work of those remuneration packages for each of the Chairman, the Executive Committees.
It is the Companys practice to propose separate Directors and Company Secretary of the Company and such members resolutions on each substantial issue at the AGM.
The Chairman will of senior management as it is delegated to consider.
This includes advise shareholders on the proxy voting details at the meeting.
pension rights: any compensation payments: and the implementation of The Companys financial calendar and other shareholder information is executive incentive schemes.
In accordance with the Committees set out on page 135.
Terms of Reference, no Director may participate in discussions relating to their own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
By order of the Board Alex Henderson Company Secretary 30 May 2012 Read online: halfords.
com cgr 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
