execUTive BoArd charles dubois Philippe felten Mark Lavelle executive Board Andrew Williams Kevin Thompson Charles Dubois Phillipe Felten Mark Lavelle Adam Meyers Neil Quinn Rob Randelman chief executive, fluid chief executive, security and chief executive Asset Allan Stamper Technology division door sensors division Monitoring division Nigel Trodd Age 46 Age 47 Age 52 Location USA Location Belgium Location UK Martin Zhang Charles was appointed to the Philippe was appointed to the Mark joined the Executive Board Executive Board in April 2008 Executive Board in April 2012 and is as a Divisional Chief Executive in and is Chief Executive of the Fluid Chief Executive of the Security and 2007 after having joined Halma Technology Division.
He joined the Door Sensors Division.
He is Chief as Managing Director of Keeler Group in 1999 as Vice President of Executive of BEA Group where he Instruments in November 2001.
Perma Pure LLC and was previously joined in 1998 as Sales Director Mark has an MBA from INSEAD President of Diba Industries.
Philippe completed and a chemistry degree from earned his MBA from the F. W. Olin the Programme for Executive Cambridge University.
School of Business at Babson Development at IMD Lausanne, College and holds a Bachelors holds a Bachelor degree in Marketing degree in physics from the College and Management ICHEC Brussels of the Holy Cross.
and is an Electro-Mechanical Engineer ECAM Brussels.
rob randelman Allan stamper Nigel Trodd Martin Zhang chief executive, chief executive, chief executive, director Halma china Photonics division Water division elevator safety and fire division Age 45 Age 52 Age 57 Age 54 Location China Location USA Location UK Location Singapore Martin was appointed as Adviser Rob became a member of the Allan was appointed to the Executive Nigel joined the Executive Board in to the Halma Executive Board in Executive Board in April 2011 and Board in October 2007 and is July 2003 and is Chief Executive February 2008.
He joined the Group is Chief Executive of the Photonics Divisional Chief Executive of the of the Elevators and Fire Division.
in June 2006 as Director of Halma Division.
He joined the Group in Water Division.
He joined Halma He had joined Halma in July 2003 China and successfully established 2006 as Vice President of Sales at in 2002 as Managing Director of as Chief Executive of the Process Halma China offices in Beijing and Ocean Optics, where he became Crowcon Detection Instruments.
Nigel is a member of Shanghai.
Martin holds an Executive President in 2007.
Rob gained Allan has an MBA from Cranfield the Chartered Institute of Marketing MBA from the University of Texas at his PhD and MSE in Chemical and is an engineering graduate of and a business studies graduate Arlington Tongji University Shanghai Engineering from Lehigh University both Loughborough University BSc of Thames Valley University.
He and a Bachelors degree in Chemical and is a Chemistry and Physics and Imperial College MSc.
relocated to Singapore in April 2012.
Engineering from Chengdu University graduate of Ursinus College.
70 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements cHAirMANs iNTrodUcTioN To GoverNANce The Board is committed to maintaining very high standards of corporate governance and ensuring values and behaviours are consistent across the business.
dear shareholders, I have always maintained that a key part Contents I am pleased to present Halmas Corporate of my role involves ensuring that there is a Governance report on behalf of our Board.
sufficient cadre of individuals being nurtured compliance with the code 72 The report deals with how the Board and its throughout the Group to enable effective The Board 72 committees discharged their governance succession planning.
The promotions of Board diversity 73 duties which I hope provides you with a clear Rob Randelman and Philippe Felten to and meaningful explanation of how we the Executive Board, in April 2011 and Board activity 74 apply the principles of good governance April 2012 respectively, demonstrate the Board performance and evaluation 74 enshrined in the UK Corporate Governance importance the Group places on developing investor relations 74 Code the Code.
Reviews of management Board committees 75 capabilities and potential are performed The Board is committed to maintaining very on a routine basis and I am satisfied that internal control 75 high standards of corporate governance sufficient resources exist within the Group, Going concern 75 and ensuring values and behaviours and that talent continues to be developed are consistent across the business.
We Audit committee 76 through programmes such as the Halma have sought to manage the affairs of Nomination committee 78 Executive Development Programme which the Company not by merely following itself evolves to meet the changing needs of remuneration committee 79 regimented rules, but by promoting open the Group.
Whenever we identify a need for remuneration report 80 and transparent discussion, constructive improvement to management resources we challenge and support in the Board and other statutory information 87 take action to ensure full strength is attained across the Group.
I continue to be pleased as soon as practicable.
directors responsibility statement 90 with the progress Halma has made.
We continually seek to ensure best practice is Lastly, I would like to encourage all maintained and that governance is integral to shareholders to find the time to attend our our strategy and decision-making processes AGM on 24 July 2012.
It is an excellent for the benefit of our shareholders.
opportunity to meet the Board, the Executive Board and a selection of the managing As I indicated in last years Annual Report, directors from our operating companies.
after ten years of exemplary service, Richard Stone stepped down from the Board in Geoff Unwin July 2011.
We strengthened and refreshed chairman the composition of our Board with the 14 June 2012 appointment of Daniela Barone Soares in November 2011, who together with our existing Board members form a committed and diverse team.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 71 corPorATe GoverNANce compliance with the code chairmans responsibilities chief executives responsibilities of best practice As required by the Listing Rules of the Governance providing coherent leadership and Financial Services Authority this Report promoting high standards of management of the Company with explains how the Company applies the corporate governance: the Chairman: principles and complies with the provisions of the Financial Reporting Council UK leading, chairing and managing developing objectives, strategy and Corporate Governance Code the Code the Board: performance standards to be agreed published in June 2010 which applied to by the Board: the Company throughout the year ended ensuring all Board committees are 31March 2012. property structured and operate with providing input to the Boards agenda: appropriate terms of reference: Throughout the year, the Company has fully providing effective leadership of the complied with the provisions as set out in to regularly consider the composition Executive Board to achieve the agreed section 1 of the Code.
and succession planning of the Board strategies and objectives: The Board has determined its ideal and its committees: securing an Executive Board of the composition as a Chairman, five ensuring that the Board and its right calibre, with specific responsibility independent non-executive Directors committees performances are for its composition, and that its and four executive Directors.
The Board adjudged this composition as an appropriate evaluated on a regular basis: succession plan is reviewed annually structure for the Company providing valuable with the Chairman and the nonensuring adequate time is available direct knowledge of operations and effective executive Directors: for all agenda items.
challenge surrounding the issues facing monitoring, reviewing and managing the Group.
strategy key risks and strategies with the Board: leading the Board in developing In accordance with the Code all the the strategy of the business and Directors, being eligible, will offer themselves ensuring that the assets of the for re-election at the Annual General Meeting achievement of its objectives: Group are adequately safeguarded and maintained: The Board promoting open and constructive The Board considers the Chairman and debate in Board meetings: building and maintaining the each of the non-executive Directors to be Companys communications independent.
In assessing independence, ensuring effective implementation and standing with shareholders, the Board considers that the Chairman and of Board decisions with the support financial institutions and the public non-executive Directors are independent of of the Chief Executive: and effectively communicating the management and free from business and ensuring the Board manages risk Halma plc investment proposition other relationships which could interfere effectively: with the exercise of independent judgment to all stakeholders: now and in the future.
The Board believes consulting where appropriate with ensuring the Board is aware of the that any shareholdings of the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director view of employees on issues of non-executive Directors serve to align their on Board matters.
relevance to Halma plc: interests with those of shareholders.
People living and fostering the Group values Upon appointment and at regular intervals, chairing the Nomination Committee: all Directors are offered appropriate training.
which promote ethical practices, Under the Companys Articles, each Director integrity and a positive work climate, identifying and meeting the induction is subject to re-election at least once every enabling the Group to attract, retain and development needs of the Board three years however, commencing last year, and motivate a diverse group of high and its committees: the Board has agreed that each Director quality employees: and shall stand for annual re-election.
The developing a strong working Board confirms that all Directors standing leading by example in establishing relationship with the Chief Executive: for re-election continue to be effective and a performance orientated, customer demonstrate commitment to their roles.
ensuring a strong working focused and publicly responsible Details of Directors biographies appear relationship between executive and Group culture.
on pages 68 and 69 and in the Notice non-executive directors: of Meeting.
setting clear expectations The Directors retain responsibility for the concerning the Companys culture, formulation of corporate strategy, investment value and behaviours: and decisions and treasury and risk management policies.
There is a formal schedule of ensuring effective relationships are matters reserved for the Boards decision maintained with all major stakeholders and the Board meets at least six times in the business.
each year with further ad hoc meetings as required.
Directors are issued an agenda and comprehensive board papers in the week preceding each Board meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary as well as there being an agreed procedure for obtaining independent professional advice.
72 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Board meeting attendance During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings was as follows: Board attendance Committees Overall attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination % Total meetings 6 3 3 2 Geoff Unwin 6 3 2 100% Andrew Williams 6 2 100% Kevin Thompson 6 100% Stephen Pettit 6 3 3 2 100% Neil Quinn 6 100% 2 Richard Stone 4 1 2 100% Jane Aikman 6 3 100% Adam Meyers 6 100% Lord Blackwell 6 3 3 100% Steve Marshall 6 3 3 2 100% 1 Daniela Barone Soares 2 2 100% 1 Daniela Barone Soares attended both meetings of the Board and Audit Committee after her appointment on 10 November 2011.
2 Richard Stone attended all four Board meetings, one Audit Committee meeting and two Remuneration Committee meetings before his retirement from the Board on 28 July 2011.
Board constitution of a listed company, an induction of females into management roles.
The Following Richard Stones resignation programme was designed for her, to ensure Board hopes to support these aims through from the Board in July 2011, Stephen Pettit she obtained an in-depth understanding of the adoption and implementation of Halmas was appointed Senior Independent Director the industry, the organisation and directors Diversity Policy rather than set quotas.
and Steve Marshall assumed responsibility responsibilities to enable her to contribute Following Daniela Barone Soares for the Chairmanship of the Remuneration to the Board effectively.
appointment, the Board has a total of ten Committee.
We have also made further Board diversity Directors.
The skill set of the non-executive progress in refreshing the composition The Board reviewed the report of Lord Directors includes financial, economics, and diversity of our Board with the Davies published in February 2011 on banking, engineering, technology, IT, appointment of Daniela Barone Soares Boardroom Diversity and contributed to the communications and consumer expertise.
FRC review of Gender Diversity on Boards They include eight British, one American Board induction noting its support for the benefits of greater and one Brazilian nationals.
20% of the Newly appointed non-executive Directors diversity, which is not just gender specific, Board are women.
follow an induction programme which but relates also to other factors such as Halma has the ambition to increase include scheduled trips to companies market and international experience and the number of executives based outside in each of the twelve sub-sectors to be diversity of thought.
It was agreed by the Europe and the USA to better reflect the achieved over a three-year period.
As Board that a manufacturing and technology proportion of our revenue generated Daniela Barone Soares had no previous company such as Halma would have to outside those markets.
experience in the industry nor as a director adopt policies to attract a greater number Board composition Board composition by nationality Board composition by gender Executive Directors 4 UK 8 Male 8 Chairman 1 USA 1 Female 2 Independent non-executive Directors 5 Brazil 1 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 73 963-1 Halma AR12 GOV AW9.
