corPorATe GoverNANce coNTiNUed Board activity throughout the The Board agreed the following year 2011 12 recommendations from the review which During the year the Board received would enable the Board to add further value training and briefing updates on to the business: changes in corporate governance, risk i greater level of non-executives knowledge management and compliance, audits, regarding competitive and customer bribery and corruption, health and safety, landscapes: environmental matters, city and shareholders matters and other relevant legislative and ii greater individual contributions encouraged accounting changes.
with enhancements from changes in Board composition: and The Directors have a programmed schedule of meetings and visits with the Executive iii provide more opportunities in the Board Board, Group companies and Halmas schedule to improve communication development programmes to ensure that between executives and non-executives.
they are able to engage with management As in prior years, the Board also met in and employees at all levels.
February 2012 before the scheduled Board Board performance and evaluation meeting.
There was a meeting of the The Board considers the evaluation of Chairman and non-executive Directors with its performance and that of the Audit, the Chief Executive.
This was followed by a Nomination and Remuneration Committees meeting of the Chairman and non-executive annually, with each Committee also Directors only.
The Senior Independent evaluating its own performance.
This year, Director also led a meeting with the nonthe Board engaged an external facilitator executive Directors without the Chairman for full Board and Committee evaluations.
The Executives were also given the opportunity to meet with the Chairman Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review carried and or the Senior Independent Director out the evaluation.
Dr Long has no other separately.
The outcome of these meetings connection with the Company.
The board was then fed back to individuals by the effectiveness review covered three key areas Chairman, Senior Independent Director namely the Boards: or Chief Executive, as appropriate.
definition of its role and approach to investor relations its work: The Board recognises the importance ability to work together effectively: and of effective communication with our shareholders.
In regular meetings ability to optimise its use of time and with shareholders and analysts the contribution to the Company.
Chief Executive and Finance Director communicate the Groups strategy and The evaluation process included a oneresults, disclosing such information as to-one interview with each Director and is permitted within the guidelines of the the Company Secretary and Dr Long Listing Rules.
Such meetings ensure that observed the workings of the Board and institutional shareholders representing over its Committees during the February 2012 50% of the Companys issued share capital Board and Committees meetings.
The meet or hold discussions with the Company key conclusions of the 2011 12 evaluation on a regular basis.
Major shareholders were first discussed with the Chairman and are also offered the opportunity to meet subsequently presented to the full Board.
the Chairman and or Senior Independent The evaluation results were discussed by Director.
Notes from all investor meetings the Board at the April 2012 Board meeting.
are circulated to the Chairman with investor The review concluded that the Board was feedback results from roadshows circulated effective, methodical and thorough in the to the whole Board.
way it approaches its work.
There was All shareholders are encouraged to attend open and transparent debate and an even the annual general meeting where they can contribution from all members of the Board.
gain a better understanding of the Company.
There was an active and collaborative Shareholders are able to pose questions approach to performance management to the Board on the matters put to the reflected in the constructive debates in the meeting, including the Annual Report and Remuneration Committee.
The Board spent the management of the Company.
Major a significant amount of time considering risks shareholders are also invited to briefings and controls and was assisted by strong following the half-year and annual results.
financial information, effective internal and The content of presentations to shareholders external audit processes and a strong Audit and analysts at results announcements and Committee.
Overall, the process confirmed all announcements are available on the right blend of behaviours and skills the Group website: www.
around the Halma Board table.
The Board freely and openly expresses any concerns The Group website also contains electronic which results in more considered outcomes versions of the latest Annual Report and emphasising collective responsibility, Accounts, Half-Year Reports, biographical transparency, clarity and integrity.
74 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements information on Directors and the Executive A chart setting out the Companys Board The Groups external auditors, Deloitte Board, share price information, and full and Committees structure is given LLP, have audited the financial statements subsidiary company contact details as well below with the Board and Committee and have reviewed the internal financial as links to their own websites.
The website memberships and Directors biographical control systems to the extent they consider also features the facility to request e-mail details shown separately on pages 68 and necessary to support their audit report.
alerts relating to announcements made 69.
The responsibilities of the key Board Going concern by the Group.
Committees and the key issues and activities The Groups business activities, together during 2011 12 are set out in the following The Financial calendar is set out on with the main trends and factors likely to Committee reports on pages 76 to 86. page 148. affect its future development, performance internal control and position, and the financial position of committees of the Board The Board has overall responsibility to the the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position Our Committees are a valuable part of the shareholders for the Groups system of and borrowing facilities, are set out in the Companys corporate governance structure.
internal control and risk management, and Business Review.
In addition, note 26 to The workload of the Committees includes the review of the systems effectiveness has the financial statements includes the the table of scheduled meetings as well as been delegated to the Audit Committee.
Groups objectives, policies and processes ad hoc meetings and communications Whilst not providing absolute assurance for managing its capital, its financial frequently requiring considerable amounts of against material misstatements or loss, this risk management objectives, details of time.
Our appointment of an additional nonsystem is designed to identify and manage its financial instruments and hedging executive Director at the end of 2011 enabled those risks that could adversely impact the activities, and its exposures to currency us to review the Committee allocations during achievement of the Groups objectives.
the year to ensure their resources matched The Groups risk management structure the workload.
The Group has considerable financial and process is detailed on pages 59 and 60. resources including a 260m five-year The Groups principal risks and uncertainties Halma has six committees and subrevolving credit facility together with are detailed on pages 61 to 63. committees of the Board: the Audit contracts with a diverse range of customers Committee, the Nomination Committee, The Board confirms that there is an ongoing and suppliers across different geographic the Remuneration Committee, the Share process for identifying, evaluating and areas and industries.
No one customer Plans Committee, the Bank Guarantees and managing the significant risks faced by the accounts for more than 2% of Group Facilities Committee and the Acquisitions Group, which has been in place for the year turnover.
As a consequence, the Directors and Disposals Committee.
Each of these under review and up to the date of approval believe that the Group is well placed to committees has terms of reference approved of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This manage its business risks successfully.
by the Board, copies of which are available process has been reviewed by the Board on the website or on request from the After conducting a formal review of the and the Board is satisfied that the Group Company Secretary.
Groups financial resources, the Directors accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The have a reasonable expectation that the Board will continue to review the system Minutes of Committee meetings are made Company and the Group have adequate routinely to ensure that the system of available to all Directors and the Chairmen resources to continue in operational internal control and risk management of each of the three key Board Committees, existence for the foreseeable future.
For remains fit for purpose.
the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration this reason, they continue to adopt the Committees, provide regular updates to going concern basis in preparing the the Board.
Board governance structure Board Key committees Audit Nomination remuneration committee committee committee other committees Bank Guarantees Acquisitions share Plans and facilities and disposals committee committee committee Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75
