34 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 Corporate governanCe report Victoria Jarman became Chairman of the Audit Committee in place of Paul Harrison.
Two of our nine directors are female, representing 22% of your Board, which is a positive development and is in line with the recommendations made in February 2011 by Lord Davies in his report entitled Women on Boards.
Details on Board effectiveness can be found on pages 45 and 46.
However, I would like to highlight some of the steps we have taken in the year to ensure that your Board is, and continues to be, fit for purpose.
My aims are to maintain a strong and diverse Board and to get the best out of the Boards expertise.
A hands-on understanding of our businesses and their profit drivers remain top priorities for each Board member.
I have met with the Management Board in the year and have continued to build relationships with other senior executives in the Group.
As Chairman, it is also my responsibility to promote regular interaction between the non-executive directors and key business managers.
This approach ensures that the non-executive directors can contribute to Board discussions through alan thoMSon CHAIRMAN constructive input and effective challenge.
During the year, the Board visited operations in Germany, France and the UK, held an Dear ShareholDer off-site strategy day with the Management Board members and two other senior international business managers and received In 2012, your Board has delivered the robust, detailed presentations from divisional senior managers on significant focused and responsive governance needed developments within their businesses.
During site visits, the directors are given an opportunity to meet with a large number of employees to lead the Group through the most complex to learn more about our people, markets and services.
I chose the trading conditions we have experienced.
visits to Germany and France because we want to leverage greater growth in those countries in the medium term.
In the year, the Board In this Report, I will explain and illustrate how your Board has dealt has also visited our new flagship London office in Cheapside to learn with the most important business opportunities and challenges more about the UK operations.
faced by the Group during the year.
World economic affairs have been dominated by ongoing problems in certain Eurozone Ongoing director training is essential for any top-performing board.
These have acted as a very unwelcome drag on the All new directors receive initial induction training on a diverse range economies of a number of our major European markets.
However, of business, trading, investor, organisational and legal matters.
your Board has not lost sight of the growth opportunities that exist The Board receives external periodic training on important topics in many parts of the world.
In this increasingly complex world, through the Deloitte Academy programme and ad hoc presentations balanced and effective governance is needed as never before.
and papers from advisers and Group functions including Company Secretarial, Legal, Tax and Treasury.
During the year, the directors BoarD governanCe received training on trends in financial reporting, corporate Two director changes in the year have broadened the skills and governance and risk, corporate responsibility, and potential impacts perspective of the Board, as well as its diversity.
We have welcomed arising from a disorderly breakup of the Eurozone.
Victoria Jarman and Pippa Wicks as independent non-executive directors.
Victorias expert knowledge of international finance and operations is extremely valuable as business complexity increases.
With a proven track record as a strategic business adviser and a leader of world-class businesses, Pippa adds considerable weight and insight to the Boards discussions.
Biographical information on Victoria, Pippa and the other directors can be found on pages 38 and 39.
Having served the Company for over nine years, Lesley Knox stepped down as a director following the Annual General Meeting on 9 November 2011.
As a result, Paul Harrison took over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director and 35 directors report Governance riSk anD aCCountaBility inveStor MeetingS attenDeD in 2012 You will find a summary of our principal risks on pages 22 and investors results 23 and an explanation of our risk control framework in the Audit met presentations Committee Report on page 49.
The Boards role in risk management Alistair Cox 108 2 is crucial, as it sets the Groups risk appetite and controls framework.
The Audit Committee ensures that the businesses are operating Paul Venables 140 6 within the limits set by the Board.
Investor relations team 304 0 However, I am pleased to say that a culture of risk awareness is fostered through all levels within Hays, supported by targeted We recognise that private shareholders do not benefit from these training on key topics and diligent management.
Business standards investor meetings, so we also publish all results, documents and and control measures are clearly articulated throughout the Group video replays of our results presentations on our website at hays.
and there is responsiveness and accountability as required.
I would encourage all private investors to look out for updates after results announcements and to attend the Hays annual Risk is an inevitable consequence of doing business, whether general meeting held each November, where we seek to give brief the risks are internal or external to an organisation.
Your Board reports on key developments in the business.
and senior management work hard to set a culture that is zerotolerant toward ethical risks and measured and appropriate toward As I have already mentioned, Paul Harrison took over from Lesley business risks.
Knox as Senior Independent Director last November.
Paul is a very experienced finance director and is an alternative point of contact Of course, the Eurozone crisis has rarely been out of the headlines.
We have written to our top 10 shareholders introducing The Board has considered the potential impact should one or more Paul as Senior Independent Director and providing his direct contact countries exit the Euro.
More information is contained in the Principal details.
Paul will also have contact with our largest shareholders Risks on page 23. from time to time in his capacity as Chairman of the Remuneration Bribery and corruption exposures have been a particular area Committee.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman, in conjunction of focus for most UK companies operating overseas, due to the with the Committees remuneration advisers, leads consultation with introduction of the UK Bribery Act in 2011.
We took the opportunity major shareholders whenever a change in remuneration policy is to carry out thorough bribery risk assessments of all our businesses proposed.
We keep the policy under regular review in the light of in December 2010 and launched a new anti-bribery and corruption trends and developing shareholder sentiment.
The Remuneration policy based on those findings in June 2011.
This was supported Committee reviewed the remuneration policy during the year and by general training for every employee worldwide and specialist believes the policy remains appropriate.
More information on the training for senior operations and finance managers.
Our risk policy can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 56 and 57. assessments found that Hays has a reasonably low risk profile.
During the year we carried out the first stakeholder engagement Nonetheless, we have implemented measures that aim to prevent survey of our corporate responsibility programme between January any acts of bribery and corruption by, or on behalf of, Hays anywhere and March 2012.
Shareholders will be able to express their views on in the world and have kept those measures under review to ensure Hays corporate responsibility activities by visiting hays.
com that they are operating effectively.
Report, which is published online at hays.
com , includes a fuller description of our actions on anti-bribery and corruption.
engaging with ShareholDerS As Chairman, I remain available at all times to discuss with shareholders any matters they wish to raise.
During the year, we held over 300 separate meetings with institutional investors and made six set-piece results presentations.
In the 2012 Thomson Extel investor relations survey, Paul Venables was ranked no.
1 finance director and Alistair Cox was ranked no.
2 chief executive in the European business services sector, as voted by the investor and analyst community.
Our Head of Investor Relations was ranked no.
In the Institutional Investor 2012 study of the top ranked European investor relations programmes, Hays was ranked no.
1 in the European business and employment services sector based on the views of sell-side analysts and investors.
These accolades are important and demonstrate how seriously Hays takes communication with investors.
36 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 Corporate governanCe report CoNtINued BoarD FoCuS in 2012 StateMent oF CoMplianCe You will find a summary of the work done by the Board and its The Financial Services Authority requires UK listed companies to committees in the last financial year on page 44.
I want to highlight explain how they applied the main principles set out in Section 1 of two areas in particular.
The first is the financial performance of the the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and whether they UK business which has been adversely affected by the prolonged have complied with the principles set out in Section 1 throughout the UK economic downturn.
Whilst the progress of all Hays businesses financial year.
This remainder of this Report explains how we have is closely monitored, improving the financial performance of the applied the main principles of the Code during the financial year.
UK business remains an important area for the Boards focus and Throughout the year ended 30 June 2012 the Company has, without a top priority.
More information on the steps taken within the UK exception, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the business can be found in the Chief Executives Strategic Review on Code.
Further information on the Code can be found on the Financial page 17.
The second area I wish to highlight is our German business Reporting Councils website, frc.
which has enjoyed significant growth since acquisition in 2003.
Our German business is a leader in IT and Engineering and is well positioned in its markets to capitalise on further growth opportunities including diversification into other segments such as Construction & Property and Finance.
During its visit to Germany, the Board received presentations from the German management team on its plans for the business and also met a large number of employees in one of our largest offices in Mannheim.
BoarD prioritieS in 2013 This year, in addition to Board succession, my priorities for Board governance will be further director training and understanding the impact of technology on the changing business model.
I will also ensure that the Board maintains the flexibility it needs to address all the demands placed upon it.
At this years Annual General Meeting Paul Stoneham will be retiring as a non-executive director having served on the Board for eight years.
As Chairman of the Nomination Committee, I will be leading the process for the appointment of a new non-executive director giving particular attention to the diverse skills and experience required in the future for a Group with an expanding international footprint.
alan thomson Chairman the BoarD anD itS work entrepreneurial leaDerShip StewarDShip unDerStanDing ShareholDerS viewS 37 Board roles40 our governance 41 operational framework management 37 Biographies, skills and contributions 43 Responsibilities structure 41 H ow the Board 43 How we engage with shareholders operates 42 Managing risks and internal control 41 M atters reserved for the Board42 Internal control statement 41 Board committees 41 terms of reference BoarD FoCuS in the 2012 FinanCial year 44 What the Board has done this year 44 Main committee activities 45 Attendance table BoarD eFFeCtiveneSS 45 understanding the business 45 Board training and development 45 Performance evaluation 37 directors report Governance entrepreneurial leaDerShip The Companys strategy is described in pages 14 and 15 of this BoarD roleS Annual Report.
The Board is organised to apply breadth and depth, in both Paul Venables as Group Finance Director provides Board focus experience and skills, to ensure the successful development of the on the financial position of the Group, manages key stakeholder business, deliver shareholder value sustainably over the long term relationships, including shareholders and banks, oversees the and to enable the Company to make a positive contribution to Groups financial reporting and control systems and assists the society.
The Board sets the goals for the business, its culture and Chief Executive in operational matters.
The health of any business is measured in part by the extent to which risk and reward are balanced, how Paul Harrison represents the non-executive directors and is an the business uses its strengths to reach its potential and how it alternative point of contact for shareholders in his role as Senior effectively addresses its areas of weakness.
Essentially, the Board Independent Director.
He also leads discussions on the Chairmans establishes an entrepreneurial framework within which the business performance and the succession of the Chairmanship, as required.
can flourish without promoting excessive risk taking.
In conjunction with his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Paul is a key voice representing shareholder views Alan Thomson manages and leads the Board as Chairman.
Chairmans main objective is to ensure the Board performs all its functions effectively and sets the standard of leadership for the Victoria Jarman chairs the Audit Committee and has a key role senior managers and employees to follow throughout the Group.
in the Companys governance and control framework, including As part of his formal remit, Alan: managing the relationship with the Auditor and representing the Audit Committee on the Board.
sets and manages the Board agenda: Alison Yapp as Company Secretary and General Legal Counsel ensures the provision of sufficient, appropriate and timely assists the Chairman in administering Board meetings, provides information to all directors: support and advice to the directors and acts as the principal adviser ensures that effective communication takes place with on governance and legal matters.
shareholders and that the Board understands the views BiographieS, SkillS anD ContriButionS of shareholders: The effectiveness of the Board and its committees is determined ensures the Board has adequate time to consider complex by the qualities and experience of the individual directors.
or strategically important issues: The non-executive directors bring an independent view to the ensures the Board carries out regular risk management reviews Boards discussions and the development of the Companys strategy.
and considers risk appetite: Their range of skills and experience ensures that the performance of management in achieving the business goals is appropriately ensures that the Board undertakes a regular review of the challenged.
They also ensure that financial controls and systems performance of executive management, Group succession of risk management are both rigorous and appropriate for the needs planning and leadership development activities: of the business.
ensures new directors receive appropriate induction training The profiles on pages 38 and 39 demonstrate the range of experience, that is tailored to their specific requirements: independent judgement and contribution each director brings to is responsible for the development of the Board and its individual the Board.
members, including ongoing training, ensuring optimal effectiveness and active engagement of all members: and ensures that the Board and its members are evaluated at least once a year and that this is externally facilitated every three years.
Alistair Cox manages and leads the Groups business as Chief Executive.
His core role is to carry out the strategic plans and policies established by the Board and to manage the business operations.
BoarD experienCe In performing his remit, Alistair: formulates, develops and recommends the strategy and strategic priorities for the business: 4 manages the implementation of the approved strategy and the 8 3 strategic priorities: 1 manages and optimises the operation and financial performance of the business: 2 manages and delivers the appropriate communications to 4 9 shareholders with the Group Finance Director: develops the effectiveness of the senior management team and manages the succession requirements: and Financial management Human Resources Marketing Governance risk International Strategy ensures the Chairman is regularly appraised of current management Investor relations business issues.
