48 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 AuDit COmmittEE REpORt DEAR SHAREHOLDER The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: The Audit Committee the Committee consider the appropriateness of the Companys financial is appointed by the Board from the statements and, other than quarterly trading statements, examine non-executive directors of the Company.
formal announcements relating to its financial performance The Committees terms of reference including any significant judgements: include all matters indicated by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code recommend to the Board for approval by shareholders, the published by the Financial Reporting appointment, reappointment or removal of the external Auditor: Council.
Further information on the Code monitor the relationship with the Companys Auditor, including can be found on the Financial Reporting consideration of its fees, the audit scope and the terms of its Councils website, frc.
The terms of reference are considered engagement: annually by the Committee and any changes are recommended to the Board for approval.
review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit and the Auditors independence: COmpOSitiOn Of tHE AuDit COmmittEE Paul Harrison, who remains a member of the Committee, stood review the policy for the provision of non-audit services and down as the Committee Chairman and was succeeded by Victoria monitor compliance: Jarman on conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting monitor and review the Companys internal control and risk held on 9 November 2011.
William Eccleshare, Richard Smelt and management systems and their effectiveness: Paul Stoneham were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Victoria Jarman was appointed a member of the Committee monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys Internal with effect from 1 October 2011 and Pippa Wicks was appointed as Audit function and to approve the Internal Audit plan: and a member of the Committee with effect from 1 January 2012.
Lesley ensure compliance with laws, regulations, ethical and other areas Knox stood down from the Committee when she retired from the and ensure that the Company maintains suitable arrangements Board at the conclusion of the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
for employees to raise concerns in confidence.
Victoria Jarman, the Committee Chairman, is a Chartered Accountant, Quarterly trading statements are reviewed by a special committee has a corporate finance and investment banking background and is established for the purpose comprising the Committee Chairman, considered suitably financially qualified to be the Audit Committee the Senior Independent Director, the Group Finance Director and Chairman.
Paul Harrison is also a Chartered Accountant.
Finance Director of The Sage Group plc and is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The qualifications both ACtivitiES Of tHE AuDit COmmittEE formal and by experience of the other members of the Committee can The Committee met four times during the financial year ended be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 and 39.
Attendance at meetings is shown on page 45.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the During the year the Committee received updates and presentations Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit, from the Tax, Treasury, Insurance, Legal, Compliance and IT functions Group Financial Controller and external Auditor attend the and the Committee also received a report on the performance of the Committee meetings.
The Committee discharged its other responsibilities as follows: Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the Committee and the Chairman of the Board, who is not a member financial statements of the Committee, and they recommend new appointments to the The Committee reviewed the draft annual financial statements Nomination Committee for onward recommendation to the Board.
and half year report prior to recommending their approval to the The Committee comprises six independent non-executive directors Board.
The Committee discussed with the executive directors and and two members constitute a quorum.
external Auditor the appropriateness of accounting polices adopted, significant estimates and judgements, whether the financial ROLE Of tHE AuDit COmmittEE statements gave a true and fair view and the appropriateness During the year, the Committee reviewed its terms of reference of the going concern assumption.
and two minor amendments were made.
The first related to the monitoring of the relationship with the Auditor whereby the Committee External Auditor should consider whether the fees for audit and non-audit work The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board provided by the Auditor were appropriate and whether an effective for approval by the shareholders the appointment of the external audit could be provided for the audit fee.
The second was to confirm Auditor.
Deloitte LLP is the external Auditor of the Company and, that the Committee should meet four times a year.
The terms under ethical guidance, is required to introduce a new lead audit of reference of the Committee are published on the Companys partner every five years.
Following meetings with the Committee website, hays.
com, and are also available from the Company Chairman and the Group Finance Director, a new lead audit partner Secretary at the Registered Office.
was appointed following the 2011 year end results.
In line with its 49 directors report Governance terms of reference, the Committee undertook a thorough annual internal Audit and risk assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and independence The Committee oversees the risk management and assurance of the audit provided by Deloitte LLP, seeking the views and feedback activities including the work of Internal Audit.
of the Committee and fellow Board members, together with those During the year, the Committee reviewed the terms of reference of Group and divisional management.
There are no contractual of the Internal Audit function and determined that no changes restrictions on the Committee as to the choice of external Auditor.
The Committee considered the scope and materiality of the audit During the year, the Committee reviewed the performance and work, considered and approved the audit fee, reviewed the results effectiveness of the Head of Internal Audit and of the Internal Audit of the Auditors work and considered the Auditors performance and function through an internal review process, seeking views from a effectiveness.
The risk of the Auditor withdrawing from the market number of internal stakeholders.
The Committee also reviewed the was also considered.
independence and objectivity of Internal Audit and approved the The Committee met the external Auditor twice during the year annual audit plan and resource requirements.
The plan has delivered without management being present.
both geographic and financial coverage, as well as risk-based assurance in support of non-financial topics such as IT, contract The Committee reviewed the policy on the engagement of management and compliance.
the Auditor for non-audit services and reduced the value of permitted non-audit services which may be provided in a year Internal Audit reports include recommendations agreed with from 1.5 times the prior years audit fee to 1 times the fee.
The management to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of internal Committee confirmed the applicability of that policy in satisfying controls.
At each meeting, the Committee received a summary itself that their independence and objectivity was not impaired.
of new audit findings and separate details of outstanding audit recommendations and those that were overdue, with management The key features of the non-audit services policy are as follows: comments on progress made.
work closely related to the audit e. g. taxation or financial The Committee also met the Head of Internal Audit twice during reporting matters can be awarded to the Auditor by the executive the year without management being present.
directors provided the work does not exceed 150,000 in fees per item: and Raising concerns in confidence During the year the Committee reviewed the Groups procedures all other work either requires Committee approval or forms part enabling employees to raise concerns in confidence.
Employees of a list of prohibited services where it is felt independence or are able to raise concerns or report compliance issues through objectivity may be impaired.
The Committee receives The Committee has reviewed the non-audit services performed by reports of any serious concerns raised.
Deloitte LLP in the year and has concluded that the policy has been Audit Committee effectiveness applied and the Auditors independence and objectivity has not The Committee undertook its own annual performance evaluation, been impaired as a result.
Details of fees paid to Deloitte LLP and which concluded that the Committee has acted in accordance with its associates during the financial year are set out in note 7 to the its terms of reference and is operating effectively.
In the coming Consolidated Financial Statements on page 76. year the Committee will continue to focus on risk measures and After due and careful consideration, taking account of the processes mitigating actions, non-financial risk topics and further evolution above, the Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte of the Groups risk management processes.
LLP be reappointed as the Companys Auditor at the Annual General As Chairman of the Committee, I will be available at the 2012 Meeting to be held on 7 November 2012.
Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work Risk management and internal control of the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the Companys risk management and On behalf of the Audit Committee.
internal control systems and their effectiveness by considering the Groups risk assessment processes which included detail of victoria Jarman the extent of coverage, the assessment methods employed and Audit Committee Chairman the effectiveness of the controls to mitigate those risks.
It also considered the results of testing performed by both the internal and external audit teams in evaluating the effectiveness of such controls.
