47 directors report Governance nOminAtiOn COmmittEE REpORt DEAR SHAREHOLDER the Annual General Meeting.
Further details regarding the search The Nomination Committee the which resulted in Pippa Wicks appointment are described below.
Committee is appointed by the SkiLLS AnD COmpOSitiOn Board and consists of independent During the year the Committee reviewed the composition and non-executive directors of the Company.
skills of the Board with a view to considering the current and The quorum for the transaction of business possible future skills and experience which the Board might require.
The Committees terms of reference As part of its review, the Board also considered executive director include all matters required by the UK succession.
It was noted that, at present, the majority of the Groups Corporate Governance Code the Code.
net fees and all of the Groups profit are earned outside the UK and Further information on the Code can be it was therefore appropriate to consider the geographic diversity found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, frc.
The of the Board in any future Board appointments.
The impact of terms of reference are reviewed periodically by the Committee and any technology on the business is another area of increasing importance changes are then referred to the Board for approval.
No changes were and will form a key criterion when considering the future skills and made to the terms of reference during the year.
The terms of reference experience of the Board.
of the Committee are available on the Companys website, hays.
SuCCESSiOn COmpOSitiOn Of tHE nOminAtiOn COmmittEE During the year, as Chairman of the Committee, I led the process The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, as for appointing a new non-executive director to the Board.
The Zygos recommended by the Code.
William Eccleshare, Paul Harrison, Partnership, an external search consultancy, was engaged to lead Richard Smelt and Paul Stoneham were members of the Committee the search.
I briefed Zygos as to the personal attributes needed in throughout the year and Victoria Jarman was appointed as a the new non-executive director with regard to the business, its member of the Committee with effect from 1 October 2011 and Pippa future direction and the role to be undertaken.
The Board considered Wicks was appointed as a member of the Committee with effect that individuals with business to business and professional services from 1 January 2012.
Lesley Knox stood down from the Committee backgrounds would be particularly relevant, as would individuals with when she retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2011 Annual strong international experience and credibility within the investment General Meeting.
The Secretary attends meetings of the Committee community.
Style and cultural fit with Hays were also important and, by invitation, the Chief Executive and the Group Finance considerations, as was boardroom diversity in light of the Lord Director may also attend meetings as required.
can seek professional advice at the Companys expense.
Zygos produced a shortlist of candidates.
Selected members of the ROLE Of tHE nOminAtiOn COmmittEE Board met with the shortlisted candidates and all members of the The Committee reviews the structure and composition of the Board Committee and the executive directors met with Pippa Wicks prior annually to ensure it remains appropriate for the needs of the business to confirmation of her appointment.
and plans for the progressive refreshing of the Board.
It leads the process for the identification and selection of new directors and makes Pippa was considered to be the ideal candidate given her recommendations to the Board in respect of such appointments, taking background and experience and met the Boards criteria.
Pippa into consideration the benefits of diversity in terms of both gender and graduated in Zoology from Oxford University following which she ethnicity.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on committee spent nine years in various consulting and management roles with membership, including the chairmanship of the committees.
She is currently Managing Director of AlixPartners LLP, the global business advisory firm.
She mAin ACtivitiES Of tHE nOminAtiOn COmmittEE was previously a non-executive director of Ladbrokes plc, where she The Committee formally met four times during the year.
The was also a member of its audit committee, Group Finance Director Committee considered the composition of the Board and the of Courtaulds Textiles plc, Chief Executive of FT Knowledge at recommendation to appoint Victoria Jarman as a non-executive Pearson plc and a non-executive director of Hilton International plc director of the Company and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Pippa has considerable broad-ranging experience Details regarding the search for Victoria Jarman, which was gained at a senior level and brings valuable strategic and operational undertaken by The Zygos Partnership, were reported in the 2011 insights to the Boards decision making.
The Committee also considered and approved the appointment of Paul Harrison as Chairman of the Remuneration At this years Annual General Meeting Paul Stoneham will be retiring Committee and Senior Independent Director SID.
A description as a non-executive director having served on the Board for eight of the role of the SID, approved by the Committee, is available on the years.
As Chairman of the Committee I will be leading the process for Companys website at hays.
As part of the Board performance the appointment of a new non-executive director giving particular evaluation process, and as required by the UK Corporate Governance attention to the diverse skills and experience required in the future Code, the effectiveness of Messrs Stoneham and Eccleshare as for a Group with an expanding international footprint.
We intend to Directors was considered in view of their service extending beyond six use an external search consultancy to assist with this.
years and the need to progressively refresh the Board.
The Committee As Chairman of the Committee, I will be available at the 2012 considered that both individuals continued to be effective and to Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
In accordance of the Committee.
with the Code, the Committee considered that Richard Smelt, who was extending his term of membership of the Committee by a further On behalf of the Nomination Committee.
three years, remained independent and continued to meet the criteria Alan thomson for membership.
The Committee considered the recommendation to Nomination Committee Chairman appoint Pippa Wicks as a non-executive director of the Company and shareholders will be asked to reappoint Pippa Wicks as a director at
