HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Heritage is committed to protecting interests of shareholders and stakeholders, through compliance with relevant legal and regulatory environments and through effective management of risk.
2012 HIGHLIGHTS POTENTIAL IMPACT AND OPPORTUNITY Failure to comply with corporate governance codes and practices continued working towards compliance in could result in adverse sentiment towards the Company.
accordance with the Code: established a diversity policy: and A strong and transparent approach to corporate governance viewed favourably by the Companys current and potential shareholders.
proportion of female workforce increased.
MITIGATION OF IMPACT We recognise the importance of maintaining strong corporate governance procedures and processes and continue to develop systems.
We do this through: employing the skill, expertise and resources of the Group and its advisers: reviewing compliance with corporate governance codes and other regulatory guidelines routinely: regular updates on potential changes to the regulatory landscape: complying with all relevant national and international laws and acting in accordance with local guidelines and regulations including those that are industry specic that govern our operations: and establishing Board level responsibility and accountability.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 21 OUR APPROACH Q&A Responsible business practices are a way of doing business How has the focus on governance withinourCompany rather than an isolated exercise and this is underpinned by how our Board and committees operate.
acorporate governance framework which supports an enterprising management team whilst also managing the risks that are inherent in Over 2012 the Company has focused running a growing exploration and production business.
onDirectors remuneration, a theme that will continue into 2013 with new Our sound governance procedures were highlighted during the proposals from the UK government, and acquisition of an interest in OML 30, Nigeria, through Shoreline.
also on management of risk.
Throughout the transaction there was a rigorous assessment of the risks, benets and opportunities that this acquisition would bring.
How does the Heritage Board avoid Group Think?
Over the course of the year we have strengthened our Board with two appointments: Carmen Rodriguez and Mark Erwin.
Both Heritage has a diversied Board with appointments bring a wealth of knowledge and experience to the relevant experience in legal, corporate and Board.
The wide range of expertise helps to promote debate and We have also reviewed Directors remuneration and will continue to avoid issues such as Group think.
look at this important area in line with proposals by the UK government.
We have reduced the service contracts of the Executives over the year to bring the Company further in line with the Code.
Further detail on all aspects of Corporate Governance can be foundin the Corporate Governance Report and the full Terms of Reference of the Committees are available on the Companys website www.
