HERITAGE OIL PLC Annual Review 2012 08 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE VISION The Company aims to achieve best practice reporting on corporate governance.
LOOKING AHEAD With a Premium Listing on the LSE, the Company is Recent proposals in respect of reporting on executive subject to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules remuneration will become effective for financial and the requirement to explain how it has applied the main reportingwhich comes into force on 1October 2013.
The principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Remuneration Committee will be consideringthese Code.
requirements with the aim of providing greater HOW THE BOARD OPERATES transparency to shareholders.
The Board will also be The Board delegates certain responsibilities to committees considering government proposals to amend narrative in line with recommendations of the Code and to facilitate reporting requirements for company annual reports which the achievement of business objectives of the Company.
will entail replacing the Business Review with a Strategic The Board as a whole is collectively responsible for the Report.
We consider our reporting to be well developed success of the Company and each Director must take already, however, we will continue to review our reporting decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
The to ensure it meets the new developments and best practice.
Boards principal role is to set strategy and the parameters within which the Group operates to further its objectives.
Furthermore there are amendments to the Code which come into effect for financial years beginning on orafter DEVELOPMENTS IN 2012 October 2012 and we will seek to introduce these Executive remuneration and the development of our requirements in advance where possible.
approach to managing risk were key priorities for our governance focus in 2012 and we made great progress.
In We continue to support open and constructive dialogue terms of our remuneration policy the Board has approved with all of our shareholders on governance, strategy and amendments to the bonus plan which we believe will executive remuneration and welcome any feedback.
further align our remuneration with the delivery of our business strategy.
Following feedback from shareholders For further information on corporate governance please see and further internal review the Board has also approved the Corporate Governance Report.
changes to the contracts of the Executive Directors reducing the notice periods and adoptingmore modest termination provisions in the event of a change of control of the Company in line with UK best practice.
Annual Review 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 09 CORPORATE STRUCTURE BOARD The Board is supported by the work of its Committees and delegates day-to-day management of the Group to senior management SUPERVISION STEWARDSHIP Review of performance against strategy Approval of strategy Review of financial information Values and standards Review of effectiveness of internal controls and risk management Approval of Group policies BOARD COMMITTEES AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION RESERVES ANTICSR COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION COMMITTEE Monitors integrity of Sets remuneration policy Makes recommendations Oversight responsibilities Oversees anti-bribery Sets CSR Policy financial statements on Board composition with respect to the programme and ethical Framework Reviews and approves Companys oil and gas policies and practices Reviews accounting remuneration of Reviews succession reserves evaluation Reviews internal CSR policies Executive Directors planning process programme Manages relationship Reviews Board Considers independence with external auditor performance of the technical evaluator Oversees external audit process Considers auditor independence SENIOR MANAGEMENT LEADERSHIP TEAM
