4.1 GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE IN HIKMA MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholders and Stakeholders When you look at our Hikma emblem, you will see two words.
These are Quality and Hikma, which means Wisdom.
I chose these two words because I wanted them to underpin everything that we do.
Being wise and having high standards are, in essence, what good governance is all about.
It is not about rushing or planning for the short-term, it is about making sure that the decisions we take today willbenet and keep Hikma strong in the long-term.
Our approach to governance is focused on our people, as it is our people who make the decisions and take actions that are representative e a of Hikma.
W re careful when recruiting to select people with the right moral and ethical values, as well as technical skills.
We invest in 4.1 GOVERNANCE IN HIKMA CONTENTS our people with the aim of creating long-term partnerships.
At the 58 Message from our Chairman Board, we are very aware that our duties include communicating our 59 Highlights of 2012 values across the Group, empowering our people to full our mission and monitoring the outcomes to ensure that they are in line with our 59 Priorities in 2013 high expectations.
59 Governance principles As Hikma has expanded throughout the MENA region, we have 59 Dialogue with stakeholders become recognised as a thought leader and governance best practice operator in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Hikma takes pride in taking this leading role as well as in learning from others in order to continually improve our performance.
I have set out below some of our key governance achievements of the past year and some of our aims for the coming year.
I continue to be impressed with the value the Board adds to the performance of our business and have been pleased with the improvements that have increased our effectiveness during the year.
We believe that it is important not only to comply with the rules of the UK Corporate Governance Code, but also its spirit, and to explain clearly if there are circumstances where Hikmas approach on a specic issue is different.
In 2012 we complied fully with the governance requirements applicable to Hikma.
Samih Darwazah Chairman 58 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 THE BOARDS TIME PRIORITIES IN 2013 1.
Financial 19% X Continue to contribute to governance practice and thought 1 5 leadership throughout our jurisdictions of operation 2.
Strategy X 40% Further develop our Board and senior management 2 succession planning arrangements 4 4.
Corporate governance 19% X Further advanced our commitment to business integrity 5.
Training 7% through the implementation of relevant procedures, 3 policies and training X Develop further our externally moderated Board evaluation processes HIGHLIGHTS OF 2012 Governance principles X We enhanced processes for reviewing strategy, with the appointment of a Vice President for Strategy and increased The Board is committed to meeting the standards of good corporate useofthe Executive Committee governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the Corporate Governance Principles set out in the Markets Law X We developed our approach to reporting inorder to increase of the Dubai Financial Services Authority the Markets Law.
stakeholder understanding of the way our business isgoverned Thisreport on pages 54 to109 describes how the Board applied the X We provided input into several governance and reporting Corporate G vernance Principles during the year under review.
o consultations of the Government and otherbodies Throughout the year and up until the date of this report Hikma was in full compliance with the Corporate Governance Principles.
X We sought to improve corporate communication and transparency on executive pay by changing the format of our remuneration Dialogue with stakeholders report and clearly separating past pay and future policy Hikma is committed to communicating with shareholders and stakeholders X We appointed a new Company Secretary with a sole in a clear and open manner.
If there are matters on which additional focus on governance explanation is required, we are always happy to discuss them.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Committee X We continued to enhance our externally facilitated board Chairmen remain open for discussion on matters under their areas of evaluation responsibility, either through contacting Hikma or at the Annual General X We further developed our Board and senior management Meeting AGM.
Each Committee has provided shareholders with succession which is detailed in a new succession manual a separate report on their activities during the year.
Ongoing communication with shareholders is a high priority.
X We further developed management level training on Corporate Hikma undertakes a continuous programme of meetings with Governance and Business Integrity issues institutional shareholders in the UK, Europe, the United States and X We continued to develop the Board Corporate Governance theMENA region.
This programme includes, but is not limited to, awareness through Corporate  and one-to-one meetings, investor days, conference calls and presentations updates on matter relevant to the Board at investor conferences.
The Board receives regular updates on investor relations issues, including feedback from analysts.
In addition, Hikma makes formal presentations at the time of its annual and interim results which are webcast and disseminated on Hikmas website.
TheChief Executive officer, Executive Vice-Chairman, Chief Financial officer and other senior corporate executives have all participated in the investor programme during the period under review.
The principal ongoing communication with shareholders is through the publication of Hikmas Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Results and Interim Management Statements, together with the opportunity to question the Board and Committees at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote by proxy.
Copies of presentations made at the AGM are available on the website after the event together with the results of the voting.
Hikma maintains a website which is updated regularly.
Additionally, Hikma continues to communicate with the market in respect of the Groups performance and prospects through the release of appropriate press announcements and other updates.
HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 59
