4.2 COMMITTEE REPORTS OPEN FOR DISCUSSION Call 44 20 7399 2760 NOMINATION or E-mail: investors@hikma.
com LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder During 2012, the Nomination Committees time has primarily focused on medium-term succession considerations.
We have adopted a new, internal succession manual, which outlines certain key policy considerations when considering how to develop the Board.
Whilstwedid not make any changes to the Board over the year, wehave considered potential scenarios over the medium-term.
As I mentioned last year, when we were seeking a new nonexecutive, our priority on recruitment is to identify a person who ts with the diverse international culture and management style of Hikma.
We a re cognisant of the significant advantages of diversity at the level of the Board, senior management and the Group as a whole, which assists us in ensuring that the right person is appointed to the role.
Hikma has an excellent record leading on diversity across the MENA NOMINATION REPORT region.
Increasing gender diversity at the board level is high on the list 76 Letter from the Chairman of considerations in our medium-term plans.
On other matters during the year under review, Dr. Ron Goode 77 Our Highlights reached six years service.
We carefully considered his performance, as 77 Membership and attendance well as the diverse range of skills, experience and background required 77 Responsibilities to run our international company.
We were pleased to recommend the 77 Succession extension of his term for a further period of three years.
77 Re-election As an organisation, Hikma is committed to clear and open 77 Composition communication, and, as the Senior Independent Director, I am open 78 Diversity atany time to discussion with shareholders should they have concerns 78 Board Diversity which they wish to raise.
Sir David Rowe-Ham Chairman of the Nomination Committee 76 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Responsibilities The Nomination Committee is responsible for succession planning, OUR HIGHLIGHTS including the progressive refreshing of the Board, for ensuring that X Created a succession manual detailing the main governance all appointments to the Board are made on objective criteria and and operational considerations for each board position that candidates have sufficient time to devote to their prospective X Continued consideration to medium-term succession responsibilities.
It is also charged with reviewing the appropriateness developments of the size, structure and composition of the Board.
The Nomination Committee terms of reference include all matters X Reviewed the composition, diversity and balance of skills indicated by the Corporate Governance Principles and clearly set on the Board out itsauthority and duties.
The Committees terms of reference are X Enhanced our oversight and thought on diversity at all approved and reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
The terms levels within Hikma ofreference are available on the Hikma website and by contacting investors@hikma.
X Developed the board evaluation process Succession The Committee has continued its work on planning for board and oversight of senior executive succession.
The Committee reviewed and ALLOCATION OF TIME discussed the external guidance and internal processes in place for 1.
Diversity 12% succession at Board level.
During the year the Committee developed 1 anew succession manual which provides a framework for changes 2.
Board evaluation 24% 2 6 atthe board level and the key considerations for each position.
Skills and experience 8% The Committee continues to actively consider succession and has 4.
Succession 24% an appropriate dialogue with the Board and the Chairman in this 5 regard.
The Committee continues to plan and review potential 5.
Independence 16% scenarios for board change over a three year time horizon.
Corporate governance 16% of action becomes sufciently established and to the extent considered 4 necessary, Hikma will consult major shareholders and stakeholders.
In terms of the process for identifying candidates, the Committee has the necessary authority to advance the search process to the extent Membership and attendance that a shortlist of candidates or a candidate is proposed to the Board.
The Nomination Committee consists of four Directors.
Three are The final decision on any directors appointment rests with the Board.
independent non-executive directors: Sir David Rowe-Ham, Michael Whilst the selection process may differ depending on the nature of Ashton and Robert Pickering.
The fourth is Mazen Darwazah, the theappointment, the main elements of the selection process are: Executive Vice Chairman.
Sir David Rowe-Ham is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met four times during the year.
With the X it is led by the Senior Independent Director, exception of one meeting where Mr Darwazah had a prior Executive in consultation with the Board Chairman Committee engagement, full attendance was achieved.
X a role and experience prole is established MEMBERS MEETINGS ATTENDANCE Sir David Rowe-Ham Chairman 100% X an appropriate process for internal and external search is selected Michael Ashton 100% X a short-list of candidates is created and considered Mazen Darwazah 75% Robert Pickering 100% X the identied candidates are interviewed Total meetings 4 X the Committee makes a proposal to the Board INTERNAL ADVISERS EXTERNAL ADVISERS Re-election X Chairman X Odgers Berndtson Each member of the Board will submit himself for re-election at the X Chief Executive X Lintstock 2013 AGM.
X Company Secretary Composition The Board continues to keep its composition under review.
During the year the Nomination Committee reviewed the skills of its Directors, and the experience they bring the Board for setting the strategic direction of the Group, and achieving its objectives.
The Committee concluded that together the Directors have a very broad spread of experience, consistent with the needs of the Group.
For further information onthediverse skills and experience of our Directors, please see the biographical details on pages 60 to 62.
Mr Mazen Darwazah was unavailable for one Nomination Committee meeting due to his attendance being required at an Executive Committee meeting HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 77 E E T T I M M O C N O I T A N I M O N C O M P SUCCESSION L I A N C E, R E S P O E E N T S I T B I I M L I 4.2 COMMITTEE REPORTS Nomination continued EMPLOYEE PROFILE Age, culture and gender diversity CULTURAL DIVERSITY 1.
US 19% 2 THE BOARD COMMITTEES AGE DIVERSITY 1.
50 8% 2 Diversity GENDER DIVERSITY OVERALL Hikma is committed to employing and engaging the best people, irrespective of background, gender, orientation, race, age or disability.
Women 27% 1 1 Hikma has always operated a discrimination-free working environment 2.
Men 73% and is committed to gender diversity at all levels and in all areas of its business.
As part of our commitment to diversity, we have improved our 2 internal monitoring and increased the level of information on diversity 2 available to our stakeholders in this report.
We consider that our diversity continues to be demonstrated by the broad range of people in our organisation.
GENDER DIVERSITY IN EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Board Diversity 1.
Women 29% The Committee considered board diversity at several stages through 1 1 the year.
Whilst the Board has excellent diversity in terms of culture, 2.
Men 71% age, background, skills and experience, the Committee is cognisant of the need to improve gender diversity at the board level.
We continue to believe that diversity targets are inappropriate, as 2 they are unfair to candidates and may prevent Hikma from employing the person who best suits the role.
For and on behalf of the Nomination Committee Sir David Rowe-Ham Nomination Committee Chairman 12 March 2013 78 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 APPOINTMENTS M T Y O C A N N D O I E T T A H R I E C N S U M E R TRAINING AND INDUCTION E E T T I M M O C T I D U A
