com 69 Corporate governance report IN THIS REPORT Dear shareholder The Board, its workings and Your Board recognises the importance of how it performed in 2012 applying the highest standards of governance see page 70 as they establish strong foundations for the Audit Committee creation of shareholder value.
We are committed see page 73 to fulfilling our responsibilities for overseeing Nominations Committee see page 76 the Groups progress in achieving its strategic objectives through effective leadership and with Corporate Social Responsibility Committee the appropriate framework of internal controls see page 77 and a managed level of risk.
Remuneration Committee see page 77 I am pleased to able to report on the governance developments that have taken place during 2012.
Continuous learning The terms of reference for each Board As Chairman, it is my responsibility to ensure that we, as Directors, are equipped with committee is available for inspection the requisite knowledge and skills to fulfil our roles.
This was achieved in various ways on the Companys website at during 2012. www.
com We sought to gain a better understanding of the ever-changing social landscape in which the Group operates by listening to regional academic experts.
We learnt of the resourcing challenges faced by the Groups HR function and how it plans to steer a course through a fiercely competitive labour market.
Market commentators gave us an insight into the demands of investors.
In addition, and perhaps most crucially, the Board was given the opportunity to see a potential source of significant future growth, the Volcan project in Chile, following the Groups acquisition of Andina Minerals.
Board evaluation The Board evaluation process continued to bring significant benefits to the way we are able to discharge our responsibilities.
Amongst them was the addition to the annual Board calendar of two further meetings which ensured we remain close to relevant developments.
We also improved the linkage between the Board and its Committees.
Board appointment I am delighted that we were able to complement the skills represented on the Board through the appointment of Enrico Bombieri as a Non-Executive Director who brings a wealth of global capital markets experience.
I am pleased to be able to introduce and endorse this Corporate Governance report and would welcome your feedback.
Eduardo Hochschild Executive Chairman 12 March 2013 70 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report continued Introduction and statement of compliance Chairman and Chief Executive This report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, The Company is jointly led by the Executive Chairman, Eduardo sets out how the Company has applied the Main Principles Hochschild, and the Chief Executive Officer, Ignacio Bustamante.
set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and 2010 edition a copy of which is available on the website of the CEO has been set out in writing and has been approved the Financial Reporting Council FRC at www.
Disclosures to be included in the Corporate Governance report The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are collectively in relation to share structure, shareholder agreements and the responsible for the formulation of the vision and long-term Companys constitutional provisions pursuant to the Disclosure corporate strategy of the Group, the approval of which is a and Transparency Rules are provided in the Supplementary matter for the Board.
Information section on pages 79 to 81.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading The Board confirms that in respect of the year ended an executive team in the day-to-day management of the 31 December 2012, the Group has complied with the Groups business.
provisions contained in Section 1 of the Code except that a significant part of the Executive Chairmans remuneration Whilst the Chairman is not considered to be independent, is not performance-related.
the Board is satisfied that given its structure, decisions can be made without any one Director exercising undue influence.
As previously disclosed, the remuneration arrangements for This matter is the subject of discussion as part of the annual the Executive Chairman were reviewed in early 2010.
In Board Evaluation process which in 2012 reaffirmed this view.
agreeing the structure, the Board felt that the arrangements should reflect the importance of the Chairmans contribution Additional safeguards come in the form of the Relationship to the long-term strategic development of the Group and his Agreement entered into by Eduardo Hochschild, Pelham current significant shareholding.
For this reason, a package Investment Corporation the Major Shareholder and the comprising fixed elements only was considered to be the most Company prior to the IPO in November 2006, which seeks to appropriate.
The Board continues to be of this opinion.
ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries are capable of carrying on their business independently of the Controlling The Board Shareholders and any of their respective associates.
The Board is responsible for approving the Companys strategy Furthermore, the Company and the Major Shareholder agree and monitoring its implementation, for overseeing the in the Relationship Agreement that they will comply with the management of operations and for providing leadership applicable obligations under the Listing Rules and to exercise and support to the senior management team in achieving their powers so far as they are able to ensure the Company sustainable added value for shareholders.
It is also responsible is managed in accordance with the Code.
for enabling the efficient operation of the Group by providing adequate financial and human resources and an appropriate Senior Independent Director system of financial control to ensure these resources are fully Sir Malcolm Field acts as Senior Independent Director and, as monitored and utilised.
such, acts as a sounding board for the Chairman as necessary.
There is an agreed schedule of matters reserved for the Board Sir Malcolm is also available to meet with major shareholders which includes the approval of annual and half-yearly results, if their concerns have not been resolved by the executive the Groups strategy, the annual budget and major items of management team.
Non-Executive Directors Composition All of the Companys Non-Executive Directors hold, or have held, As at the date of this report, the Board comprises two Executive senior positions in the corporate sector and bring their Directors: the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, and experience and independent perspective to enhance the eight Non-Executive Directors.
Boards capacity to help develop proposals on strategy and to oversee and grow the operations within a sound framework of corporate governance.
Details of the tenure of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
com 71 Senior executives of the organisation are invited to attend Independence of the Non-Executive Directors board meetings and to make presentations on their areas The Board considers that, except Roberto Daino in of responsibility.
light of his previous role as an Executive Director and his ongoing role as Special Adviser to the Chairman and senior Principal matters considered by the Board during 2012 include: management team, all of the Non-Executive Directors are independent of the Company.
Financial the 2011 Annual Report and the 2012 Half-Yearly Report: In reaching this conclusion, the Board took into account the following circumstances which were not considered to be of dividend and cash management: a nature to materially interfere with the exercise of the relevant the 2013 Budget.
directors independent judgement: Strategy Enrico Bombieris previous employment with JP Morgan, the Groups strategic plan.
one of the Companys corporate brokers: Acquisitions Dr Graham Birchs previous positions, until January 2009, the acquisition of Andina Minerals Inc. as Director of BlackRock Commodities Investment Trust plc, and manager of Blackrocks World Mining Trust and Gold Business Performance and General Unit Trust given BlackRocks status as one of status of the Groups portfolio of assets: the Companys largest shareholders: approving the feasibility studies for the Groups Dr Graham Birch and Sir Malcolm Field both serve on the Advanced Projects and receiving updates on its Board of Petropavlovsk Plc: and progression towards construction: Roberto Daino and Rupert Pennant-Rea both serve on the presentations on a number of business Board of Gold Fields Limited.
development initiatives: Board Meetings held in 2012 a presentation on the Groups HR function and its strategy.
There were ten Board Meetings held in 2012 comprising five Risk Governance scheduled meetings, four unscheduled meetings and one the strategic risks faced by the Group: meeting which was convened at short notice to deal with a matter relating to the Andina Minerals acquisition.
in addition to the regular updates, the Board received a detailed presentation from the Company Secretary focusing Attendance at these meetings has been summarised in the on relevant developments in Corporate following table.
Governance and relevant obligations under the UK Maximum Listing Rules: possible Actual attendance attendance an update on the implementation of the 2011 Board Eduardo Hochschild 10 9 Evaluation recommendations and the outcome of the 2012 Board Evaluation process: Roberto Daino 10 8 Dr Graham Birch 10 9 the annual review of Directors conflicts of interest and 1 the assessment of independence of each of the Enrico Bombieri 32 Non-Executive Directors: Jorge Born Jr. 10 6 Ignacio Bustamante 10 10 the appointment of Enrico Bombieri as a Non-Executive Director.
Sir Malcolm Field 10 9 Nigel Moore 10 8 Operating Responsibly Rupert Pennant-Rea 10 8 a presentation by a speaker from the Institute for Peruvian 2 Studies on the socio-political climate in Peru: Dionisio Romero 22 Fred Vinton 10 8 the results of the Organisational Climate Survey: and 1 Enrico Bombieri was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 November 2012. detailed reports on the fatalities occurring during the year.
2 Dionisio Romero retired from the Board on 23 May 2012.
In between Board meetings, Directors are kept abreast of latest Of the unscheduled Board meetings, one meeting was developments through monthly reports on the Companys convened to consider the feasibility studies of the Groups operations, exploration activity and financial situation.
Advanced Projects and four were convened in connection with the acquisition of Andina Minerals.
Directors receive a full pack of papers for consideration at least five working days in advance of each Board meeting and, in the event that a Director is unable to attend, comments are fed back to the Chairman who seeks to ensure that all views are represented on any given matter.
72 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report continued Appointments and re-election of Directors Advice Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the The Company has procedures by which members of the Nominations Committee which met during the year under Board may take independent professional advice at the review to consider the appointment of Enrico Bombieri as Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Company Secretary The Code recommends that directors of FTSE 350 companies The Company Secretary is appointed and removed by seek re-election by shareholders on an annual basis, a practice the Board and is responsible for advising the Board on that was adopted by the Company in 2011.
Biographies of the governance matters and the provision of administrative and Directors are can be found on pages 64 and 65. other services to the Board.
All the Directors have access to the Company Secretary.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, the Major Shareholder has the right to appoint up to two Non-Executive Board evaluation Directors to the Board for so long as the Major Shareholder holds The Board is committed to the process of continuous an interest of 30% or more in the Company and the right to improvement which is achieved in particular by the internally appoint one Non-Executive Director for so long as it has an interest led Board evaluation process.
of 15% or more in the Company, and in each case to remove any Implementation of 2011 Board evaluation such Director s previously appointed.
The Relationship Agreement A number of steps were taken during the year to implement continues for so long as the Companys shares are traded on the the recommendations arising from the 2011 Board London Stock Exchange or until such times as the Controlling evaluation process.
Shareholders including Eduardo Hochschild cease to own or control in aggregate a minimum of 15% or more of the issued These actions included: share capital or voting rights of the Company.
the addition to the Board calendar of two further meetings To date, the Major Shareholder has not exercised this right.
with a view to ensuring that Directors were kept updated on developments between scheduled meetings: Board development It is the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure that the Directors a more active role assumed by the Nominations update their skills and are provided with the necessary resources Committee to support succession planning with respect to continue to do so.
This is achieved through various means.
to the Non-Executive Directors, the CEO and senior management positions: Induction New Board appointees are offered the opportunity to meet enhancements to processes with the aim of improving with key management personnel and the Companys principal linkages between the Board and its Committees: advisers as well as undertake visits to the Groups operations.
the introduction to the standing agenda for the May Board This process is currently being reviewed to ensure the provision Meeting of a detailed Corporate Governance briefing: of a comprehensive and structured introduction to the Group.
changes in the form of reporting with respect to the Groups Briefings exploration activities: and The Directors receive regular briefings from the Company Secretary on their responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed a Board visit to the Volcan project which was acquired after company and on relevant developments in the corporate the year-end, following the purchase of Andina Minerals.
In addition, the Chairman has made 2012 Board evaluation arrangements to ensure that the Directors have ongoing In keeping with past practice, the 2012 Board Evaluation access to the Companys officers and advisers.
process was undertaken through one-to-one interviews 2012 Volcan visit conducted by the Senior Independent Director assisted by In November 2012, the Company organised a visit to the the Company Secretary.
Given the timing of his appointment Volcan project acquired recently by the Group following the to the Board, Enrico Bombieri did not participate in the process.
The visit to the project, located The interviews were structured to seek Directors views on in the Maricunga belt in Chile, incorporated a presentation a number of subject areas see box below.
from Andinas Vice President of Project Development and the opportunity to meet with personnel on-site.
2012 Board Evaluation Areas of focus The Committees Composition and general workings: The Board Composition of the Board, focusing in particular on skills How effectively responsibilities under the respective required to complete the Board profile: Terms of Reference are discharged.
Board process: Strategy Topics for future Board discussion.
With particular focus on: Reporting and monitoring of exploration strategy: and the Groups approach to strategic planning Governance p62-97 www.
com 73 AUDIT COMMITTEE In addition to the above, Directors were requested to provide feedback on the performance of fellow Board members.
A part of the evaluation was dedicated to the performance of Dear Shareholder Nigel Moore and Jorge Born, both of whom had completed two The functions of the Audit Committee are driven three-year terms as Non-Executive Directors.
Sir Malcolm Field, by two fundamental principles preserving who has also been on the Board since 2006, was not included in shareholder value and transparency.
I am this evaluation given his intention to retire from the Board at the delighted to set out in this part of the Corporate end of 2012.
Subsequent to the year end, however, Sir Malcolm Governance report, the activities undertaken agreed to postpone his retirement until the end of 2013 to by the Committee during the year and how oversee a smooth transition to those succeeding him as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the management responded to specific objectives Remuneration Committee.
set for the first time in respect of 2012 with a view to ensuring that the Committee The findings relating to the evaluation of the Board and the Committees were considered collectively by the Chairman discharges its responsibilities fully and diligently.
and the Senior Independent Director, and the resulting Nigel Moore recommendations were discussed and, where appropriate, Committee Chairman approved by the Board.
Maximum The outcome of the Chairmans performance evaluation was possible Actual Members attendance attendance collated by the Senior Independent Director and considered by the Non-Executive Directors collectively before being relayed Nigel Moore to the Chairman.
Committee Chairman 44 Dr Graham Birch The principal recommendations arising from the 2012 Board Non-Executive Director 4 4 Evaluation process are: Enrico Bombieri the continued search for a Non-Executive Director with Non-Executive Director 1 1 a relevant operational mining background: Sir Malcolm Field enhancements to the annual strategy review including: Non-Executive Director 44 Fred Vinton facilitating the participation of Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director 44 in designing the framework for Board discussion: alternative means of monitoring the execution of exploration Key roles and responsibilities strategy: and To monitor the integrity of the Companys financial the scheduling of presentations on specific Group functions, statements: precious metal markets and Investor Relations in the annual To monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal Board calendar.
controls and risk management systems: External Board evaluation To review, on behalf of the Board, the Companys procedures The Directors consider that the annual internally-led evaluation for detecting fraud and the Companys systems and controls process has resulted in many enhancements to the way the for the prevention of bribery, and to receive reports on Board and its Committees discharge their responsibilities.
The non-compliance: benefits of a periodic external evaluation as recommended by the Code are, however, acknowledged and, as a result, meetings Oversight of the internal audit function and review of its were held with a number of evaluation firms subsequent to the annual work plan: year end with a view to agreeing engagement terms for the To oversee the relationship with the Companys external 2013 review.
auditors: and The Boards committees To review the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Board has delegated authority to the Audit Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Reports from each of these committees on their activities during the year appear on the following pages.
74 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report continued Fraud & Bribery Act The Audit Committee continued to Membership review the actions taken by management to promote ethical The Audit Committee is chaired by Nigel Moore who has and transparent working practices.
extensive and substantial financial experience gained in his previous role as a partner with Ernst & Young.
In addition, External audit The Audit Committee considered the Nigel acts as Audit Committee Chairman for a number of reappointment of the Companys external auditors before other listed companies.
making a recommendation to the Board that a resolution seeking their reappointment be put to shareholders.
The Enrico Bombieri joined the Committee following his Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external appointment to the Board on 1 November 2012. auditors and, as part of this responsibility, the Audit All Committee members are considered to be independent Committee reviewed the findings of the external auditors Directors.
Their biographical details can be found on pages and management representation letters, and reviewed and 64 and 65. agreed audit fees.
Attendees The Audit Committee evaluates the auditors performance The lead partner of the external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, each year with reference to written feedback prepared by the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive Officer, the the CFO, the Group Financial Controller and relevant finance Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Internal Audit attend managers from the operations.
The issues raised are each Audit Committee meeting by invitation.
considered in detail at the Audit Committee meeting held mid-year and results in an action plan, the execution of which The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
is assessed in the following years auditor evaluation.
Activity during the year Committee Objectives In late 2011, the Committee set The following matters featured among those considered by management a number of objectives with the view of the Committee during the year: ensuring the diligent fulfilment of its responsibilities.
Financial reporting The 2011 Annual Report and These objectives included: Accounts and the 2012 Half-Yearly Report were reviewed the preparation of an Assurance Map which prompted a by the Committee before recommending their adoption review of the various internal and external assurance to the Board.
As part of its review, the Audit Committee processes sought to be relied upon by the Audit Committee reviewed accounting policies, estimates and judgements and which resulted in: applied in preparing the relevant report and accounts and the transparency and clarity of disclosures contained enhancements to the year-end reporting process on within them.
internal controls: Audit plans In line with its usual practice, the Committee a review of the Groups anti-fraud audit approach: and considered reports from the external auditors on the scope the commissioning of a review of the internal and structure of the forthcoming review of the half-yearly audit function.
results and audit of the annual results.
a review of the disclosures in the Groups Annual Report Risk management Consideration and challenge of risk in light of the FRCs discussion paper, Cutting Clutter.
As a management assessments which incorporate a risk matrix result, the Groups annual governance disclosures were detailing i the most significant risks facing the Group: ii an redesigned and a number of financial disclosures identified evaluation reflecting the likelihood of the occurrence of the as superfluous were eliminated from the 2011 Annual risk and the extent of the potential impact on the Group, and Report & Accounts: iii commentary on the steps taken to manage each specific risk.
See pages 57 to 61 for a description of the principal risks closer liaison between the external auditors and the internal and uncertainties faced by the Group.
audit function: and Internal audit The Audit Committee continued to more extensive reporting of whistleblowing and fraud.
oversee the Groups adoption of a risk-based approach During the year, the Committee members held meetings to internal audit.
with the external auditors without executive management Internal control Through the processes described on the to discuss matters relating to the 2011 annual audit and the following page, the Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy 2012 half-yearly report.
of the Groups internal control environment and risk management systems.
Whistleblowing The Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy which was given increased visibility during the year following the launch of an online whistleblowing tool accessible from the Companys corporate website.
com 75 These controls are managed by the use of formal procedures Auditor independence designed to highlight financial, operational, environmental and The Audit Committee continues to oversee the implementation social risks and provide appropriate information to the Board of specific policies designed to safeguard the independence and enabling it to protect effectively the Companys assets and, in objectivity of the auditors which includes the Groups policy on turn, maintain shareholder value.
the provision of non-audit services.
The process used by the Audit Committee to assess the Policy on the use of Auditors for non-audit services effectiveness of risk management and internal control This policy lists those non-audit services that the external systems includes: auditor may provide in the absence of any threat to its independence which include support in relation to M&A, reports from the Head of the Internal Audit function: and Joint Ventures and tax advisory services which are not review of accounting and financial reporting processes incompatible with the auditors statutory responsibilities.
The together with the internal control environment at Group level.
policy also sets out those services which the auditors are This involves the monitoring of performance and the taking prohibited from rendering and where it is not in the best of relevant action through the monthly review of key interests of the Group for the work to be undertaken by the performance indicators and, where required, the production external auditor.
Such services include management of, or of revised forecasts.
The Group has adopted a standard significant involvement in, internal audit services, advice to accounting manual to be followed by all finance teams which the Remuneration Committee and valuation services.
is continually updated to ensure the consistent recognition Safeguards and treatment of transactions and production of the Additional safeguards to ensure auditor objectivity and consolidated financial statements: independence include: review of budgets and reporting against budgets: and Any permitted assignment over $100,000 may only be consideration of progress against strategic objectives.
awarded after competitive tender: The system of internal control is designed to manage rather Six monthly reports to the Audit Committee from the auditors than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives analysing the fees for non-audit services rendered: and and it must be recognised that such a system can only provide An annual assessment, by the Committee, of the auditors reasonable and not absolute assurance against material objectivity and independence in light of all relationships misstatement or loss.
between the Company and the audit firm.
Based on its review of the process, the Audit Committee is 2012 Audit and non-audit fees reasonably satisfied that the internal controls are in place at Details of fees paid to the external auditors are provided in the operational level within the Group.
note 31 to the Consolidated financial statements.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms Internal control and risk management that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups managing the significant risks faced by the Company, and that system of internal control including risk management and for it has been in place for the year under review and up to the date reviewing its effectiveness, responsibility for the periodic review of approval of this Annual Report.
The Board, via the Audit of the effectiveness of these controls has been delegated to the Committee, continues to monitor the internal control Audit Committee.
Notwithstanding this delegation of authority, environment of the Group alongside the development of risk the Board continues to monitor the strategic risks to which the management processes, further details of which are given in Company is exposed.
the risk management section of this Annual Report.
Overall, the Board acknowledges that the steps taken to initiate a risk management framework are appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
76 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report continued NOMINATIONS COMMITTTEE succession to the roles of Senior Independent Director and the chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee as a result Dear Shareholder of Sir Malcolm Fields planned retirement from the Board: During 2012, the Nominations Committee succession to the role of CEO and, in particular, the focused its efforts on ensuring that the Board development plans in place to ensure the readiness of the identified successors: is equipped with the right set of skills to oversee the implementation of the Groups strategy and Board Appointment on planning for the succession of Board and key the appointment of Enrico Bombieri to the Board as a Nonsenior positions.
Executive Director: Eduardo Hochschild Performance Evaluation Committee Chairman the performance evaluations of Nigel Moore and Jorge Born Maximum possible Actual the Directors both of whom completed two three-year Members attendance attendance terms as Non-Executive Directors.
Having considered the Eduardo Hochschild unanimously positive feedback from the other members of Committee Chairman 3 3 the Board and the need for progressive refreshing of the 1 composition of the Board, the Nominations Committee made Jorge Born a recommendation to the Board that the Directors be invited Non-Executive Director 2 2 to serve a third three-year term: Sir Malcolm Field Non-Executive Director 3 3 Board Evaluation Process 1 Dionisio Romero the format of the internally led review held during the Non-Executive Director 1 1 year: and 1 Jorge Born was appointed a member of the Committee following Dionisio a review of the firms shortlisted for interview to undertake Romeros retirement from the Board on 23 May 2012 an external evaluation of the Board and its Committees during 2013.
Key roles and responsibilities Identify and nominate candidates for Board approval: Appointments to the Board Policy Make recommendations to the Board on composition In seeking candidates for appointment to the Board, regard is and balance: given to relevant experience and the skills required to complete Oversee the succession planning of Board and senior the composition of a balanced Board.
The benefits of Board management positions: and diversity, including gender diversity, are acknowledged by the Directors: however, decisions on appointments to the Board Review the Directors external interests with regards to will continue to be taken on merit.
For this reason, the Board actual, perceived or potential conflicts of interest.
does not consider the setting of specific measurable targets to be appropriate.
Membership Enrico Bombieri Jorge Born was appointed to the Committee following Dionisio Enrico Bombieris appointment as a Non-Executive Director Romeros retirement from the Board on 23 May 2012. was made in light of his significant and relevant global capital markets experience through having served in a number of The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
senior management positions with JP Morgan.
Activity during the year For these reasons, neither open advertising nor external search The principal matters considered during the year were: consultancies were used in connection with his appointment.
Succession Planning a matrix detailing the skills brought to the Board by the Non-Executive Directors, identifying any gaps that currently exist and likely to arise in the future given the retirement of Directors and the need to refresh the composition of the Board: Governance p62-97 www.
com 77 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder Dear Shareholder We take our commitments as a Responsible We seek to implement a fair and responsible remuneration policy which incentivises value Operator extremely seriously not least our aim to provide a safe workplace for all.
We creation and aligns executive remuneration with the successful achievement of strategic have undertaken numerous and wide-ranging initiatives during 2012 in acknowledgment of objectives all underpinned by our commitment to operate responsibly.
our social licence to operate, further details of which are set out in the Sustainability report Sir Malcolm Field on pages 42 to 56.
Committee Chairman Maximum Eduardo Hochschild possible Actual Committee Chairman Members attendance attendance Maximum Sir Malcolm Field possible Actual Committee Chairman 22 Members attendance attendance Jorge Born Jr. Eduardo Hochschild Non-Executive Director 22 Committee Chairman 33 Nigel Moore Sir Malcolm Field Non-Executive Director 22 Non-Executive Director 3 3 Rupert Pennant-Rea Roberto Daino Non-Executive Director 2 2 Non-Executive Director 3 3 Key roles and responsibilities Key roles and responsibilities Determine and agree with the Board the broad policy for the Evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups policies for remuneration of the Executive Directors, other members of identifying and managing health, safety and environmental senior management and the Company Secretary, as well as risks within the Groups operations: their specific remuneration packages: Assess the performance of the Group with regard to the Regularly review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance impact of health, safety, environmental and community of the remuneration policy: relations decisions and actions upon employees, communities and other third parties.
It also assesses the Approve the design of, and determine targets for, any impact of such decisions and actions on the reputation performance related pay schemes operated by the Company of the Group: and approve the total annual payments made under such schemes: Receive reports from management concerning all fatalities and serious accidents within the Group and actions taken Ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any by management following each incident: and payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not rewarded, and that the duty to mitigate loss Evaluate and oversee, on behalf of the Board, the quality and is fully recognised: and integrity of any reporting to external stakeholders concerning health, safety, environmental and community relations issues.
Review and note annually the remuneration trends across the Company or Group.
Membership There were no changes to the Committees membership Membership during the year.
There were no changes to the Committees membership during 2012.
The CEO and VP of Operations attend each CSR Committee meeting by invitation.
Members of senior management attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
During the year, such members The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
included the Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer Activity during the year and the Vice President of Human Resources.
No Director or Details relating to the CSR Committee and the Groups activities senior executive is present at meetings when his own in this area are set out in the Sustainability report on pages remuneration arrangements are considered by the Committee.
Activity during the year Details of the Remuneration Committees activities during the year are provided in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 82 to 94.
78 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report continued Shareholder relations Principal Shareholder Contacts The Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Overview the Chief Financial Officer are available to discuss the concerns The Company is fully committed to achieving an excellent of major shareholders.
Alternatively, shareholders may discuss relationship with shareholders.
any matters of concern with Sir Malcolm Field, as the Responsibility for communications with shareholders Companys Senior Independent Director.
on strategy and business performance rests with the The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer in particular are Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Head responsible for discussing strategy with the Companys of Investor Relations.
Communications with shareholders with shareholders and conveying their views to the other members respect to the administration of shareholdings and matters of of the Board.
governance are co-ordinated by the Company Secretary.
2012 AGM Shareholder contact in 2012 Notice of the 2012 AGM was circulated to all shareholders at The following table summarises the principal means by which least 20 working days prior to the meeting and the Chairmen management communicated with investors during the year: of the Board Committees were available at the meeting to Date Event answer questions.
A poll vote was taken on each of the January, Conference calls following the Quarterly resolutions put to shareholders with results announced shortly April, July, Production Reports and Interim Management after the meeting and published on the Companys website.
October Statements, when appropriate Further information on matters of particular interest to January Advanced Projects Workshop & UK Roadshow investors is available on page 184 and on the Companys February Consultation by the Remuneration Committee website at www.
com Chairman with major shareholders on the proposed CEO LTIP March 2012 Annual Results presentation UK, European and North American Roadshow June Annual General Meeting August 2012 Half-Yearly results presentation September UK, European and North American Roadshow In addition, an extensive Investor Relations schedule resulted in management holding over 168 investor meetings as well as presenting at 11 sector specific conferences in Canada, the US, Europe and South America.
