GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report For the period under review, Home Retail Group plc has complied fully with Each month, the Board received a management information pack the main and supporting principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance that provided detailed information on the performance of the Groups Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2010 businesses.
In advance of each scheduled meeting, the Board received the Code except that there were only two independent non-executive a comprehensive management report that covers the trading and directors who were members of the audit and remuneration committees operational performance of each of the Groups businesses, the Groups from 1 July 2011 until 6 July 2011, the period between the resignation financial performance, current market expectations of financial of Penny Hughes and the appointment of Ian Durant.
This statement, performance and any significant developments.
The Board met informally together with the directors report and the directors remuneration report, on the evening before most scheduled Board meetings and members provides a summary of the Groups procedures for applying the principles of the Operating Board were invited to join these discussions on a regular of the Code and the extent to which such principles have been applied.
basis and to provide updates on their areas of responsibility.
The Company has applied the principles of the Code as follows: An externally facilitated evaluation of the performance of the Board took place in 2010.
During the year under review, the formal evaluation The Board of the performance of the Board and its committees was conducted The Board consists of the chairman, Oliver Stocken: chief executive, Terry internally.
A questionnaire was provided to Board members as a guide Duddy: finance director, Richard Ashton: and four non-executive directors: to the range of issues to consider.
The chairman discussed Board and John Coombe the senior independent director, Mike Darcey, Ian Durant committee performance individually with each Board member and there from 6 July 2011 and Cath Keers from 1 September 2011. was discussion of feedback at a Nomination Committee meeting and at The four non-executive directors are determined by the Board to be a Board meeting.
The Board and its committees were considered to be independent and there are no relationships or circumstances which could operating effectively, with good access for non-executive directors to affect, or appear to affect, a non-executive directors judgement.
The members of the Operating Board and senior management.
There had also Company has in place formal procedures regarding conflicts of interest, been a comprehensive induction process for new non-executive directors.
which are reviewed on an annual basis.
Areas to enhance the effectiveness of the Board were agreed and are being The Board has a programme of scheduled meetings and telephone addressed.
Individual appraisals of directors have been undertaken by the conferences each year and meets more frequently, as required.
Under the leadership of the senior independent director, the a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board, including non-executive directors met without the chairman present to appraise the responsibility for: chairmans performance, taking account of any views expressed by the the overall management of the Group, approval of the Groups executive directors.
In line with the requirements of the Code, all directors long-term objectives and commercial strategy, and the review are required to submit themselves for re-election each year.
of performance: determining the nature and extent of significant risks it is willing Board committees for the Group to take in achieving its strategic objectives: The Board has appointed the following committees: Remuneration the approval of interim management statements, announcements Committee, Nomination Committee and Audit Committee.
The terms of half-year and full-year results, including dividends, and the annual of reference of each of these committees are available on the Companys report and accounts: website at www.
the approval of documentation to be put forward to shareholders at The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and the Board general meetings and all circulars and prospectuses other than routine committees was as follows: documents: and Board Audit Remuneration Nomination the approval of all appointments to the Board and of the company Board member meetings Committee Committee Committee secretary and ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board Terry Duddy 12 12 4 4 and senior management.
Richard Ashton 12 12 During the period under review, matters considered by the Board included the Habitat acquisition: the Chinese joint venture: Competition Law and Oliver Stocken 12 12 6 6 4 4 the Office of Fair Trades guidance for Directors: the Bribery Act 2010: John Coombe 12 12 4 4 6 6 4 4 business continuity arrangements: and the recommendations of the Davies Review on Women on Boards.
The company secretary ensures Mike Darcey 12 12 4 4 6 6 4 4 that the Board receives regular briefings on corporate governance matters and company legislation.
Ian Durant 6 7 3 3 4 4 4 4 The chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board, for efficient communication with shareholders and for facilitating Penny Hughes 5 5 1 1 2 2 the contribution of the non-executive directors and their constructive Cath Keers 7 7 3 3 4 4 3 4 relationship with the executive directors.
During the period under review the chairman met with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
The chief executive is responsible for the day-to-day Note: Board changes during the period: Penny Hughes resigned 30 June 2011, Ian Durant business of the Group, and is supported by the Operating Board, which appointed 6 July 2011, Cath Keers appointed 1 September 2011. includes the finance director and the managing directors of the main businesses and shared service functions.
34 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Remuneration Committee nomination of John Coombe for appointment as chairman, the committee Mike Darcey is chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Mike succeeded recommended the appointments, with effect from the conclusion Penny Hughes as chairman of the committee on 1 July 2011.
The other of the Annual General Meeting on 4 July 2012, of Mike Darcey as senior members of the committee are John Coombe, Ian Durant from July 2011, independent director, Ian Durant as chairman of the Audit Committee, Cath Keers from September 2011 and Oliver Stocken.
Terry Duddy Cath Keers as chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and John attends meetings of the committee at the request of the committee Coombe as chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making were approved by the Board and announced on 29 March 2012. recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy on the remuneration of the Operating Board, as well as the specific remuneration packages for Audit Committee each of the executive directors and other members of the Operating Board.
The Audit Committee is chaired by John Coombe and its other members Details of how the committee has fulfilled its responsibilities and of are Mike Darcey, Ian Durant and Cath Keers.
John Coombe was formerly compliance with Section D of the Code regarding remuneration are set out chief financial officer of GlaxoSmithKline and Ian Durant was formerly in the directors remuneration report on pages 38 to 46. finance director of Liberty International.
The Board considers that John and Ian each have recent and relevant financial experience.
Oliver Stocken, Nomination Committee Terry Duddy, Richard Ashton, the Group head of internal audit and the The Nomination Committee is chaired by Oliver Stocken and its other external auditors attend meetings of the committee at the request of the members are John Coombe, Mike Darcy, Terry Duddy, Ian Durant and Cath committee chairman.
The Nomination Committee has responsibility for making The Audit Committees principal responsibilities cover internal control recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Board and its and risk management, oversight of internal audit and external audit committees, on retirements, appointments of additional and replacement including auditor independence and financial reporting.
The committee directors and on succession planning.
The committee led the process that met with the external auditors and the head of internal audit after each of resulted in the appointments of two non-executive directors in 2011. its meetings without the presence of executive directors or management.
As part of that process, the committee evaluated the balance of skills, The committee has a structured programme linked to the Groups experience, independence and knowledge on the Board and, in the light financial calendar.
During the period under review, the committee of this evaluation, prepared a specification of the capabilities required undertook the following activities: for the appointments, including an assessment of the time commitment reviewed the full-year results announcement, annual report and expected.
An external search consultancy was appointed to facilitate the financial statements and the half-year results announcement and search for suitable candidates.
Following this process, Ian Durant and Cath considered reports from the external auditors identifying any Keers were recommended to the Board for appointment.
The committee accounting or judgemental issues requiring its attention: also oversaw the selection process that resulted in the appointment of reviewed the statement in the annual report on the system John Walden as the managing director of Argos.
of internal control: The Nomination Committee had responsibility for nominating the reviewed and approved audit plans for the external and internal candidate to succeed Oliver Stocken as chairman of the Board.
For this auditors: purpose the Nomination Committee was chaired by Mike Darcey.
considered reports from the head of internal audit on the results of all The nomination of John Coombe for appointment as chairman, with internal audit reviews, significant findings, management action plans effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 4 July 2012, and timeliness of resolution: was approved by the Board and announced on 29 March 2012. reviewed reports on the Groups risk management process and Before nominating John Coombe, the Nomination Committee risk profile: considered the balance of skills, knowledge and experience required for reviewed presentations on risk and its identification, management the role.
At a time of volatile economic conditions affecting the Groups and control with senior management: customers and markets, the committee gave particular weight to the need, reviewed, at each scheduled meeting, a report on any material so far as practicable, to ensure that the successful candidate had an litigation involving Group companies: in-depth understanding of the Group and its businesses, including the reviewed management of fraud risk and incidences of fraud: Groups leadership position in UK multi-channel retailing, and of the reviewed the Groups anti-bribery arrangements: and markets in which it operates.
The successful candidate also needed to have reviewed arrangements by which Group employees may, in the knowledge and experience to support and complement the skills and confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial experience of the chief executive and his management team.
John Coombe reporting, dishonesty, corruption, breaches of business principles offered exceptional skills and experience at board level of listed companies and other matters.
This was complemented by his expertise and knowledge as senior independent director and chairman of the Audit Committee of Home Retail Group and a former member of the UK Accounting Standards Board.
The committee was satisfied that John Coombes other board appointments and commitments would not place constraints on his ability to fulfil properly the role of chairman of Home Retail Group.
In the light of these considerations and the quality of John Coombe as the internal candidate, the position was not openly advertised and external search consultants were not instructed.
Following the Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 35 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued One of the primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee is to make m recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, Taxation services 0.2 re-appointment and removal of the external auditors.
A number of factors were taken into account by the committee in assessing whether to All other services 0.2 recommend the external auditors for re-appointment.
These included: the quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee and the Board and the quality of advice given: Accountability and audit the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups system and the retail sector: and of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is the objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls around designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group.
business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed The committee recognises that auditor independence is an essential part the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to of the audit framework and the assurance it provides.
For the period under provide internal control.
review non-audit fees paid to the Companys auditors, The Board confirms there is in place an ongoing process for identifying,  LLP did not exceed audit fees.
The committee evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, including has established control procedures to safeguard the objectivity and risks relating to environmental, social and governance matters.
This independence of the external auditors and to ensure that the process was in place throughout the period under review and up to the date independence of the audit work undertaken by the external auditors is not of approval of this annual report and meets the requirements of the FRC compromised.
Audit partner rotation forms part of the arrangements that guidance entitled Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the support independence and objectivity and Neil Grimes was appointed in Combined Code.
2011 as a new lead audit engagement partner and Senior Statutory Auditor This process is overseen by a risk committee chaired by the finance for the period under review.
director and comprised of all divisional finance directors, the director of Group treasury and taxation, the company secretary, the risk assurance The committee has established a policy covering the type of non-audit manager and the head of internal audit.
The risk committee met six times work that can be assigned to the external auditors.
The auditors may only in the period under review.
provide such services provided that these do not conflict with their The Audit Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of this statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
These services are: system of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
As part further assurance services where the external auditors deep of the process that the Company has in place to review the effectiveness knowledge of the Groups affairs means that they may be best placed of the internal control system there are procedures designed to capture to carry out such work.
This may include but is not restricted to and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and to ensure that necessary action shareholder and other circulars regulatory reports and work in is taken to remedy any failings that may be categorised by the Board connection with acquisitions and divestments: as significant.
taxation services where the external auditors knowledge of the The key procedures which were operational in the period under review Groups affairs may provide advantages to the Groups tax position and were as follows: where this is not the case, the work is put out to tender: and general in other circumstances, the external auditors may provide Risk assessment services provided that proposed assignments which exceed financial Risks were identified and reviewed by management followed by the limits set out in the policy are put out to tender and decisions to award review of the risk committee.
This takes place on a bi-annual basis, work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and cost facilitated by the risk assurance manager.
The risks identified through this process were then reported to the However, certain areas of work are specifically prohibited including work Operating Board and Audit Committee, with particular focus on those related to accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately risks classified as high-level risks by management.
The schedule of be subject to external audit and management of or significant involvement high-level risks was used as the basis for the programme of internal in internal audit services.
The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for The committee chairmans approval is required before the Company uses considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out in the policy.
The basis and received its annual report on the controls over these risks.
committee receives half-yearly reports providing details of assignments This included risks arising from environmental, social and governance and related fees carried out by the external auditors in addition to their matters.
Fees in respect of such assignments carried out in the period under review were: 36 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Control environment and control activities Through these processes the Board is kept abreast of key issues.
The Group has established procedures for delegating authority, which Shareholders also have a direct line of communication to the chairman, ensures that decisions that are significant, either because of the value particularly if there are areas for concern, whether it be about performance, or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate strategy or governance.
The senior independent director is also available level.
should shareholders have concerns which contact through the normal The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each channels of the chairman, the chief executive and the finance director significant risk that has been identified.
These strategies include has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
internal controls, insurance and specialised treasury instruments.
All directors, including the chairmen of the audit, nomination and The Group sets out principles, policies and standards to be adhered to.
remuneration committees, intend to be present at the Annual General These include risk identification, management and reporting standards, Meeting and be available to answer shareholders questions.
Voting at the ethical principles and practice and accounting policies.
Data Annual General Meeting will be by way of a poll by members present at consolidated into the Groups financial statements is reconciled to the the meeting and, following each vote, the level of proxies lodged on each underlying financial systems.
A review of the consolidated data is resolution, the balance for and against the resolution and the number undertaken by management to ensure that the true position and of votes withheld, will be displayed.
The results of voting at the Annual results of the Group are reflected through compliance with approved General Meeting will also be available on the Companys website accounting policies.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
Information and communication The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, including monthly performance reviews by the Operating Board.
The Operating Board also reviews a range of financial and non-financial performance indicators.
These indicators were regularly reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
The Group had whistleblowing procedures in place for employees to report any suspected improprieties.
Monitoring A range of procedures was used to monitor the effective application of internal control in the Group, including management assurance through confirmation of compliance with standards, and independent assurance through internal audit reviews and review by specialist third parties.
The internal audit departments responsibilities include reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems, with a particular focus on those areas identified as being the greatest risk to the Group.
Follow-up processes were used to ensure there was an appropriate response to changes and developments in risks and the control environment.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders and does so through a variety of channels, including the annual report, the Annual General Meeting and the processes described below.
Although the majority of shareholder contact is with the chief executive and the finance director, supported by management specialising in investor relations, it is the responsibility of the Board as a whole, led by the chairman, to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
Meetings with investors have been held following the full-year and half-year results announcements.
Additionally during the year, the Board obtained an independent insight into the views of major shareholders by commissioning research from a third-party adviser across a balanced sample of the Companys investors.
These shareholders controlled some 27% of the Companys issued share capital.
The findings of the research were presented to the Board by the third-party adviser.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 37
