GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEES The Board operates a number of committees to which it has delegated certain specific responsibilities and each of which has formally adopted terms of reference.
These comprise the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards committees are available on request from the Company Secretary and are on the Companys website.
The membership and activities of the Remuneration Committee are detailed in the Remuneration report.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERS J M Barry Gibson Chair Ian Chippendale Stella David Ben Mingay Mark Morris RESPONSIBILITIES The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors review of the size, structure and composition of the Board consider succession planning arrangements for Directors and other senior managers.
KEY ISSUES CONSIDERED DURING THE YEAR The Committee met informally on a number of occasions during the year to consider the appointment of Jonathan King to the position of UK CEO, the appointment of Martin Bennett as Group COO and also to consider the appointment of a further Non-Executive Director to replace Andrew Sibbald a position that Ben Mingay was appointed to in January 2012.
Following these informal meetings, recommendations were made to the Board and decisions taken by the Board as a whole.
In the year, the Committee also commenced the recruitment process for a new CFO.
The Committee draws on the advice of such professional advisers as it considers necessary and did so during the year in respect of both the Executive and Non-Executive appointments made.
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERS Mark Morris Chair Ian Chippendale Ben Mingay 56 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements RESPONSIBILITIES The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: monitor, on behalf of the Board, compliance with and the effectiveness of, the Companys accounting and internal control systems agree audit strategy monitor the scope and results of the Companys annual audit review the independence and objectivity of its auditors review the preliminary and interim results and financial statements before they are presented to the Board receive reports from the Companys internal and external auditors make recommendations to the Board on accounting policies make recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting for the appointment of the external auditors, the approval of their remuneration and their terms of engagement review the adequacy and security of the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mark Morris who has recent and relevant financial experience.
He worked in audit, business advisory and corporate finance before becoming a plc finance director.
The Committee did not comply with the Code for the whole of the year as the Chairman was a member of the Committee until May 2011.
Andrew Sibbald joined the Committee for the period from May 2011 until he left the Board in October 2011.
Ben Mingay joined the Committee in January 2012.
Ian Chippendale served on the Committee throughout the year.
The internal and external auditors, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman are invited but are not entitled to attend all meetings.
Where appropriate, other Executive Directors also attend meetings at the Chairmans invitation.
The external and internal auditors are provided with the opportunity to raise any matters or concerns that they may have, in the absence of the Executive Directors, whether at Committee meetings or, more informally, outside of them.
The Committee has implemented a policy relating to the use of the external auditors for non-audit services and monitors fees paid in respect of such services.
This policy provides that the total fees payable to the auditor for non-audit related work in any financial year should not normally be more than 100% of the total fees payable in respect of audit and compliance services.
In addition, any proposed spend over a predetermined limit must be approved by the Committee.
