Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant committee meetings.
Details of attendance by Directors at meetings during the year are set out in the table below.
Directors who were unable to attend specific meetings reviewed the relevant papers and provided their comments to the Chairman of the Board or Committee.
Any Director who misses a meeting will, as a matter of course, receive the minutes of that meeting for reference.
Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Number of meetings held 9 4 6 Meetings attended R D Harpin 9 M J Bennett 8 J King 8 J M B Gibson 9 1 6 I Chippendale 9 4 6 S David 9 4 2 B Mingay 3 1 M Morris 9 4 6 3 J Florsheim 4 4 A Sibbald 5 1 1 Barry Gibson stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee in May 2011.
2 Ben Mingay was appointed on 1 January 2012.
3 Jon Florsheim left on 29 July 2011.
4 Andrew Sibbald left on 13 October 2011.
BOARD DEVELOPMENT The Board actively encourages all Directors to deepen their knowledge of their roles and responsibilities and to gain a clear understanding of the Group and the environment in which it operates: and has adopted a formal policy on the induction and training of Directors.
Newly appointed Board members are required to undergo an induction programme, which includes obtaining a thorough understanding of the Groups various operations, and they have the opportunity to receive formal training from external providers if they wish.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors have met with various members of the Groups management teams and external advisers and Ben Mingay commenced his induction.
BOARD EVALUATION The Board has implemented a formal process for reviewing its own effectiveness, that of its Remuneration and Audit committees and its individual members.
In addition, it continued to ensure that regular meetings of the Non-Executive Directors were held without the Executive Directors, and at least once a year, without the Chairman present, in order to evaluate his performance.
An external Board evaluation process was completed during the year by Lintstock Limited.
Directors completed evaluation questionnaires and these were followed up by individual interviews with Lintstock who then compiled a formal written report summarising the Directors views and containing recommendations to further improve the effectiveness of the Board.
Lintstock presented this report to the Board in February 2012.
The Board concluded that it was operating effectively, although a number of recommendations for further improvement were approved.
