GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS 01 Body copy 1 3 4 JM BARRY GIBSON 60 RICHARD HARPIN 47 MARTIN BENNETT 43 Appointed to the Board in Founder and Chief Executive A Board member since 2009.
April 2004 and appointed Officer of HomeServe which Appointed as Group Chief as Chairman on 1 April 2010 was originally a joint venture Operating Officer in January following a year as Senior with South Staffordshire Group 2012 following three years as Non-Executive Director.
Appointed to the chief financial officer.
Previously the non-executive chairman Board in May 2001.
Previously finance director of UK Membership of Harding Brothers Holdings a brand manager with Procter having been finance director of Ltd.
Previously group retailing & Gamble, followed by the Warranties business and director at BAA plc, group chief management consultancy with commercial director.
Prior to executive of Littlewoods plc Deloitte and his own company.
joining HomeServe in 2003, and non-executive director he spent three years as group of Somerfield plc, National finance director of Clarity Group Express plc and William Hill plc.
and ten years at Arthur Andersen where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
1 2 3 1 2 3 4 BEN MINGAY 47 MARK MORRIS 52 ANNA MAUGHAN 42 Appointed to the Board in January Appointed to the Board in Appointed Company Secretary in 2012.
Previously in July 2008 following twelve years of Smith Square Partners, an audit, business advisory and as assistant company secretary.
independent corporate finance corporate finance with Price Also a trustee of, and secretary advisory firm.
He has more Waterhouse before joining to, the industry wide Water than 20 years experience as a Sytner Group plc as finance Companies Pension Scheme.
corporate finance adviser and, director, later becoming prior to co-founding Smith Square managing director.
Currently Partners, he was a managing senior non-executive director of director of Hawkpoint Partners LSL Property Services plc and a Ltd and Credit Suisse First Boston former non-executive director Europe.
He is also a nonof Christian Salvesen plc and executive director of AIM-listed Maxima Holdings plc.
