Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements RELATIONSHIPS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board, on the Companys behalf, recognises the need to maintain an active dialogue with its shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts to discuss the Companys performance and all shareholders have access to the Chairman and independent Senior Non-Executive Director, who are available to discuss any questions which investors may have in relation to the running of the Company.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting and is always willing to answer questions, either in the meeting itself or, more informally, afterwards.
In addition, shareholders may contact HomeServe direct, either through its website or by telephoning its offices.
The Board also recognises the need to ensure that all Directors are fully aware of the views of major shareholders.
Copies of all analysts research relating to the Company are circulated to Directors upon publication.
The Board receive a monthly Investor Relations report which includes an analysis of the Companys shareholder register as well as any feedback received from shareholders and analysts.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review.
Principal risks and uncertainties are detailed in the Financial review.
In addition, the Financial review includes, amongst other things, cash flow and financing information.
The Directors confirm that, after reviewing the Groups budget and projected cash flows, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has delegated the day to day management of the Company to the Group Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors.
The system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As detailed in the Chairmans statement and Chief Executives review, the issues identified in the UK business during the year indicate that there has been a breakdown in certain internal controls in the UK business in the year which has given rise to exceptional one-off expenditure.
The Board commissioned a thorough review of the issues which was led by the Group Chief Executive and the Group Assurance Director.
The Board considered the outcome of this review and has agreed a number of specific actions and work is underway to address the areas of concern.
In addition to the general internal review, a number of specific reviews of the UK business have been undertaken by external advisers.
A business improvement programme has been established, consisting of a number of focused workstreams and this work will continue into 2012 13.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 59 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to ensuring that the Company learns from the experiences in the UK business and will seek to ensure that the learnings are shared and policies and procedures strengthened across all territories.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Company.
This has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The key elements of the control framework and review processes in place across the Group are as follows: The Groups strategy is set by the Board and three year business plans, annual budgets and investment proposals for each business are formally prepared, reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Groups management operates a formal process for identifying, managing and reporting on operational and financial risks faced by each of the Groups businesses.
Risks are reviewed in detail at local risk committees and, on an overall basis, by the Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee meets quarterly and reviews a register summarising the significant risks faced by the businesses or the Group as a whole, the likelihood of those risks occurring and the steps being taken to minimise or otherwise manage those risks.
Quarterly updates are provided to the Board.
A clearly defined organisation structure is in place with clear lines of accountability and appropriate division of duties.
The Groups financial regulations specify authorisation limits for individual managers and for local Boards of management, with all material transactions being approved by the Board.
Weekly telephone meetings of the Executive Committee monitor day-to-day performance, and full Executive Committee meetings are held at least eight times a year at which the Directors report on the progress of the companies or discipline for which they are responsible and share best practice.
Consolidated financial results, including a comparison with budgets and forecasts, are reported to the Board on a monthly basis, with variances being identified and understood so that mitigating actions can be implemented, where appropriate.
The consolidated accounts are reviewed by the Executive Directors and verified by the finance team.
The accounts are then considered by the Audit Committee which makes a recommendation in respect of their approval to the Board.
The Board then review and approve the accounts prior to the announcement of the half year and annual results.
The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit function which reports directly to the Audit Committee and a formal audit plan is in place to address the key risks across the Group.
Appropriate treasury policies are in place.
A whistle blowing policy allows employees, franchisees and sub-contractors who wish to raise any issues of concern relating to the Groups activities to do so on a confidential basis by contacting an external hotline.
A mechanism exists to extend the Groups formal risk management processes to any significant new business acquired or established immediately upon acquisition or start-up.
In this way, the Board is able to confirm that the necessary process has been operated by the Group for the whole of the year.
60 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements As required by the Turnbull Guidance, the Board has carried out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
The processes applied by the Board include: At the end of the year, the Executive Directors compile a report identifying the key risks faced by the Group.
This report is considered by the Audit Committee and by the Board before the Annual Report and Accounts is approved.
The Group has an independent Internal Audit function which reviews the overall effectiveness of the risk management process for the key risks and reports independently to the Audit Committee.
At each meeting the Audit Committee reviews reports of the Executive Directors and the internal and external auditors on any issues identified as having a potentially substantial impact on the results of the Group, or areas of control weakness.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of managing financial risk and refers any risks it considers significant to the Board for its consideration.
The Risk Committee meets at least quarterly to monitor these risks, in light of the Groups risk appetite and to evaluate in detail, risk registers compiled by the Groups businesses.
At least twice a year, the Audit Committee reviews the work plans and results of each of the internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports the outcome of all Audit Committee meetings to the Board, which also receives minutes of all such meetings.
By Order of the Board JM Barry Gibson Chairman 22 May 2012 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 61
