Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board believes that good corporate governance underpins good business performance.
This report explains how the Board applied the principles of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Commentary on the Codes principles relating to remuneration matters is contained in the Remuneration report.
A review of the Groups position and prospects is set out in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Financial review.
HomeServe complied with the provisions set out in the Code throughout the year save as where mentioned in this report.
THE BOARD The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association which are available on request.
The Articles of Association may be changed by special resolution.
The Directors also have responsibilities and duties under other legislation and in particular, the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has a Schedule of Matters specifically reserved to it for decision and has approved the written terms of reference of the various committees to which it has delegated its authority in certain matters.
Matters reserved to the Board include: the recommendation or approval of dividends the approval of preliminary and interim financial statements the approval of major financial commitments the acquisitions of significant companies or businesses appointments to the Board and its Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees the Companys future strategy the Companys internal controls.
The full schedule is available on the website.
BOARD COMPOSITION The Board is made up of a balance of Executive Directors and independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors who held office during the year were: John Michael Barry Gibson Richard David Harpin Martin John Bennett Jonathan Charles King Ian Chippendale Stella Julie David Benjamin Edward Mingay appointed 1 January 2012 Mark Christopher Morris Jon Florsheim resigned 29 July 2011 Andrew Sibbald resigned 13 October 2011 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 53
