Corporate governance report INTRODUCTION AND STATEMENT culture and therefore ultimately to disposals, risk management and OF COMPLIANCE our success.
Importantly, it also internal control, capital projects over recognises that good governance a dened level, annual budgets, The Company remains committed lies not merely with following codes Group borrowing facilities and to the principles of corporate and popular trends but ensuring that consideration of significant financial governance contained in the UK appropriate structural safeguards and operational matters.
The Corporate Governance Code are in place to minimise risk and Board also considers legislative, the Code for which the Board ensure that the Company can environmental, health & safety, is accountable to shareholders.
achieve its long-term ambitions governance and employment issues.
Throughout the 53 weeks ended of stability and success.
29 December 2012, the Company Board composition has been in compliance with the The Board is structured to ensure THE BOARD provisions set out in the Code that there is a clear distinction applicable to accounting periods Role between the strategic functions commencing before 1 October 2012.
The Board has responsibility of the Board and the operational for the overall management and management of the Company.
The The Company has applied the performance of the Howden Board currently comprises two principles set out in the Code, Joinery Group.
They are collectively executive directors, the Chairman including both the main and responsible for challenging and and four non-executive directors.
supporting principles, by complying assisting in the development of with the Code as reported above.
strategy and ensuring that there are Details of the individual directors Examples of how the principles and sufficient resources in place to meet can be found on page 31. supporting principles have been the strategic objectives which have 50 applied are set out below and in the been set.
Will Samuel was the non-executive Remuneration report and Committee Chairman during the whole period.
The directors are also responsible reports.
The Board received a formal update in November 2012 on the for determining the nature and Executive directors extent of significant risks and There were no changes to the amendments made to the Code by the FRC during the year and continue maintaining sound risk management executive directors during the and internal control procedures period.
Matthew Ingle and Mark to apply the Code in the spirit in which it was adopted.
Robson continued in their roles as Chief Executive and Chief The Board reviews the performance HOWDENS APPROACH TO Financial officer.
Mr Ingle was of and provides counsel to the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE appointed to the Board in 1998: senior management in their day to Mr Robson in 2005.
As stated previously, as a locally day running of the business, and empowered, entrepreneurial is ultimately responsible for the Non-executive directors business, Howden Joinery is reliant safeguarding of its shareholders The non-executive directors have on a strong, effective and consistent interests and ensuring its own been selected for the diversity of governance culture throughout the effectiveness.
their backgrounds as well as their business.
The Board takes seriously personal attributes and experience.
its responsibility for leading the Decisions reserved for consideration The current board members bring a corporate governance agenda by the Board are detailed in wide range of skills and experience and cascading throughout the a schedule which is reviewed to the Board and all actively business the values and standards annually.
These include decisions contribute in discussion.
which contribute so much to our about strategy, acquisition and Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 The Board considered that the Angus will therefore offer himself for The Board has also established a following directors were deemed to re-election at the AGM along with the Pensions Committee dealing with be independent during the period: other directors.
matters associated with the Groups pension scheme and a Disclosure Mark Allen Division of responsibilities Committee which considers matters The roles of Chairman and Chief which could give rise to an obligation Angus Cockburn Executive are separate and to make a market announcement clearly dened.
The Chairman is under the FSA Listing Rules.
Tiffany Hall primarily responsible for leadership of the Board and has a pivotal In addition to these standing Michael Wemms Senior role in creating the conditions committees, the Group has an Independent Director for individual director and board Executive Committee comprising The Chairman, Will Samuel, was effectiveness including ensuring a those members detailed on considered to be independent on culture of openness and debate in page 119.
The principal purpose appointment as outlined in the Code.
The Chairman is of the Committee, which meets responsible for setting the Boards at least twice a month, or more At all times during the period the agenda and works closely with the frequently if required, is the Company adhered to provision Company Secretary in this regard.
1.2 of the Code which provides He ensures that adequate time for strategy and operational plans.
that at least half of the Board discussion is afforded to all agenda The Committee monitors excluding the Chairman must be items at meetings.
It is also the the operational and financial independent and to the provisions of responsibility of the Chairman to performance of the business, as the Code related to the composition 51 ensure effective communication well as being responsible for the of the Audit, Remuneration and with the shareholders.
The optimisation of resources and Nominations Committees.
executive directors, and in the identication and control of particular the Chief Executive, operational risk within the Group.
The Board is proposing that all of are responsible for satisfactory the directors will be subject to reAttendance execution of the policies and election at the 2013 AGM.
However, The Board holds regular meetings strategy agreed by the Board.
having served nearly seven years as and receives accurate and timely a non-executive director and Chair In accordance with the Code, information.
During 2012, the Board of the Companys Audit Committee, the Board has established Audit, held seven formal Board meetings Angus Cockburn has informed the Remuneration and Nominations and a number of other meetings Board that he intends to resign as Committees, each with dened and teleconferences to discuss and a non-executive director after the terms of reference.
The membership review progress on issues affecting AGM once a suitable candidate has and terms of reference of the Group during the year.
been recruited to replace him.
In these committees are reviewed order to ensure a smooth transition of annually and are available on the responsibilities, Angus will continue Groups website at http: www.
com Chairman of the Audit Committee investors governance.
The work after the AGM and until such time as of each of these committees is a replacement has been appointed.
Corporate governance report continued Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Will Samuel 7 7 2 2 Matthew Ingle 7 7 Mark Robson 7 7 Mark Allen 7 7333322 Angus Cockburn 77333322 Tiffany Hall 77333322 Michael Wemms 7 7333322 Denotes Chairman The table above shows the number team and on its Board.
Since the Board evaluation of meetings individual directors business was established in 1995 A formal review of the Boards could have attended taking account it has sought to enable individuals effectiveness was conducted of eligibility, appointment and to progress within the organisation following the September Board retirement dates during the year regardless of age, gender, meeting in accordance with and their actual attendance.
For the background or formal qualications.
the Boards formal process for Committees, only the attendance We have appointed one female reviewing its own effectiveness.
52 of members of that committee is director and one male director to During the year, the Board shown, although other directors, our Board since May 2010, which agreed that, as in 2011 and in where appropriate, have often also means that currently 14% of Board accordance with provision B.
6.2 of attended at the invitation of the members are women.
the Code, the 2012 review would chairman of the committee.
be undertaken by the Company We believe that it is in the Secretary and the 2013 review If a director is unable to attend a interests of the business and of would be externally facilitated.
The meeting, they are nevertheless its shareholders for us to build a 2012 review was conducted within provided with all the papers and stable, cohesive and representative a methodology previously agreed information relating to the meeting Board.
The Nominations Committee by the Board and comprised a and are able to discuss the issues will continue to seek diversity of series of interviews with all Board arising directly with the Chairman mindset as well as of gender and members and a questionnaire.
background when considering new Interviews were also conducted appointments in the period to 2015. with a number of investors.
The non-executive directors also More widely, we are committed to met twice during the year without developing a long-term pipeline of The formal evaluation addressed the executive directors present.
executive talent that reects the key topics which included: diversity of Howdens business and Diversity the composition of the Board: of all its stakeholders.
Currently 33% The Board recognises the of the members of our Executive importance of ensuring that there is the extent and quality of Committee are female 2011: 25%.
diversity of perspective, background information provided to the and approach in its management Board and Committees: Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 the conduct of Board meetings maintains appropriate insurance provision B.
2.1 of the Code and processes: cover against legal action brought also chairs the Committee, against it or its subsidiaries, and the independent nonthe extent to which the Board directors and ofcers.
engages in strategic planning: indemnity nor insurance provides Only members of the Committee cover in the event that the director talent management and have the right to attend Committee is proved to have acted dishonestly continuity planning: meetings.
individuals such as the Chief the performance of the Chairman, Executive and external advisers AUDIT COMMITTEE of Board committees and of may be invited to attend for all or individual members: A detailed review of the work of the part of any meeting, as and when Audit Committee can be found in the appropriate.
Appointments to the the quality of debate within the Audit Committee report on pages 58 Committee shall be for a period of Board: and to 62. up to three years, which may be the extent to which actions arising extended for two further threeTo view the Audit Committee terms from the 2011 evaluation exercise year periods, provided the director of reference please refer to the had been implemented effectively.
Company website at: http: www.
com The report of the evaluation was More information on the Boards investors governance audit.
presented to the Board in February commitment to diversity in the 2013 and the Board accepted its Howdens Board and senior REMUNERATION COMMITTEE findings and recommendations.
53 management can be found on A detailed review of the work of page 52.
The Senior Independent Director the Remuneration Committee can met with the non-executive directors be found in the Remuneration Function in the absence of the Chairman to Committee report on pages 35 to 49.
The Committee keeps under assess the Chairmans performance.
review the size, composition To view the Remuneration Committee and structure of the Board and There is a procedure for all directors full terms of reference please refer makes recommendations to the to take independent external to the Company website at: http: Board for all new appointments advice, at the Companys expense, www.
In recent in the course of their duties via investors governance remuneration.
years, the Board as a whole has the Company Secretary.
Working chosen to consider succession with the Chairman, the Company NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE planning rather than delegate it to Secretary is responsible for ensuring To view the Nominations Committee the Nominations Committee.
As that Board procedures are followed full terms of reference please refer part of that work, a review of all and all directors have access to her to the Company website at: http: the Executive Committee roles is advice and services.
com currently being undertaken in order investors governance nomination.
to understand better where there Directors indemnity & insurance may be opportunities to improve In accordance with the Articles Composition the organisation, as well as looking of Association, the Company In accordance with the Committees more broadly at how we ensure that has provided indemnities to the terms of reference, the Nominations all our senior managers have the directors to the extent permitted Committee consists of five appropriate mix of skills and abilities by the Companies Act in respect of members: the Chairman of the to lead the business forward.
liabilities incurred as a result of their Board, who in accordance with ofce.
In addition the Company Corporate governance report continued During 2012, the Nominations continuous professional developments and changes in Committee met twice to consider: development.
The Board directors are also encouraged to also commissions regular the reappointment of directors meet with Howdens employees feedback reports from the at the 2012 AGM: at all levels in order to maintain a Companys joint brokers, UBS broad purview of the business.
the renewal of non-executive director contracts in relation to The Annual General Meeting AGM RELATIONS WITH Will Samuel, Angus Cockburn and provides shareholders with an SHAREHOLDERS Michael Wemms: and opportunity to discuss the Groups The Company considers its progress and operations directly the performance of the Committee relationship with both institutional with the Board.
At the AGM, the and the appropriateness of the and private investors to be important Company proposes separate Committees terms of reference.
and readily enters into dialogue resolutions on each substantially with investors.
The Company separate issue and the numbers INDUCTION AND has consulted extensively with of proxy votes cast for and against ONGOING TRAINING its principal shareholders in the each resolution are made available course of 2012 in relation to the There were no new appointments to shareholders when voting has ongoing progress of the Company to the Board during the year and been completed.
The notice of the and also in relation to identifying therefore no directors undertook AGM is sent to shareholders at appropriate executive incentive the Group induction programme.
least twenty working days before arrangements.
The Company is Future appointments to the the meeting.
aware of the stewardship obligations Board will undertake an induction 54 of institutional investors as set out in programme tailored to the needs of RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL the UK Stewardship Code and will the individual.
However, the Groups The Board is responsible for the continue to work with its institutional induction programme for newly Groups system of internal control investors to ensure that they are able appointed directors will continue to and for reviewing its effectiveness, to satisfy these requirements.
be centred on familiarisation with the whilst the role of management is Groups operations and will include Both of the executive directors, to implement Board policies on meeting directors and executives the Chairman and the Senior risk and control.
Such a system is, individually, visiting operational Independent Director met with however, designed to manage rather locations, and discussions with the shareholders during the year and all than eliminate the risks of failure Companys external advisers.
of the directors make themselves to achieve business objectives.
In available for meetings with pursuing these objectives, internal The Chairman meets with individual shareholders as required.
controls can only provide reasonable directors annually to discuss, assurance against misstatement or amongst other things, individual The Companys website www.
The UK Corporate Governance training and development needs.
com Code recommends that the Ongoing training and development includes a specic investor Board at least annually reviews for the directors includes attendance relations section and provides the effectiveness of the Groups at formal conferences and internal an effective channel for system of internal controls, including events as well as briengs from communication with existing and financial, operational and compliance external advisers.
The Board controls and risk management.
receives regular reports from Directors are also encouraged The Board has conducted reviews the CFO with regard to relations to attend external seminars and of the effectiveness of the system with the major shareholders and briengs as part of their of internal controls through the Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 processes described below An ongoing process for the the risks or their importance and is satisfied that it accords effective management of risk has to the business, and any risk both with the Code and with the been dened by the Board and is occurrences, are reported Turnbull Guidance.
In accordance embedded throughout the various upwards through their register with IAA recommendations, a tiers of the organisation.
It is to the Executive Committee.
comprehensive external review of operated in the following stages: Key risks and their the effectiveness of the Internal Each operating division and management and any areas Audit function was undertaken by central function identies key for improvement are regularly  during risks through the adoption of reported to and discussed at the year.
Subject to this review and both a bottom-up and topthe Executive Committee.
during the course of its own review down process.
These key risks of the system of internal control, the A review of the risk process are regularly reviewed by the Board has not identied or been and risk management systems senior management team in advised of any failings or weaknesses is undertaken by the Audit each division.
The key risks to which it has determined to be Committee annually.
each business areas objectives significant: therefore a conrmation in are identied and scored for respect of necessary actions has not Key risks arising within the probability and impact.
The key been considered appropriate.
business are formally discussed controls to manage the risks to the by the Group Board every six A description of the Groups desired level are identied.
months given that overall risk is a principal risk and uncertainties can matter reserved for the Board as A local database of risks and be found on pages 21 to 24 of the a whole.
55 controls is maintained within Review of Operations and Finance.
each operating division and In order to gain assurance Risk management central service function.
This is that the Groups risk process The Board can confirm that, for consolidated into a central register is effective a periodic review of the 2012 financial year and up to which becomes the key risk both the Audit and Risk Process the date of approval of the Annual register for the Group.
The Group is conducted by an appropriately Report and financial statements, Risk department facilitates the qualied and experienced external there has been an ongoing process identication of these risks and assurance service provider.
This for identifying, evaluating and provides an independent appraisal is conducted every five years and managing the significant risks faced of the interpretation of the scoring was undertaken during 2012.
The by the Group which is reviewed mechanism, to ensure that the Audit Committee were satisfied regularly by the Board and accords key risks are brought forward with the conclusions of the review.
Under to the Executive Committee.
the guidance of the Chief Financial The Executive Committee then Internal control officer, it is the responsibility reviews the key risks to assess The Group has an established of the Executive Committee to the effectiveness of the risk framework of internal controls, which review the effectiveness of the management strategies.
includes the following key elements: risk management process and The senior management team The Board reviews Group internal controls on behalf of the within each division and within the Board.
The Executive Committee strategy and the executive central functions are responsible management are accountable regularly reports to the Board on for the ongoing review of how risks are being managed.
In for their performance within their functions risk registers.
addition, there is a mechanism in Regular reporting on internal and place to report significant control external changes that affect breakdowns or risk occurrences to the Executive Committee.
Corporate governance report continued The Group and its subsidiaries GOING CONCERN the Group should be able to operate operate control procedures within the level of its current facility The Groups business activities, designed to ensure complete and and covenants.
together with the factors likely accurate accounting of financial to affect its future development, After making due enquiries the transactions, and to limit exposure performance and position are set directors have a reasonable to loss of assets or fraud.
out in the Chairmans statement on expectation that the Company Measures taken include physical pages 8 to 9, the Chief Executives and the Group have adequate controls, segregation of duties in statement on pages 10 to 16 and the resources to continue in operational key areas and periodic Internal Review of Operations and Finance existence for the foreseeable future.
The Review of Accordingly, they continue to adopt Operations and Finance describes The Audit Committee meets the going concern basis in preparing the financial position of the Group, regularly and its responsibilities the Annual Report and Accounts.
its cash ows, liquidity position, are set out in the Audit Committee borrowing facilities, and the Groups Report.
It receives reports from STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS objectives, policies and processes the Internal Audit function on the RESPONSIBILITIES for managing its commercial and results of work carried out under an The directors are responsible financial risks.
The Groups financial annually agreed audit programme.
for preparing the Annual Report, risk management objectives and The Audit Committee has full and Directors Remuneration Report its exposures to credit risk and independent access to the internal and the Financial Statements in liquidity risk in relation to financial and external auditors.
accordance with applicable law instruments are described in note 29 and regulations.
56 Internal Audit facilitates a process whereby operating entities provide Company law requires the directors The Group meets its day to day certied statements of compliance to prepare financial statements working capital requirements through with specified and appropriate key for each financial year.
Under that cash generated from operations, and, financial controls.
These controls law the directors are required to when required, by utilising an assetare then cyclically tested by the prepare Group financial statements backed lending facility of 160m.
The Internal Audit Department to in accordance with International facility has been extended during ensure they remain effective, and Financial Reporting Standards 2012 and now runs to July 2016, are being consistently applied.
IFRSs as adopted by the European having previously run to May 2014.
Union and Article 4 of the IAS The current economic conditions The Audit Committee will annually Regulation and have chosen to create uncertainty, particularly assess the effectiveness of the prepare the parent company financial over a the level of demand for assurance provided by the internal statements in accordance with the Groups products and, b the and external auditors.
Every five United Kingdom Generally Accepted exchange rate between Sterling and years, an external assessment Accounting Practice United both the Euro and the US Dollar will be undertaken with regard to Kingdom Accounting Standards and which would affect the cost of the the assurance provided by the applicable law.
Under company law Groups operations.
An the directors must not approve the external review was undertaken by The Groups forecasts and accounts unless they are satisfied  in 2012. projections have been stress-tested that they give a true and fair view of for reasonably possible adverse the state of affairs of the Company variations in trading performance.
and of the profit or loss of the The results of this testing show that Company for that period.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 In preparing the parent company make an assessment of the the review of operations financial statements, the directors Companys ability to continue and finance along with are required to: as a going concern.
other documents which are incorporated into the Directors select suitable accounting policies The directors are responsible for Report, together include a fair and then apply them consistently: keeping adequate accounting review of the development and records that are sufficient to performance of the business and make judgements and show and explain the Companys the position of the Company and accounting estimates that are transactions and disclose with the undertakings including the reasonable and prudent: reasonable accuracy at any time the consolidation taken as a whole, financial position of the Company together with a description of the state whether applicable UK and enable them to ensure that the principal risks and uncertainties Accounting Standards have financial statements comply with the they face.
been followed subject to any Companies Act 2006.
They are also material departures disclosed responsible for safeguarding the By order of the Board and explained in the financial assets of the Company and hence statements: and Matthew Ingle for taking reasonable steps for the Chief Executive prevention and detection of fraud prepare the financial statements and other irregularities.
on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to Mark Robson The directors are responsible for presume that the Company will Chief Financial officer the maintenance and integrity continue in business.
57 of the corporate and financial 27 February 2013 information included on the In preparing the Group financial Companys website.
Legislation in statements, International Accounting the United Kingdom governing the Standard 1 requires that directors: preparation and dissemination of properly select and apply financial statements may differ from accounting policies: legislation in other jurisdictions.
present information, including DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY accounting policies, in a manner STATEMENT that provides relevant, reliable, We confirm to the best of our comparable and understandable knowledge: information: the financial statements, provide additional disclosures prepared in accordance with when compliance with the the relevant financial reporting specic requirements in IFRSs framework, give a true and fair is insufficient to enable users view of the assets, liabilities, to understand the impact of financial position and profit or particular transactions, other loss of the Company and the events and conditions on the undertakings including the entitys financial position and consolidation taken as a financial performance: and whole: and
