Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 40 Corporate Governance Report UK Corporate Governance Code This statement, which has been approved by the Board, It is with great pleasure that I introduce reports on the Companys compliance with the UK to you our Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Code the Code as issued by the Report for 2012.
During the year Financial Reporting Council FRC in 2010 and how the principles of the Code have been applied during the year.
the Board appointed external facilitators to undertake its annual The Company was fully compliant with the Codes provisions throughout the year.
performance evaluation and in the final quarter of the year completed Compliance with the principles relating to Directors remuneration is reported within the Remuneration the exercise, with the feedback Committee Report on pages 44 to 51 and the activities of the being considered by the Board Audit Committee are reported on pages 52 and 53. at its December meeting.
Board Composition and Committee Membership The Board of Directors currently comprises the nonHunting continues to comply with the executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and three independent non-executive Directors.
All independent UK Corporate Governance Code and non-executive Directors are appointed to the Companys wherever possible seeks to enhance its Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
This composition, with a separate Chairman and Chief As part of this ongoing development, Executive, ensures a balance of responsibilities and authorities.
Non-executive Directors letters of appointment I am pleased to highlight a report include details of their duties and expected time from the Audit Committee as commitments required.
The Directors, together with brief recommended by the new Code.
biographical details, are identified on pages 34 and 35.
Excluding the Chairman, 60% of the Board is currently Richard Hunting C. B. E. Chairman comprised of independent non-executive Directors.
Mr Hunting, the Companys non-executive Chairman, is not regarded as independent, given his former executive position since joining the Company in 1989.
The Company has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts of interest whereby actual and potential conflicts of interest are reviewed, and appropriate authorisation sought, prior to the appointment of any new Director or if a new conflict arises.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, only non-conflicted Directors are involved in the authorisation process.
The Board is of the view that these procedures operated effectively throughout the year.
The Group operates a decentralised management structure to allow for rapid responses to business matters.
A framework of controls with discretionary limits and powers for local management is contained within a group manual.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors Rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors are appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of Ordinary shareholders or by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Company may also remove a Director.
Additional details of the workings of the Nomination Committee are set out on pages 42 and 43.
Following the Codes guidance on the election of Directors, all members of the Board submit themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 41 The non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three Annual Performance Evaluation year term with subsequent reappointment conditional upon an During 2012, the Board appointed IDDAS www.
com, a appraisal and review process.
Letters of appointment for each specialist advisory practice as external facilitators to complete a of the independent non-executive Directors are available from performance evaluation exercise as recommended by the UK the Company upon request and their terms of appointment are Corporate Governance Code.
As part of the evaluation process, summarised on pages 47 and 48.
Details of the executive each individual Director completed a detailed governance and Directors service contracts are set out on page 47. evaluation questionnaire and were interviewed by IDDAS, covering Board and subcommittee procedures.
Prior to the appointment of a non-executive Director, the Nomination Committee undertakes an evaluation of the IDDAS briefed the Chairman on the results of the evaluation Boards requirements to ensure the balance of skill and who in turn provided feedback to the Board and to the experience is maintained to fulfil the Groups strategy.
IDDAS also submitted a final report on case of a non-executive Director being reappointed, the Code the process which was presented to the Board at the Meeting recommends a particularly rigorous evaluation with particular of Directors on 5 March 2013. consideration being given to the need to regularly refresh the Board and to continued independence.
On 29 August 2012 IDDAS has no connection with the Company other than being John Hofmeister and John Nicholas were both reappointed as engaged to undertake this exercise.
non-executive Directors of the Company for a second three year term of office, following an evaluation exercise and This externally facilitated evaluation will be undertaken every recommendation by the Nomination Committee.
Neither Mr three years with the exercise being conducted internally for the Hofmeister or Mr Nicholas participated in the evaluation or intervening years.
decision to propose their respective appointments to the Board.
Both Mr Hofmeister and Mr Nicholas continue to Separately to the above process, the performance of the remain independent in judgement and free from any conflicts Chairman was evaluated by the non-executive Directors in of interest.
Mr Hofmeister also continues his role as the March 2013 as recommended by the UK Corporate Companys Senior Independent Director and Mr Nicholas Governance Code.
continues as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Board and Committee Meetings On appointment to the Board, each Director receives The Board normally holds six formal meetings each year, of comprehensive induction tailored to their experience and which one is held in North America.
Meeting dates are set a needs.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary year in advance.
Attendance by each of the Directors at and to independent professional advice, at the Companys Board or committee meetings is detailed below.
expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
Directors are encouraged to maintain their skills and knowledge to best The duties and responsibilities of the Board and its practice standards and, where appropriate, attend update subcommittees are formally agreed by the Board in writing.
training courses on relevant topics.
During the year, the In addition, the division of responsibilities between the Chairman held meetings with the non-executive Directors Chairman and Chief Executive is set out in writing and without the executive Directors being present and also met agreed by the Board.
Matters specifically reserved for the each individual Director to discuss training and development Board include, but are not limited to, the following: requirements.
The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, compliance with UK Company Law and the UKLAs is responsible for keeping the Board informed of Corporate Listing Rules: Governance developments and maintaining corporate review of the Groups system of risk management, internal awareness of legislative and regulatory changes.
The control and assess its effectiveness: appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a approve all Stock Exchange announcements: matter reserved for the Board.
approve the full and half year financial statements, including the declaration of dividends: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held in 2012 6 4 1 4 Number of meetings attended: Richard Hunting 6 1 Dennis Proctor 6 1 Peter Rose 6 John Hofmeister 6 4 1 4 John Nicholas 6 4 1 4 Andrew Szescila 6 4 1 4 Board papers are always circulated in advance of meetings.
These include detailed financial reports on the Groups activities, reports on each operating division, health and safety, risk management and investor relations reports.
In addition, the meetings held in March and August focus on the full and half year results respectively and the meeting in December focuses on the budget for the following financial year.
Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 42 Corporate Governance Report continued consider the Groups commercial strategy and approval of The Group monitors and reviews new UK Listing Rules, the annual budget: Disclosure and Transparency Rules, accounting standards, consider recommendations of the Board subcommittees interpretations and amendments and legislation and other including Board remuneration, appointments and their statutory requirements.
Subsidiary reporting entities are terms of reference.
supported by instruction from Group and structured training.
All data is subject to review and assessment by management Institutional Shareholders through the monitoring of key performance ratios and The Company uses a number of processes for communicating comparison to targets and budgets.
The content and format of with shareholders, including stock exchange announcements, reporting is kept under review and periodically amended to the annual and half year reports, interim management ensure appropriate information is available.
statements issued twice a year, and the Annual General Meeting to which all shareholders are invited.
In addition, the Strategic Planning and Budgeting strategic plans and Chief Executive and Finance Director meet on a one-to-one annual budgets containing comprehensive financial projections basis with all principal shareholders at least twice a year, are formally presented to the Board for adoption and approval following the Groups half and full year results, or when and form the basis for monitoring performance.
Clearly requested to update them on Group performance and strategy.
defined procedures exist for capital expenditure proposals The Board is in turn briefed by the Chief Executive, when and authorisation.
appropriate, on matters raised by shareholders.
Quality Assurance most of the business sectors within During the year, the Chairman and Senior Independent which the Group operates are highly regulated and subsidiaries Director met with a number of shareholders to discuss strategy, are invariably required to be accredited, by the customer or an governance and other matters.
Their comments were passed industry regulator, to national or international quality on to the Board by the Chairman.
These organisations undertake regular audits are also available to meet shareholders.
and checks on subsidiary procedures and practices ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements.
The Companys major shareholders are listed, together with the information required under the Disclosure and Transparency Board Committees Rules 7.2.
6, within the Report of the Directors on page 38.
The Board has three main committees to which it delegates responsibility and authority: Internal Control The Board acknowledges its responsibility for monitoring the Nomination Committee Groups system of internal control, for reviewing its Members of the committee are Richard Hunting committee effectiveness and for compliance with the Turnbull guidance.
chairman, Dennis Proctor and the independent non-executive The internal control system, which has been in place Directors.
The committee convened once during the year and throughout 2012 and up to the date of approval of these has written terms of reference approved by the Board, which accounts, is an on-going evolutionary process designed to are published on the Groups website.
The role of the committee identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks to which includes leading the process for Board appointments and the Group is exposed.
These systems of internal control are determining the terms of new appointments.
The committee designed to manage rather than eliminate risks, therefore they also considers succession planning which takes into account only provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance against the experience and skills required of Board members.
material misstatement or loss in the financial statements and of meeting internal control objectives.
On 28 August 2012 the committee met to consider the reappointment of John Hofmeister and John Nicholas and to The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups approve new committee terms of reference.
Following an system of internal control for the period covered by these evaluation exercise, both Mr Hofmeister and Mr Nicholas financial statements, the key features of which are as follows: were each reappointed from 29 August 2012 for a second three year term of office.
Management Structure within operational parameters set by the Board, management is delegated to the executive The Board has considered the recommendations of the Davies Directors.
Subsidiaries operate within clearly defined policies Report Women on Boards and in 2012 issued its gender and authorities contained within a group manual under a diversity policy for Board appointments.
Given the current size decentralised management structure.
All senior management and balance of experience of Huntings Board and the recent changes require the prior approval of the Chief Executive.
refreshing of the Boards independent non-executive Directors it is unlikely that Hunting will be compliant with the Reporting and Consolidation all subsidiaries submit recommendations of the Davies Report in the short term.
detailed financial information in accordance with a pre-set However, in line with the Davies Reports recommendations, reporting timetable.
This includes weekly, bi-monthly and Huntings diversity policy commits the Group to: quarterly treasury reports, monthly management accounts, An embedded culture of equal opportunities for all annual budgets and two-year plans, together with half year employees, regardless of gender: and annual statutory reporting.
The Groups consolidation Require external recruitment consultants to submit their process is maintained and updated with regular communication, diversity policies to the Group prior to appointment: including distribution of a group manual to all reporting units.
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 43 Ensure that external consultants appointed by Hunting The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate submit candidate shortlists comprising of an appropriate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the gender balance for consideration by the Nomination Groups and Companys transactions and disclose with Committee: reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the A target of at least one female Director of the Company Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that when practicable: the financial statements and the Remuneration Committee An annual review by the Nomination Committee of its Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards progress complying with the Davies Reports the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS recommendations.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and Remuneration Committee for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection The Remuneration Committee the Committee comprises of fraud and other irregularities.
solely the independent non-executive Directors of the Company and is chaired by Andrew Szescila.
Details of the The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and Remuneration Committees activities are contained within its integrity of the Groups website, www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from The Committee convened four times during the year and has legislation in other jurisdictions.
written terms of reference approved by the Board which are published on the Groups website.
During the year, the Pursuant to the Financial Service Authoritys Listing Rules, Committee reviewed its effectiveness and the Chairman Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate reported these findings to the Board.
Governance Code, each of the Directors, whose names and responsibilities are listed on pages 34 and 35, confirm that, to Audit Committee the best of their knowledge and belief: The Audit Committee comprises exclusively of the independent non-executive Directors of the Company and is the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs chaired by John Nicholas.
Details of the Audit Committees as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, activities are contained within its report on pages 52 and 53. liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and of the Company: Statement of Directors Responsibilities the Business Review on pages 10 to 33 includes a fair The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, review of the development and performance of the Groups the Remuneration Committee Report and the financial operations and the position of the Group and the Company, statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Company Law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the By Order of the Board Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
Under Company Law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Peter Rose Company Secretary In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are 7 March 2013 required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
