Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 52 Audit Committee Report Composition and Frequency of Meetings The committee comprises the independent non-executive The work of Huntings Audit Directors of the Company: John Nicholas committee Committee follows best chairman, John Hofmeister and Andrew Szescila.
Mr Nicholas practice guidelines issued by has recent and relevant financial experience, details of which can be found in his biographical summary set out on page 35. the Financial Reporting Council and adopts an annual The committee met four times during the year and operates under written terms of reference approved by the Board, programme of work covering which are published on the Companys website.
The the recommended aspects committee normally meets in March, April to coincide with the Annual General Meeting of the Company, August and of monitoring and review.
December and the attendance of committee members During the year, the during the year is noted on page 41.
The Chairman, Chief committee met four times, Executive, Finance Director, internal and the external auditors are normally invited to attend meetings.
During the year, the received and reviewed reports committee reviewed its effectiveness and the committee from management, met with Chairman reported these findings to the Board.
the Companys external and Responsibilities internal auditors, reviewing The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include to: monitor and review reports from the executive Directors, detailed reports on their including the Groups financial statements and Stock respective activities and Exchange announcements: monitor and review the Groups systems of internal control: monitored the internal controls review reports from the Groups external auditors: active across the Group.
review reports from the Groups internal auditors including details of the internal audit programme and its scope: John Nicholas, Audit Committee monitor any corporate governance and accounting Chairman developments: monitor the Groups bribery act compliance procedures: consider and recommend to the Board the reappointment of the external auditor: agree the scope and fees of the external audit: monitor and approve engagements of the external auditor to provide non-audit services to the Group: review of the external auditors independence and effectiveness of the audit process and assess the level and quality of service in relation to fees paid.
Training During the year, the committee received presentations on accounting and governance developments pertinent to the Companys listed status.
External Audit The external auditors present reports at the March, April, August and December meetings for consideration by the committee.
In March, a full year report is considered ahead of the publication of the Companys annual results: in April an internal control report is presented following the year end audit: and in August an interim report is presented which includes the proposed full year audit scope and fee.
The Audit Committee considers the reappointment of the auditors annually in August and makes a recommendation to the Board.
The committee normally meets with the auditors without executive Directors present at the end of each formal meeting.
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 53 The external auditors full year report includes a statement on All subsidiaries undertake formal self-assessment risk reviews their independence, their ability to remain objective and to a minimum of three times a year on their internal control undertake an effective audit.
The committee considers and environment.
These reviews are available to the Audit Committee assesses this independence statement on behalf of the Board and encompass the identification of the key business, financial, taking into account the level of fees paid particularly for compliance and operational risks facing each unit, together non-audit services.
The committee considers the effectiveness with an assessment of the controls in place for managing and of the audit by reviewing and taking account of Financial mitigating these risks.
Additionally, risks are evaluated for their Reporting Council reports on the auditors: input from potential impact on the business.
executive management: consideration of responses to questions from the audit committee and the audit findings Bribery Act Compliance reported to the committee.
In compliance with the UK Bribery Act, Hunting has procedures in place including the publication of Bribery and Corruption  LLP and its predecessor firms policies and detailed guidelines on interacting with customers, have been the Groups auditors for many years.
The Audit suppliers and agents, including specific policies for gifts, Committee is satisfied with their effectiveness and their entertainment and hospitality.
Senior managers across the independence and has not considered it necessary to Group are required to report their compliance activities require an independent tender process.
including an evaluation of risk areas.
The Group has completed a screening exercise to determine relevant employees who During the year, the Company engaged the services of Deloitte, face a heightened risk of bribery with all relevant personnel KPMG and Ernst and Young to undertake non-audit assignments completing a formal training and compliance course, in line in order to reduce reliance on  LLP for with the Groups procedures.
The Audit Committee reviews the provision of non-audit services.
the compliance procedures related to the Bribery Act at its April and December meetings, which incorporate a risk The committee closely monitors fees paid to the auditors in assessment completed by each business unit and gifts and respect of non-audit services, which are analysed within note entertainment disclosures made during the reporting period.
In 2012, fees for non-audit services totalled The Groups internal audit function reviews local compliance 1.1m and included taxation services amounting to 0.9m to the Bribery Act and provides recommendations to the Audit and other services 0.2m.
The scope and extent of non-audit Committee where appropriate.
work undertaken by the external auditor is monitored by, and, above certain thresholds, requires prior approval from Code of Conduct the committee to ensure that the provision of such services The Groups Code of Conduct contains policies and does not impair their independence or objectivity.
procedures covering how the Group conducts business and maintains its relationships with business partners.
The Code The Board received copies of all reports submitted to the of Conduct is available on the Groups website.
Whistleblowing Internal Audit The Senior Independent Director, John Hofmeister, is the The Audit Committee receives reports from the Internal primary point of contact for staff of the Company to raise, Audit department and reviews the internal audit process and in confidence, concerns they may have over possible effectiveness, as part of the Groups internal audit and risk improprieties, financial or otherwise.
All employees have assessment programme.
An annual programme of internal been notified of this arrangement through the corporate audit assignments is reviewed by the Audit Committee, in magazine, Group notice boards and the Groups website.
addition to progress on improving the control environment across the Group.
Internal Controls The Group has established an internal control environment which was in operation throughout the year.
The Audit Committee monitors these arrangements on behalf of the Board, which includes a report submitted three times a year on John Nicholas the principal risks facing the Group and the mitigating controls Chairman of the Audit Committee against those identified key risks.
The Group level report is 7 March 2013 based on submissions from all subsidiaries of the Company.
