Corporate Governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board is accountable to shareholders for the effective direction and control of the Group and this Annual Report provides details of the framework of corporate governance and internal controls that the Directors have put in place to enable them to carry out this responsibility.
The Group has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and applied the principles of the Code throughout the year.
Any areas of non-compliance of the Code are noted at the end of this section.
Board Composition and Operation The Company operates through the Board of Directors and after the appointment of Gilles Delfassy on 1 June 2012, the Board comprised seven Directors, three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details for each of the Directors are set out on pages 31 to 32.
The Board is planning to add a further Non-Executive Director.
In the forthcoming months it is the intention of the Company to carry out a review of the composition of all its sub-committees.
Chairman The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and management of the Board.
He ensures its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, setting its agenda and ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and ensures constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman maintains the proper and appropriate level of communication with shareholders.
During the year the Chairman has held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executives being present.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairmans other professional commitments listed on page 31 do not interfere with the performance of his duties for the Company.
Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer is the key driver for proposing, developing and implementing the Groups strategy and commercial targets as agreed by the Board.
He is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business.
The Chief Executive Officer carries out his duties in consultation with the Chairman, the Board and Executive Management Board EMB which in turn are responsible for the commercial and operational activities of the Group.
He holds weekly meetings with the CFO and EMB to ensure the Group are actively managing the overall strategy of the business.
The Chief Executive Officer is also responsible, with the Executive team, for implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company is Ian Pearson.
He has appropriate dialogue with institutional shareholders to ensure their views are communicated to the Group and ensures that the performance evaluation of the Chairman is conducted effectively.
Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown became Directors of the Company in 1998 and 2000, respectively, and have therefore been connected with the Group for more than 9 years.
Non-Executive Directors have shareholdings in the Company as disclosed in the table on page 49.
The Board continues to monitor the composition of the Board in line with the recommendations of the Code.
Taking into account that both Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown have been connected with the Group for more than 9 years, the Board has reviewed and considered the independence of the Non-Executive Directors with particular care and scrutiny.
All Directors contribute significantly through their individual skills and their considerable knowledge of both the Group and the industry, and they currently provide continuity and an overall balance to the Board.
In particular, they continue to demonstrate a strong independence of management in the manner in which they discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
Accordingly, the Board considers that Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Operation of the Board The Board is responsible for the overall direction, strategy and performance of the Group.
The Board usually meets formally on a monthly basis.
There is a formal agenda of items to be addressed at Board Meetings which includes matters specifically reserved for the Board, principally comprising: Group-wide business and financial reviews, major capital or revenue expenditure, acquisitions or disposals, onerous business terms, treasury, risk items and Board appointments.
At each meeting both the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer present their respective reports, the Chief Executive Officer giving a full business update with focus on the Groups relationships with current and potential partners and highlighting business-critical issues, and the Chief Financial Officer presenting the financial results for the year to date together with latest financial forecasts.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who attends the monthly Board meetings and is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and that good information flows within the Board and Committees.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are a matter for the Board as a whole.
By also attending and monitoring the content of meetings and agendas, the Directors consider that there is sufficient structure to ensure the Companys strategy and control remain in the Boards hands.
38 The Board also meets periodically with senior management from the Groups Technology and Pure divisions in order to review the strategic direction of the business.
The main objectives are to assess and decide upon the key technologies products markets for the business to exploit by assessing the potential returns against the risks.
The result is a common vision of the future aspirations of the business and an understanding of the function and goals that each division has within the strategy.
Divisional business plans are built around executing the strategic plan.
The Companys EMB meets on a weekly basis, with attendance by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
At a formal monthly meeting of the EMB, each member provides a monthly operational report in which progress against plan is reviewed to ensure that this is in line with the Groups strategic and business targets.
Performance Evaluation During the year, the Board reviewed its performance along with that of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
This assessment of performance is carried out by considering the objectives of each body and assessing the degree to which these objectives have been met.
In the case of each Director, the performance review takes into account an individuals level of commitment to the role, effective contribution and achievement in carrying out the role.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
During the year, the Chairman periodically held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present and, in addition, the Non-Executives periodically held meetings without the Chairman or the Executive Directors being present.
Board Appointments and changes All nominations to the Board will be considered by the Board and on 1 June 2012 Gilles Delfassy was appointed a Non-Executive Director to the Board.
On 1 July 2011 Trevor Selby left the Board and Richard Smith was appointed as a Director and replaced him as Chief Financial Officer.
The Board considers the appropriate composition of the Board from time to time and in future will continue to review its make-up.
As the Board is small, a Nominations Committee has not been appointed.
Audit Committee Members of the Committee During the year, the Audit Committee comprised David Hurst-Brown as Chairman, Ian Pearson and David Anderson as members.
With effect from 8 June 2011, David Anderson took over as Chairman of the Audit Committee from David Hurst-Brown.
The Code requires that the Board be satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has considered this requirement and, taking into account the financial background of the Chairman of the Committee, is satisfied that this requirement has been met and that the Committee has sufficient experience to fulfil its obligations in an effective manner.
Responsibilities The Committee is required to satisfy itself as to the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls and compliance procedures within the Group and that the principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the accounts of the Group and the annual financial statements comply with statutory requirements.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference which are available to be viewed at the AGM, and are available at www.
In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee reviews the interim and annual financial statements and the terms and scope under which the external auditors are appointed or reappointed.
The Committee also reviews and monitors the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements.
The Committee holds meetings with the external auditors whenever it feels it needs advice or clarification of issues, but in any case the Audit Committee meets formally with the external auditors at least three times per year with, if required, a portion of the meeting without the Executive Directors present.
The Committee is also responsible for determining and reviewing the policy for engaging the external auditor in respect of non-audit work.
The Audit Committee reviews arrangements by which staff of the Group may in confidence raise concerns over possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
Remuneration Committee A description of the composition, responsibility and operation of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 49 which is prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
39 Board and Committee Meeting Attendance The attendance of Directors at Board meetings and Committee meetings is set out below: Main Board Audit Remuneration Meetings Committee Committee No.
of meetings 9 3 5 G S Shingles 8 1 3 H Yassaie 8 3 R A B Smith 9 3 3 T Selby 1 1 1 I R Pearson 6 3 5 D A Hurst-Brown 8 3 5 D Anderson 8 3 5 Denotes attendance by a Director, who is not a member of the Committee, at a Committee meeting, as requested by the Chairman of the Committee.
Independent Professional Advisers The Directors are able to bring necessary matters to the attention of the Board so that the appropriate professional advisers can be briefed and authorized to provide the required independent advice.
However, all Directors can, if they feel it necessary, take independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties, at the Companys expense.
Share Capital The share capital details are provided in the Directors Report on page 35.
Financial Reporting The financial position of the Group is discussed in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and the Directors Report, giving a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
After reviewing current performance and plans, and making enquiries considered appropriate, the Directors are satisfied that at the time of approving the Financial Statements adequate resources are available to the Group to enable it to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors believe it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Conflicts of Interest The Company has put in place procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest which the Directors may have and for the authorization of such conflict matters by the Board.
In deciding whether to authorize a conflict, or potential conflict, the Directors have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The authorization of any conflict matter, and the terms of authorization, may be reviewed at any time and are reviewed formally by the Group on an annual basis.
There have been no conflicts of interest in the year.
Health and Safety The Group takes the health and safety of its employees, business partners, contractors and any visitors to Group premises seriously.
During the year the Group changed insurance broker from Henderson Risk Management to Marsh and they are now providing advice on health and safety matters.
The Group has a health and safety committee and it held meetings at its UK sites to consider health and safety issues.
The Committee reviews new relevant and appropriate legislation and regulations governing the workplace and responds to feedback from employees on any particular items in their division or building.
The Company Secretary is Chairman of the Committee which meets on a quarterly basis.
Internal Controls Risk Management The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the system of internal control is effective.
This covers all material controls including financial, operational, compliance and risk management systems.
This system is intended to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provides only reasonable and not absolute assurances against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors reviewed the existing risk management processes within the operating businesses to document and report on significant areas of business risks and their controls and that the process accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
There is an on-going process for the effective identification, evaluation and management of significant risks faced by the Group.
40 This process was in place throughout the year and as at the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Under this process the Board receives a detailed report outlining all the main risks associated with both the Technology and Pure businesses and the report is reviewed thoroughly to consider if any necessary action is required to address these risks.
If the Board concludes that action is required, it is given regular updates on progress and is also made aware of any new risks that are identified as an ongoing process continues throughout each year.
Executive members of the Board have day to day involvement in all aspects of the business and attend monthly management divisional meetings at which both financial and operational performance against targets are reviewed.
Any items found during the monthly review which do not meet previously agreed targets are discussed in order to ensure that any corrective actions are implemented.
A comprehensive budget is presented for the forthcoming year and approved by the Board.
Expenditure is controlled against formal authorization limits.
Major items of capital and revenue expenditure and all treasury matters are reserved for members of the Board alone.
The Board and the Audit Committee have considered the need for an Internal Auditor, and, after taking into account the size of the Group, have concluded that at this stage there is no requirement.
Compliance Statement The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout the period.
The Group has complied throughout the year ended 30 April 2012 with the provisions set out in the Code, with the exception of the requirement to appoint a nominations committee.
All nominations to the Board will be considered by the full Board and a careful recruitment process is undertaken with assistance from external recruitment firms.
In the recent appointment of Gilles Delfassy as Non-Executive director, the Chairman, CEO, CFO, Non-Executive directors and some members of the EMB were involved in the interview process along with external recruitment advice from Russell Reynolds.
The Board are aware that both Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown have been Non-Executive Directors for more than nine years and that, in accordance with the Code, they will be submitting themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has carefully considered their roles in the Group and believe that they are Independent Directors.
The Board appointed David Anderson in 2011 as a Non-Executive Director and he is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and on 1 June 2012 Gilles Delfassy became a Non-Executive Director and he will be taking on roles in the Remuneration and Audit Committee.
The Group will continue to review the composition of the Board.
41 Corporate Social Responsibility Statements Corporate Social Responsibility The Group recognizes that it has responsibilities to all stakeholders which include the interests of employees and their families: the need to foster the Groups business relationships with partners, customers, suppliers and others and the impact of the Groups operations on the local communities and the surrounding environment where it operates.
Employees are highly regarded and valued, and their employment and other rights are respected.
The Group is committed to the important principle of equal opportunity which is reflected in the Groups recruitment, graduate recruitment, disciplinary and grievance policies.
The Group is dedicated to supplying products of top quality to meet its customers requirements in a manner that is consistent with high environmental and ethical standards.
The Group makes a contributions to local communities charities and communities in the areas which it operates its business.
Relations with Shareholders The Group actively encourages open communications with shareholders.
Principally through the Board, the Group endeavours to establish and maintain healthy relationships with its institutional shareholders by holding regular meetings throughout the year, particularly after the announcement of full and interim results.
Shareholders can register to receive the Groups press releases via the internet and any queries from individual shareholders are answered promptly by a nominated person.
The Group is involved in a weekly dialogue with private shareholders, the comments and concerns from these shareholders who participate in this forum are circulated to management within the Group at the end of each week.
The Group gives shareholders at least 21 days notice of the AGM.
At the AGM, the Directors make a full presentation to shareholders to explain recent and future developments in the business, followed by an open question and answer session which provides shareholders with the opportunity to ask Directors and senior employees questions about the business.
The Group prepares separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue and a schedule of proxy votes cast is made available for inspection at the conclusion of proceedings.
The AGM is held at the Groups headquarters in Kings Langley where shareholders can visit demonstration rooms displaying the Groups technology in Group or partners products and Pure products with senior divisional employees available to give in-depth detail of the Groups technologies and products.
The Board makes itself accessible to meet with shareholders on an informal basis.
The Non-Executive Directors have access to independent feedback from shareholders after results presentations which, supported by periodic attendance at analyst and shareholder presentations, provides them with an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
The Senior Non-Executive Director is available for dialogue with major shareholders if required.
Consulting with Employees The Group understands and appreciates the importance of effective communication with its employees worldwide.
Where there are matters arising in the Group which could impact staff there is an appropriate consultation process.
This is mainly achieved through monthly divisional meetings where employee-related items are initially discussed.
Divisional Vice-Presidents and or General Managers will in turn consult their employees and feedback any constructive responses before the Group proceeds in making decisions.
The Group is re-developing its Headquarters in Kings Langley to create a state of the art building providing substantial improvements in the working environment for employees and the Group will continue to have a dialogue with employees to ensure their views and observations are taken into consideration in the re-development process.
Environmental Statement The Board understands and recognizes the increasing importance of environmental issues, although it has limited direct impact on the environment since it is not involved in heavy industry or any direct manufacturing activity.
Group premises are offices, with the main activity in the Group being the development of hardware and software designs by employees working on computers, involving neither the use of hazardous substances or complex waste emissions.
The Group is redeveloping its Head Office facilities in Kings Langley and the buildings are being designed along the principles of sustainable design and will exceed the building regulations requirements for buildings of this nature: the aspiration is for the building to achieve a BREEAM rating of Excellent.
In addition to reducing the buildings energy consumption a sustainable approach has been adopted when approaching other issues which will contribute towards a truly sustainable building.
Such issues include the selection of materials: construction technologies: and the operation, management and maintenance of the completed building.
The main methods by which a fully sustainable building with the aspired BREEAM rating of Excellent will be achieved are: Introducing the sustainable aspects of the construction process at an early stage of the design and collaborating as a team to achieve the sustainability goals.
Considered and intelligent design of fenestration.
The main emphasis in the design and specification of the glazing and solar shading devices will be to reduce operational energy usage in terms of heat loss and solar gain whilst maximizing levels of daylight within the office space, thus reducing reliance on artificial lighting.
The provision of facilities such as secure bicycle storage and changing facilities to encourage staff to use sustainable modes of transport.
Water saving technologies such as flow restrictors, low flow rate water fittings, etc.
will be applied to the building to minimize potable water demand and to achieve further CO2 emissions reductions while saving a precious natural resource.
Selection of construction materials and technologies that minimize site wastage.
42 Using locally sourced materials where possible.
Responsibly sourcing materials used in structural and non-structural elements.
Third party certification will be required to show that the timber has come from a sustainability managed source e. g. Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
Using the Green Guide to Specification to ensure that where possible materials have A rating.
Recycling construction waste using off site sorting including a dedicated space for recyclable materials on site.
The provision of dedicated recyclable waste storage facilities.
Aiming to improve the sites ecological impact through considered landscaping treatment.
The provision of an area of brown roof to encourage and increase the sites levels of biodiversity.
Incorporating SUDS Sustainable Urban Drainage such as permeable paving on the surface car parks and water attenuation to control surface water run-off and minimize water course pollution.
The Group continues its promotion and support of practices for the use of resources in an environmentally friendly manner.
The Group has energy saving measures in place for recycling components, such as printed circuit boards, toner cartridges, surplus packaging and paper.
The Group discourages company vehicles with only a small number of vehicles throughout the Group.
Pure remains committed to ethical and environmentally sustainable design and manufacture as encapsulated within EcoPlus www.
Pure recognises that its main environmental impact comes about through the products themselves in manufacture, transport and predominantly in use by consumers, and so it continues to reduce the power consumption of its products, with a programme in place to exceed the requirements of the tightened Energy-Using Products EuP Directive which comes into place in January 2013.
Pure has made particular strides with reduction in the power of internet radio with the introduction of ONE Flow the first internet radio to meet the stringent requirements of the EST specification for digital radio.
In total, Pure now has fifteen EST accredited radios, with more to come.
During the peak trading period of 2010, Pures Make a Difference trade and consumer campaign promoted the sale of these EST recommended radios.
Pure have met their obligations under the EC Directive on Batteries and Accumulators and Waste Batteries and Accumulators 2006 66 EC through their membership of the compliance scheme eBatt.
With respect to the Groups sub-contract manufacturing activities, all facilities are regularly SEDEX audited to ensure that good employment standards and practices are in place, and the Group has taken the necessary action to comply with the provisions of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical Equipment Regulations 2005 RoHS and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE.
The Group is a member of the compliance scheme REPIC to meet our obligations as a producer of WEEE and are members of the Distributor Takeback Scheme run by Valpak to meet our obligations as direct sellers.
The Group complies with EC Regulation on chemicals and their safe use EC 1907 2006, known as Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical substances REACH.
The Group also complies with The Energy Using Products Directive EuP 2005 32 EC which sets out the minimum requirements for eco-design for energy using products.
The Group continues to provide information to shareholders electronically and make documents available through the website rather than via paper copies.
The Group can report that with support from shareholders less than 1% of shareholders now receive paper copies, thereby providing significant environmental and cost benefits.
The Group has a Ride 2 Work scheme for employees which provides benefits to the environment.
Graduate Recruitment Programme The Group runs a Graduate Recruitment Programme GRP with universities and colleges throughout the UK having developed strong relationships with a number of universities including the University of Southampton, Imperial College of London, the University of Bristol and the University of Manchester.
We sponsor PhD studentships, undergraduate and Masters of Science projects as well as running an active recruitment calendar at our top universities.
As a direct result of our GRP we have had 40 undergraduates on internship during the year.
In 2012 13 we have a much higher target for the GRP and will continue to expand the number of universities and colleges who can participate with placements and or internship, as well as graduate recruitment.
We have linked up with universities which reflect our technical skillset and are supporting and developing these into centres of excellence for students in line with our intellectual property activities around the Group.
One of our key objectives is to encourage academic institutions in the UK to support the research requirements of UK industry.
In addition to this, we are also building collaborations with other European universities outside of the UK.
In 2012 the Group will sponsor the EPSRC UK ICT Pioneers Event which was open to all second and third year PhD students in the UK.
The Event was created to showcase and reward research with exploitation potential in the UK with cash prizes available.
The Group is increasingly working closer with funding bodies such as EPSRC to support and contribute to research in the UK.
43 Scholarships, Sponsorships and Apprenticeships The Group offers a wide range of other incentives to young people varying from the sponsorship of electronic courses at local schools: giving scholarship awards to students at University to promote career opportunities at our Group and financial awards to successful internships with the intention that the students come to work for the Group in the future.
The Group continues to run an apprenticeship programme for 16 year olds, and also invites around 20 young people annually for structured work experience to learn more about and experience some of the careers available in our sector.
The Group is in the process of building regional hubs at its 4 UK sites to promote electronics to the school age population.
Charitable work in the Community The Group gives charitable donations both locally and nationally.
Every year employees are consulted to ensure that the donations given by the Group represent all the interests and locations where employees are based.
A list of charities which are selected by the Group and employees of the Group are asked which percentage of the Group charitable donation pot is to go to each of the charities.
If employees raise money for a charity on the Group selected charity list the Group will double the amount of money raised by the employee.
