ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE LEADERSHIP IN OUR CHOSEN NICHES We are focused on developing clear leadership positions in a number of well dened global market niches.
We invest considerable time and energy, real value and competitive advantage working closely with our customers, for our customers.
We invest heavily CASE STUDY in developing an intimate knowledge in our own people to hone their own IMI Company: Remosa of the markets they serve, and the skills in gathering market insight Niche: Petrochemical and Rening challenges they face.
We translate and deploying it effectively through Customer: Takreer Ruwais Renery that insight into bespoke and highly extensive Key Account Management Location: Abu Dhabi engineered solutions, deploying our and engineering applications training.
in-house uid technologies to deliver Remosa, an IMI Severe Service business, engineered and manufactured CASE STUDY the largest plug valve in the world for the IMI Company: Norgren Takreer Ruwais Renery in Abu Dhabi.
Niche: Commercial Vehicle Sector Powertrain and Chassis Cab Plug valves are used to control the Customer: TML Drivelines Ltd regenerator in the Fluid Catalytic Location: India Cracking process.
The valve incorporated an innovative design which reduced the required vertical space by 40% allowing a much smaller regenerator foundation, resulting in significant cost savings for the customer.
The new design is powered by two separate hydraulic pistons and is able to self-align without the use of conventional hydraulic load balancing devices that are unsuitable for this fast acting application which is capable of TML Drivelines, a wholly-owned performing quick emergency shutdowns.
subsidiary of Tata Motors, is currently the market leader in medium and heavy commercial vehicles axles and transmissions in India, with a manufacturing capacity of over 200,000 axles and transmissions per annum.
our commercial vehicle expertise we TML wanted to introduce a new were able to propose an integrated 9-speed planetary range gearbox solution combining solenoid valve, with high and low ranges.
In order actuator, tting and silencer in a to prevent abusive shift of such compact single unit.
transmissions caused by drivers shifting to low range whilst driving at Controlled by a new electronic control higher speed, a solution was needed unit specically designed by Tata to to block the range shift when running meet the application requirements, the above a set speed.
Norgren solution offers Tata a longer IMIs Norgren business was asked to life product as well as reducing their quote for parts for a solution designed assembly time, sourcing and logistics in-house by Tata.
Business overview 8 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOCUSING ON LONGTERM GLOBAL GROWTH DRIVERS Environmental and demographic trends are shaping our future.
IMI is developing products and services to help our customers respond to the challenges presented by global megatrends such as climate change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and an ageing population.
We support our customers in many IMIs Norgren business designed and different ways including developing CASE STUDY produced 20 bespoke components for solutions for cleaner energy such as IMI Company: Norgren Spacelabs new ARKON anaesthetics LNG and nuclear as well as designing Growth driver: Ageing Population system, a reliable and efficient products which improve energy Customer: Spacelabs Healthcare Inc machine which allows clinicians to efficiency and provide better and Location: USA put the comfort of the patient first.
Many of the components were We supply other innovations to improve integrated into sub-assembly manifolds building design and mass transit for simpler installation and a smaller infrastructure in rapidly expanding cities footprint.
We also design advanced engineered solutions Norgren not only provided us with a for medical equipment which support great variety of components, but also healthier lifestyles and improve the carried out levels of customisation and quality and longevity of life.
testing that delivered cost savings and helped our decision making process.
Andy Levi, Lead System Architect for Spacelabs CASE STUDY Over 4,000 hydronic balancing and conditioning products from IMI Company: TA Hydronics Growth driver: Climate Change Urbanisation TA Hydronics have been installed at Customer: Grupo JCPM Investor, Interplan the new Rio Mar shopping centre in HVAC consultant, Arclima Installer Recife, Brazil, the largest of its kind in Location: Brazil the country and the first building to feature the next generation of energy efficient dissipation cooling systems.
Having delivered a 17% energy saving on a previous project, the Salvadore Norte Shopping Centre, the developers again turned to TA Hydronics to provide an effective hydronic balancing solution to achieve challenging ow requirements and a hydronic conditioning system to reduce the impact of poor quality water.
These solutions helped the customer meet their ambitious energy efficiency targets.
