BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE BOARDS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Set out below is the Boards formal report on corporate governance.
Compliance Statement The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in June 2010 the Code and complied with its best practice provisions as set out below in the Boards report on corporate governance and in its Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 69.
The Board is able to report compliance with the Code throughout 2012 subject to the balance of the Board being affected by the loss of one non-executive director in November 2011 when Roberto Quarta became Chairman, and restored through the new appointments announced in August 2012.
The Board notes the various recent developments in corporate governance including revisions in 2012 to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Listing Rules, the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees, the UK Stewardship Code and the UK governments proposed new regulations in relation to directors remuneration and narrative reporting.
Action to respond to such developments will be taken as appropriate to maintain the Companys high standard of governance practice.
The Board Composition At the end of the year the Board comprised eleven directors: the Chairman: the Chief Executive: six independent non-executive directors: the Finance Director and two operational executive directors.
The six non-executive directors are all free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
All of them meet the criteria for independence under the Code and are regarded by the Board as independent of the Groups executive management.
The Chairman, Roberto Quarta, was also regarded as independent at the date of his appointment to the Board.
The non-executive directors are from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience of senior management in commerce and industry.
Terry Gateley is the senior independent director and will retire at the annual general meeting in May 2013, when Anita Frew will take up that position.
Kevin Beeston stepped down in October.
Phil Bentley and Carl-Peter Forster were appointed with effect from 1 October 2012 and Birgit Nrgaard joined the Board on 6 November 2012.
Ian Whiting retired as an executive director with effect from 22 August 2012 and Sean Toomes stepped down as an executive director with effect from 6 March 2013.
Biographical details of the continuing directors are shown on pages 34 and 35.
In line with the Code, all continuing directors submit themselves for re-election at annual general meetings.
Role The Board provides leadership, direction and governance for the Company and oversees business and management performance.
The Board has adopted a Corporate Governance Framework which defines Board roles and includes the list of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees and the executive management.
Board reserved matters include strategy and key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant investment decisions and material changes in the organisation of the Group.
The Board reviews budgets, forecasts and plans for the businesses of the Group on an annual basis.
Quarterly meetings of the Board consider detailed financial and management reports on the operational and strategic progress of the Group, as well as regularly tracking changes in risk assessment and controls.
Senior executives from around the Group are regularly invited by the Board to attend meetings to make presentations and join in discussion.
The Companys articles of association include certain provisions relevant to the activity of the Board and its committees and can be viewed on the Company website.
These provisions include requirements for disclosure and approval by the Board of potential conicts of interest.
These procedures apply, inter alia, to external directorships and it is the Boards view that they operated effectively during the year under review.
Division of responsibilities There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive, which is reected in the written Corporate Governance Framework approved by the Board.
In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board but does not have any executive powers or responsibilities.
The Chief Executive leads the executive management team in running the businesses and implementing operating and strategic plans under authority delegated by the Board.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 41 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE THE BOARDS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board continued Division of responsibilities continued The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufciently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.
He is supported by the Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant regulatory requirements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the standing committees of the Board.
The Board has a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
The three executive directors are: the Chief Executive, Martin Lamb: Finance Director, Douglas Hurt: and Roy Twite, an operational executive director.
Martin Lamb leads the executive team and has direct responsibility for Indoor Climate and Retail Dispense and for corporate development, including M&A and emerging markets.
Roy Twite has responsibility for Fluid Power and Severe Service businesses and for the Group procurement function.
Meetings The Board met on nine occasions during the year including four quarterly reviews, strategy discussions, visits to operations and meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose.
All members of the Board were in attendance at each of the meetings held during their tenure.
The non-executive directors met individually and as a group with the Chairman on a number of occasions during the year.
The senior independent director, Terry Gateley, met with the other non-executive directors in the absence of the Chairman, inter alia, to review the Chairmans performance as contemplated by the Code.
Board induction, continuing professional development and evaluation A formal induction process for new directors has been well-established for several years and is the responsibility of the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive, Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Director.
A revised, standard induction programme for new directors was set by the Chairman following his own experience of joining the Board.
During and after induction directors are expected to visit business units around the Group and to meet with operating management and corporate staff.
Non-executive directors are supported in becoming familiar with the businesses during and after induction and there is regular contact between management and non-executive directors during site visits, formal meetings and events like the annual management conference.
Appropriate coaching and access to training and other continuing professional development is available to all directors and all directors participated in some appropriate training during the year at Board meetings.
In line with the Code the Board has agreed that the Chairman should arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process at least once every three years.
An internal evaluation of the Board and its committees was completed in 2012, the results of which were reported to the Board and a series of actions agreed.
To better assess and nd ways to improve Board effectiveness, we held effectiveness workshops with the non-executive directors and with the executive directors, facilitated by an external consultant.
We used this input to develop some changes in practice aimed at enhancing the role of the Board.
The internal process also involves a series of face to face discussions including individual meetings between the Chairman and the non-executive directors.
In addition, the other directors were consulted by the senior independent director regarding the performance of the Chairman.
The Board received the findings of the evaluation in the year and the directors confirmed that the Board is fullling its responsibilities appropriately.
The evaluation concluded that the Board and its committees were effective and that each director demonstrated a valuable contribution.
The contribution and performance of the directors, all of whom are standing for election or re-election at the 2013 annual general meeting, is further commented on in the notice of the annual general meeting.
A full, externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise will be conducted later in 2013.
Key Board activities in 2012 Highlights of 2012 were the progress made in improving the focus and effectiveness of the Board under the leadership of a new Chairman.
This included renements to the agenda and practices of the Board, the addition of three new non-executive directors and a dynamic strategy development process.
Business performance and risk are regularly reviewed during the year and the annual business planning and strategic risk review meeting of the Board took place over two days in December.
The approach to the Groups risk management process and the Boards review of strategic risks was revised to place more emphasis on mitigation action plans and tracking progress against them.
Board reports 42 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 Board objectives As highlighted in the Chairmans governance letter, the Board established for itself three specic objectives for 2013, as well as supporting the management in delivering the plans and forecasts set by the Board.
These objectives are as follows: i Continuing the process for Board review of strategy and embedding the outcomes in longer term business plans for the Group: ii Strengthening management talent and establishing the resources and organisational structure required to accelerate our growth plans: and iii Continuing to set the right tone and culture through investment in the IMI Way.
Standing committees of the Board The standing committees of the Board are shown below and include the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Executive Committee.
Each of these committees operates under written terms of reference which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities.
The full terms of reference of these committees were updated in December 2010 and are part of the Corporate Governance Framework which appears on the Company website.
The committees report to the Board on their work, normally through their respective Chairmen, at quarterly or more frequent intervals as appropriate.
Board Nominations Remuneration Audit Committee Executive Committee Committee Committee Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Terry Gateley.
Anita Frew and Bob Stack were members of the Audit Committee throughout the year.
Kevin Beeston was a member until he left the Board in October.
Phil Bentley joined the committee on 1 October 2012.
Terry Gateley is a qualied Chartered Accountant and has significant recent and relevant financial experience.
Phil Bentley will become Chairman of the committee when Terry Gateley retires in May.
Phil Bentley is a qualied accountant and his previous career includes twelve years on the board of Centrica plc, the first seven as Finance Director, and time as chair of the audit committee of Kingsher plc.
The committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the financial statements and reports that are prepared by executive management.
The committee received reports from the external auditor who attended its meetings when required to do so.
The committees work included reviewing the financial statements, accounting policies, significant issues of judgement and, as described below under the section headed Internal Control starting on page 46, looking at the effectiveness of internal financial controls.
Key issues reviewed by the committee included: financial control issues in parts of Fluid Controls, assurance reviews in respect of major change projects, the accounting treatment of certain non-recurring items as exceptional, accounting in respect of pensions, plans for building functional excellence in finance roles across the Group and accounting for acquisitions.
The committee considered the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
In assessing auditor independence the committee had regard to the Smith Guidance for audit committees and required the auditor to confirm that its ethics and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Group policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is monitored by the committee and requires approval by the Chairman of the committee for any non-audit engagement where fees exceed 150,000 and does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could compromise auditor independence, such as functioning in the role of management or auditing its own work.
The committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as the IMI Group Assurance Department, and reviews the operation of the Group whistle-blowing policy and the independent hotline www.
During 2011 the committee received an independent report on the effectiveness of the internal audit function and has since been monitoring progress of the implementation of agreed recommendations.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 43 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE THE BOARDS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Audit Committee continued The committee approved the proposed external audit approach and scope as well as the internal audit programme.
The committee takes a risk based approach to audit and other assurance activity.
The committee surveyed the main subsidiaries to assess the performance and efficiency of the external auditor and believes the work has been satisfactory.
The committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to re-appoint Ernst & Young as the external auditor at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Ernst & Young was first appointed as auditor in 2009 following a formal selection process.
The term of appointment is annual and there are no contractual restrictions on the committees choice of auditor.
The committee met on four occasions during the year with all members in attendance.
Minutes and papers are normally circulated to all members of the Board.
The committee normally calls upon the Chairman, all of the executive directors, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Assurance Director to attend meetings but holds at least part of several meetings each year alone with the auditor and Group Assurance Director.
The committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Bob Stack and Roberto Quarta, Anita Frew and Terry Gateley were members throughout the year.
Kevin Beeston was a member until he left the Board in October 2012.
Birgit Nrgaard and Carl-Peter Forster joined the committee on 6 November 2012 and 1 October 2012 respectively.
The committees main responsibilities are to determine the remuneration policy and individual terms and conditions in respect of the executive directors including new appointments and to set the Chairmans remuneration.
As well as salary and annual bonuses, the committee is responsible for the structure and level of the performance related elements of executive remuneration and other benets.
The committee also reviews the packages of those at the next most senior level of management and has regard to pay for employees across the Group when determining executive remuneration.
The committee met on five occasions during the year with all members in attendance.
External consultants are engaged by the committee to provide independent advice and the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Group Human Resources Director attended its meetings when required.
The committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the summary report on its work.
More details in respect of remuneration matters and the work of the committee are given in the Remuneration Report.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman, Roberto Quarta, who chairs the committee, all of the independent non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
During the year the committee reviewed the composition of the Board and its committees and made nominations for appointments to the Board and its committees.
External consultants are engaged by the committee in relation to any search for successor non-executive directors.
Appointments of non-executive directors are made on the basis of a standard form of appointment letter.
Each non-executive director and the Chairman were appointed on the basis of a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the committee.
The committee considers that the time given by each non-executive was sufficient.
The committee also reviewed the roles of the non-executive directors and during the year it made recommendations, which were approved by the Board, concerning the appointment of three new non-executive directors and the succession for Terry Gateley as Chairman of Audit Committee and senior independent director.
It also agreed on the changes to executive responsibilities recommended to the Board following the departure of Ian Whiting.
The committee met on six occasions during the year with all members in attendance and also held informal workshop sessions.
During 2012 the committee spent a substantial part of its time on executive talent development, succession planning and the organisation structure of the executive management.
In response to Lord Davies report on Boardroom Diversity, the Company has issued a policy statement, approved by the committee and the Board, which appears on the Company website.
Our policy is to recruit the very best people to execute our strategic priorities and to reect the diverse nature of the global footprint of our businesses, reecting the location of our customers and markets.
We will continue to review the composition of our management teams and Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution capabilities.
We will seek a diverse pool of the best quality candidates to draw from, both internally and when recruiting externally, to maximise the continuing effectiveness of the Company.
At Board level, there are five nationalities, two of the non-executives are female and there is a broad mix of backgrounds and experience.
Board reports 44 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Executive Committee The Executive Committee of the Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of all the executive directors and the Group Human Resources Director.
The secretary to the committee is the Company Secretary and head of legal.
Senior executives and line managers from around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive Committee.
It normally meets monthly and more often as may be required and all members attended at least ten of the twelve meetings in the year, several of which were held over two days.
The committee is the senior management body and as part of its broad remit it will monitor performance, review progress against strategic objectives, consider business management issues and formulate budgets and proposals on strategy, policy and resource allocation for consideration by the Board.
It also acts as the risk committee of the Board and receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance and legal and corporate affairs.
Its minutes are available to all members of the Board.
Investor relations The annual general meeting is regarded by the Board as an important opportunity to meet and communicate with shareholders, particularly private investors.
The 2012 annual general meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and all of the other directors.
The Chairman encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting and informally during refreshments afterwards.
Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2012 annual general meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the directors report for 2011.
A separate resolution for the approval of the Remuneration Report was also put to the meeting.
Notice of the 2012 annual general meeting was issued more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are shown on the Company website.
The Board values its good relations with shareholders and resolutions proposed at the 2012 annual general meeting received great support.
In addition to the annual report, the Company issues preliminary results and interim results announcements in March and August, respectively, as well as interim management statements.
The Company website includes recordings of certain key presentations made by senior management, recent annual and interim reports, interim management statements, other corporate announcements and links to the websites of Group businesses.
The Company has arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders with Equiniti details are shown on page 142.
A sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme has been established for which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary details on page 142.
The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders and to assist them in the stewardship of their investments.
Dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly with institutional investors.
The Chairman also meets with investors and the senior independent director is also available to shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility at board level for investor relations and report to the Board at least quarterly.
They are supported by the Investor Relations Director, Will Shaw.
During 2012, IMI continued its programme of capital market day presentations, the materials for which are on the Company website.
Financial analysts notes are circulated to the directors and regular feedback reports from the Companys brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys of major investors views.
The Chairman, senior independent director and other non-executives meet with major shareholders upon request and meetings of this type did take place in the year.
There were also consultations with the larger shareholders and institutional shareholder representative bodies in respect of remuneration matters.
Information about share capital, substantial shareholdings, voting and other rights of shareholders, directors appointments, removal and powers is set out in the Directors Report on pages 36 to 39.
Risk management processes The Board has assigned specic responsibility to the Executive Committee to act as the risk committee of the Board.
This is a key feature of the remit of the Executive Committee, which is part of the IMI Corporate Governance Framework.
The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing and monitoring internal controls and other elements of risk management systems in respect of which the Board has oversight.
The annual strategic risk review process is integrated into the annual forecasting and business planning requirements of the Group and monitoring and updates are carried out between annual reviews.
Each operating unit and corporate function is therefore required to undertake a regular process of business risk assessment and reporting.
The President of each business division has appointed a Risk Champion with responsibility for embedding the Group risk assessment process in their business.
The businesses risk reports, including mitigation action plans for significant risks, are reviewed by the most senior IMI plc Annual Report 2012 45 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE THE BOARDS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Risk management processes continued executive within the relevant business and then considered by the Group Assurance Director who puts regular reports to the Executive Committee, which in turn submits a full annual risk review and at least two updates each year to the Board.
The other corporate functions go through a similar process and their input is reected in these reports.
The Chairman and Terry Gateley, the chair of the Audit Committee, attended the Executive Committees annual risk review meeting.
The divisional business Presidents present their strategic risks to the Board as part of the annual business plan session and the Board explicitly considers the risks associated with the Companys strategic objectives.
The Executive Committee also reports to the Board on major business and other risks involved in specic investment decisions including acquisitions.
During the year the Board received reports on risk issues from the Executive Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in relation to financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
In addition, the Audit Committee considered and reported to the Board on the financial aspects of internal control and monitored progress in addressing financial control issues and implementing remediation plans for certain locations where controls had deteriorated following major business changes.
The Audit Committee reviewed the nature and scope of the external audit and of the internal audit work carried out by the IMI Group Assurance Department.
As a result, major business change projects are to be subject to specic internal assurance review at the planning stage and during implementation.
The Remuneration Committee conducted a risk review of incentive arrangements with particular reference to their alignment with strategic objectives and appropriate risk-taking.
Through these processes significant risks are identied, assessed and ranked according to their probability and materiality and, following Executive Committee review, the Board considers what measures are appropriate in order to mitigate, transfer or avoid such risks.
Risk appetite across the range of strategic objectives of the Group was also reviewed by the Board.
Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 32 and 33.
Financial reporting processes The use of the Group accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements by finance teams throughout the Group are important in ensuring that the Groups accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information is presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
Internal control The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Groups system of internal control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the Code and relevant guidance as updated in 2005 by the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework the Board has clearly dened in writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees and it has also set written limits of authority for the Chief Executive and the Executive Committee.
The Group has a clear organisational structure and well-established reporting and control disciplines.
Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities.
They do this within a framework of clear rules, policies and delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in operations and are subject to regular senior management reviews of performance.
All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in detail by the Executive Committee and consolidated for review by the Board.
Performance against forecast is continuously monitored by the executive directors, reviewed at monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and on a quarterly basis by the Board.
Minimum standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group.
Certied quarterly reports are required from senior executives of operating units, conrming compliance with Group financial reporting requirements.
The internal audit function, the IMI Group Assurance Department, operates a rolling programme of internal assurance on site reviews at selected operating units.
Additionally, visits to operations are carried out by senior Group finance personnel.
These internal assurance processes are co-ordinated with the external auditor.
Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their materiality, to the Board.
In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board regularly review the operation of corporate policies and controls in relation to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions.
Compliance and audit reports are made to the Board, and to the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues and developments to be monitored.
Board reports 46 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made to adapt them to the changing risk prole of operations and to implement proportionate measures to address any identied weakness in the internal control system.
More information in relation to risk is given above under the heading Risk management processes.
Through the procedures outlined above the Board has considered the effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2012 and up to the date of this annual report.
The Board believes that the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Business model A description of how the Group preserves and generates value and the strategy for delivering its long-term objectives is given in the Business Overview section on pages 1 to 11.
Responsible business A major ethics and compliance program, known as The IMI Way, has been adopted across the Group and is led by the Chief Compliance officer, Jo Morgan.
Reports on compliance and The IMI Way programme are considered at every regular meeting of the Board and the Executive Committee.
In 2012, IMI was awarded the prestigious Investing in Integrity award by the Institute of Business Ethics and the Chartered Institute for Securities & Investment.
The Board takes account of the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and The IMI Way Code of Responsible Business incorporates a series of corporate policies and standards for responsible business across the Group.
At a Group level, responsible business activity is co-ordinated through a steering group and key issues of corporate social responsibility are identied, monitored and addressed through the Groups general business processes and risk management framework.
The Company satisfies the FTSE4Good global corporate responsibility criteria and has been awarded membership of the FTSE4Good Index.
In addition, IMI has membership of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and is a signatory to the UN Global Compact.
More information on corporate social responsibility matters is given on pages 26 to 31 and on the Company website.
By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 6 March 2013 www.
com about-imi  corporate-governance IMI plc Annual Report 2012 47
