Risk Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financials 50 Risk Management continued Code of Conduct & Group Policies Governance, Assurance and Compliance All employees are expected to comply with our Code of During the year we established a Corporate Assurance Conduct and Group policies.
Department to oversee the Groups risk management process replacing Group Compliance and to encompass our Group Our Code of Conduct sets out the standards of responsible Internal Audit team see below.
behaviour that all our employees are expected to follow and we continue to update our senior management team through a As a result we have streamlined the way in which risk series of face-to-face workshops.
This is supplemented by a management and assurance activities are aligned to our supporting e-learning system, which we have used to focus on governance and compliance framework by creating three areas our priority risk topics, including anti-illicit trade, anti-bribery and of responsibility: governance, assurance and compliance.
corruption, and competition law compliance.
These three areas of our business are working to ensure the Our Code of Conduct is aligned with our long established and effective delivery of the Groups governance framework: embedded policies that cover responsible operation of the our Company Secretary is responsible for maintaining and Group in terms of commercial, employment, manufacturing developing the Groups framework of governance, including and trading practices and provides guidance for business our Code of Conduct, Group policies and Speaking Up integrity, responsible commercial practice, trust, respect whistle-blowing process: and responsibility.
our Director of Corporate Assurance provides assurance Speaking Up whistle-blowing that the controls to mitigate risks to an acceptable level are The Company Secretary, Director of Corporate Assurance and operating as they should, through both the risk management the Chief Legal & Compliance Of cer work together to resolve processes and internal audit work: and any governance issues that are raised, including through our Speaking Up whistle-blowing process.
Any allegations of our Chief Legal and Compliance Of cer acts to ensure that misconduct, fraud and irregularity are thoroughly investigated the Group meets its legal obligations and follows our Code and implications for our control environment are considered.
Our people have the opportunity to make con dential Our Governance Framework disclosures about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing.
During the year we made our employees aware of the improved Governance communication channels we have put in place, via an external supplier, for them to make any con dential disclosures, through our Speaking Up policy, which has been translated into 37 languages.
A Speaking Up committee, comprising the Company Secretary, the HR Director or a suitable HR representative Responsible depending on area and the Director of Corporate Assurance, party: reviews any reported incidents and decides on the appropriate Company Secretary method and level of investigation.
The Audit Committee is Area of responsibility: Overall Governance noti ed of any material disclosures made and receives reports on the results of investigations and actions taken.
The Audit Committee also has the power to request further information, conduct its own enquiries or order additional action as it sees t. Governance Internal Control Framework The Turnbull Guidance recommends internal control practices Responsible Responsible for UK listed companies to assist them in assessing the party: party: Chief Legal & Director of application of the UK Corporate Governance Codes principles Compliance Of cer Corporate Assurance and compliance with the Codes provisions with regard to Area of responsibility: Area of responsibility: internal control.
Compliance with policies Risk Management processes and legislation and independent assurance The Groups systems of internal control are designed and operated to support the identi cation, evaluation and Compliance Assurance management of risks affecting the Group.
These include controls in relation to the financial reporting process and the preparation of consolidated accounts, but extend across all areas of operations.
They are subject to continuous review as circumstances change and new risks emerge.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financials Risk 51 We gain assurance over compliance with systems of internal a Group tax risk and tax operating framework which forms control and on their effectiveness by continuing to develop our: the basis of tax governance across the business and is managed by the Group Tax department, which monitors tax regular management reviews including reviews of key risk and implements strategies and procedures to control it: financial controls and reviews by Group Internal Audit: Group Internal Audit reviews: and testing of certain aspects of the internal financial control systems by the external Auditors during the course of their a year end certi cation process, under which management statutory examinations: and con rms that risk mitigation controls have operated effectively throughout the year and that entities have regular reports to the Audit Committee by the external complied with our policies, including the Code of Conduct Auditors.
and anti-bribery requirements, as well as fraud prevention We have refocused our Group Internal Audit team to ensure a processes.
As a separate exercise, all our senior managers greater focus on key business risks and controls across the are also required to certify that there have been no related most material parts of the business.
During the year we have party transactions within their areas of control.
created a comprehensive audit universe of business entities, Group Finance processes, projects and themes, which we have ranked in terms Our Group Finance department plays a key role in the of their relative risk to the Group.
Going forward internal audits governance process by setting financial policies and standards.
will be carried out to ensure suitable coverage is obtained over It also manages our financial reporting processes to ensure the an acceptable period.
timely and accurate provision of information which enables our Key features of the systems of internal control in the Group are: Board to discharge its responsibilities, including the production of our Half Yearly and Annual Accounts.
Group Finance is a clear tone from the top from the Board and senior supported by a network of finance managers throughout the management, supported by our Code of Conduct and Group who have the responsibility and accountability to provide our values: information in keeping with our policies, procedures and internal risk management processes, as described in this section: best practices as documented in our Group Finance Manual.
written policies and procedures within our businesses, Monitoring of our financial position is based on our strategic and which are detailed in policy manuals: operational plans the Plans which we use to identify speci c targets and objectives.
clearly fide ned lines of accountability and delegation of authority at all levels throughout the Group: Throughout the year we produce latest estimates to predict the likely year end position.
The latest estimates are compared with minimisation of operating risk by using appropriate the Plans and enable us to monitor and check our performance infrastructure, controls, systems and people throughout and, where appropriate, challenge sections of the business if the businesses: actual or anticipated performance varies from the Plans.
business continuity planning, including preventative and Disclosure Committee contingency measures, back-up capabilities and the The Disclosure Committee is chaired by the Company purchase of insurance: Secretary and comprises senior management from across our financial controls: business and meets, as required, in order to consider major financial disclosures.
key policies and standards employed in managing operating risk involve segregation of duties, transaction authorisation, During the year the Disclosure Committee reviewed all major monitoring, financial and managerial review and financial disclosures, including Trading Updates, Interim comprehensive reporting and analysis against approved Management Statements, Half Yearly Report, Annual Report standards and budgets: and Accounts and appropriate corporate nancing documentation.
To meet its responsibilities when reviewing a treasury operating framework which establishes policies these major financial disclosures, the Committee members and manages liquidity and financial risks, including foreign made enquiries into all aspects of the business which, together exchange, interest rate and counterparty exposures, and with their own business knowledge, ensured disclosures were incorporates central and regional treasury committees that complete with no material issues omitted.
The Committee monitor these activities and compliance with the policies.
reported on its reviews to our Chief Executive and Finance Additionally, well fide ned procedures for appraisal, approval, Director and, where appropriate, the Audit Committee.
control and review of capital and strategic expenditure, including acquisitions are reviewed regularly by the Audit The terms of reference of the Disclosure Committee were Committee on behalf of the Board: reviewed during the year to ensure they continued to be appropriate.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
