Corporate governance report DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Board is responsible for promoting the long-term success of the Company and we meet regularly to discuss, debate and review the Company's current and future strategy as well as its financial performance and how to mitigate any risks the Company may face.
The decisions made by the Board aim to strengthen the Group's position as the premium choice in the automotive industry, located in the right markets, with the right brands, in the right categories with the right nancials and the right growth strategy.
During the year the Board visited several of the Group's retail and service centres to gain a deeper understanding of how the business operates and to experience our unique Customer 1st strategy around the world.
In October we travelled to Hong Kong and China.
In Hong Kong we visited the Land Rover, Jaguar, Lexus and Toyota retail centres and a large service centre.
In Shanghai we visited the Inchcape Lexus retail centre.
The site visits included an update from the management teams on performance to date and achievements specic to their business as well as a review of the Inchcape Advantage programme.
In the UK, we held a board meeting at the new Porsche retail centre in Portsmouth where we discussed the market update presented by the Chief Executive officer of Inchcape UK and had a tour of the centre.
In addition to these visits, we also received market updates during the year from the Chairman and Managing Governance is at the heart of Director of Greece and the Chief Executive officer of Australasia.
We have continued our focus on the composition of the everything we do.
Board to ensure that the Board has the right mix of members to contribute effectively to the development of the Group's strategy Ken Hanna and business model.
We will continue to review the composition Chairman of the Board annually to ensure that it remains effective, and through our succession planning process, this remains a key priority in 2013.
IN THIS SECTION I hope that the following information will give some clarity as to how the Board and its Committees have discharged their duties 47 Audit Committee Report throughout the year.
The Board and I are proud of the way the 48 Nominations Committee Report Group has performed during the year and are looking forward 49 CR Committee Report 50 Directors' report on remuneration to serving your Company in 2013.
62 Other statutory information STATEMENT OF CODE COMPLIANCE The Board has been fully compliant with the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code during 2012.
The information required under DTR 7.2.
6 is given on pages 62 to 64 and forms part of the Corporate Governance Report.
ONLINE DRIVER REPORTING FORMAT We continue to minimise the environmental impact of our printed report by reducing the print run, length and weight of paper used, while aiming to raise the quality of report SEE ONLINE: www.
com yearinreview2012 Ken Hanna, Chairman 42 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION LEADERSHIP THE BOARD Inchcape plc Board Audit Remuneration Executive Nominations Corporate Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Financial Reporting Remuneration Policy Group Strategy Balance of the Board Oversight of the Financial Risk Management Incentive Plans Operational Management Leadership of the Group Group CR Programme Internal Control Performance Targets Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Risk Oversight Oversight of Group iPOM Committee Group Capital Committee Principal Risks Assessment Capital Expenditure Control Processes t Risk regularly reviewing the risk management programme Board Meetings and internal control processes: Name of Director Scheduled Attended Chairman t Performance of the Group by regular updates throughout Ken Hanna 6 6 the year: Deputy Chairman & Senior Independent t Evaluation reviewing the performance of the Board and its Non-Executive Director Committees to ensure that they remain effective: and Will Samuel 6 6 t Information, training and development by ensuring the Board Group Chief Executive has the right information, knowledge and skills to facilitate open, Andr Lacroix 6 6 transparent and constructive debate.
Group Finance Director To help the Board discharge its duties, a formal schedule John McConnell 6 6 of Matters Reserved for the Board sets out the decisions Non-Executive Directors it is responsible for and can be found on our website Vicky Bindra 6 6 www.
If a Director has any concerns about the running of the Company, his or her concerns would be Simon Borrows 6 6 recorded in the Board minutes.
No concerns were raised in 2012.
Alison Cooper 6 6 The Board delegates some decisions to its Committees and Nigel Northridge 6 6 further information on the decisions which they make can David Scotland 3 3 be found in their reports on pages 47 to 50.
Day to day Till Vestring 6 6 management is the responsibility of the Executive Directors and the Executive Committee.
David Scotland left on 10 May 2012 Biographies of the Directors can be found on page 38 to 39.
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN ROLE OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE STATEMENT OF HOW THE BOARD OPERATES Leads the Board by setting Leads the Executive The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success the agenda, agreeing Committee, develops and of the Group and aims to achieve this by developing strategy, strategy and risk appetite of implements strategy, manages monitoring financial performance, maintaining an effective the Group risk and the internal system of internal controls and establishing the Group's risk appetite.
To facilitate this, the Board regularly meets to discuss control framework and review: Ensures that Non-Executive Responsible for the day to Directors receive information day operations of the Group, t Strategy contributes to the development of the Group's that is accurate, relevant providing information to the strategy by holding a two day strategy meeting and receiving and timely to enable effective Board to aid the decision updates on progress to date throughout the year: and open discussion making process t Composition to ensure that the Board comprises competent Responsible for the Reports to the Board on individuals with a breadth of knowledge and experience which composition of the Board performance, the brings independent views to the decisions being made: by ensuring that it has the implementation of strategy t Senior Management to ensure that the Executive Committee right mix of skills, knowledge and signi cant developments have the skills to deliver the strategy and a suitable succession and experience plan is in place: Leads the Board Regularly engages with t Internal Controls to ensure that the systems of controls remain evaluation process shareholders on the Group's sound and relevant: activities and progress www.
com 43 Corporate governance report continued NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Will Samuel completed seven years service in 2012.
His length The Non-Executive Directors, as members of the Board and of service was taken into account when considering the its Committees, are responsible for ensuring the Company composition of the Board and it was felt that his knowledge has sound systems of internal controls and an effective risk and understanding of the Group remained crucial to the management process.
They are also responsible for monitoring effectiveness of the Board during the year.
financial performance, the performance of the Executive COMMITMENT Committee and for determining suitable levels of remuneration.
The time commitment required by Non-Executive Directors is They do this by attending Board and Committee meetings set out in their Letter of Appointment and is reviewed annually throughout the year and using their collective knowledge, skills by the Nominations Committee to ensure that it remains and experience to contribute to the decisions being made.
The Company recognises that its Board members All Committee Chairmen report to the Board on the Committee's may be invited to become directors of other companies and that activities at each Board meeting.
Will Samuel is the Deputy this additional experience is likely to benefit the deliberations of Chairman and Senior Independent Director and in this role the Board.
Details of other directorships held by the Executive and he acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and, should the Non-Executive Directors are given in their biographies on page 38 need arise, is available to shareholders whose concerns have to 39.
The Executive Directors are generally permitted to take one not been resolved by the Chairman or the Executive Directors Non-Executive Directorship as long as it does not lead to conicts or should such contact not be appropriate.
of interest or undue time commitment.
Andr Lacroix holds two such positions: Non-Executive Director for Reckitt Benckiser Group A meeting was held in May 2012, in which Ken Hanna met with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors plc for which he received a fee of 85,000 and as Non-Executive Chairman of Good Restaurants AG for which he does not receive present.
In addition, Will Samuel also met with the Non-Executive Directors without Ken Hanna or the Executive Directors present.
DEVELOPMENT EFFECTIVENESS The Board reviewed its effectiveness within the context of the New Directors receive a tailored induction programme designed to give a comprehensive understanding of the Values, operations principles and provisions of section B of the Code.
and strategy of the Group.
The induction programme is split into APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD two parts: operational and head ofce.
A typical operational The Nominations Committee has responsibility for referring induction would consist of visits to retail centres and service potential appointments to the Board for approval and is assisted facilities and meetings with regional executives.
The head ofce by external search consultants.
No appointments were made in induction would comprise meetings with functional heads to 2012.
Further information on its activities can be found in the cover all aspects of plc operations and Directors' duties under Nominations Committee report on page 48. the UK Governance and Compliance regulations.
The induction programme is reviewed prior to any new Directors joining the Group and tailored to their specic needs.
COMPOSITION INFORMATION AND SUPPORT THE GEOGRAPHIC MAKE-UP LENGTH OF SERVICE OF OF THE BOARD NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The information received by the Board is vital to ensure that 3 members are able to contribute fully to discussions.
The Chairman and the Group Company Secretary ensure that the information received by Directors encourages open debate 2 and enables the Board to make well informed decisions.
All Directors receive Committee papers regardless of whether 1 they are members of that Committee to ensure that each member has access to all available information.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Asia 22% 0 Company Secretary.
UK 78% 0-2 2-5 5-9 years years years The Board also receives regular financial and governance updates to enable the Directors to keep informed of progress to INDUSTRY BACKGROUND BALANCE OF NONdate and best practice developments between Board meetings.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Independent professional advice and support are available to all Directors should they request it.
BOARD EVALUATION In 2012 the Board carried out an internal evaluation facilitated by the Chairman.
The evaluation reviewed the results from the action plan arising from the external evaluation in 2011 and each Board member discussed any areas of concern in 2012.
The evaluation was carried out as a structured one on one interview with each Financial 56% Non-Executive Directors 67% Board member.
Overall the Board were happy with the progress Retail 33% Executive Directors 22% Consultancy 11% made during the year and felt the Board and its Committees Chairman 11% continue to function well.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent in accordance with the Code.
44 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION approved by the Board.
Monthly actual results are reviewed by FOCUS FOR 2012 2012 ACHIEVEMENTS management against the AOP, and where appropriate, revised Continue to focus on strategy Regular updates on forecasts are presented to the Board.
All data to be consolidated and processes for measuring performance against strategic into the Group's Financial Statements is reviewed thoroughly by performance to date against objectives have been added management to ensure that it complies with relevant accounting objectives to the Board calendar.
policies, and that financial reporting gives a true and fair Enhance the process for A succession planning strategy re ection of the financial position of the Group.
succession planning at session facilitated by the Internal controls over this financial reporting framework are Board and Executive Group HR Director was carried designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the Committee level out in 2012. reliability of regular internal financial reporting as well as the Review composition of the David Scotland stepped down preparation of Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS.
Board and its Committees from the Board after 7 years' Management and Internal Audit conduct regular assessments service.
The subsequent of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting changes to the Committees based on the framework contained in the Turnbull Guidance.
There have been no signi cant changes in internal controls are set out in the Nominations over financial reporting during 2012 that have, or are likely to Committee Report on page 48. have, materially affected the Group's internal controls over financial reporting.
The results of the evaluation were presented to the Board and as a result of the evaluation there will be a continued focus on Based on these statements, the Board concludes that as at Board composition and succession planning for the Board and 31 December 2012, the Group's internal system of control over senior management during 2013. financial reporting was effective.
Ken Hanna also discussed with each Board member his or her RISK MANAGEMENT performance during the year and identi ed any training or The Group has in place comprehensive processes to manage development areas which may be required.
risk across its businesses, which are regularly subject to audit and Will Samuel also met with the Non-Executive Directors to evaluate the results reported to the Audit Committee and the Board for the performance of Ken Hanna.
Inchcape Peace of Mind iPOM is the Group-wide risk management programme which has as its objective to drive RE-ELECTION risk management and risk aware behaviours across the Group.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all Directors will stand for re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
ACCOUNTABILITY raise embed the FINANCIAL & BUSINESS REPORTING awareness identify and prevention through The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining reduce our of risk within education risks our business adequate internal controls over regular financial reporting for and training processes the Group, including the consolidation process.
There is a comprehensive system of internal controls in place, including an Annual Operating Plan AOP which is reviewed and RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The Board Audit Group iPOM Overall Committee Committee responsibility Delegated Key day to day for determining responsibility from risk oversight the Group's risk the Board for Risk is managed Market iPOM Committees appetite, and Management, through the Sub-committees of the Executive Committee in each market oversight of the Compliance and Group iPOM report into the Group iPOM Committee to ensure that risk principal risks to Internal Controls Committee management oversight remains at the highest level in each market.
the Group's Meetings are co-ordinated to ensure that appropriate reviews are strategic performed in line with the Group iPOM Committee, Audit Committee objectives and Board meetings ENABLERS Functional Assurance Corporate Assurance Providers A new role created iPOM emphasises that in 2012 to drive risk management is the the embedding of responsibility of each iPOM into Group-wide and every function and business practice Internal Audit employee.
Therefore and lead continuous In addition to reviews of financial and operational functional teams are improvement in our risk controls, Internal Audit monitor risk capture and a key source of risk management practices mitigating actions as part of their review management effort www.
com 45 Corporate governance report continued iPOM emphasises 'the right way to do business' and is t People, including EH&S: constructed with the Company's Values at its heart to ensure t Economic, Political and Environmental: we drive the right behaviours across the business and embed t Legal and Regulatory: compliance and the principles of risk management in everything that we do.
t Tax, Pensions and Insurance: and Whilst the ultimate accountability for risk oversight lies with t Finance and Treasury.
the Board, it has formally delegated the responsibility for risk Risks are further categorised as either: management to the Audit Committee under the terms of reference and reporting framework.
Through these, the Board is t systemic risks known risks which are largely unchanging or advised of key risks facing the Group on a rolling basis over each which apply Group-wide and can be managed through 12 month period, with a formal review of the most significant risks standard policies and procedures: or at least twice annually or more frequently if required.
t dynamic risks forward looking risks which are specic to a market, region or function, which change in nature constantly GROUP iPOM COMMITTEE and which must be managed through bespoke mitigation or Responsibility for the day to day management of risk response plans.
oversight is further delegated to the Group iPOM Committee.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and its AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS constituent members are the Group Finance Director, Group HR The Board has delegated responsibility for risk management Director, Group General Counsel, Group Audit Director and and internal controls to the Audit Committee.
Details of the Group Head of Corporate Assurance.
Committee's activities during the year can be found in the The Group iPOM Committee meets six times a year to manage Audit Committee Report on pages 47 to 48.
A statement of the oversight of systemic and dynamic risk at Group level and Directors' responsibility for reporting the Financial Statements is throughout the markets.
It has a broad remit which ensures that: set out on page 63. t The correct management focus is on key risks and actions to REMUNERATION mitigate or respond to identied and emerging risks: The Board has delegated responsibility for setting the level t A compliance programme is in place in all markets and head and components of remuneration and for developing the ofces which meets or exceeds external benchmarks, and is remuneration policy to the Remuneration Committee.
Details of the Committee's activities during the year can be found in appropriate in terms of the legal requirements, content, sector, the Directors' report on remuneration on page 55. cost and resource requirement: and t Appropriate defences are in place to mitigate exposure to, RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS or effect a response to, any risk that may crystallise.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director met with institutional investors throughout the year.
Three investor days were The Group iPOM Committee develops and manages the held at the Cooper Croydon retail centre to which institutional Group's Principal Risk Register, which summarises the Group's investors were invited to receive an update on strategy, risk exposure and associated mitigation or response plan based performance to date and future expectations.
The Company's on risks identied at Group level and at market or regional level.
Investor Relations programme is an important part of investor The Group uses an online risk management and reporting interaction providing perspective and feedback from investors.
solution, FlexEye, to record and monitor its risk prole and the Further detail of the Investor Relations events held throughout the corresponding mitigation and response plans.
The Group iPOM year can be found on page 47.
Committee uses FlexEye reports as a key tool at each meeting to In the past year the proactive programme has included site visits, formally review the risk prole at Group and market level to allow: roadshows and regular financial calendar linked conference t Better cross market or region trend analysis: calls and presentations.
During the year approximately 250 existing or prospective shareholders or their representatives t Better cross risk analysis: and attended such meetings.
t Full visibility of actions and mitigation plans progress.
The Board recognises that maintaining good communications Executive sub committees Market iPOM Committees exist with all shareholders is essential to understanding the Group's in each of the Group's markets and have a similar seniority of performance and strategy.
The Annual General Meeting AGM membership.
Each Market iPOM Committee operates through gives institutional and private shareholders an opportunity to a standard terms of reference to ensure a consistent approach meet the Board and ask any questions they may have regarding to identifying and managing systemic and dynamic risks.
Each year we send shareholders a prepaid reply form which gives any shareholders unable to attend the AGM an Additionally, the meeting dates are co-ordinated throughout the opportunity to give their views.
Group to ensure that appropriate risk reviews are performed in alignment with the schedules of the Group iPOM Committee, the The Group is committed to reducing its impact on the Audit Committee and the Board.
environment in line with its CR policy and encourages shareholders to receive communications electronically in order To ensure consistency and transparency across risk reporting, to reduce printing and paper usage.
Shareholders can register risks are reported under eight principal risk categories: for email alerts on our website at www.
t Strategic, including customer and consumer: It is important for investors to receive communications in the form most appropriate to their needs and they can change the way t Brand Partners, key relationships and reputation: in which they receive shareholder communications at any time.
t Systems and Technology: 46 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INVESTOR RELATIONS CALENDAR Annual Interim Management Interim Interim Management results Statement results Statement Audiocast Audiocast Audiocast Audiocast & presentation & presentation Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Retail Conference Roadshow Retail Conference Roadshow Retail Conference Roadshow Broker & Annual General Retail Conferences Meeting Throughout the year 1:1 meetings and Inchcape Advantage site visits held Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings however, other individuals such as the Audit Committee Report Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Audit Director and external auditors attend by invitation.
Membership and meetings held in 2012 are shown in the table.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR: t Review and approval of the interim and year end results The Committee met with the external auditors to review the interim and year end results.
The Committee considered the appropriate accounting treatment and disclosures of any Simon Borrows matters identied in the review process and recommended Chairman the results be approved by the Board.
t External auditors  LLP, as part of their assurance process, confirmed that they are considered to be KEY RESPONSIBILITIES independent and objective.
The Committee agreed with their t Monitor the integrity of Financial Statements and formal assessment and no matters of concern were raised.
During the announcements year the external auditors presented the plan for the interim t Review and approve the Annual Report and Accounts review and year end audit and the Committee approved the scope of the work to be undertaken.
 t Review Group accounting policies, disclosures in the Annual presented its report on Internal Controls to the Committee Report and Accounts and significant financial reporting issues during the year which provided a benchmark for additional t Review internal controls and risk management efficiencies improvement.
t Internal and external audit function t Effectiveness of external audit process An assessment of the 2011 audit process was carried out through completion t Re-appointment of the external auditors of a Client Satisfaction Survey, to obtain the views of senior t Whistleblowing finance management globally along with Group Finance, Tax, The terms of reference for the Audit Committee can be found on Legal and Audit.
The results were presented to management the website www.
and the Committee to assist in the review of the effectiveness of the audit process for the prior year.
Based on the results of COMMITTEE MEETINGS this process the key areas for improvement were agreed for the Member Meetings Meetings 2012 audit process.
Member throughout 2012 Held Attended Simon Borrows 44 Alison Cooper 44 Will Samuel 44 www.
com 47 Corporate governance report continued t Non-audit services The Committee reviewed the level of audit and non-audit services provided by  Nominations Committee Report LLP during the year.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors can be found in note 3d on page 90 of the Financial Statements.
A policy is in place in respect of non-audit services provided to the Group with a guideline of a 1:1 fee ratio.
The purpose of the policy is to ensure that the auditors remain objective and independent, and as such the services are limited to assignments that are closely related to the annual audit or where work is of such a nature that detailed knowledge of the Group's activities is necessary.
The Audit Committee Ken Hanna is responsible for authorising any non-audit services before Chairman they commence.
t Internal Audit The Committee reviewed progress against the KEY RESPONSIBILITIES internal audit plan for 2012.
Audits carried out covered a range t Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of operational, financial and IT processes in the Group's on the Board businesses and were prioritised according to risk.
The results from the audits were reported to management and the Audit t Agree skills prole for candidates to ll vacant Board positions Committee during the year and no significant issues were t Nominate suitable candidates to the Board for approval identied as a result of risk management and internal control t Succession planning for Executive Directors and reviews in 2012.
The Committee reviewed and approved the Senior Management internal audit plan for 2013, and approved the updated Internal Audit Charter.
During the year the Group Audit Director and his t Review size and structure of the Board team met with the Audit Committee Chairman without the The terms of reference for the Nominations Committee presence of management to discuss the results of audits can be found on the website carried out during the year.
t Review of the whistleblowing arrangements The Committee considered the whistleblowing procedure which has been in COMMITTEE MEETINGS operation during the year to allow staff to condentially raise Member Meetings Meetings any concerns about business practices.
The Committee agreed Member throughout 2012 Scheduled Attended the whistleblowing procedures are appropriate for the Group.
Ken Hanna 33 t Tax update The Committee received regular updates from the Will Samuel 33 Group Tax Director on tax matters including strategic tax risks.
Andr Lacroix 33 t Litigation update The Committee received regular reports Simon Borrows Joined May 2012 1 1 on current litigation matters and any future litigation risks likely David Scotland Left May 2012 2 2 to affect the Group.
t The Committee discussed the performance and reviewed Only members of the Committee have the right to attend the effectiveness of the external auditor without the auditor Committee meetings however other individuals such as the being present.
Group HR Director and external consultants attend by invitation.
During 2012, David Scotland stepped down from the Committee GOVERNANCE: and was replaced by Simon Borrows.
Membership and meetings t The Committee recommended to the Board that a resolution be held in 2012 are shown in the table above.
put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company.
ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR: t Composition of the Board and its Committees The Committee t The Committee confirmed that it had complied with its terms reviewed the composition of the Board, including gender and of reference throughout the year.
geographic diversity, required by the Company to support its t The Committee reviewed its membership and confirmed that strategy.
As a result of the review it was recommended that after it complied with the Code and approved the recommendation seven years' service, David Scotland retire at the 2012 AGM.
The for Simon Borrows to continue as Chairman of the Committee.
Committee reviewed the composition of the Board committees and discussed the skills and experience needed on each, t The Committee confirmed that, in accordance with the particularly in light of David Scotland's retirement.
It was provisions of the Code, Will Samuel and Alison Cooper had agreed to recommend to the Board that: recent and relevant financial experience.
Vicky Bindra become Chairman of the CR Committee: Ken Hanna become a member of the CR Committee: 48 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Till Vestring become a member of the Remuneration Committee: and CR Committee Report Simon Borrows become a member of the Nominations Committee.
t Renewal of Chairman's engagement letter Ken Hanna's initial term as Chairman expired on 1 May 2012.
The Board reviewed his tenure and the Directors supported the renewal of his tenure for a further three year term.
Ken Hanna was not involved in the discussions regarding the renewal of his tenure.
Vicky Bindra t Report to shareholders in the 2011 Annual Report The Chairman Committee reviewed the report to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2011 and recommended it for approval by the Board.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES t Election Re-election of Directors In accordance with the UK t Develop Group's CR strategy and monitor Corporate Governance Code, the Committee recommended external developments to the Board that all Directors stand for election or re-election t Review Group's CR Policy at the Annual General Meeting.
t Monitor Group's CR risk exposure t Review of time served on the Board The Committee reviewed the time served by the Non-Executive Directors and confirmed t Review annual CR Report that it was comfortable with the continued service of the The terms of reference for the CR Committee can be found Non-Executive Directors.
t Review of time commitments The Committee reviewed the time commitment required by the Non-Executive Directors and COMMITTEE MEETINGS confirmed that it was satisfied that all Directors had met or Member Meetings Meetings exceeded the time commitment required.
Member throughout 2012 Scheduled Attended David Scotland Left May 2012 2 2 t Policy on multiple board appointments The Committee Vicky Bindra 33 reviewed its policy on multiple board appointments and confirmed that the Directors had complied with the policy Andr Lacroix 33 during the year.
Ken Hanna Joined May 2012 2 2 Tony George 33 GOVERNANCE: t The Committee reviewed the independence of the Claire Chapman Left July 2012 1 1 Non-Executive Directors and agreed to recommend to the Board that it should determine that they remain independent Only members of the Committee have the right to attend in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Committee meetings however other individuals such as the Group Communications Director and external consultants attend t The Committee concluded that, in accordance with the UK by invitation.
During 2012, David Scotland stepped down as Corporate Governance Code, at least half the Board, excluding Chairman of the Committee and was replaced by Vicky Bindra.
the Chairman, comprised independent Non-Executive Directors.
Ken Hanna also joined the Committee.
Membership and t The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and confirmed meetings held in 2012 are shown in the table above.
that it had been fully compliant throughout the year.
ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR: t The Committee reviewed the job description of the Senior t 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report The Committee reviewed Independent Director and agreed that Will Samuel should and approved the Corporate Responsibility Report for the year continue in this role.
ended 31 December 2011. t The Committee reviewed its membership and confirmed that t CR strategy and communication The Committee reviewed the it complied with the Code and approved the recommendation Green Baton initiative which was rolled out during the year and for Ken Hanna to continue as Chairman of the Committee.
assessed how employees were engaging with CR in their day to day activities.
The Committee agreed that a simple over-arching statement should be developed which would unite the five core CR areas and inspire employees.
The statement was developed during the year and is included in the 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 34 to 37.
GOVERNANCE t The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and confirmed that it had been compliant throughout the year.
