Informa plc Audit Committee Report t ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Group and the external auditor is maintained, including The membership of the Audit Committee the Committee reviewing non-audit related services and fees: is set out on page 48.
The Committee met three times during the year to 31 December 2012 and all meetings were fully t annually reviewing the Groups system of internal attended by the members.
It meets as appropriate with the controls and the process for identifying, evaluating Executive Directors and management, as well as privately and managing the significant risks faced by the Group: with both the external and internal auditor.
The Committee has during the year to 31 December 2012 received sufficient, t reviewing the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit reliable and timely information from the senior managers function and for approving, upon the recommendation to enable it to fulfill its duties.
of the Chief Executive, the appointment and termination of the head of that function.
These responsibilities are GOVERNANCE principally carried out through the Risk Committee The Audit Committee has at least one member possessing recent whose activities are overseen by the Chairman of and relevant experience.
Its Chairman, Dr Brendan ONeill, is a the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board: and qualified Management Accountant and has extensive experience t monitoring the Groups whistleblowing procedures of Audit Committee procedures.
John Davis is also qualified to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place Chartered Accountant and until November 2010 was the Chief for employees to be able to raise in confidence matters Financial Officer of Yell Group plc renamed Hibu plc in July of possible impropriety, with suitable subsequent 2012.
The meetings of the Committee operate so as to follow-up action.
investigate the key accounting, audit and risk issues that are relevant to the Group.
The mixture of experience of its ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR members assists in providing a challenging environment in In 2012, the Committee fulfilled its duties under its terms of which these issues are debated.
The Finance Director, Deputy reference and discharged its responsibilities primarily by: Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and Head of Group Tax attend all or part of its proceedings in order to provide t reviewing the Groups draft full year and half-yearly information to, and be questioned by, the Committee.
The results statements prior to Board approval and reviewing composition of the Committee was reviewed during the year the external auditors detailed reports thereon.
In and the Board and Committee are satisfied that it has the particular reviewing the opinions of management and expertise and resource to fulfill its responsibilities effectively the auditor in relation to the carrying values of the including those relating to risk and control.
Groups assets and any contingent liabilities: The Audit Committee undertakes a thorough performance t reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups evaluation of itself which is led by the Chairman of the accounting policies: Committee and has done so during the year.
t reviewing regularly the impact on the Groups financial DUTIES statements of matters such as the adoption of The Committees terms of reference are available on the International Financial Reporting Standards: Companys website.
The Committees terms of reference allow t recommending to the full Board, which adopted the it to obtain independent external advice at the Companys recommendation, the reappointment of Deloitte LLP expense.
No such advice was obtained during 2012. as the Groups external auditor: The Committee is responsible for, amongst other things: t reviewing and recommending to the Board the audit t monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial fee and reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Groups statements and any formal announcements relating external auditor: to the Groups performance: t reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the t monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process: Groups financial statements, which included key areas of scope of work, key risks on the financial statements, t making recommendations to the Board in relation to the confirmations of auditor independence and the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the proposed audit fee and approving the terms of external auditor: engagement for the audit: 50 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV GOE VERN RVIEA W NCE Informa plc t reviewing the Groups system of controls and its To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, effectiveness.
In particular, it approves the annual the Audit Committee reviewed: internal audit plan and reviews the work done by t the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors Internal Audit and actions which follow from the work: independence and objectivity: t approving the decision to outsource the Internal Audit t the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit function, and the overseeing and reappointment of plan and any variations from the plan: KPMG LLP in this role to deliver the outsourced Internal Audit function: t the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their handling of the key accounting and audit t reviewing the Groups systems to identify and manage judgements: and risks including regular consultation with the Head of Internal Audit and in particular the operation of the t the content of the external auditors reporting Groups Risk Committee : and on internal control.
t reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration and Following the above, the Audit Committee has recommended performance of significant recent acquisitions compared to the Board that Deloitte LLP is re-appointed.
has been the Groups external auditor since 2004.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the external EXTERNAL AUDITOR auditor is working well and remains satisfied with their The Audit Committee is also responsible for the effectiveness.
The external auditor is required to rotate the development, implementation and monitoring of audit partner responsible for the Group and parent company the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy assigns audits every five years and the current senior statutory audit oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, partner has been in place since 2009.
There are no contractual objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
requirements to the Audit Committee, and day to day The Audit Committee monitors regulatory developments as responsibility to the Finance Director.
It states that the a matter of course and will consider auditor tendering and external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board and rotation in line with the transitional arrangements set out the Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is in the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
The policy also sets out the categories of non-audit services which the external auditor will and The Group has in place a policy for the provision of non-audit will not be allowed to provide to the Group, subject to services by the external auditor.
This policy provides that the fide minimis levels.
firms services may only be provided where auditor objectivity and independence may be securely safeguarded and where To fulfill its responsibility regarding the independence of the fees payable either in respect of the assigned work or the external auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed: overall in any year do not exceed the amount of fees payable t the external auditors plan for the current year, noting in respect of its audit work.
the role of the senior statutory audit partner, who signs Non-audit services, other than audit related services, the audit report and who, in accordance with professional provided by the external auditor during 2012 related to rules, has not held office for more than five years, and any tax advisory services, attest-related services and hosting changes in the key audit staff: training seminars attended by Informa employees.
All t the arrangements for day-to-day management of the of these services were below the Groups pre-approval audit relationship: threshold.
Separate teams, independent from the audit and tax audit teams provided all services.
t a report from the external auditor describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by conflicts of interest: and t the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor, in addition to its approval of the Dr Brendan ONeill provision of non-audit services by the external auditor Chairman of the Audit Committee that exceed the pre-approval threshold.
21 February 2013 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 51
