Informa plc Corporate Governance Statement The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders t approving appointments to, and removals from, the for its standards of governance and is therefore committed Board and of the Company Secretary: to the principles of corporate governance contained in the t approving policies relating to Directors remuneration: and UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published in June 2010. t reviewing the dividend policy and determining the amounts of dividends.
As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, Informa is subject to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services The Board has delegated the following activities to the Authority the FSA and complies with the provisions of Executive Directors: the Code and relevant institutional shareholder guidelines.
t the development and recommendation of strategic plans As Informa is incorporated in Jersey, it is not subject to for consideration by the Board that reflect the longerthe UK Companies Act.
However, the Board considers it term objectives and priorities established by the Board: appropriate to provide shareholder safeguards which are t implementation of the strategies and policies of the similar to those that apply to a UK registered company Group as determined by the Board: and are consistent with the relevant provisions of the UK Companies Act.
t monitoring of the operating and financial results against plans and budgets: This report describes how Informa has applied the main provisions of the Code.
It is in the Boards view that the t monitoring the performance of acquisitions and Company has been fully compliant with all the Code provisions investments against plans and objectives: throughout the year ended 31 December 2012.
Together this report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to t prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human 61, explain how the Company has applied the principles and resources: and supporting principles of good governance set out in the Code.
t developing and implementing risk management systems.
THE BOARD Full details of the matters reserved for the Board are available Informa plc is the ultimate holding company of the Group at www.
com and is controlled by its Board of Directors.
The Board, chaired by Derek Mapp, has seven Directors, comprising two THE ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Board members are noted in the Directors Report on page 40.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the There were no changes to the Board throughout the year Board, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director under review.
The Boards main roles are to create value for comply with the guidance from the UK Institute of Chartered shareholders, to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Secretaries and Administrators ICSA and as such are clearly Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to defined.
These are set out in writing, have been approved by ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are the Board and are available on the Companys website.
made available to enable those objectives to be met.
Derek Mapp has been Non-Executive Chairman since MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD 17March 2008 and as Chairman, he leads the Board and A schedule which sets out the matters reserved for the is responsible for setting its agenda and ensuring its Boards approval is reviewed and updated annually.
He is also responsible for ensuring that specific responsibilities reserved for the Board include, Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information but are not limited to: and for effective communication with shareholders.
He promotes a culture of openness and debate to facilitate the t responsibility for the overall management of the Group: effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between the Executive and Nont approving the Groups long-term objectives and Executive Directors.
He also acts on the results of the Board commercial strategy: performance evaluation by leading on the implementation t approving the Groups annual operating and capital of any required changes to the Board and its Committees expenditure budgets: including recognising the strengths and addressing the weaknesses of the Board, and, where appropriate, proposes t reviewing operational and financial performance: new members be appointed to the Board or seeking the t approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital projects: resignation of Directors.
The Chairman holds periodic meetings with Non-Executive Directors without the t reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and Executives present.
risk management: t reviewing the environmental, health and safety policies of the Group: 44 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV GOE VERN RVIEA W NCE Informa plc Peter Rigby was re-appointed as Chief Executive on ensure they are kept up-to-date on relevant new legislation 17March2008 and has the responsibility of running the and changing commercial risks.
As Chief Executive, he has direct charge of the Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee for its operational and financial performance.
These papers are supplemented by any information primarily responsible for implementation of the Companys specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
strategy including ensuring the achievement of the Groups The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly management budgets and optimising the Groups resources.
He also has reports from the Chief Executive and the Finance Director primary responsibility for managing the Groups risk profile, which enable them to scrutinise the Groups and identifying and executing new business opportunities and managements performance against agreed objectives.
for management development and remuneration.
More details on Board and Committee meetings can be Dr Pamela Kirby was appointed as Senior Independent found on page 47.
Director on 17 March 2008 and is available to meet PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES aware of any shareholder concerns not resolved through existing mechanisms for investor communication.
She The Board utilises a formal and rigorous process, led by acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and, if and the Chairman, for the annual internal evaluation of the when appropriate, serves as an intermediary for the performance of the Board, its principal committees and other Directors.
On appointment, the Directors are made aware that their performance will be subject to evaluation.
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent The Board includes independent Non-Executive Directors Director, meet at least annually to appraise the Chairmans who constructively challenge and help develop proposals performance.
The last external Board evaluation was carried on strategy and bring strong, independent judgement, out in 2010 of the corporate governance of the Company, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
including an evaluation of its Chairman.
A new external The independent Directors are of sufficient calibre and Board evaluation will take place this year.
number that their views carry significant weight in the RE-ELECTION Boards decision-making process.
The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in The Articles provide for all Directors to be subject to annual character and judgement.
The Board is satisfied, following internal evaluation in 2012, that each Director continues to There is an agreed procedure in place for the Directors to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to their role.
obtain independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, should they consider it necessary to do so in order BOARD AND EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY to carry out their responsibilities.
The Directors contracts are Informa operates a successful business based on available for inspection at the registered office and principal a proven track record of equal opportunity and reward office during normal business hours and will be available for for performance.
Approximately 56% of our employees inspection at the AGM.
are women and they account for around 47% of the managers within the Group.
INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT At Board level, we believe that the current representation of On appointment, the Directors receive relevant information one female Non-Executive Director 14% is the minimum about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters acceptable and whilst below the target that has been set for reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and 2015, with a small number of Directors this percentage can membership of the principal Board Committees, the Groups increase quickly with a new appointment.
Our Board corporate governance policies and procedures and the latest composition and size is kept under constant review.
A small financial information about the Group.
This is supplemented Board fits Informas entrepreneurial culture and approach to by introductory meetings with key senior executives.
On fast commercial decision making and we do not want to appointment, the Directors are also advised of their legal and accelerate the departure of existing male Non-Executives, other duties and obligations as a Director of a listed company.
who are both high quality and high contributors to the Board and the business.
Throughout their period in office, the Directors are regularly updated on the Groups business and the environment in THE COMPANY SECRETARY which it operates, by written briefings and by meetings with Rupert Hopley has been Company Secretary and Group senior executives, who are invited to attend and present at General Counsel of the Company since 1 November 2011.
Board meetings from time to time.
They are also updated on The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the any changes to the legal and governance requirements of Board through the Chairman on all governance matters the Group and those which affect themselves as Directors and all Directors have access to his advice and services.
and are able to obtain training, at the Groups expense, to Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 45 Informa plc Corporate Governance Statement CONTINUED RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS PROCEDURES TO DEAL WITH DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors and now has a full time The Articles include provisions covering Directors conflicts Head of Investor Relations, Richard Menzies-Gow, who was of interest and allow the Board to authorise any matter that appointed on 5 September 2012.
Derek Mapp as Chairman would otherwise involve a Director breaching his duty to and Dr Pamela Kirby as Senior Independent Director provide avoid conflicts of interest.
The Company has procedures in the Board with feedback on any issues raised with them place to deal with a situation where a Director has a conflict by shareholders.
As part of this process, the Board will endeavour to: Financial information is announced on a quarterly basis.
t consider each conflict situation separately on its The Chief Executive and Finance Director give presentations particular facts: on the half year and full year results in face to face meetings t consider the conflict situation in conjunction with with institutional investors, analysts and the media, which are the Articles: also accessible via webcast on www.
After the release of the Interim Management Statements in respect t keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations of the first and third quarters, the Company holds conference granted by Directors and the scope of any approvals calls with institutional investors, analysts and the media.
In given: and addition to these presentations, the Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a t regularly review conflict authorisations.
range of issues, including governance and strategy, affecting INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT the Groups performance.
Meetings are also held with the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal Groups largest institutional shareholders on an individual control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is basis following the announcement of the Groups half-yearly designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure and full year results and on other occasions.
In addition, the to achieve business objectives and can only provide Group responds to individual ad hoc requests for discussions reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material from institutional shareholders.
Following meetings held with misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance shareholders after the half-yearly and full year results recognises that the cost of control procedures should not announcements, the Board is provided with feedback from exceed the expected benefits.
the Executive Directors, the Head of Investor Relations, the Groups brokers and its public relations advisers on investor The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating perceptions.
The Companys brokers reports on the Group and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This are also circulated to all Directors, as are monthly reports process was in place throughout 2012 and up to the date of of significant changes in the holdings of larger investors.
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, and is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
and to meet with the Directors, all of whom attended the 2012 meeting.
The number of proxy votes for, against or withheld The key features of Informas internal control and risk in respect of each resolution is disclosed at the AGM and a management systems in relation to the financial reporting separate resolution is proposed for each item.
The Company process include: aims to give as much notice of the AGM as possible and at least 21 clear days notice, as required by the Articles.
In t Business planning all business units produce and agree practice the documents are sent to shareholders more than an annual business plan against which the performance 20 working days before the AGM.
of the business is regularly monitored.
The Groups corporate website at www.
com provides t Financial analysis each business units operating a wide range of information about the Group which is of profitability and capital expenditure are closely interest to both institutional and private investors.
Management incentives are tied to financial includes all announcements made by the Company to the results.
These results include explanations of variances FSA, as well as video recordings of the interim and annual between forecast, actual and budgeted performance, presentations made to analysts, and details of the Groups and are reviewed in detail by executive management businesses and sectors in which it operates.
Key financial information is reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
46 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV GOE VERN RVIEA W NCE Informa plc t Group Authority Framework the framework provides t The Audit Committee has approved a schedule of work clear guidelines for all business units of the approval to be undertaken by the Groups nominated external limits for capital and operating expenditure, and other auditor during the period and receives reports on any key business decisions.
issues identified in the course of their work, including internal control reports on control weaknesses.
Any t Risk assessment a risk assessment is embedded into the identified issues are reported to the Board and are operations of the Group and a bottom up risk assessment tracked until conclusion.
is submitted to executive management and the Board for approval.
Each business unit considers the significant t The Audit Committee has approved a schedule of work risks to its business and to the achievement of the to be undertaken by the Groups Internal Audit team proposed plan.
In doing so, each unit considers risk in during the period and receives reports on any issues terms of probability of occurrence and potential impact identified in respect of the Groups business processes on performance, and mitigating actions, control and control activities over the Groups key risk areas, effectiveness and management responsibility are including following up on the implementation of identified to address these risks.
management action plans to address any identified control weaknesses and reporting any overdue actions The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups to the Audit Committee.
system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups KPMG LLP are engaged to provide the Group with Internal high-level internal control arrangements.
Audit services and act as Head of Internal Audit.
The Board confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses have been The Audit Committee has been charged by the Board with identified from the reviews performed by Internal Audit.
oversight of the above-mentioned controls for the period and they have considered the following in determining BOARD MEETINGS AND COMMITTEES the overall effectiveness of the Groups risks and associated At each meeting the Board receives information regarding control environment: current trading, business unit performance and treasury information.
At certain times of the year the Board reviews t The Risk Committee reports on the effectiveness of and discusses budgets, capital expenditure, risks, financial risk management, governance and compliance activity statements and strategy.
The Board is also provided with within the Group.
This Committee comprises the Chief updates, when appropriate on aspects such as changes in Executive, a cross section of senior officers and managers legislation, potential acquisitions and the business of the Group and is chaired by the Finance Director.
The environment, in addition to regular investor relations Risk Committee supports the Board in its consideration feedback and analysis.
of current and forward-looking material business risk exposures.
A programme of deep dive reviews of each Each Committee reports to, and has its Terms of Reference of the principal risks of the Group is in place, with each approved by, the Board, and all Board and Committee principal risk discussed and evaluated in detail at least minutes are circulated as soon as possible after each meeting.
once a year by the Risk Committee.
These principal risks The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee are discussed in more detail on pages 28 to 31. meetings attended as a member by each Director during the year are set out below.
Scheduled Board Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination meetings meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings of 7 of 3 of 3 of 1 Derek Mapp 7 1 Peter Rigby 7 Adam Walker 7 Pamela Kirby 7 31 John Davis 7331 Brendan ONeill 7 3 3 Stephen Carter 7 3 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 47 Informa plc Corporate Governance Statement CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Chairman: Dr Brendan ONeill Chairman: Dr Pamela Kirby Other members: John Davis, Stephen Carter Other members: Dr Brendan ONeill, John Davis Secretary: Rupert Hopley Secretary: Rupert Hopley Objective: To be responsible for corporate reporting, Objective: To set, review and recommend for approval risk management and internal control procedures, the remuneration policy and strategy, and individual and for maintaining the relationship with the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and Companys external auditor.
to approve the introduction and rules of all Group sharebased incentive schemes.
Governance Governance All members of the Audit Committee are Independent All of the members of the Remuneration Committee are Non-Executive Directors.
independent Non-Executive Directors, with the Chairman of the Board only attending meetings by invitation.
Duties The terms of reference of the Committee are available on Duties the Companys website.
The Audit Committees principal The Committees terms of reference are available on the responsibilities include: Companys website.
The Remuneration Committees principal responsibilities are to: t monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to t set, review and recommend for approval to the Board the Groups performance: the remuneration policy and strategy with respect to the Executive Directors: t monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process in the context of the Companys overall risk t set, review and approve the individual remuneration management system, including the appointment and packages of the Executive Directors, including terms removal of the Head of the Internal Audit function: and conditions of employment and any changes to the packages: t reviewing non-audit services and fees: and t review the general remuneration framework for the t annually reviewing the Groups system of internal control senior management of the Group: and and the risks faced by the Group.
t approve the introduction and rules of any Group A separate report from the Audit Committee can be found on share-based incentive schemes, including Long-Term pages 50 to 51.
The Committee uses the services of Towers Watson as external Remuneration Consultants.
A full Remuneration Report is provided on pages 52 to 61.
48 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV GOE VERN RVIEA W NCE Informa plc Non-Executive Directors.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committee uses the services of specialist nonexecutive search consultants to seek suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and its Committees.
These candidates are reviewed by the Committee and the successful candidate is nominated by the Committee to the Board for approval.
Activities of the Committee during the year The Committee met once during the year to confirm no changes to its terms of reference and to discuss the composition and the mix of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Rupert Hopley Chairman: Derek Mapp Company Secretary Other members: Dr Pamela Kirby, John Davis 21 February 2013 Secretary: Rupert Hopley Objective: To ensure there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board and its Committees.
Governance All the members of the Nomination Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Duties The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committees principal responsibilities include: t reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board: t giving full consideration to succession planning for directors and senior executives, taking into account the skills and experience needed on the Board in the future: t identifying and nominating for approval by the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: t evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity of the Board prior to any appointment to the Board: t keeping under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and non-executive: t reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation process that relate to the composition of the Board: and t annually reviewing the time required from Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 49
