2012 Operations Governance Financial statements Statement on Corporate Governance The attendance of the Directors at the Board meetings held in 2012 is shown in the table below.
Attendance at Committee meetings is shown in the relevant Committee reports.
Number of scheduled meetings held and meeting attendance in 2012 Percentage Board Attendance a 1.
Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 8 8 100% 7.
John Rennocks 8 8 100% a Chairman of the Board and Nominations Committee b Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Andrew Sukawaty c Chairman of the Audit Committee Executive Chairman Constitution and appointments Our Board is comprised of Directors drawn from a wide range Statement from the Chairman of professional backgrounds.
Currently, our Board is made up Your Board believes that a robust governance structure is vital of three Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
to effective management of the Company and that it should The names of the directors who served during the year, their underpin how we operate.
In setting our governance, we have relevant skills and experience are set out in their biographical followed standards of good practice on how companies should details on pages 36 and 37.
In succession planning for the Board be directed and controlled as set out in the UK Corporate and within the Group, the Board takes account of the need for Governance Code the Code.
The information below will help diversity generally, including gender.
The Board has two female you to understand how your Board has run the Company, Non-Executive Directors out of six Non-Executive Directors.
managed risks, monitored control, and describe how decisions Female representation as a percentage of the full Board is 22%.
We have already started to consider Non-Executive Director The Board succession planning as four of the originally appointed Responsibilities independent directors at the 2006 AGM reach nine years with the Our Board is the primary decision-making body for all Company at the 2015 AGM.
The Board is conscious of the need material matters affecting the Inmarsat Group.
It also provides to manage a smooth transition of changes in Non-Executive leadership, guidance and sets our strategic direction.
The Directors and Committee Chairmen so as not to lose key composition of the Board and its various Committees is knowledge on the Board during any handover periods.
regularly reviewed and evaluated so as to reflect the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity of which gender is one component, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer roles experience and the ability of Directors to provide sufficient time The role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was split on to fulfil their Board responsibilities.
Andrew Sukawaty remained Executive Chairman and Rupert Pearce became Chief Executive Officer.
Our Board is ultimately accountable to the shareholders for the John Rennocks, our Senior Independent Director, continues to performance of the business.
Responsibility for implementing act as Deputy Chairman and we continue to value his strategy within the Groups operations and for day-to-day contribution.
John is available to discuss issues or concerns management of the business is delegated to the Chief from our shareholders where they have been unable to resolve Executive Officer who, with and through his executive team, them through existing channels for investor communications.
cascades this responsibility through the Group.
Management of the business is delegated to the Companys Executive Staff As Executive Chairman, Mr Sukawaty remains employed in a team, details of whom are listed on page 10. full-time position and undertakes executive responsibilities as summarised here.
In addition to chairing the Board and A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision ensuring that the Company meets its fiduciary responsibilities or consideration by the Board as a whole has been agreed by and is accountable for those to shareholders, he oversees the the Directors.
This schedule covers areas such as the Groups evaluation process to ensure the Boards effective operation.
business strategy, major investments and acquisitions.
Where Amajor responsibility Mr Sukawaty has is to mentor Mr Pearce appropriate, specific responsibilities are delegated to Board as he develops into his role as Chief Executive.
Mr Sukawaty Committees or to committees convened for special purposes.
acts as the Companys representative with key governmental The Board has an annual rolling plan of items for discussion and industry trade bodies where his previous telecoms which is reviewed and adapted regularly to ensure all matters experience, combined with his knowledge from being with reserved to the Board, with other items as appropriate, are Inmarsat, is beneficial to our representation and influence at discussed.
Specific annual items include an update on the these meetings.
In the business, Mr Sukawaty is responsible for Companys policy on compliance with the UK Bribery Act and driving new business opportunities in key geographic markets the U. S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act requirements and health Brazil, Russia, India, China and sub-Sahara.
He also drives the and safety.
Inmarsat plc 41 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 Statement on Corporate Governance continued decision-making on the future development of our handheld Four of our Non-Executive Directors, John Rennocks, satellite phone.
Mr Sukawaty has also assumed responsibility StephenDavidson, Sir Bryan Carsberg and Admiral James Ellis for being the Companys nominated individual dealing with Jr Rtd were appointed for the first time at the 2006 AGM and the proxy board of our US Government subsidiary company.
therefore reached their six-year term at the 2012 AGM.
They The Board remains unanimously of the opinion that retaining were re-appointed by shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
The MrSukawaty in a full-time executive capacity until the end of Nominations Committee has reaffirmed that it believes these 2014 significantly benefits the business as it goes through Directors continue to be independent and, subject to them majorchanges in the lead-up to the launch of a new being re-appointed by the shareholders at the 2013 AGM, they complementary revenue stream from the Inmarsat-5 Ka-band should remain in office thus providing continuity of experience Global Xpress programme.
and knowledge of the business.
Mr Pearce as Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day Governance to day running of Inmarsats operations and its financial results.
Our Board meets as often as necessary to effectively conduct He has been instrumental in restructuring the operations to its business.
During the year, the Board met eight times, ensure that we are closer to the markets and partners we serve, with one of those meetings being held in Washington DC.
efficient in how we manage our business activities and agile in The rest of the meetings are held in the UK and are also how we make decisions.
Mr Pearce has ultimate responsibility attended by key management to present on specific business for ensuring we meet the milestones for our key programmes issues.
Unscheduled supplementary meetings also take place the delivery of four satellites over 2013 and 2014, a new as and when necessary.
network to deliver the Global Xpress programme and maximising the opportunities from our existing L-band business In instances where a Director is unable to attend Board or all of which will target revenue growth and deliver enhanced Committee meetings, any comments which he or she may have returns to shareholders.
The Board has been extremely pleased arising out of the papers to be considered at the meeting are with how Mr Pearce has already grown into the role as Chief relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman or the Company Executive and believes his increasing experience will be Secretary who would then report to the Board.
beneficial to the long-term success of the Company.
Directors receive Board and Committee papers in advance of Independent Non-Executive Directors the relevant meetings.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive The diverse experience and backgrounds of the Non-Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer provide reports to the Directors ensures that they can debate with, and constructively Board and senior executives, by invitation, and present updates challenge management, both in relation to the development on strategy and the Groups operations.
This way the Board of strategy and to the Companys operational and financial is given exposure to the next layer of management at the performance.
To determine their independence, all Executive Staff level and often from their direct reports.
Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by the Board annually This ishelpful to the Board as it assists with management against any circumstances relevant to their current or ongoing successionplanning.
All Committee Chairmen report orally independence as set out in the Code.
onthe proceedings of their Committees at the following Boardmeeting.
Meeting proceedings and any unresolved Following such review, the Board considers all the Non-Executive concerns expressed by any Director are minuted by the Directors to be independent and free of any circumstances that Company Secretary.
could materially interfere with their ability to provide a strong, valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations, or which could The Non-Executive Directors meet annually and on an interfere with the Directors ability to also act in the best interests ad hoc basis, without the Chairman and other Executive of the Group.
At these meetings they assess the Chairmans performance, discuss Board balance, monitor the Appointment and re-appointment powers of individual Executive Directors and raise any issues The Directors may appoint additional members to join the between themselves asappropriate.
Directors appointed in this way will, upon the recommendation of the Board, offer themselves for election As part of its regular Board meeting schedule, the Board by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM also holds a two-day strategy meeting each year at which it after their appointment.
considers the future direction of the business.
Strategy sessions are attended by several senior executives who present on The re-appointment of Directors is subject to their ongoing specialised agenda items.
Strategy is also reviewed at each commitment to Board activities and satisfactory performance.
All Directors will stand for re-appointment annually in accordance with the provision of the Code.
The Nominations Board effectiveness Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made The Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own by the Directors offering themselves for re-appointment at the performance and that of its Committees and individual 2013 AGM continued to benefit the Board and the Company Directors during the year.
The Code requires that the Company should support their re-appointment.
Non-Executive Directors conduct an externally facilitated evaluation every three years are appointed initially for three years and all Non-Executive and the 2012 Board performance evaluation was facilitated by Directors may not, unless agreed by the Board, remain in Duncan Reed of Condign Board Consulting Ltd, a company office for a period longer than six years, or two terms in office, which is dedicated to board effectiveness work.
Mr Reed and whichever is the shorter.
Condign have no other connection with the Company.
42 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements The evaluation process consisted of a structured interview with The Non-Executive Directors continue to be highly supportive the Chairman, each Director, and the Company Secretary with of all the executive management team.
The culture of openness an outline of the topics to be covered in the interview sent to and transparency with the sharing of updates on Group each Director in advance.
The evaluation also included the activities has remained evident following senior management review of relevant Board papers.
The outcome of the review was changes.
This transparency has been enhanced with the change first discussed with the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and the in reporting line of the business unit heads who have revenue Company Secretary collectively, and then as an agenda item responsibility now reporting to the Chief Executive Officer.
at the Board meeting in March 2013.
The full output from the The Board continues to support the further changes in business evaluation was presented in a report to all of the Directors at approach to maximise efficiency and agility in its operations.
that Board meeting, with collective and individual feedback provided as appropriate.
External directorships The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of Executive The review concluded it is clearly felt that the overall Directors accepting non-executive directorships of other functioning of the Board is now at a very good level indeed, and companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for that the Board is fundamentally an effective and appropriately the benefit of the Company.
All such appointments require constituted body which can carry out its task of overseeing the the prior approval of the Board.
Executive Directors may business, now and in the future offering good stewardship of not take on more than one non-executive directorship of a the Company to its shareholders.
All the Directors expressed a FTSE 100 company or any chairmanship of such a company.
high degree of satisfaction with their experience on the Board, Messrs Sukawaty and Medlock have external directorships with the Chairman facilitating a culture of openness, honesty and are permitted to retain any Directors fees from these and collegiality which encourages constructive challenge.
Mr Pearce does not currently have any In particular, the transition of Chief Executive responsibilities .
Details of these directorships can be from him to MrPearce during 2012 was deemed to have been found in their biographies on page 36 and details of the fees successful.
The engagement by the Board with a wide group paid to them can be found on page 55.
To avoid potential of management at Board meetings was particularly noted, as conflicts of interest, Non-Executive Directors are expected was the Boards high degree of satisfaction with the quality toinform the Chairman before taking up any additional and rigour of the Companys risk management systems, externalappointments.
investment analysis, and investor relations.
Induction and ongoing developments During the year, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior To ensure that each Director receives the appropriate support Independent Non-executive Director, evaluated the performance on joining the Board, they are given a comprehensive, formal of the Chairman and gave feedback on his performance as and tailored induction programme organised through the Chairman which was also reflected in the externally facilitated Company Secretary, including the provision of background evaluation.
The Chairman did the same in relation to the material on the Company and briefings with senior Directors.
The Chairman also meets the Non-Executive Directors management.
Each Directors individual experience and on an individual basis at least once a year.
The Board believes background is taken into account in developing a programme that, as confirmed by the independently facilitated performance tailored to his or her own requirements.
evaluation, the Directors have strong familiarity with the Group and its businesses.
They contribute to strategic thinking, For professional ongoing developments, the Board receives providing multiple perspectives and, importantly, ongoing presentations appropriate to the Companys business and independent judgement.
The Company Secretary supplies all Directors with information on relevant legal and best practice.
The recommendations which will be implemented following the 2012 Board performance evaluation include making more time Directors remuneration available for the Board to discuss the forward agenda planner, Details of the Companys remuneration policy and Directors to ensure that the right topics are being covered at the right remuneration are contained in the Directors Remuneration times: the scheduling of further meetings for the Non-Executive Report on pages 48 to 58.
Directors to be chaired by the Deputy Chairman: and an ongoing emphasis at the Nominations Committee and Company Secretary then at the Board on formal succession planning of the The Company Secretary is responsible for developing and Non-Executive element of the Board.
This is to ensure the maintaining the information systems and processes that enable composition of the Board is progressively refreshed over the the Board to fulfil its role.
She is also responsible to the Board next two years, including the Committee Chairmen roles, to for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and reflect the needs of the Group as they develop.
It is envisaged advising the Board on all governance matters.
that in the short to medium term this may result in the Board temporarily increasing in size to ensure no loss of continuity All Directors have access to the advice and services of the and valued input.
Company Secretary and are able to take independent advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
No requests for external professional advice were received during the year.
Inmarsat plc 43 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 Statement on Corporate Governance continued Board Committees The Company Secretary is Secretary to these Board The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising Committees and the office of the Company Secretary its authority.
The permanent Committees of the Board are the provides secretariat services for each of the Committees.
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Each of the permanent Committees has Terms of Reference under which authority is delegated by the Board.
The Terms of Reference for each Committee can be found on our website at www.
Board Committees BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Oversight and review of financial, Oversight and review of Oversight and review of risk management, audit and remuneration, bonus Board and senior management internal control issues.
Reports from each of the Committees are as follows: During the year to 31 December 2012, the Audit Committee reviewed and endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, Audit Committee half-year and full-year financial statements, interim All members of the Audit Committee are independent, managementstatements and results announcements.
Non-Executive Directors and the majority have significant, It considered internal audit reports and risk management recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board is updates, agreed external and internal audit plans, received confidentthat the collective experience of the Audit updates on management responses to audit recommendations Committeemembers enables them, as a group, to act as and approved the review of accounting policies.
Reviews by an effective Committee.
the Committee of audit plans and risk reports include all Group operations.
Detailed risk reporting is used for all Group The Committee comprises the following Non-Executive Directors: companies and business operations.
One of our subsidiary companies is required to produce quarterly financial John Rennocks Committee Chairman, Stephen Davidson, statements, as required by its loan agreements, which are Sir Bryan Carsberg and Janice Obuchowski.
reviewed and approved by the Committee.
There were five meetings during the year, attended by The Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure allmembers.
Committee the role of which is detailed on page 46, reported on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure of By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be financial and other material information to the Board, to the attended by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief public markets and to shareholders.
This enabled the Audit Financial Officer and the Head of Internal Audit.
The Deloitte Committee to review and clarify the completeness of financial LLP Deloitte audit engagement partner is present at all Audit reporting disclosures prior to their approval and release by Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters the Board.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets regularly with the internal and external auditors.
External Auditor The audit engagement partner rotates every five years and a The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for new audit partner took responsibility for reporting on results monitoring the financial reporting process, the adequacy and for the 2011 financial year.
The Committee notes that FTSE 350 effectiveness of the operation of internal controls and risk companies should put the external audit contract out to tender management and the integrity of the financial statements.
To avoid significant disruption, the This includes a review of significant issues and judgements, Financial Reporting Council has provided details of transitional policies and disclosures.
Its duties include keeping under review arrangements which would mean that as Deloitte became the scope and results of the audit and its cost-effectiveness, auditors after 2000, we would not need to undertake a tender consideration of managements response to any major external review until 2020.
Auditor objectivity and independence is or internal audit recommendations and the independence and safeguarded through a variety of mechanisms.
To ensure the objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
Auditors independence, the Committee annually reviews the Companys relationship with Deloitte and receives summaries at each Audit Committee meeting from the Auditor as to its independence.
The Company concluded that it continues to have an objective and professional relationship with Deloitte and that there are sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure the required level of independence.
44 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements Non-audit services The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations The Companys Auditor may also be used to provide specialist to the Board concerning the re-appointment of any Nonadvice where, as a result of their position as Auditor, they either Executive Director as he or she reaches their ninth year of must, or are best placed to perform the work in question.
re-appointment by shareholders: the annual election and A formal policy is in place in relation to the provision of nonre-election of any Director by shareholders and changes to audit services by the Auditor to ensure that there is adequate senior management, including Executive Directors.
protection of its independence and objectivity.
All Directors will retire at the 2013 AGM and offer themselves Fees charged by Deloitte in respect of non-audit services for re-appointment.
The Committee further agreed that it was require the prior approval of the Audit Committee, except appropriate that Directors exceeding their six-year term of where the fee does not exceed more than 5% of the total office should be invited to serve for a longer period.
audit fees paid to the Auditor in that financial year.
The Audit Committee has agreed that the Company could commit to fees An area of activity, which the Committee noted at its March 2013 in relation to tax advisory and tax compliance work from the meeting, related to Board diversity and the importance of this Auditor, in aggregate, of up to 20% of the total audit fee each being considered as part of succession planning.
Gender is one year, with up to 50,000 for any one project, without the need element of consideration when appointing senior management, to seek approval for individual projects.
A breakdown of the and Board appointees, and as part of general recruitment fees paid to Deloitte during the year is set out in note 6 to the practices across the Group.
The Nominations Committee gives Consolidated Financial Statements.
full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work and last reviewed management succession in September 2012.
It is the Companys practice that it will seek quotes from several It takes into account the challenges and opportunities facing firms, including the Auditor, before work on non-audit projects the Company: diversity, including gender: and what skills and is awarded.
Contracts are awarded to our suppliers based expertise are needed on the Board and from senior on individual merits.
The Committee and the Companys management in the future.
management are aware that the level of fees paid to Deloitte LLP for non-audit services compared to audit services is, and Relations with shareholders has been, significantly higher over the last few years.
The The Company recognises the importance of communicating increase is due to work undertaken regarding specialist tax with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and advice on certain transactions.
The Committee does not believe performance is understood and that it remains accountable to that asking Deloitte to undertake this work is of concern for the shareholders.
The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring Company as it is satisfied with the quality of work and advice that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place, provided and importantly it believes the independence of the whilst the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Auditor is not at risk.
Additionally, where non-audit work is Officer ensure that the views of shareholders are communicated undertaken management will have negotiated competitive to the Board as a whole.
The Board ensures that the Companys rates for each piece of work.
strategic plans have been carefully reviewed in terms of their ability to deliver long-term shareholder value.
This audited We receive advice from other firms for specific projects where 2012 Annual Report will be made available to shareholders we have established a new entity and operation, and other and all results are posted on the Companys website, as are long-term projects where we have worked with KPMG and Ernst presentations made in respect of the full-year results.
& Young on specific tax issues.
We also use different firms to support us on VAT and ad hoc PAYE issues.
The Company has undertaken regular investor roadshows in the UK and overseas and presentations were also made after Remuneration Committee publication of the Preliminary Results in March 2013.
Investor The Remuneration Committee comprises solely independent, and analyst conference calls took place after the announcement Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee, on of each set of quarterly financial results.
The Company also behalf of the Board, meets as and when necessary to review held an investor day focused on the Global Xpress Inmarsat-5 and approve, as appropriate, the remuneration of the Executive satellite programme, where a full update on the different Directors and senior management and major remuneration elements of the programme was provided by the GX plans for the Group.
Full details of areas that the Committee management team.
There is an ongoing programme of focuses on are set out in the Remuneration Report on dialogue and meetings between the Executive Directors and pages 48 and 49. institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
At these meetings, a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, Nominations Committee performance, management and governance are discussed The Nominations Committee comprises a majority of within the constraints of information which has already been independent, Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is aware that institutional shareholders Committee meets as and when necessary and is represented may be in more regular contact with the Company than other by Andrew Sukawaty, its Chairman, Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd, shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure that any priceStephen Davidson and John Rennocks.
During the year the sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional Committee met twice with full membership attendance at each and private, at the same time in accordance with the Financial meeting.
The Committee has responsibility for nominating Services Authority requirements.
candidates for appointment as Directors to the Board, bearing in mind the need for diversity including gender consideration, and a broad representation of skills across the Board.
Inmarsat plc 45 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 Statement on Corporate Governance continued The Senior Independent Director, John Rennocks, is available The Board and the Audit Committee have carried out a review to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be raised of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the through the normal channels or such concerns have not been year ended 31 December 2012 and for the period up to the date resolved.
Arrangements can be made to meet with him through of approval of the consolidated financial statements contained the Company Secretary.
The review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk In the second half of 2012, the Remuneration Chairman, the management systems.
The Board confirms that the actions it Deputy Chairman and the Company Secretary visited many considers necessary have been or are being taken to remedy of the Companys significant and influential shareholders, and any significant failings or weaknesses identified from its review several proxy agencies, to discuss with them the issues arising of the system of internal control.
This has involved considering from the voting at the 2012 AGM regarding the Directors the matters reported to it and developing plans and Remuneration Report.
These meetings were helpful and programmes that it considers are reasonable in the have contributed to the planning of our future remuneration circumstances.
The Board also confirms that it has not been structure.
Further information is provided in the Remuneration advised of material weaknesses in the part of the internal Report on pages 48, 49 and 51. control system that relates to financial reporting.
The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls, JPMorgan Cazenove and Credit Suisse, on the views of which have been in place throughout the year under review institutional investors on a non-attributed and attributed basis.
and up to the date of this report, include: Any concerns of major shareholders would be communicated to the Board by the Executive Directors.
As a matter of routine, Risk management: an overarching risk management policy is the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share in place which sets out the tolerance for risk within the Group price, trading activity and details of movements in institutional and how this is measured across identified macro and business investor shareholdings.
The Board is also provided with current risks.
As required by the policy, management operates a risk analyst opinions and forecasts.
management process to identify, evaluate and report significant risks within the business and to report to the Board on how Annual General Meeting those risks are being managed.
Risks are highlighted through Shareholders are welcome at the Companys AGM where they a number of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, will have an opportunity to meet the Board.
The notice of the monitored by Risk Committees across the Group, which identify AGM is sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the risk area, the probability of the risk occurring, the impact if the meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the it does occur and the actions being taken to manage the risk to Remuneration Committee, together with as many Directors as the desired level.
All the risk registers are available for review by possible, will attend the 2013 AGM and be available to answer senior management and provided quarterly to the Board and to shareholders questions.
Voting may be by a form of proxy, by the Audit Committee.
poll, by a show of hands or a combination of all three.
Facilities are provided for shareholders to vote electronically either Management structure: there is a clearly defined organisational through Electronic Proxy Voting or through CREST.
The voting structure throughout the Group with established lines of results will be notified to the UK Listing Authority through a reporting and delegation of authority based on job Regulatory Information Service immediately after the meeting responsibilities and experience.
Within the businesses, senior and will be published on our website.
management meetings occur regularly to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
A process of selfInternal controls certification is used where Directors and senior managers are The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing required to detail and certify controls in operation to mitigate and maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and risk in key process areas.
They also confirm annually, in writing, it receives regular reports from management identifying, that risk management processes are in place and are evaluating and managing the risks within the business.
system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Financial reporting: monthly management accounts provide can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against relevant, reliable, up-to-date financial and non-financial material mis-statement or loss.
Management continues to focus information to management and the Board.
Annual plans, on how internal control and risk management can be further forecasts, performance targets and long range financial plans embedded into the operations of the business and to deal with allow management to monitor the key business and financial areas of improvement which come to managements and the activities and the progress towards achieving the financial Boards attention.
The annual budget is approved by the Board.
The Group reports half-yearly based on a standardised reporting The Company has an established Disclosure Committee with process.
In addition, in line with the Transparency Directive, responsibility for reviewing and approving controls and the Company publishes interim management statements on procedures over the public disclosure of financial and related a quarterly basis.
information and other procedures necessary to enable the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Information systems: information systems are developed to Officer to provide their certifications in relation to publicly support the Groups long-term objectives and are managed disclosed information.
Appropriate policies and procedures are in place covering all significant areas of thebusiness.
46 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements Contractual commitments: there are clearly defined policies considered the Board-approved budget, the 15-month rolling and procedures for entering into contractual commitments.
forecast, the cash flow forecast and the most recent five-year These include detailed requirements that must be completed long range financial plan.
In addition, the Directors considered prior to submitting proposals and or tenders for work, both in the maturity profile of existing debt facilities, other liabilities as respect of the commercial, control and risk management well as actual and forecast covenant calculations.
Furthermore, aspects of the obligations being entered into.
the forecasts and covenant calculations were stress tested by applying a set of downside scenarios.
After making enquiries, Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee receives regular the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has reports from the internal and external auditors and assures itself adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the that the internal control environment of the Group is operating foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Inmarsat continues to adopt effectively.
There are formal policies and procedures in place to the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated ensure the integrity and accuracy of the accounting records and financialstatements.
to safeguard the Groups assets.
Significant capital projects and acquisitions and disposals require Board approval.
There are Overall summary statement on corporate governance formal procedures by which staff can, in confidence, raise The Company is committed to the highest standards of concerns about possible improprieties in financial, pensions corporate governance, taking into account the UK Corporate administration and other matters often referred to as Governance Code.
Throughout the year ended 31 December whistleblowing procedures.
Arrangements are in place for 2012, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate set out in Section 1 of the Code save as noted below.
follow-up action with the results being reported to the AuditCommittee.
The Executive Chairman, Andrew Sukawaty, did not meet the independence criteria on appointment.
He was appointed Going concern Chairman in December 2003 and assumed the additional role The Directors acknowledge the latest guidance on going of Chief Executive Officer at the Boards request in March 2004. concern.
Despite the current volatility in financial markets and On 1 January 2012, the roles were split and Mr Sukawaty uncertain economic outlook, the Directors believe that the continued as Executive Chairman.
The Board believes that Mr Group has a resilient business model, strong free cash flow Sukawatys wide experience means that he remains extremely generation and is compliant with all its financial covenants.
well qualified to lead the Company as its Executive Chairman In making their assessment of going concern, the Directors and ensure that the Board continues to function effectively.
Risk management process INMARSAT PLC BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE BUSINESS OPERATIONS Defines the risk governance Reviews the risk management Review the risk management framework, risk culture and principles framework and the effectiveness of framework and the effectiveness of Sets overall risk strategy and policy internal controls, risk management internal controls, risk management Approves risk levels systems and major risk initiatives systems and major risk initiatives Is responsible for an effective system Reviews the internal audit across the Group of internal controls programme and reports Approves risk decisions that are beyond delegated authorities RISK COMMITTEES Review the risk profile against risk appetite and make recommendations to management in relation to risk profile, strategy and key controls Review the suitability of risk methodologies, metrics andpolicies Assess major risk-related projects BUSINESS OPERATIONS Implement mitigation strategies Inmarsat plc 47 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012
