Governance Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee takes responsibility for considering the structure, size and composition of the Board, advising on succession planning and making appropriate recommendations to ensure the Board retains the appropriate level of skills and experience.
specification setting out the particular skills, knowledge and experience Committee membership Appointed to Length of required for this particular position.
Accordingly, the Committee Meetings Committee tenure to nominated Patrick Cescau for the position and he was subsequently Member Role attended from 31 Dec 2012 appointed by the Board, with such appointment effective from 1 2 David Webster Chairman 4 4 retired 1 January 2013.
Dec 2012 n a Graham Allan Member 2 2 retired Succession planning Jun 2012 n a The Board plans for its own succession with the support of the Committee.
Independent consultants are engaged for all David Kappler Member 5 5 Jun 2004 8 yrs 7 mths Non-Executive Director appointment searches.
Jennifer Laing Member 5 5 Aug 2005 7 yrs 5 mths The Committee remains focussed, on behalf of the Board, on Board Jonathan Linen Member 3 5 Dec 2005 7 yrs 1 mth succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Luke Mayhew Member 5 5 Jul 2011 1 yr 6 mths By way of example, since 2008 eight Directors have joined the Board Dale Morrison Member 5 5 Jun 2011 1 yr 7 mths and seven have left.
During 2012 the Committee also considered a more detailed review of the talent pool within the business, looking Ying Yeh Member 5 5 Dec 2007 5 yrs 1 mth to future succession planning for Executive Directors.
Total meetings held 5 Diversity 1 Patrick Cescau was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 1 January 2013 following the retirement of David The Board is committed to supporting women in reaching their Webster on 31 December 2012. full potential and we welcomed Lord Davies Report on Women 2 The Chairman does not chair when the Committee is considering matters relating on Boards and fully support its recommendations.
In these circumstances David Kappler, Senior Independent announced our aspiration to continue to retain a minimum of 25% Director, usually acts as Chairman of the Committee.
female representation on the Board.
Governance Whilst all appointments are made on merit, we seek to ensure the The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys Board maintains an appropriate balance through a diverse mix website www.
com investors under corporate governance of skills, experience, knowledge and background.
Currently, the committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
Board includes three women 27% and four nationalities.
The Committee was in place throughout 2012.
All Committee members excluding the Chairman are independent as required Key issues discussed in 2012 meetings under its terms of reference.
During 2012, the Committee considered, amongst others, the following matters: Responsibilities search for a new Board Chairman using external consultants: The Committees key responsibilities are set out below: candidates for a new Audit Committee Chairman: to review the structure, size and composition of the Board and candidates for a Non-Executive Director: its Committees: annual review of the composition, skills, diversity, knowledge to evaluate the balance of skills, experience, independence, and experience of the Board: knowledge and diversity on the Board, taking into account the recommendations of Directors for re-election at the 2013 Groups strategic priorities: AGM: and to make recommendations on suitable candidates for approval by the Board: review of performance appraisals for members of the Executive Committee and Executive Committee succession planning.
to engage external consultants, as appropriate, to identify, review and recommend candidates for Board appointments Key priorities for the Committee in 2013 and ensure that appointments are made on merit against During 2013, the Committee will continue to search for a new Audit objective criteria, including the ability to commit time and with Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director and make due regard for the benefits of diversity, including gender: and recommendations to ensure the Board retains the appropriate level to advise the Board on succession planning for Executive and of skills, knowledge and experience whilst taking into account the Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Committee in light recommendations of the Davies Report.
of the need for progressive refreshing of the Board and the skills and experience needed in the future.
Patrick Cescau Chairman of the Nomination Committee 2012 Board appointments 18 February 2013 Following notification by David Webster of his intention to retire and step down as Chairman, external search agents were engaged.
The search for a new Chairman was undertaken against a detailed job 58 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
