GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Governance Corporate governance Chairmans overview Leadership Since becoming Chairman at the beginning of January, I have sought Board and Committee structure to understand and assess the effectiveness of governance at IHG.
The Board and Committee structure are pivotal in maintaining I have considered the following areas in particular: compliance with best practice.
IHG has a number of Board and management committees which provide a sound the Boards ability to i achieve its objectives and effectively governance framework.
monitor progress against our strategy and ii to deliver strong performance and create long-term shareholder value: The Board the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management: Board composition the composition of the Board, including the balance of skills and The Boards current composition of a Non-Executive Chairman, four experience, its size and effectiveness: and Executive and six Non-Executive Directors meets the requirement of the Code for at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be the Boards calendar of meetings, the meeting agendas and the independent Non-Executive Directors.
In the Boards view, all of the quality and level of information received by Directors and the current Non-Executive Directors are independent.
The Chairman Boards management of time.
was independent on appointment to the Board.
I have sought the views of shareholders, the Directors and senior management and I have also reviewed current and previous Current Directors biographical details, including their main external evaluations of the Boards performance and investor reports.
commitments, are set out on pages 46 and 47.
IHG is committed to conducting its business with high standards Non-Executive Executive Director split of corporate governance and believes that good governance, with robust practices and processes, is a fundamental part of being a Responsible Business.
Chairman 9% 1 We have seen a couple of Board changes during 2012, with the Non-Executive Directors 55% 6 retirement of David Webster as Non-Executive Chairman on Executive Directors 36% 4 31 December 2012 and the retirement of Graham Allan as a Non-Executive Director on 15 June 2012.
Dale Morrison was appointed to the Corporate Responsibility Committee, in addition to his membership of the Audit and Nomination Committees, in November 2012.
The progressive refreshing of the Board ensures that we have appropriate continuation and a multi-skilled and diverse Board.
Board balance of skills Our dual listed status requires that the Corporate Governance Report Collectively, the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, give details on our compliance against the UK Corporate Governance experience, independence, knowledge and diversity to enable it Code the Code and also the New York Stock Exchange NYSE rules, to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
US securities laws and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Board experience and skills Commission SEC.
As required by the SEC, a statement outlining the differences between the Companys corporate governance practices and those followed by US companies may be found on the Companys 11 directors website at www.
com investors under corporate governance 9 directors 9 directors NYSE differences.
I am pleased to report in this section of the Annual Report on our compliance against the principles and provisions of the Code, 5 directors available at www.
uk, and I can confirm that during 2012 we complied with all aspects of the Code.
2 directors Branded Marketing Patrick Cescau industry Consumer International Finance & Sales Chairman 18 February 2013 Board meetings Eight regular Board meetings are scheduled each year and additional meetings are held as necessary.
This includes a two-day strategy meeting held in one of the Groups key markets, in which the Board considers the Groups strategy and related issues.
This provides an opportunity for the business to have a wide-ranging dialogue with the Board and for the Board to meet many of our senior management and understand key geographical markets.
Executive Committee and Corporate governance 49 Governance: Corporate governance continued The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, plans the Board nationalities agenda for each Board meeting.
Directors are briefed on the Groups financial performance and its operations, including commercial and operational matters, relations with investors and updates on key French 9% 1 strategic plans, by means of comprehensive papers in advance of, Chinese 9% 1 and by presentations at, Board meetings.
The Board also receives American 27% 3 more in-depth presentations on a wide range of business issues in British 55% 6 a more informal context the evening before formal Board meetings.
Evening presentation topics during 2012 included updates from the Global Operations Council, an economist presentation and developments in our communications strategy.
Should any Director be unable to attend a meeting, he or she would be provided with all the papers and information relevant to that Independent advice meeting and be able to discuss matters arising with the Chairman All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company and the Chief Executive.
Secretary, the Companys external legal advisers and the external Below is a chart illustrating the approximate time the Board has spent auditors, who are currently Ernst & Young LLP.
There is an agreed discussing key topics at scheduled Board meetings during the year: process by which Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Board allocation of time Conflicts of interest The Board reviews potential conflicts of interest as a standing agenda item at each Board meeting.
At the December 2012 Board Strategy 35% meeting, each of the Directors were requested to disclose any Operations 30% conflicts or potential conflicts by returning a questionnaire to the Finance and Risk 22% Company Secretary.
The Board considered all the responses to the Governance 13% questionnaires and approved potential conflicts of interest as it deemed appropriate.
Directors have continuing obligations to update the Board on any changes to these conflicts.
Under the Articles of Association the Board is authorised to approve Director conflicts of interest.
Board annual strategy meeting Directors and officers liability D&O insurance During 2012, the Board held a two-day strategy meeting in Delhi, The Company maintains D&O insurance which covers Directors and India which enabled the Board to gain a greater understanding of officers of the Company against defending civil proceedings brought growth potential in India.
The discussion topics included major trends against them in their capacity as a Director or officer of the Company.
in the industry, key responses and actions planned by IHG, new There were no indemnity provisions relating to the UK pension plan business development opportunities, execution of IHGs strategy and for the benefit of the Directors during 2012. current progress, and an overview of the medium to long-term financial impacts of our strategic choices.
Effectiveness The Board believes that in order to be most effective there must be Diversity a mix of skills and experience, background and length of service on With a presence in nearly 100 countries and territories globally, the Board.
The current Non-Executive Directors lengths of tenure as we believe that our leadership should reflect the diversity of our at 1 January 2013 are illustrated below: employees, our guests and the local communities in which we operate.
The Board recognises the benefits of diversity throughout Length of Non-Executive Director tenure our global business and firmly believes in the importance of a diverse 3 directors 3 directors Board membership.
We continue to focus on providing an inclusive environment, in which employees are valued for who they are and what they bring to the Group, and in which talented individuals are retained through all levels of the organisation.
Further details on our approach to diversity are set out on pages 33 and 58.
1 director The current Board gender and nationality split is illustrated below: Board gender split 0-3 years 4-6 years 7-9 years The structure, size and composition of the Board and succession planning is continuously monitored by the Chairman and the Male 73% 8 Nomination Committee.
Further details can be found on page 58.
Female 27% 3 50 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Key responsibilities The Board Chairman Chief Executive Strategic direction, development, Leadership of the Board and in doing Recommending to the Board, and performance and control of the Group, so ensuring the efficient and effective implementing, the Groups strategic approval of strategic plans and capital operation of the Board and its objectives: and revenue budgets: Committees: managing business operations: and reviewing significant investment overseeing corporate governance managing the executive management of proposals: matters and ensuring they are the Group and ensuring that the Board addressed: maintaining an overview and control of understands Executive Directors views the Groups operating and financial representing the Group externally, on business issues.
performance: in particular with shareholders: and The Chief Executive is assisted in meeting monitoring the Groups overall system in conjunction with the Chief Executive his responsibilities by the Chief Financial of internal controls and risk and Company Secretary, ensuring that Officer and the Executive Committee who management, governance and Directors receive a full, formal and head up the Groups principal operations compliance, considering regulatory tailored induction to the Group and its and functions.
changes and developments: and business and that all Directors are fully informed of relevant matters.
ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it which are available on the website at www.
com investors under corporate governance.
Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Company Secretary The Non-Executive Directors represent Being available to liaise with Ensuring a good flow of information to a strong source of advice and judgement.
shareholders who have concerns that the Board and its Committees and Part of their role is to constructively they feel have not been addressed between the Executive Committee and challenge and help develop proposals on through the normal channels: the Non-Executive Directors: strategy.
Each Director has significant facilitating all Director inductions: and being a sounding board for the external commercial experience and Chairman: and advising the Board on corporate together they have a broad range of skills leading the performance evaluation governance and keeping the Board and experience.
up-to-date on all legal, regulatory and other developments.
Biographical details of the members of the Board, including the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director, and Company Secretary can be found on pages 46 to 48.
Board committees The Board has established four permanent Committees to assist in the discharging of its responsibilities.
These are as follows: Audit Committee: Corporate Responsibility Committee: Nomination Committee: and Remuneration Committee.
Reports for each Committee setting out the membership, responsibilities, key issues discussed during the year and key priorities for 2013 are set out on pages 56 to 78.
Each Committee has written terms of reference which are approved by the Board and subject to review every year.
At the review in December 2012 some minor amendments were made to update the Audit and Remuneration Committees terms of reference.
Copies of the terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
com investors under corporate governance committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
Corporate governance 51 Governance: Corporate governance continued Set out below is a table showing the current membership of each Committee: Corporate Audit Responsibility Nomination Remuneration Directors Designation Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Patrick Cescau Non-Executive Chairman X Richard Solomons Chief Executive X Kirk Kinsell President, The Americas Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Group Operations Support Tom Singer Chief Financial Officer 2 1 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director X X X David Kappler 2 1 Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director X X X 2 Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director X X 2 1 Luke Mayhew Non-Executive Director X X X 2 Dale Morrison Non-Executive Director X X X 2 Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director X X X 1 Committee Chairman.
2 In the Boards view all Non-Executive Directors are independent.
Management committees Details of our management committees are set out below: Executive Committee Its role is to consider and manage a range of important strategic and business issues facing the Group.
Amongst many other things it is responsible for monitoring the performance of the business.
It is authorised to approve capital and revenue investment within levels agreed by the Board.
Governance: The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and usually meets monthly.
As set out on page 48, members of the Committee comprise the Executive Directors and the most senior executives from the Group.
The Committee recommends to the Board significant decisions which require its approval.
Disclosure Committee Its duties include ensuring that information required to be disclosed in reports pursuant to UK and US accounting, statutory or listing requirements, fairly represents the Groups position in all material respects.
Governance: The Committee is chaired by the Groups Financial Controller.
Members of the Committee comprise the Company Secretary and other senior executives.
The Committee reports to the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit Committee.
General Purposes Committee The Committee attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate committee.
Governance: The Committee comprises any one Executive Committee member together with a senior officer from an agreed and restricted list of senior executives.
It is always chaired by an Executive Committee member and the other Executive Directors are notified in advance of the business of the meeting.
52 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION A summary of each Directors attendance at the Board and its principal Committee meetings during 2012 is shown below: Committees Corporate Designation Board Audit Responsibility Nomination Remuneration Directors Richard Solomons Chief Executive 8 8 n a 3 3 n a n a Kirk Kinsell President, The Americas 8 8 n a n a n a n a Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, Human Resources 3 and Group Operations Support 6 8 n a n a n a n a Tom Singer Chief Financial Officer 8 8 n a n a n a n a David Kappler Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 8 8 5 5 n a 5 5 6 6 Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director 8 8 5 5 3 3 5 5 n a 3 3 Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director 6 8 n a n a 3 5 6 6 Luke Mayhew Non-Executive Director 8 8 n a 3 3 5 5 6 6 Dale Morrison Non-Executive Director 8 8 5 5 1 1 5 5 n a Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director 8 8 n a 3 3 5 5 6 6 Former Directors 1 3 David Webster Non-Executive Chairman 7 8 n a n a 4 4 n a 2 Graham Allan Non-Executive Director 3 3 2 2 1 1 2 2 n a Total meetings held 8 5 3 5 6 1 Patrick Cescau was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman on 1 January 2013 following the retirement of David Webster on 31 December 2012.
2 Graham Allan resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 15 June 2012.
3 Tracy Robbins missed two Board meetings due to health reasons.
Jonathan Linen missed two Board meetings and two Nomination Committee meetings: one due to illness and the other due to a prior commitment known to the Board in advance.
David Webster missed one Board meeting due to a prior work commitment, known to the Board in advance.
Annual re-election of Directors meetings with institutional investor groups and key institutional The Directors have agreed to retire at each Annual General Meeting investors to gain an understanding of their views: and AGM and offer themselves for re-election annually in line with the visits to our global corporate offices and hotels to provide Code recommendations.
Biographical information about the a greater insight into the business.
Directors can be found on pages 46 and 47 and shareholders will All induction programmes accord with best practice guidelines and receive further information on Directors seeking election and are tailored to each Directors individual requirements.
re-election as part of the Notice of AGM 2013.
Details of Directors On appointment Non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely service contracts and appointment terms are set out on page 74. time commitment for the role.
Annually, as part of the Board Director induction, training and development performance evaluation, the Chairman reviews the time each Director induction Non-Executive Director has dedicated to the Company during There is a tailored induction programme for all Director the year.
appointments which is designed to meet their individual needs Director training and development and to introduce them to, and familiarise them with, the principal The updating of all Directors skills and knowledge, ongoing training activities of the Group as well as with central and regional and development and understanding of the Groups business and management.
Throughout their appointment with the Company, operations is a progressive exercise.
This is accomplished at Board Directors are encouraged to request further information as and Committee meetings through business presentations and by they consider necessary to fulfil their role.
visits to hotels and other premises in the regions.
Key aspects of the induction are as follows: Board legal and regulatory briefings familiarisation with the Group, this includes areas such as During 2012, the Directors received briefings on a number of legal the Board structure and its Committees, Group structure and regulatory developments, including the Financial Reporting and strategy, the principal activities of the Group and its Councils updates on changes to the Code and guidance to Audit approach to risk and risk management: Committees and draft regulations on the reform of executive meetings with both senior executives and regional and remuneration.
The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees training central management from various functions across the and development needs with each Director.
In addition, the Company Group, including Business Reputation and Responsibility, Secretary regularly makes the Board aware of training opportunities Human Resources, Corporate Affairs, Global Strategy and and additional information to enable them to keep up-to-date and Corporate Development, Global Internal Audit and Financial enhance their knowledge of the business.
Planning and Analysis: Corporate governance 53 Governance: Corporate governance continued Board performance evaluation Board advisors, Board papers and effectiveness IHG has always recognised the importance of evaluating the of the Committees: performance of the Board, its main Committees and its Directors.
Board expertise and how the Board spends its time: Accordingly, an independent external facilitator assists in the the Boards strategic and operational oversight: performance evaluation.
input into risk management and internal controls: and 2012 Board performance evaluation process investor and stakeholder relationships.
The 2012 evaluation of the Board and its Committees was conducted 2012 Board performance evaluation results with external assistance in accordance with the guidance in the Code.
The The results of the questionnaires were collated and presented to the Board performance evaluation was conducted with Lintstock Limited, Board for discussion at its meeting in February 2013.
The feedback an independent facilitator, who has no other connection with IHG.
confirmed that the Board and each of its Committees continue to The Board performance evaluation questionnaires covered a variety operate effectively and that each Director continues to make an of topics including: effective contribution and retains a strong commitment to the role.
Board composition, succession planning and dynamics: 2012 and 2011 Board performance evaluation outcomes and action plan 2012 2011 Observations Action taken to be taken Observations Actions taken Deepen the Boards focus on Retain focus on strategy with Improve meeting processes to Board agendas are regularly the Groups strategy.
particular attention on the enable more time for wider reviewed to ensure sufficient external environment.
Ensure the smooth integration A tailored induction has Allot adequate time on agendas Board agendas are assessed of the new Chairman.
been completed with to review the effectiveness of to ensure adequate time is ongoing support.
Continue to improve the Senior management to review Continue to encourage Facilitation of discussions meeting process including the optimum level of detail in discussion on key strategic on key strategic issues has senior management presentations and papers.
presentations and papers to the Board.
Consider growth opportunities Continue to review growth Build upon and improve Provision of additional for the Group.
oversight of the main risks materials as necessary to the affecting the Group.
Board and increased discussion at Board meetings.
Individual Director performance evaluations Day-to-day management of business risks is the responsibility of The performance evaluations of members of the Board are carried the Executive Committee.
These are managed through established out by the following individuals: processes which monitor: strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series of Director being appraised Appraisee Group and regional strategic reviews: Chairman All Directors complete the externally financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning produced questionnaire.
The results are and accounting framework: then reviewed by the Senior Independent capital investment performance, with detailed appraisal and Director and Non-Executive Directors authorisation processes: and excluding the Chairman.
risk management processes relying upon a dynamic risk Chief Executive Chairman and all Non-Executive assessment and assurance mapping process through reports Directors meet to discuss performance.
from the Head of Global Risk Management, the Head of Global Internal Audit, and, as appropriate, from management providing Executive Directors Chief Executive.
assurance that the significant risks faced by the Group are being Non-Executive Chairman.
identified, assessed, prioritised, evaluated and appropriately Directors managed and mitigated, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
Accountability In addition, the Audit Committee reviews: Internal controls and risk management regular reports from management, Global Risk Management, The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that business Global Internal Audit and the external auditors on the risks are effectively managed.
The Board has considered and effectiveness of systems for internal controls, financial reporting approved the risk management policy and has delegated regular and risk management: review of the risk management procedures to the Audit Committee.
the timeliness and effectiveness of corrective action taken by The review was carried out through a monitoring process, which management: and accords with the Code and the Turnbull Guidance.
material financial and non-financial risks.
54 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION For further details on the Groups risk management system and 2013 Engagement risk factors see pages 38 to 44.
Shareholder relations The Board takes its responsibility to represent and promote the Board annual review of internal controls and risk management interests of its shareholders seriously and believes it is very The Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system important to fully engage with its shareholders.
Details of of internal controls and risk management during the year ended shareholder profiles as at 31 December 2012 can be found 31 December 2012.
This covered all material controls, including on page 137. financial, operational and compliance controls, the principal risks affecting the Group, the risk management systems, and also took Shareholder engagement into account any material developments since the year end.
The Board has engaged with shareholders in a number of ways during 2012, which included: Whilst areas for continuous improvement have been identified and actions initiated as a result of the Groups processes, no significant half-year and full-year formal reporting: shortcomings have been identified from the 2012 risk assessments.
presentations by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer to institutional investors, analysts and the media following results Internal controls and managing risk announcements: The system of internal controls and risk management aims to a programme of meetings throughout the year with major support the delivery of our strategy by managing the risk of failing to institutional shareholders: achieve business objectives.
As such it must be recognised that it can telephone conferences after the release of first and third quarter only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance.
results: and The Group continues to insure against risks but certain risks remain meeting the shareholders face-to-face and responding to difficult to insure both as to breadth and cost of coverage.
In some questions at the Annual General Meeting.
cases external insurance is not available at all or not at an economic price.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of To enable as many shareholders as possible to access conferences external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the availability of and presentations, telephone dial-in facilities are made available such cover, its price and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks in advance and live audio webcasts are made available after the involved.
Our approach to risk management, key risk mitigating presentation, together with associated data and documentation.
activities and the principal risk factors that could affect the Group These can be found at www.
com investors under are set out on pages 38 to 44. financial library.
Currently around 30 sell-side research analysts publish research on Risk register the Group: their details are available at www.
com investors In 2012, the Audit Committee was satisfied that the Group has an under analysts details.
effective risk management system and the Executive Committee, Audit Committee and the Board reviewed and agreed the major risks Meetings with major institutional shareholders affecting the Group.
A programme of meetings throughout the year is arranged with major institutional shareholders.
These meetings provide an Global internal audit plan opportunity to discuss, using publicly available information, the Annually the Audit Committee discusses the internal audit plan and progress of the business, its performance, plans and objectives.
approves its nature and scope for the forthcoming year.
This plan is reviewed on a quarterly basis to ensure coverage of emerging The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other risks.
The Audit Committee then instructs Global Internal Audit Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major to undertake an agreed schedule of audits during which the shareholders to understand their issues and concerns and to effectiveness of the Groups internal controls are assessed.
Global Internal Audit GIA Effectiveness Review Board shareholder updates During the year a GIA Effectiveness Review was carried out and Facilitated, structured meetings are encouraged with shareholders reported to the Audit Committee.
The review contained input from and any new Director is available for meetings with major auditees, external auditors and senior management and assessed shareholders as a matter of course.
GIA against the Institute of Internal Auditors IIA Standards.
The A formal external review of shareholder opinion is presented to the following conclusions were highlighted: Board on an annual basis and both the Executive Committee and the the GIA audit methodology standards are aligned to IIA Standards Board receive regular updates on shareholder relations.
and recognise best practice: Annual General Meeting AGM the dynamic risk assessment and assurance mapping processes Additionally, the AGM provides a useful forum for one-to-one enable GIA to effectively identify and monitor emerging risks: and communication with private shareholders, many of whom are also working in collaboration with other Group functions has guests in our hotels.
At the AGM, shareholders receive presentations increased effectiveness of audits and reduced duplication.
on the Companys performance and may ask questions of the Board, including the Chairman and Chairmen of the Committees.
The Audit Committee therefore concluded that during the year the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management, including Re-engaging with lost shareholders the internal audit activities, were operating effectively.
We continue to be supported by ProSearch to locate shareholders who have failed to keep their details up-to-date.
To date the Financial reporting controls programme has been very successful and many asset reunifications The key financial controls across all our business units have been have been made.
identified and evaluated, in particular, to comply with our US obligations, arising from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
This has Engagement on remuneration matters enabled appropriate representations regarding the effectiveness Details of the Remuneration Committees engagement with of internal financial controls to be made in the Companys Annual shareholders is set out on page 61.
Report on Form 20-F. Corporate governance 55
