Governance Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee takes responsibility for reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial reporting systems, the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems and the appointment and work of the internal and external auditors.
The Committee reviews the relationship the Group has with E&Y Committee membership Appointed to Length of annually and for the year ended 31 December 2012, the Committee Meetings Committee tenure to was satisfied with the independence, objectivity and effectiveness Member Role attended from 31 Dec 2012 of the relationship with E&Y as the external auditors.
David Kappler Chairman 5 5 Jun 2004 8 yrs 7 mths Graham Allan Member 2 2 retired Non-audit services Jun 2012 n a A key factor that may impair the external auditors independence is a lack of control over the volume of non-audit services.
To address this Jennifer Laing Member 5 5 Aug 2005 7 yrs 5 mths issue all proposals for non-audit work are subject to pre-approved Dale Morrison Member 5 5 Jun 2011 1 yr 7 mths limits and additionally there is a prohibition on the undertaking of Total meetings held 5 certain services.
The Committee is aware of, and sensitive to, investor body guidelines on non-audit fees.
For information on fees Governance paid to E&Y for non-audit work during 2012 see page 100.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
com investors under corporate governance Internal audit committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
The Head of GIA is responsible for reporting and ensuring findings of internal audit work are brought to the attention of local management The Committee was in place throughout 2012.
All Committee and the Committee as appropriate.
During 2012 GIA operated in all members are independent.
The Committee had the opportunity to meet with the internal and external auditors on at least four the Groups principal regions.
occasions in the year without the presence of management.
Key issues discussed in 2012 meetings The Board is satisfied that David Kappler has recent and relevant During 2012, the Committee considered, amongst others, the financial experience as a qualified accountant and former CFO of following matters: Cadbury Schweppes plc.
Details of the qualifications and experience of the other Committee members are set out on pages 46 and 47. review of the quarterly, interim and full-year financial results in advance of their consideration by the Board: At the invitation of the Committee, the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Global Internal Audit GIA and external auditors review of E&Ys quarterly, interim and full-year reports as Ernst & Young LLP E&Y, attend meetings.
well as all non-audit work carried out by E&Y to ensure audit independence and objectivity are safeguarded: Responsibilities the effectiveness of E&Y, in particular their objectivity, The Board delegates authority to the Committee under five areas: independence and reappointment in advance of their internal controls and risk management, financial reporting, internal consideration by the Board: audit, external audit and compliance, whistleblowing and fraud.
the scope of GIAs annual internal audit plan and the review The Committees key responsibilities are set out below: of GIAs effectiveness and compliance with professional to review the integrity of the Companys internal financial standards: controls, internal controls and risk management systems, developments in corporate governance and accounting as well as review reports from management, GIA and the standards in the UK and US and compliance with external auditors: Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: to review the Groups processes for detecting and addressing reports from the Head of Global Risk Management on the fraud, misconduct and control weaknesses and consider the activities of Global Risk Management: response to any such occurrence, including overseeing the review of the disclosure controls and procedures operated whistleblowing process: by the Group: to review and maintain the role and effectiveness of the review of reports on significant incidents of fraud and internal audit function: whistleblowing: and to oversee the Groups relations with our external auditors and the effectiveness of the Committee and the continuing make recommendations on their appointment, reappointment, appropriateness of its terms of reference.
removal and independence: to pre-approve the external auditors non-audit work and Key priorities for the Committee in 2013 associated fees: and During 2013 the Committee will continue its role in reviewing the to oversee the Groups Code of Ethics and Business Conduct integrity of the Companys internal financial controls, internal and associated procedures for monitoring adherence.
controls and risk management systems.
Independence of external auditors David Kappler E&Y have been the Groups independent external auditors since 2003.
Chairman of the Audit Committee To ensure the auditors independence is safeguarded, lead audit partners 18 February 2013 rotate every five years.
In 2011 the lead audit partner was rotated.
56 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
