48 Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe CorporAte GovernAnCe CorporAte GovernAnCe lorD BlACKWell CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder The Board has a critical role in providing both governance and leadership for Interserve.
We take those responsibilities very seriously.
Interserves success depends on following a clear and robust strategy to deliver continued growth and shareholder value.
The Board is confident in the strategy we have developed, and we are continually testing our current and proposed activities against this framework.
We aim to set stretching financial objectives while maintaining our prudent risk appetite.
In addition the Board has an important role in providing leadership on the values and ethics of the business, and in encouraging innovation and enterprise that provides better solutions for our customers.
To perform these roles effectively we believe we need a strong and diverse Board, with an open culture of debate and challenge.
All directors are appointed on merit, based on the experience and insights they can bring to the Board as well as their commitment to our values.
Our mix of executive and non-executive directors works well for our business, ensuring we have knowledge and accountability around the Board table as well as a range of external experiences.
Although there was not a majority of non-executive directors during the period under review, I continue to be satisfied through my own observations and our Board review that the strength and independence of our non-executives and our open style of debate ensures an effective governance check within the Board while maintaining the overall Board size at an optimum level.
The Board continues to seek to widen its diversity in all its forms.
In making new appointments to the Board an important criterion is assessing the additional range of insights and perspectives that new candidates can contribute to an effective, cohesive and challenging mix of individuals around the Board table.
I am delighted that in January we appointed Anne Fahy as a new non-executive director who brings a wide range of international experience in a major industrial company.
Anne will take over the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee from Les Cullen, who will succeed David Trapnell as Senior Independent Director upon his retirement.
We will continue to monitor our success in developing the diversity of the Board as part of the annual evaluation of Board effectiveness.
The forthcoming AGM will see the retirement of David Trapnell, our Senior Independent Director.
David has served on the Board for almost 10 years, providing great wisdom and support throughout.
On 30 April David Paterson will also retire from the Board.
He has been a huge source of strength in the management of our successful construction business over many years, but fortunately his legacy includes having developed a strong cadre of senior managers who we are confident can carry the business forward.
As last year, all other directors who wish to remain in office will seek re-election.
lord Blackwell Chairman overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe CorporAte GovernAnCe 49 approving the sale of the Groups PFI assets and, subject to CoMplIAnCe WIth the Code shareholder approval, the transfer of assets into the pension The Financial Services Authority the FSA requires the scheme: Company to disclose how it has applied the principles of the approving the acquisition of BEST, Advantage Healthcare and UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and whether TOCO: there has been compliance with its provisions throughout the financial year.
In the case of non-compliance, the Company setting the Groups annual budget and plan: must specify those provisions with which it has not complied approval of the annual and half-year report: and give reasons for this.
The Code may be found on the FRC website www.
Procedures have also been put declaration of the interim and recommendation of the final in place to address the new edition of the Code which was dividend: published in September 2012 and which applies to reporting ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012. controls and an effective risk management and assurance The directors consider that the Company has complied fully strategy: with the provisions of the Code applicable to it throughout the monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups Health and accounting period ended 31 December 2012 with the following Safety Policy: exception: Provision B.
1.2 of the Code requires at least half the control over major contract including joint ventures and board, excluding the Chairman, to comprise non-executive capital expenditure: and directors determined by the board to be independent.
approving the Groups sustainability plan.
The Board comprised six executive and four non-executive directors plus the Chairman during the period under board composition review.
The appointment of Anne Fahy as a non-executive The role of the Group Chairman and Chief Executive are split director on 1 January 2013 brings the number of nonand clearly defined in written terms of reference.
executive directors to five until the conclusion of the AGM, whereupon the composition of the Board will revert to four the role of the Chairman non-executive directors, the Chairman and five executive The Group Chairman is responsible for the leadership of directors.
The Board believes that the diversity of skills and the Board and creating the conditions for overall Board and experience which the executive directors bring to the Board individual director effectiveness, both inside and outside the particularly in relation to their own operating divisions is boardroom.
more valuable than maintaining parity between the number of executive and non-executive directors.
Furthermore, the The Group Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, Board considers its non-executive directors to be sufficiently sets the agenda for Board meetings and ensures that Board independent and of such calibre and number that their members receive timely information and are briefed on views may be expected to be of sufficient weight that no issues arising at Board meetings to assist them in making an individual or small group can dominate the Boards decisioneffective contribution.
the role of the Chief executive the boArd The Chief Executive bears primary responsibility for the operation of the board management of the Group and in leading the formulation of and, once set by the Board, implementing strategy.
The Chief The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its Executive chairs the Executive Board and Risk Committee, decision, whilst day-to-day operational decisions are managed leads the executive management team and investor by the Executive Board, as referred to on page 51. communications and is responsible for social and ethical In order to facilitate the efficient use of its time the Board has matters within the Group.
delegated certain of its powers to Board committees, details the role of the Company secretary of which are set out later in this report.
From time to time the Board also establishes certain other committees to deal with a The Company Secretary is responsible for distributing Board specific issue which the Board has approved.
papers and other information sufficiently far in advance of each meeting for the directors to be properly briefed, Key matters dealt with by the Board during the course of the presenting certain papers to the Board and its committees, year, in addition to ongoing monitoring of the operational and advising on Board procedures and ensuring the Board follows financial performance of the Group, were: them.
setting the health, safety and environmental targets for the The Board papers include information from management on Group: financial, business and corporate issues.
Matters requiring reviewing the Groups strategic direction, governance, ethics Board and committee approval are generally the subject of a and values: written proposal and circulated as part of the Board papers.
50 Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe CorporAte GovernAnCe non-executive director independence and appointments with and without the Chief Executive being present.
The non-executive directors also met once during the The Group Chairman and the non-executive directors are year, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent considered by the Board to be independent in character and Director, without either the Group Chairman or the judgement and free from any relationships or circumstances executive directors being present.
which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
board induction, time commitment and development The non-executive directors have complementary skills, On appointment, new directors take part in an induction experience and qualifications in a wide range of economic programme arranged by the Company Secretary, which sectors and so are able to bring independent judgement to includes training on the duties of a listed company director bear on matters for consideration.
by the Groups corporate lawyers, meetings with management and other corporate advisers, and operational site visits.
On 1 January 2013 Anne Fahy was appointed as a nonexecutive director.
At the conclusion of the AGM on An ongoing programme of site visits, staff meetings and 13 May 2013 David Trapnell will retire from the Board, business presentations provides additional opportunities for Les Cullen will succeed him as Senior Independent Director the Chairman and non-executive directors to visit various and Anne Fahy will replace Les Cullen as chair of the operations of the Group and to receive insight and feedback Audit Committee.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders During the year under review each of the non-executive should they have any concerns which contact through other directors attended at least two seminars and or other nonchannels has failed to resolve or for which such contact may executive forums relevant to their role.
He also provides a sounding board for Development below Board level has been through the Trusted the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Partner Programme, a Group-wide leadership development directors when necessary.
programme established to support the ambitious vision of the As at 31 December 2012 the Board comprised eleven business.
The programme includes topics associated with the members: the Group Chairman, six executive and four nonnew corporate vision, values and SustainAbilities plan.
achieve the vision, the programme aims to enhance leadership capability as well as strategic relationships across the different Meetings businesses within the Group.
The Board normally meets monthly throughout the year and performance evaluation on an ad hoc basis to consider any matters which are timecritical.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings is set During the course of the year the performance of the out in the table below.
directors was reviewed by the Group Chairman and the Chief Executive and, in the case of the Chief Executive, by the Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Group Chairman, having consulted with other directors.
The Number of Meetings 15 5 6 5 Group Chairmans performance was reviewed by the Senior Independent Director who held separate meetings with each Lord Blackwell 15 6 5 of the directors and the Company Secretary.
L G Cullen 15 5 6 5 The overall time commitment of the non-executive directors S L Dance 15 in the attendance of Board meetings visits was in the order of T P Haywood 15 15 days in addition to the time taken to read Board papers and attendance at four meetings held by the Group Chairman.
K L Ludeman 15 4 6 5 The Board evaluation was undertaken this year by the Senior D J Paterson 15 Independent Director by means of a structured interview with B A Melizan 15 each director, the Company Secretary, the Group Financial A M Ringrose 15 5 Controller, the Director of Communications and the external audit partner.
D I Sutherland 15 The results of the review were that the Board remains D A Thorpe 13 5 6 4 effective, having generated long-term shareholder value.
D A Trapnell 15 5 6 5 Corporate governance was considered to be strong, with a high degree of trust and honesty existing between Board The Board also holds a strategy day in January each year to members.
The non-executive directors were considered to review the strategic direction of the Group.
possess the relevant experience required by the Board and The Group Chairman held one formal session with the provide an appropriate level of constructive challenge.
non-executive directors without any executive directors The Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees also being present and a number of informal discussions both conducted a review of their terms of reference and their performance against them.
overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe CorporAte GovernAnCe 51 Information and support AudIt CoMMIttee Individual directors may, after consultation with the Group role Chairman, take independent legal advice in furtherance The principal roles of the Audit Committee are to: of their duties at the Companys expense up to a limit of 10,000 in relation to any one event.
In the case of the Group review the Groups consolidated report and accounts and Chairman he must consult with the Senior Independent the half-year report and any formal announcements relating Director.
All directors have access to the advice and services to the Groups financial performance based on the statutory of the Company Secretary, whose appointment or removal is audit or half-yearly review, as the case may be, and other a matter reserved for the approval of the Board or any duly enquiries: delegated committee thereof.
provide an independent overview of the Groups systems of election and re-election internal control, risk management and financial reporting processes through the co-ordination and supervision of Anne Fahy will submit herself for election by shareholders the scope, quality, independence and effectiveness of the at the AGM on 13 May 2013.
All remaining directors save for internal and external audit, and other enquiries: and David Paterson and David Trapnell will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
make recommendations to the Board.
Biographical details for each of the directors standing for The effectiveness of the Company and the Groups internal election or re-election are set out on pages 40 and 41. control and risk management systems is reviewed by the Board.
Indemnities Composition As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, qualifying third party indemnities have been in place The committee is composed entirely of independent nonthroughout the period under review and remain in force at the executive directors and is chaired by Les Cullen.
The directors date of this report in respect of liabilities suffered or incurred who have served on the committee during the year are: by each director.
The Company also undertakes to loan such Date of appointment funds to a director as it, in its reasonable discretion, considers Name to committee Qualifications appropriate for the director to meet expenditure incurred L G Cullen 14 November 2005 MBA BSc Hons FCCA FCT by him in defending any criminal or civil proceeding or in K L Ludeman 1 January 2011 BA Hons MSc DSc Hon connection with any application under section 661 3 or 1157 of the Companies Act 2006 on terms which require repayment D A Thorpe 1 January 2009 CPFA by the director of amounts so advanced upon conviction D A Trapnell 11 September 2003 BSc Hons of final judgment being given against him.
The deeds of indemnity are available for inspection by shareholders at the Anne Fahy was appointed to the committee on 1 January 2013.
The Company also maintains Appointments to the committee are made by the Board, on an appropriate level of directors and officers insurance the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and in in respect of legal actions against the directors.
Neither consultation with the committee chairman.
Les Cullen, the qualifying third party indemnities nor the insurance Anne Fahy and David Thorpe are all financially qualified.
provide cover where the director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the committee.
eXeCutIve boArd terms of reference The Executive Board, which, during the year, comprised the The committee has written terms of reference based on the executive directors and the Company Secretary, is chaired FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees and which set out clearly by the Chief Executive.
On 1 January 2013 Ian Renhard and its authority and duties.
These are available on the Companys George Franks joined the Executive Board.
The terms of reference are considered at least annually by the committee.
The Executive Board, which met 11 times during the course of the year, is responsible for the operational management Meetings and delivery against budget and forecast of the Group, implementing resolutions of the Board, formulation of The committee met five times during the year.
The strategy, annual budgets and other proposals for consideration external auditors were present at four of the meetings by the Board, the identification and evaluation for and the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from consideration by the Board of risks faced by the Group and  LLP PwC, the provider of the for designing, operating and monitoring a suitable system of internal audit function, were present at two of the meetings.
internal control embracing the policies adopted by the Board.
The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director It is also responsible for devising and implementing suitable and Group Financial Controller attended the meetings by policies and procedures for health and safety, environmental, invitation.
social and ethical, treasury, human resources and information technology.
52 Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe CorporAte GovernAnCe The committee has taken the opportunity to seek the views external audit of the external and internal auditors in private and both the The committee considers and makes recommendations to the external and internal auditors have the opportunity to address Board as regards audit matters.
The committee also seeks to the committee in private at any time should they so wish.
ensure co-ordination between the activities of the external overview of actions and internal auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the audit at the end of the audit cycle.
During the year the committee: external auditor objectivity and independence reviewed the 2011 annual report and financial statements and the 2012 half-year report.
As part of each review the The committee assessed the external auditors objectivity committee received a report from the external auditors on and independence and the effectiveness of the external their audit of the 2011 annual report and their review of the audit process at the end of the 2011 audit cycle and again 2012 half-year report respectively: at the year end and concluded that Deloitte LLP remains independent.
reviewed, prior to their consideration by the Board, the representation letters to be given to the external auditors The Company has a policy which prohibits the auditors in respect of the 2011 annual report and the 2012 half-year auditing their own work, making management decisions, report: entering into any arrangement in relation to audit work whereby a joint interest is created between the Company and reviewed audit effectiveness following the audit of the 2011 the auditors, acting in the role of advocate for the Company annual report: or being appointed as recruitment consultants without the reviewed and approved the external auditors terms of committees prior consent.
The policy also contains a set engagement for the 2012 half-yearly review and for the audit of authority limits governing the award by management of of the 2012 annual report: various categories of non-audit work to the auditors.
The committee concluded that the nature and extent of made a recommendation to the Board that the external non-audit fees, which related primarily to tax and VAT auditors should continue in office for the 2013 financial year: advice offered by Deloitte and the review of the half-year received a briefing from the Group Finance Director on the report and which amounted to 18 per cent and 7 per cent of principal judgements made by the Board in determining the the overall audit fees, respectively excluding accountancy half-year report and an update prior to the full year end: and transactional advice given with regard to the Class 1 transaction that resulted in the disposal by the Group of considered and agreed the scope and fees to be paid to the certain of its PFI assets which amounted to 5 per cent of the external auditors: overall audit fee, did not compromise auditor independence.
considered putting the external audit out to tender: this In the case of the work on the above-mentioned Class 1 matter will be kept under review, bearing in mind the transaction, the committee concluded that Deloittes duration of audit provision by the incumbent auditors and expertise and experience and knowledge of the Group made audit partner rotation: them best placed to efficiently deliver the service.
The received an update on the Groups monitoring of fraud risk committee was satisfied that the safeguards implemented assessment: by Deloitte, including the use of specialists independent of the audit, were sufficient to maintain auditor objectivity and monitored non-audit fees in comparison to the audit fees independence.
in accordance with the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services as detailed in External Auditor Further details of the audit and non-audit fees paid to the Objectivity and Independence below : auditors are included in note 4 to the financial statements on page 88. received regular reports on the progress of whistle-blowing matters: A change in audit partner is made every five years in accordance with latest guidance and best practice.
There are reviewed the Companys liability as a shareholder in its no contractual obligations that restrict the committees choice overseas associates and the effectiveness of the Groups of external auditors.
control over joint ventures and associated companies: and Internal audit conducted an evaluation exercise to review its own effectiveness.
The function of internal audit is to provide an independent and objective appraisal to the Board, through the Audit The committee chairman reported to the Board on the work Committee, of the adequacy and effectiveness of the carried out, including any improvement actions required, and processes established to control the business and to assist copies of the minutes of committee meetings were included the Board in meeting its objectives and discharging its within the Board papers.
overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe CorporAte GovernAnCe 53 The committee monitors and assesses the role and The committees terms of reference set out clearly its effectiveness of internal audit in the overall context of the authority and duties, and are available on the Companys Groups risk management system and review.
The internal audit programme of work is risk based, with Business conducted during the year included the selection all business activities and financial reporting processes and appointment of Anne Fahy as non-executive director, considered for internal audit review each year.
The work is recommendations to the Board for the re-election of carried out by PwC under an outsource contract, renewable retiring directors at the AGM, reviews of Board structure annually.
and composition and senior management succession and development up to and including those at Board level, The details of the internal audit programme are submitted and Board succession planning.
The effectiveness of the to the Audit Committee for approval, and may be modified committee and its terms of reference were also reviewed.
subject to agreement of the Audit Committee based on changing circumstances.
The Zygos Partnership, which has no connection with the Company, was engaged to assist in the appointment of The Internal Audit partner has direct access to the Chairman Anne Fahy.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment The committee received a summary of each internal audit and remuneration of the executive and non-executive review covering the findings, proposed corrective actions directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on and managements responsiveness to those findings and pages 56 to 68. recommendations.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all the nonReports produced during the year covered matters such as: executive directors and those of the Group Chairman are a review of certain business units in the Middle East: available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Each letter of appointment business continuity and information security across the specifies the anticipated level of time commitment.
Group: Non-executive directors and the Group Chairman are required back-to-basics reviews of certain of the Groups operations: to confirm, on appointment, that they have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them and to seek the committee a review of the commercial management of various chairmans agreement, or in the case of the Group Chairman, contracts: the Senior Independent Directors agreement, before a review of certain procure-to-pay cycles: accepting additional commitments that might impact upon the time they are able to devote to their role as a non-executive a review of a divisions central HR and payroll functions: director of the Company.
a review of a divisions IT controls: and The Groups Diversity Policy states that diversity in all its financial control health checks for certain of the Groups forms is fundamental to the Groups business.
The goal is to recruit, motivate, develop and retain The committee also agreed an internal audit work plan outstanding people that reflect the Groups diversity of skills, for 2013, designed to provide core assurance against areas cultural backgrounds and gender.
identified as high risk together with further assurance on some of the medium-risk areas identified for rotational testing.
The Board monitors the extent to which the Group is meeting this objective and is committed to taking action where overview necessary or helpful to promote equal opportunity.
After undertaking a review of its own performance the Good evidence of our achievements in this area was the committee concluded that it had been effective in discharging Investors in Diversity accreditation by the National Centre the obligations entrusted to it by the Board.
for Diversity given to our Construction business, the first The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the construction company to be so recognised.
AGM to answer questions about the work of the committee.
We have already increased the diversity of the Board and noMInAtIon CoMMIttee would expect the policy to lead to greater diversity on the Board and divisional boards over time.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman and the majority of the members are independent nonWe will monitor our success in developing the diversity of the executive directors.
External consultants are used for new Board as part of our annual evaluation of Board effectiveness.
The committee keeps the Board structure, size and composition, balance of skills and knowledge and experience both executive and non-executive under review and makes recommendations for any changes to the Board.
54 Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe CorporAte GovernAnCe reMunerAtIon CoMMIttee The business covered during the year included: reviews of the Groups prime risk areas and of contract risk allocation and The Remuneration Committee, composed entirely of control: business continuity planning and IT disaster recovery: independent non-executive directors, is chaired by information security risk assessment: regular reviews of the David Thorpe.
The names of the committee members are risks presented by forthcoming legislation: and updates on set out in the table on page 50.
The responsibilities of current insurance, internal audit, health and safety and IT the committee, together with an explanation of the work developments.
undertaken and how it applies the directors remuneration principles of the Code, are set out in more detail in the FInAnCIAl And busIness dIsClosures Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 68.
In order to present a balanced assessment of the other boArd CoMMIttees Companys position and prospects, the Annual Report contains a Directors Responsibility Statement on page 69, The Conflicts Committee comprises the Group Chairman or, in an Independent Auditors Report about their reporting the event that he is interested in the matter to be considered, responsibilities on page 70 and a going concern statement on the Senior Independent Director, and the Company Secretary.
An explanation of the Companys business model and strategy for delivering the Companys objectives is set out on The General Purposes Committee comprises any two pages 8 and 9. executive directors one of whom must be the Chief Executive or, in his absence, the Group Finance Director.
The Directors Report contained on pages 42 to 47, of which The Inside Information Committee comprises the Group this Corporate Governance report forms part, contains the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
information required by paragraph 13 2 c, d, f, h and i of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and The PFI Committee comprises any two or more directors.
Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Each committee has written terms of reference and reports on Control proCesses the business conducted to the following Board meeting.
The Board has a continuous process for identifying, evaluating Committee meetings held during the year are as follows: and managing the significant risks the Group faces together Committee Number of meetings with an ongoing process to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the businesses.
Conflicts 5 This has been in place for the period under review and until General Purposes 41 the date of approval of this Annual Report and Financial Inside Information 0 Statements.
The Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and Executive Board assist the Board in the application of these PFI 1 principles.
rIsK CoMMIttee The Board has documented a risk management policy setting out the prime risk areas including the threats, risk indicators, The Board has overall responsibility for internal control, control strategy and sources of assurance.
The policy is including risk management, the ongoing review of their included within the Groups internal controls manual.
Internal effectiveness and sets appropriate policies having regard to controls are normally reviewed by the Board in advance of the the objectives of the Group.
It formally reviews the Groups publication of the Groups half-year and annual reports.
register of risks and mitigation plans twice a year and discusses any significant developments in risk exposure as and The Board received and reviewed bi-annual reports from the when appropriate.
Executive Board on the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the period under review and implements As discussed on page 51, the Executive Board has a key role improvements from time to time in order to strengthen the in risk management.
In order to assist it with discharging control processes.
this responsibility the Executive Board constituted a Risk Committee.
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, the Groups system of internal control is The committee, which met four times during the year, designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to comprises the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, Health, Safety and Environmental Manager, Group Insurance but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement Manager, the Group Company Secretary who is its secretary, or loss.
The Groups governance framework distinguishes the Group General Counsel and a representative from each of between entities which are wholly controlled and joint the Groups operating divisions.
The internal audit partner has ventures and associate companies in which the Group does not a standing invitation to attend.
The committee has written have overall control.
For these joint ventures and associate terms of reference and provides copies of its meeting minutes companies, systems of internal control are applied as agreed to the Board.
between the Group and the other joint-venture parties or members of the associate company, as the case may be.
overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe CorporAte GovernAnCe 55 Financial reporting The Group has certain key areas which are subject to central management or control, which include health, safety and Based on submissions from the trading divisions, a budget environmental policies, legal, insurance, tax & treasury, is prepared by the Group for approval by the Board before real estate, internal and external communication, investor the start of each financial year.
Subsequently, forecasts of relations, information technology network services and prospective financial performance are prepared as at the operating systems and company secretarial.
These functions end of March, May and September of each year.
Budgets and report to members of the Executive Board.
forecasts include the financial results, financial position and cash flows for each division and the Group Centre.
One or more members of the Executive Board and, in many cases, either the Chief Executive or the Group Finance The Group has risk management systems and documented Director, attend divisional board meetings.
accounting policies and procedures to be applied by all entities in the Group in submitting their financial statements During the course of each year members of the Executive for consolidation to ensure that adequate accounting records Board or other senior operational and financial management are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately visit or review all trading companies to discuss and monitor and fairly to permit the preparation of consolidated financial the performance of those businesses.
statements in accordance with International Financial The Group has in place a whistle-blowing policy which sets Reporting Standards.
out a framework for dealing with any allegations of fraud, Each month, every entity within the Group submits financial misreporting and any whistle-blowing notification.
management accounts in local currency to the Group Finance A copy of the policy is available on the Companys website at team.
The consolidated management accounts include the www.
financial results, financial position, cash flows and projections our shAreholders and are submitted, along with analytical commentary, to the Executive Board and subsequently the Board for review.
The Company encourages two-way communication with both institutional and private investors.
The Chief Executive, The management accounts submitted by members of the accompanied by the Group Finance Director, attended Group for June and December are used to prepare the half- 55 meetings with analysts and institutional investors during yearly and annual financial statements.
The Group Finance the year ended 31 December 2012.
In addition, the Chief team reviews the disclosures in the financial statements to Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Group ensure that they comply with applicable reporting standards.
Chairman, attended a further two, 23 and three meetings The half-yearly and annual financial statements are reviewed each, respectively.
by the Executive Board, the Audit Committee and the Board before publication.
The Companys brokers produce periodic notes of the feedback from institutional investors which are reported to The financial reporting process is reviewed periodically by the Board.
All directors and the members of the Executive internal audit in accordance with the programme approved by Board also have the opportunity to attend analyst briefings.
the Audit Committee each year.
The Groups annual and half-yearly results, interim A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups management statements, trading updates, presentations given business is given on page 29 and 30 a description of how the to analysts and all announcements made through the RIS are Group manages those risks is set out on pages 22 and 23. published on the Companys website at www.
operational controls All shareholders are given at least 20 working days notice of The principal features of the Groups system of operational the AGM.
It is standard practice for all directors to attend the control are: AGM to which all shareholders are invited and at which they may put questions to the chairmen of the various committees An established management structure comprising the Board or the Board generally.
The proxy votes for and against each with its various committees and an Executive Board.
resolution, as well as abstentions which may be recorded on the proxy form accompanying the notice of AGM are Executive Board and Board review of the monthly finance counted before the AGM commences and are made available and divisional trading reports.
to shareholders at the close of the formal business of the Documented delegated authority limits which are kept meeting.
The proxy votes are also announced through the RIS under regular review.
Larger value proposals and business and posted on the Companys website shortly after the close acquisitions and disposals are controlled by the Board.
Manuals setting out Group policy and procedures, with which all Group companies must comply.
