38 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Governance Corporate governance Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31 December 2012.
In this report we endeavour to explain how the Board has managed its responsibilities by explaining the corporate governance structure and procedures of the Company together with the work of the Board and its Committees.
This report gives information on how we comply with the main corporate governance rules for companies that are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The main rules are contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as updated by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Last year this report explained how the diversity of the membership of boards had become an important issue which was incorporated into the Code in September 2012.
In making Sir David Reid Chairman any Board appointments, in addition to reviewing factors such as skill sets, breadth of experience and personality t, the Nomination Committee is careful to ensure that it is presented I am pleased to report that during with, and considers, a broad range of candidates.
I reported that steps were being taken to recruit an additional Non-Executive the year Intertek recruited two Director following the departure of Debra Rade from the Board.
new Non-Executive Directors, I am pleased to report that during the year Intertek recruited two new Non-Executive Directors, Louise Makin who is also Louise Makin and Lena Wilson.
a member of the Remuneration Committee, and Lena Wilson.
The recruitment process was led by me as Chairman of the Nomination Committee and we used a number of interviews to ensure we selected the right people to contribute to the Contents strategy of growth for our business.
Louise, with her extensive background in international 38 Chairmans introduction chemicals and healthcare industries, brings a complementary 39 Governance framework new perspective to the Board, recognising also the diversity 39 Composition of the Board of Interteks industry portfolio, and Lena contributes a wide 40 The role of the Board experience in international and regional investment and 40 The activity of the Board development strategies, which brings additional insight to 41 Board balance and independence the Board in our governance of the Groups ongoing growth 41 Directors conicts of interests and opportunities.
41 Board induction, training and business engagement 42 Performance evaluation The nature of our business and the geographical spread of our 42 Shareholder engagement operations mean that we employ a culturally and otherwise diverse group of people.
As Chairman it is important that I ensure 43 Audit and Risk Committee that the Board has the right combination of skills and experience 43 Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit and to provide the entrepreneurial leadership of the Company setting RiskCommittee its strategic aims to ensure the continued growth and success of 44 Membership and attendance the Group.
More information on diversity, including the gender 44 The role of the Audit and Risk Committee of employees within Intertek is provided on pages 30 to 31 of 45 The activity of the Audit and Risk Committee the Sustainability and CSR Report.
45 Internal control and risk management I have greatly enjoyed my first year as Chairman working with 46 Priorities for 2013 Intertek and the Board.
Going forward I am committed to 46 Going concern ensuring we continue the high standards of corporate governance 47 Principal risks and uncertainties in the Group.
50 Nomination Committee 50 Membership and attendance Sir David Reid 50 The role of the Nomination Committee Chairman 50 The activity of the Nomination Committee 50 Board Diversity Policy 51 Remuneration report Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Governance framework Composition of the Board The Board at Intertek is comprised of experienced individuals who come from business, industry, government sector, and accountancy backgrounds and bring their diverse experience to Corporate Governance Statement assist with the strategy, growth, and development of the Group.
Since the appointment of Louise Makin and Lena Wilson to the Board in July 2012, Intertek has complied with all The Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive the relevant provisions set out in the Code.
Directors, and six independent Non-Executive Directors.
Sir David Reid, upon his appointment as Chairman on 1 January 2012, met the independence criteria set out in the Code.
His responsibilities as Chairman include chairing and leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness, setting agendas, ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely, and clear information and that there is effective FRC Guidance communication with shareholders: facilitating the effective The Code and the associated guidance is available under the contribution to the Board of the Non-Executive Directors in heading Corporate Governance at the website of the FRC, particular: and ensuring constructive relationships between the www.
The Chairmans other main commitments are detailed in his biography on page 37.
Wolfhart Hauser, the Chief Executive officer, is in charge of the The Board is responsible and accountable to shareholders for Group for the day-to-day management and is accountable to ensuring that the Company is appropriately managed and that it the Board and the Company for the financial and operational achieves its objectives.
The Boards main role is to understand and performance of the Group.
The Chief Executive officer is meet its obligations to the Companys shareholders and others: supported in his task by the Intertek Operations Committee, to lead the Group within a framework of prudent and effective the members of which are outlined on pages 10 to 11.
There controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: to is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and approve the Groups strategic objectives: and to ensure that the Chief Executive officer which is set out in writing and agreed sufficient resources are available to enable it to meet those by the Board.
The Board also ensures that plans are in place for The Senior Independent Director is Michael Wareing.
His orderly succession for appointments to the Board and to senior responsibilities include leading the Non-Executive Directors management.
In addition, there is a structure of Committees to annual consideration of the Chairmans performance and holding manage the Corporate Governance within the Group.
The table discussions with the Non-Executive Directors, the Vice President below summarises the structure that is used to manage risk and Internal Audit and Assurance and the External Auditors without governance within the Group: management present.
He is readily available to shareholders if they have concerns that remain unresolved after contacting the Corporate Governance Group through the usual channels of the Chairman or the Executive Directors, or where such contact is inappropriate.
Intertek Group plc Shareholders Chairman, Executive and Non-Executive Directors Intertek Board of Directors 1 Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee 2 Risk Control & Intertek Investment Assurance Operations Committee Committee Committee 6 Divisional & Support Chairman Country Management Functions Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Risks Controls 40 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Governance Corporate governance continued All Directors who served during 2012 had a wide range of The Board controls the Companys business affairs by the use experience and skills, bringing independent judgement to of a Board Approval Matrix which formally outlines the matters bear on a wide range of issues including strategy, performance, specically requiring the consent of the full Board.
The Board resources, and standards of conduct.
The current Directors Approval Matrix also identies areas where the Board has biographies appear on pages 36 to 37.
All Directors will retire delegated authority to executive management, subject to certain and be proposed for election or re-election at the 2013 financial limits.
Where any of the activities involve amounts Annual General Meeting.
greater than those limits they are referred to the Board.
The Board Approval Matrix is kept under review and developed in order to Length of service of Chairman and Non-Executive Directors take into consideration the growth of the business.
The Board in years decides and reviews all key policies and regulations for the Company: its strategy, operating plans, acquisitions, corporate Louise Makin 0.5 governance, major investments and disposals, appointment and Lena Wilson 0.5 removal of Directors, risk management, financial reporting, audit, sustainability, ethics, the environment, people policies and Sir David Reid 1.0 pensions.
Alan Brown 1.5 The activity of the Board During the year, the Board formally met nine times.
There was Michael Wareing 1.5 also frequent ad-hoc contact between Directors to discuss the Edward Astle 3.0 Groups affairs and development of its business.
Directors attendance at Board meetings is shown in the table on page 41.
Christopher Knight 6.5 On several occasions during 2012 the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors have also had discussions Information about the Directors contracts of employment without the Chairman being present.
and letters of appointment is disclosed in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 57 and 58.
During the year the Board has considered and approved: The role of the Board t Group strategy: The Board is responsible for overseeing the Groups strategy t Annual business budget: and performance and it also discharges a number of legal t Full year results, Annual Report and half year results responsibilities.
It spends time reviewing the following key and related announcements: activities: t Acquisitions: t Governance, risk and internal controls: t Strategy: t significant capital expenditure and material contracts: t Growth and development: t Dividend policy: and t Oversight of performance: t Tax and treasury policies.
t Corporate governance: and t Increasing shareholder value.
The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly Business Performance Reports and information which enables them Further information about the role of the Intertek Board can to review the performance of the Group and management be found at www.
com investors board against the agreed strategy, budget objectives and prior period The Board also reviews and approves the method and performance.
As well as the above, during the year the Board approach to internal controls, financial performance and also receives regular updates on debt nancing, market reports, the Groups risk register.
share trading reports, analysts forecasts, litigation reports, final and interim dividend recommendations, road show and investor The Chairman and Group Company Secretary plan the annual feedback, interim management statements, announcements programme for Board Meetings and off-site visits during the year and a wide range of other issues.
Site visits are arranged for and they work together to draw up the agendas.
In the year all the Non-Executive Directors so that they can see first hand the Board meetings were held in the United Kingdom apart from the type of work that the business delivers in a range of areas.
one which was held in the United States and focused on the North American business.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Board attendance during 2012 The decision to authorise a conict of interest can only be made by non-conicted Directors, meaning those who have no interest Eligible in the matter being considered.
The authorised decisions are Name Position to attend Attendance reviewed on an annual basis or, where appropriate, authorisation Sir David Reid 99 is sought prior to the appointment of any new Directors, or Chairman if a new conict arises.
During 2012 this procedure operated Wolfhart Hauser 99 effectively.
The Company can confirm that any decisions relating Chief Executive Officer to conicts of interests are being taken in accordance with the Lloyd Pitchford 99 Articles of Association.
Chief Financial Officer Edward Astle 99 Board induction, training and business engagement Independent Non-Executive Director There is a formal induction programme for new Directors that is co-ordinated by the Group Company Secretary.
The aim of the Alan Brown 99 programme is to ensure that they gain a deeper understanding Independent Non-Executive Director and knowledge of the business.
During the programme they Christopher Knight 99 meet with the senior members of management and they receive Independent Non-Executive Director orientation from the relevant senior executives in relation to each Louise Makin appointed 1 July 2012 44 of the business divisions and other functions.
They receive Independent Non-Executive Director information about the business operations, the role of the Board Michael Wareing 99 and the list of items that are reserved for the Board.
The new Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Directors are also provided with copies of the terms of reference Lena Wilson appointed 1 July 2012 44 for Board Committees and details of membership of those Independent Non-Executive Director Committees.
During the year Sir David Reid, Louise Makin and Lena Wilson have completed their induction programmes Board balance and independence including one to one meetings with a number of senior executives The Board considers that all the Non-Executive Directors have in the business and visiting various sites and laboratories to see and continue to demonstrate the necessary characteristics of the operations.
independence expected by the Board and it has been determined that none of the Non-Executive Directors have any relationships During the year the Directors were kept up-to-date with or links to any business which would compromise or interfere information about Interteks business and there is an on-going with the exercise of their independent judgement.
It is important that the Directors have an appreciation of our business both in the UK and The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to overseas.
In addition, during the year the Board held one meeting ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors overseas and there were business visits arranged for the Chairman are fully discussed and critically examined, not only in the best and Non-Executive Directors to laboratories and testing sites.
long-term interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that they During 2012 there were presentations from senior management take proper account of the interests of customers, employees and to the Board and meetings have been held on regional strategy other stakeholders.
to increase the understanding of operations and opportunities.
The Non-Executive Directors are all experienced individuals and Directors are regularly updated as necessary on various statutory through their mix of skills and business experience they contribute obligations and corporate governance matters.
signicantly to the effective functioning of the Board and its All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no Company Secretary, who will assist in arranging any additional one individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
training and information as required.
The appointment and Directors conicts of interests removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act to avoid Board as a whole.
conicts of interests and to disclose any outside appointments.
All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional The Board has a formal system to deal with conicts of Directors advice, at the Groups expense, in the performance of their duties interests.
Each year all Directors complete a questionnaire in order as Directors.
No such advice was sought during the year.
The to identify any conicts or potential conicts of interests.
Company has granted an indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to each of the Directors and the Group Company Secretary.
Directors and ofcers liability insurance is in place.
42 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Governance Corporate governance continued Performance evaluation Shareholder engagement During the year, for the first time, there was an external The Chairman recognises the importance of maintaining effective evaluation of Board performance and the effectiveness of investor relations and he is responsible for making sure that all the Board Committees.
This was conducted by Consilium Directors are aware of shareholder concerns.
Michael Wareing as Board Review, an independent and experienced rm, under the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is also available to the direction of the Chairman.
This was completed by way of act as a conduit for any shareholders to raise matters concerning Consilium reviewing Board papers and minutes, observing the the Groups activities.
Board, a written questionnaire and interviews with Directors.
We have a core of major shareholders that represent a global The Board questionnaire focused on the performance of spread and while the majority of our shareholders are registered the Board throughout the past year in the areas of strategy, in the UK, the chart below demonstrates how our shareholders performance management, organisation development, risk are spread across the world, reecting the interest in our business management and boardroom dynamics.
The questionnaire for on a global basis.
the Committees focused on the performance of the respective There has been an extensive programme of engagement with Committees and how the performance could be enhanced.
Feedback from this activity, and any A report was prepared for the Board on its own and its significant comments from shareholders, are reported regularly Committees effectiveness and this was discussed fully at to the Board.
The Group produces an Annual Report which is a Board meeting.
available to shareholders and also publishes Interim Management The external evaluation confirmed that the Board continues to Statements and Half Year Results.
The Group website contains maintain an appropriate set of skills, that all the Directors add up-to-date information on its activities and published financial results.
Shareholders can subscribe via the investors section of value to the overall effectiveness and success of the Group, the website to receive email alerts of important announcements and that no significant issues have arisen out of the evaluation process.
The effectiveness of the Board has developed strongly made by the Group.
The Groups Annual Report, notices of in the last year with a boardroom climate that encourages open meetings and proxy forms can be provided electronically.
The Board and its However, shareholders are also able to request paper copies Committees meet the requirements and spirit of the Governance of documents if they so choose.
Minor developments of the Boards processes and increased The Companys Annual General Meeting AGM provides all focus on certain key themes will be adopted.
shareholders with the opportunity to develop their understanding The evaluations of the Board Committees concluded that each of the Companys strategy and operations, and to ask questions Committee was operating in an efficient and effective manner.
of the full Board on the matters put to the meeting, including the The Board will continue to develop the evaluation process in order Annual Report.
All Board members attend the AGM and in to ensure that it can properly review, on an annual basis, its particular, the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Nomination and performance, and that of its individual members and Committees.
Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
The Company proposes a resolution on each substantially The attendance of the Board and individual contribution of each separate issue and does not combine resolutions inappropriately.
Director was reviewed by the Chairman.
Each Director has At this years AGM we will once again be adopting a poll independently met with the Chairman and on this basis he has procedure in respect of all resolutions, as recommended by a reviewed their performance.
The Directors have all contributed number of shareholder groups.
At General Meetings a schedule well in the year and any training and development requirements of the proxy votes cast is made available to all shareholders, and have been discussed.
The Chairmans performance was reviewed is also available on the Groupwebsite.
by Michael Wareing, the Senior Independent Director, taking into account feedback from the Board and the external Board performance assessment.
Geographic spread of shareholders as at 31 December 2012 3% 5% 43% 16% UK North America Rest of Europe Other 33% Rest of World Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Audit and Risk I am pleased to have chaired and led the Audit and Risk Committee during the year.
The composition of the Committee is set out in the table on page 44.
The work of this Committee is an Committee important element of the corporate governance framework and brings value and protection to the Group and its shareholders.
The participants on the Committee are business leaders who have had careers in finance and industry and have the requisite skills and experience to form an effective Committee.
Until September 2009, I was the International Chief Executive officer of KPMG and the Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial Michael Wareing Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee experience as required by the Code.
We have a number of additional attendees at the meetings of the The work of this Committee is an Committee, who are not formal members.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer, the Group Vice important element of the Corporate President Financial Control and the Vice President Internal Audit Governance Framework.
and Assurance, are present at each meeting.
The partner from KPMG Audit Plc, our external auditor, also attends every meeting.
Other members of the senior management team attend as and when required.
In addition, we request attendance by industry experts periodically to bring fresh insight into best practice.
The members of the Committee meet at least once a year with the Vice President Internal Audit and Assurance, and separately with the external auditors without management being present.
This year an additional meeting was held, with no regular agenda items, to provide an opportunity for the Committee to focus on the bigger picture in relation to risk.
At this meeting, John Hurrell, the Chief Executive of Airmic, gave a thoughtprovoking presentation on A Study of Major Risk Events: Their Origins, Impacts and Implications.
A total of five meetings were held this year and after each meeting an update was given to the Board.
Michael Wareing Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 44 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Governance Corporate governance continued Membership and attendance of the Audit and Effectiveness of the external audit RiskCommittee KPMG Audit Plc have been the Companys auditors since the Throughout the year the composition of the Committee Company listed in 2002 and there has not been a formal tender was in compliance with the Code.
During 2012 the Committee since that time.
The Committee reviews the work of the external comprised Michael Wareing Chairman, Edward Astle, and auditors and assesses their performance each year, by considering Christopher Knight.
Committee members have both recent the input of key stakeholders and the finance community in and relevant financial and business experience as detailed in Intertek.
In the interests of independence and objectivity, the their biographies on page 37. engagement audit partner is rotated every five years unless there are exceptional circumstances in which case the Committee may Membership and attendance at meetings during the year was approve up to a further two years.
as follows: Non-audit services Eligible to Name attend Attendance One of the roles of the Committee is to ensure the continued Michael Wareing Chairman 5 5 independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors.
Edward Astle 5 5 There is a policy on the provision of non-audit work by the Christopher Knight 5 5 external auditors to make sure that auditors objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
The external auditors are The role of the Audit and Risk Committee during 2012 precluded from engaging in non-audit services that would External audit compromise their independence, would violate any laws or The role of the Committee is to recommend the appointment of regulations affecting their appointment as auditors or would lead the external auditors and to recommend to the Board if there is a reasonable and informed third party to regard the objectives of an action required to change auditor.
The Committee seeks to the proposed non-audit service as being inconsistent with the ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the objectives of the audit.
The Committee discussed any nonIn general, the external auditors may not provide a service which: audit fees paid to KPMG and the reasons why KPMG were appointed to perform such work.
The Groups external auditors t Creates a mutuality of interest: meet with the members of the Audit and Risk Committee at least t Places the auditor in a position to audit their own work: once a year without management present.
t Results in the auditor acting as a manager or employee: or t Puts the auditor in the role of advocate for Intertek.
Financial statements and significant issues In accordance with the Code, the Committee reviews a report Specically, the auditors may not provide the following services: prepared by the external auditor on the full year and half year t Bookkeeping or other services related to accounting records results which highlights any issues with respect to the work or financial statements: undertaken on the audit.
As part of this review, the Committee t Financial information systems design and implementation: looks to ensure that suitable accounting policies have been t Appraisal or valuation services: adopted, has discussions with management to understand that t Actuarial services: appropriate estimates and judgements have been made and t Internal audit outsourcing or co-sourcing services: seeks support from the external auditors to ensure a suitable t Management functions or human resources services: assessment has been made.
The main issues reviewed in the t Broker or dealer, investment advisor or investment banking year ended 31 December 2012 are as follows: services: t The Committee reviewed the presentation of the Groups t Legal services which can only be provided by a qualied restructuring programme in 2012, ensuring that the lawyer: requirements for recording a provision had been met at t Expert services unrelated to the audit that include advocating year end: Interteks interests in litigation, regulatory or administrative t The Committee reviewed the provisions held with respect to proceedings.
This does not preclude the auditors from claims, ensuring the provisions were appropriate at year end: providing factual accounts to explain positions taken during t The Committee reviewed the calculation of the effective tax the course of their other work: rate for the year, given the increased regulatory focus on tax t Tax services in relation to marketing, planning, or opining in obligations: favour of an aggressive tax position or transaction: t The Committee reviewed the classication of separately t Any other services that, locally, are prohibited through disclosed items to ensure the adjusted operating profit regulation: or provides a clear and consistent view of the underlying t Personal tax compliance services to members of the Groups performance of the Group: and management who have a financial reporting oversight role.
t The Committee reviewed the controls around the business process outsourcing initiative, ensuring a continued strong financial control environment remains across the Group.
In all cases the Committee was satisfied that the judgements made by management were reasonable, and that appropriate disclosures have been included in the financial statements.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 The Committee annually reviews the framework of permitted The Group maintains high standards and has a zero tolerance non-audit services taking into account any changes in legislation of breaches of ethics and this is reinforced by the Intertek and best practice.
An annual budget for non-audit services is Compliance Code and Code of Ethics.
The Compliance Code presented to the Committee for approval, with budgets assigned and the Code of Ethics is available at www.
to each category, compared to spend in the previous two years.
Every employee is required to sign a zero tolerance document A report is presented to the Committee twice a year showing conrming their understanding that any breaches of the Groups year to date spend against each category in the annual budget Code of Ethics will result in disciplinary action that may include previously approved by the Committee.
A breakdown of the audit summary dismissal of the employee concerned.
Each year as part and non-audit fees paid to the Groups auditors during the year of the appraisal process each employee is asked to confirm is set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
understanding of and adherence to the Code of Ethics.
The terms of reference of the Audit and Risk Committee are To support Group policies and to facilitate the raising of concerns available on our website at: www.
com about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or any other matters, the Group provides and publicises a The activity of the Audit and Risk Committee condential telephone hotline along with email and web During the year the Committee reviewed and endorsed, prior to addresses, so that staff or third parties may report anonymously submission and approval by the Board, the 2011 Annual Report, any perceived inaccurate or unethical working practices.
the 2011 Full Year and the 2012 Half Year Results Announcement.
All reports are investigated thoroughly with action taken as In particular the Committee reviewed the provisions, key appropriate.
Detailed statistics about such issues are provided accounting policies and any changes required in policies.
to each meeting of the Committee.
The resolutions for all matters In addition, there were updates from the Vice President Internal are also reported together with the information about any Audit and Assurance on Internal Audit department activity and employees who have left the Group due to wrong-doing.
reports, fraud detection, whistle-blowing hotline incidents, the The Group has developed a Risk Management Strategy which Anti-Corruption and Bribery Programme, training, and Group sets out the Groups approach to risk and covers the principles control improvement initiatives.
The Committee was updated on set out below: key litigation issues by the Group Company Secretary and Group Head of Legal.
Managing Managing risk The Chairman and other Committee members also attend Risk responsibilities industry specic applicable in all meetings with the external auditors and management to discuss and identifying risk risks organisations any accounting issues associated with the annual audit.
The Committee also looks at the Groups risk prole and its risk management process.
During the year it was decided to separate All the Groups mandatory policies are set out in the Core Control the Internal Audit and Risk Management functions, in order to Framework, which is available to all employees and is hosted on add extra focus on risk which will now be the responsibility of the intranet.
The Audit and Risk Committee endeavours to ensure that the Internal control and risk management Group has in place the most appropriate and effective controls, Risk management and internal controls are embedded in the checks, systems, and risk management techniques so as to be in running of each division and support function.
The Board is line with best practice.
The control environment within the Group responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups system is further strengthened by two internal Committees.
The Risk of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its Control and Assurance Committee RCA has the remit of effectiveness.
This manages and helps mitigate the risk of failure overseeing the development of the internal control framework, to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable reviewing risk registers and risk management procedures, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
monitoring issues, and providing a conduit of information to senior management.
In 2012, the Committee comprised There are a number of controls in place to ensure that the Group the Chief Financial officer, Group Company Secretary, Chief has robust procedures for preparing consolidated accounts and Information officer, Group Vice President Human Resources, for financial reporting.
Intertek has a clear set of Accounting Vice President Financial Control, Chief Financial officer Asia Policies and Procedures which is issued to all finance staff.
and Vice President Internal Audit and Assurance, and met This gives instructions and guidance on all aspects of accounting approximately every quarter.
and reporting that are relevant to the Group.
There are ongoing reviews of adherence to these policies by Group Internal Audit and by Finance Management.
Any material breaches of the Groups systems of internal and risk management controls identied by the Groups control review procedures are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee and corrective action is taken.
46 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Governance Corporate governance continued An Investment Committee is in place with the remit of reviewing Sites are reviewed regularly on a schedule based on materiality and approving requests for material expenditure and other key and perceived risk.
Reports of significant findings are presented actions throughout the business within certain limits as outlined to the Audit and Risk Committee which monitors and reviews the in the Board Approval Matrix.
The membership of the Investment effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The internal audit Committee comprises the Chief Executive officer and the Chief department was awarded ISO 9001 accreditation in 2003 which Financial officer, and the Group Executive Vice President of was successfully renewed for a further three years in 2009 and Human Resources is invited to attend along with leaders in the recently in 2012.
An external accreditation body conducts business.
This Committee considers all business investments surveillance audits of the internal audit department every year, outside the limit delegated to Executive Vice Presidents and and conducts a more detailed review every three years.
reviews and considers the establishment of new companies in The Chief Executive officer also reports to the Board on countries where there is not already a business established.
significant changes in the business and the external environment It also considers any large or unusual customer contract proposals.
which could impact on risk.
The Chief Financial officer provides Executives submit papers and attend to discuss the merits of the Board with monthly financial information, which includes the their business case.
There is a structured programme of post comparison of key performance gures against budgets and investment appraisals to ensure that matters discovered as part forecasts.
Information is also provided with regard to risk of an acquisition, integration and organic business are discussed indicators.
The Board approves the treasury policy and the and understood.
The information gained is part of a feedback treasury departments activities are also subject to internal audits.
loop to the business to ensure that we capture all matters or The Board also confirms that it has reviewed the process of issues that can help us improve and learn for future activity.
Each operating division and support function is responsible for Priorities for 2013 the identication and evaluation of significant risks applicable to The priorities for the Audit and Risk Committee over the next that area of business, together with the design and operation of 12 months are as follows: suitable internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and are reviewed by the RCA, and may be associated with t Continue to support the efforts of the external auditor a variety of internal or external factors including control and the Internal Audit and Risk Management functions with breakdowns, disruption of information systems, litigation, respect to the ongoing development of the Groups total loss of key facilities, retention of key staff, competition, natural assurance framework: catastrophe, and regulatory requirements.
Operation of the t Prepare for any relevant changes in the corporate governance controls is designed to minimise the occurrence of risk or its arena: and consequences.
One of the Audit and Risk Committees main roles t Continue to monitor the impact of external economic factors is to review, on behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent in the on the Group and its financial position.
business and the system of controls necessary to ensure such risks are properly managed.
Going concern After making diligent enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable In order to provide assurance that controls and policies are being expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue followed, a process of self-assessment and hierarchical reporting in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue has been established which provides a documented trail of to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups accountability.
These procedures are applied across Group financial statements.
operations and provide for continuing assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and nally, to the Board.
This process is facilitated by Internal Audit which also provides assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal control and risk management.
Planned corrective actions are monitored for timely completion.
Quality assurance audits are carried out by the divisions, and the findings reported to divisional management.
Each division has at least one compliance officer who undertakes investigations of issues that arise either from quality assurance audits or from other sources, such as the condential hotline.
