Corporate Governance The governance framework for the Group Dear Shareholder The Board is shown on page 47.
The Boards duties I am pleased to present our Corporate Role areset out in a formal schedule of matters Governance report which outlines The Board is collectively responsible for specifically reserved for decision by the therole and activities of the Board.
promoting the success of the Company by Board, as summarised below.
Certain Reports from our committee chairmen directing and supervising the Companys responsibilities are delegated to Board are set out on pages 54 to 74. affairs to create shareholder value.
The committees through structured Board provides entrepreneurial leadership procedures.
The chairman of each The Company is committed to high and sets the Companys strategic aims.
committee provides an oral update on standards of corporate governance In doing this it ensures there are robust the activities of their committee at the andbelieves that it has in place corporate governance and risk next Board meeting.
A report from the effectivepractices which are essential management processes in place.
Nominating Committee, Audit Committee to business integrity, performance and Remuneration Committee is included andaccountability to shareholders.
Other operational TheBoard is pleased to confirm that matters are dealt with by senior during the year the Company has management through formalised beenfully compliant with the provisions delegated authorities.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Directors recognise the importance Summary of the Boards duties ofBoard behaviour and culture, and Strategy and management understand that they must think deeply, Overall management of the Group and its long-term objectives, commercial strategy thoroughly and on a continuing basis andoperational planning about their role and responsibilities.
Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside ofdelegated limits This year we conducted an  Board evaluation and, as Group structure reported on page 51, I am pleased to Material changes to the Groups corporate, management and control structure confirm that the review concluded that the Board worked effectively as a team.
Financial reporting We have closely followed the debates Approval of financial results and dividend policy, declaration ofinterim dividend and proposal on boardroom diversity and during of final dividend theyear there have been a number of changes to the Board.
We were pleased Risk management and internal control Approval of risk management strategy to welcome Deena Mattar as a new Review of effectiveness of Groups risk and internal control processes non-executive director and were delighted with the appointment of Board membership and other senior appointments David Thomas and Victoria Hull as Board and other senior leaders appointments and removals executive directors.
We have a breadth Membership and chairmanship of Board committees and appointment of Senior of skills and experience on the Board IndependentDirector and we have a very good platform for Succession planning for Board and other senior leaders the future.
The Board evaluation confirmed that each director is Remuneration contributing effectively and showing Remuneration policy framework and specific remuneration of executive directors strong commitment to their role.
In and other senior leaders accordance with the provisions of the New or major changes to employee share plans Code and following the practice of Any major changes to the Groups pension plans last year, all Board directors will seek re-election or election in the case Governance Appointment of the Groups principal advisers and external auditor of Mr Thomas and Ms Hull at the Approval of the Code of Conduct and other Group policies 2012 AGM.
Approval of press releases and shareholder circulars I hope that this report will provide a Approval of terms of reference of Board committees good understanding of the systems of Conducting annual review of Board performance, committee and individual directors Determining the independence of directors governance and control which operate Authorisation of directors conflicts or potential conflicts within the Company.
Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman 48 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Meetings 1 Meeting attendance There is an agreed schedule of Board and committee meetings.
The adjacent table Audit Remuneration Nominating Board Committee Committee Committee sets out the attendance by directors at Board and committee meetings.
This Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended analysis only includes the committee Chairman members attendance at meetings: in Sir Nigel Rudd 9 9 3 3 3 3 addition to members, other directors Executive directors frequently attend meetings of committees Wayne Edmunds 9 9 at the invitation of the respective 2 Victoria Hull 5 5 committee chairman.
3 David Thomas 7 7 The Board met nine times during the year, Non-executive eight of which were scheduled meetings directors and one called at short notice.
The 4 Francesco Caio 9 8 5 3 3 2 unscheduled meeting related to operational 5 Bay Green 9 8 5 5 3 3 matters as subsequently included in the 5 Paul Lester 9 8 3 3 early release of the Q3 Interim Management 6 Deena Mattar 8 8 4 4 Statement.
In addition to standing routine Michael Parker 9 9 5 5 3 3 3 3 matters, the summary below outlines other Dr Martin Read 9 9 3 3 3 3 matters considered by the Board and its Pat Zito 9 9 5 5 3 3 committees.
How the Board spent its time Notes 1 Details of meetings of the Contracts Committee are dealt with separately on page 53.
The chart below provides a summary of 2 Ms Hull was appointed as a director on 29 November 2011 and her attendance is from this date.
thework of the Board and its committees 3 Mr Thomas was appointed as a director on 28 July 2011 and his attendance is from this date.
The table does not include during the year.
his attendance at meetings while he was Acting Chief Financial Officer.
4 Mr Caio was unable to attend some meetings due to prior commitments.
All absences were approved in advance with At each scheduled meeting the Board theChairman or committee chairmen as relevant and Mr Caio provided input on relevant matters on the agendas before the meetings.
received reports from the Chief Executive 5 Mr Green and Mr Lester were unable to attend the unscheduled Board meeting as it was called at such short notice.
on operational matters, the Chief Financial 6 Ms Mattar was appointed as a director on 19 May 2011 and her attendance is from this date.
Officer on financial performance and the Chief Legal Officer on legal, regulatory Balance of non-executive and and compliance matters.
The Board Directors: composition and executivedirectors number spent considerable time during the year independence providing constructive input into strategic There are currently 11 directors on the Chairman 1 planning with a full day spent on the annual Board, comprising the Chairman, seven Executive directors 3 strategic plan: this included discussions non-executive directors and three executive Non-executive directors 7 with the divisional CEOs who attended this directors.
As reported in the 2011 Annual session and made presentations.
Other Report, Deena Mattar was appointed a areas of focus included the monitoring and non-executive director on 19 May 2011. control of major projects, consideration On 28 July 2011, David Thomas, who had of the new banking facilities and renewal been Acting Chief Financial Officer of the of the Groups insurance programme.
Group since March 2011, was appointed All committee chairmen provided oral to the role on a permanent basis and updates on the activities of their became a director of the Company.
In Board gender balance number committees.
addition, Victoria Hull, the Chief Legal Officer, was appointed as a director of the Male 9 There were also informal meetings of the Company on 29 November 2011.
Female 2 Chairman and the non-executive directors without the executive directors being The Board considers that all of the current present.
In addition, the non-executive non-executive directors are independent.
directors are in regular informal The non-executive directors are drawn communication with the executive from diverse international businesses and, directors and other senior leaders.
as illustrated on pages 46 and 47, bring a range of skills and experience to enable To increase the visibility of business them to constructively challenge and leadersto the Board, the divisional CEOs develop the Groups strategy and direction.
join Board meetings on a rotational basis.
How the Board spent its time % Strategy 24 Operating and financial performance 32 Governance 7 Committees 37 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 49 Corporate Governance continued Although all the directors have an equal Election and re-election of directors Company Secretary responsibility for the operations of The Companys Articles of Association The Company Secretary is Victoria Hull, Invensys, the role of the non-executive require that any director appointed during who is also Chief Legal Officer.
She was directors is particularly important in the year should stand for election at the appointed as Company Secretary on ensuring that the strategy and business first Annual General Meeting AGM 1January 2006 and acts as secretary proposals of the executive management following their appointment.
In line with the to allof the committees of the Board.
team are fully debated, to ensure that Code, all directors are required to seek The Company Secretary is accountable they meet the long-term interests of re-election by shareholders annually.
to the Board and advises on corporate shareholders and also take account of Following the evaluation of performance of governance matters.
She ensures that the issues affecting employees, customers, each director, the Board is proposing that Board receives briefings on changes in suppliers and the many communities with all directors stand for re-election at the regulation and law, and that procedures which Invensys interacts.
In addition, Victoria are followed.
To enable the Board to Hull and David Thomas, who have joined perform its duties, all directors have The Senior Independent Director is the Board since the 2011 AGM, will stand full and timely access to all relevant Michael Parker, who has held this role since for election at the 2012 AGM.
information and to the services of the December 2006.
Mr Parker is available for Company Secretary.
The appointment shareholders to contact through the Bay Green, non-executive director and and removal of the Company Secretary is Investor Relations department and is also Chairman of the Audit Committee, has now decided upon by the Board as a whole.
responsible for leading the Chairmans completed a seven-year term.
a rigorous review by the Nominating As detailed on page 49, Ms Hull was Committee last year, it was concluded that appointed as a director during the year.
Executive directors are not permitted to Mr Green had a range of skills which added Itwas agreed by the Board that her hold more than one external non-executive value to the Board and, as a result, they combination of legal skills and commercial directorship, which is in line with the Code recommended to the Board that his acumen would greatly assist the Boards requirement and assists in broadening appointment be extended and that decision making.
their experience for the benefit of the he continue as Chairman of the Audit Company.
None of the executive directors Committee.
Following further review the hold any external non-executive Board is still of this opinion and continues directorships.
to recommend the re-election of Mr Green Chairman and Chief Executive as a director.
There is a clear division of responsibilities Michael Parker, non-executive director between the Chairman and the Chief and Senior Independent Director, will have Executive, which is defined in writing and completed a six-year term in July 2012. approved by the Board.
The Chairman is Following a rigorous review, the Nominating responsible for leadership of the Board and Committee concluded that Mr Parker has ensuring its effectiveness.
He facilitates the skills, experience and knowledge of value contribution of the non-executive directors to the Board and, as a result, recommended and effective communication with to the Board the appointment of Mr Parker shareholders.
He ensures that constructive be extended for a further three-year relations exist between the executive and term and that he continue as the Senior non-executive directors.
In addition, the Executive is responsible for executing the Nominating Committee considered the strategy approved by the Board for appointments of Sir Nigel Rudd, Francesco leadership of the Group and management Caio and Dr Martin Read, who will have all of the business: he is supported by the completed three-year terms in July 2012, Group Leadership Team, as detailed in and recommended their appointments the governance framework on page 47. each be extended for a further three-year term.
Dr Martin Read will continue as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The biographies of all directors are set out on pages 46 and 47.
50 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Induction and development Board performance evaluation On appointment, new directors receive An annual review is undertaken of the Summary of 2012 13 actions an induction programme tailored to their performance of the Board, committees The main themes arising from the specific requirements based on their and individual directors.
In line with the review, which were agreed would experience.
The objective is to provide Code and best practice, the Company formthe basisof the action plan for directors with a combination of selected decided in 2011 12 to commission its further improvement in 2012 13, written information and the opportunity first  Board were as follows: to visit business sites and meet with key performance evaluation.
Following leaders of the Group.
Continue the focus on strategic areview of facilitators in the market, discussions: Following her appointment to the Egon Zehnder, which does not have Ensure there is appropriate Company, an induction programme was anyother connection with the consideration of project risk, including agreed for Deena Mattar which enabled Company, was appointed to conduct bidding and control of projects: her to meet with key executives at Head theevaluation process.
Give increased focus to developing the Office including Tax, Treasury, Corporate The process began with a briefing talent of the Groups senior leaders: Communications and Legal to develop an discussion with the Chairman and Review the format of Board meetings awareness of core processes, people and Company Secretary.
The approach that to ensure there is appropriate time to the business.
She was briefed on Board Egon Zehnder adopted to conduct the discuss key issues in depth: and procedures and governance matters by the evaluation was to interview each Board Ensure that the Board composition Company Secretary.
Separately she visited member and certain other senior leaders.
continues to have the appropriate the headquarters of the Invensys Rail and A structured discussion framework was balance of skills, experience and Invensys Controls divisions in order to used so that the discussions were diversity.
meet key employees and gain a deeper appropriately structured and maximised understanding of the Groups operations.
the value of time spent with individuals.
Arrangements to visit the Invensys Operations Management headquarters The face-to-face discussions comprised As part of the evaluation discussions with are to be made during the coming year.
The first covered Board roles Egon Zehnder, views on the performance Given her appointment as a member of and processes and the second part of individual directors were sought.
These the Audit Committee, she also met with addressed the style and content of views, including the performance of the the external auditor.
colleagues contributions to arrive at Chairman, were presented to the Board an understanding of Board processes, as a whole.
Induction for David Thomas and Victoria Hull the behaviours of each member and was deemed unnecessary given their the Board as a whole.
existing positions within the Company.
The findings of the discussions were The continuing development of the presented to the Board by Egon Zehnder.
directors, collectively and individually, The review concluded that the Board is effected through a number of channels.
was aligned in its view of the main issues Directors receive regular briefings at Board facing the Company and that it worked meetings which are relevant to their role.
These include developments in governance matters, regulatory updates and legislative changes.
For example, updates on the introduction of the Bribery Act and changesin EU governance matters including the Code and Lord Davies report on gender diversity.
As part of the annual Board programme at least one meeting is held offsite at a Group business location so that directors can increase their understanding of the business activity.
During 2011 12, the Board visited Invensys Rails business location in Madrid.
This provided an opportunity for the Board to have an in-depth discussion on several key elements of the Invensys Rail division including major projects, market trends, research and development direction and divisional processes.
The Board also had theopportunity to interact with a wider representation of staff through an onsite town hall meeting and tour of the facilities.
Finally, directors visited some of the major local installations and met with key clients including Madrid Metro and ADIF.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 51 Corporate Governance continued Independent professional advisers are The annual report and accounts are made Communication with shareholders made available in order for directors to available to shareholders at least 20 Communication with shareholders is at all discuss matters of significance to the working days prior to the AGM.
Directors times given a high priority, and a number Group, and directors are encouraged to are available at the AGM to answer ofmeans are used to promote greater attend external briefings.
The Board questions, which provides a useful understanding and dialogue with the ensures that directors have access to interface with private shareholders.
The Board receives independent professional advice on how to Shareholders also have an opportunity regular reports from the Chief Executive discharge their responsibilities as directors to meet informally with directors after the and the Groups Investor Relations team.
Resolutions are proposed The Chairman and the Senior Independent separately and voting is conducted by polls Directors conflicts of interest Director are available to meet with major at general meetings, and voting results are In line with the Companies Act 2006, shareholders on request.
During the year, announced through the London Stock directors are required to avoid any the Chairman spoke with a number of Exchange.
The results and proxy levels are situation in which they have or can have a majorshareholders regarding general also available on the Groups website and direct or indirect interest that conflicts or business topics.
In addition, the Chairman on request from the Company Secretary.
may possibly conflict with the interests of of the Remuneration Committee held The Company is permitted under its the Company, unless authorised by the discussions with major shareholders Articles of Association to send or supply Board.
The Companys Articles of onrelevant matters during the course communications to shareholders Association allow the Board to authorise ofthe financial year.
electronically, and the Company now such conflicts and to impose such limits or supplies information such as notices of Shareholders are kept informed of the conditions as it deems necessary.
There is meetings, forms of proxy and annual progress of the Group during the course no breach of duty if the relevant matter has reports and accounts via the Groups of the year through half-year and full-year been authorised in advance.
Shareholders are notified by email results, presentations, interim management The Company has established a procedure or post when new information is available statements, capital markets days and other whereby actual and potential conflicts of on the website.
The Company sends announcements of material developments interest are reviewed regularly and in any hard copy communications to those that are released through the London event annually.
Appropriate authorisation shareholders who have requested them.
Stock Exchange and other news services.
is required prior to the appointment of any Shareholders may at any time revoke a The results presentations made to the new director and when any new conflict previous instruction and elect to receive investment community are webcast and arises for a director or there is a change in hard copies or electronic copies of copies of supporting materials are made circumstances that may affect an shareholder information.
available on the Groups website details authorisation previously given.
of which can be found in Shareholder Authorisations are granted by those Information on page 170.
Other general directors who have no interest in the matter shareholder information can be found being considered and are recorded by the on our website.
Company Secretary in the Register of The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Directors Conflicts.
Where there is a Officer maintain regular dialogue with conflict, the Board will confirm whether any the major institutional shareholders and conditions should be imposed under the participate in sector conferences.
Shareholders can also raise questions During the year the Board considers the directly with the Company at any time by procedure was operated effectively.
contacting the Investor Relations team, whose contact details are listed on the Board committees Groups website.
The Board delegates specific authorities to its Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nominating Committee and Contracts Committee, all of which operate within defined terms of reference.
Board committees are authorised to engage the services of external advisers as circumstances require, at the Companys expense.
Reports of the Nominating Committee, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee are included onpages 54 to 74.
Directors receive copies of all committee minutes and the chairman of each committee provides an update onmatters of significance at the Board meeting following the committee meeting.
52 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information The findings of the annual assessment of Risk management Accountability and audit the Groups system of internal controls The Board has responsibility for Financial planning and reporting undertaken by the Audit Committee, as determining the nature and extent of The Group has comprehensive planning detailed on page 57, were presented to the the significant risks it is willing to take in and financial reporting procedures.
Where weaknesses in the operation achieving the strategic objectives and Management prepares detailed of internal controls were identified, has established a structured approach operational budgets for the year ahead the Audit Committee considered to identifying, evaluating, managing, and a three-year strategic plan, which are managements response to them.
monitoring, and reporting on key risks reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Audit Committee has continued facing the Group.
Performance is monitored through the to pay particular consideration to the The Risk Committee has accountability monthly reporting of financial results and management of customer contracts for creating and overseeing the risk regular updating of forecasts for the year.
and received detailed reports on major management processes and procedures, The Group Accounting Policies Manual is contracts from management and the and provides written reports to the Board used by all businesses in the Group to external auditor.
As reported in the Groups and the Audit Committee on the key risks ensure that transactions and balances are Q3 Interim Management Statement in facing the Group.
It formulates strategy recognised and measured in accordance January 2012 and referred to elsewhere in and policy based on risk appetite and risk with the Groups prescribed accounting this Annual Report and Accounts, a number exposure.
It also monitors the mitigating policies.
All businesses submit their results of operational issues relating to certain actions put in place by the relevant using the Groups consolidation system, nuclear projects in China within Invensys operational managers to address the which ensures that information is gathered Operations Management and rail signalling identified risks.
The Board reviews annually and presented in a consistent way that projects in Invensys Rails Asia Pacific the risk management process and facilitates the production of the operations were identified.
Investigations periodically conducts external reviews.
concluded that additional costs would be incurred in order to complete the projects Internal control Remuneration Committee and in some cases revenue recognition has The directors are responsible for the been delayed.
An in-depth internal review Groups system of internal control and Details of the Remuneration Committee has been conducted with the result that for reviewing its effectiveness.
Each of and its policies, together with information systems have been further improved and the Groups divisions is accountable to on the remuneration and share interests of additional risk metrics have been the Chief Executive and is managed directors, are set out in the Remuneration established.
The Board is satisfied that the by executive leadership, which provides Report on pages 60 to 74.
The Remuneration information that it received throughout the day-to-day control over the divisions Report should be read in conjunction with year on internal controls and the operations within the strategic guidelines this Corporate Governance report, of information from the annual assessment on and delegated authorities determined by which it forms an integral part.
internal controls was sufficient to enable it the Board.
The internal control system is to review the effectiveness of the Groups designed to meet the Groups particular Contracts Committee system of internal controls.
The Board is needs and the risks to which it is exposed, The Contracts Committee considers satisfied that, where the need to improve but it should be appreciated that, however certain tenders and contracts falling within internal controls was identified during the effective a system of internal control is, the Boards terms of reference and due for year, appropriate actions are being taken.
it can provide only reasonable and not submission to customers in a period when absolute assurance against material there is no scheduled Board meeting at misstatement or loss.
which they can be considered prior to submission.
Meetings of the Contracts Committee must comprise at least one executive director, the Chairman or in his place the Senior Independent Director and at least one other independent non-executive director.
The terms of reference for the Contracts Committee were reviewed during the year and nochanges recommended.
The terms ofreference are available on the Groupswebsite.
The Contracts Committee met on five occasions during the year.
com 53 Corporate Governance continued Membership Nominating All of the members of the Nominating Committee are independent non-executive directors save for myself.
Committee Report Meetings Report from Sir Nigel Rudd, The Nominating Committee held three meetings during ChairmanofNominating Committee the year and details of members attendance are set out onpage 49.
Members Effectiveness of the Nominating Committee Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman of Nominating Committee The  Board evaluation detailed on Bay Green page 51 confirmed that the Nominating Committee was Michael Parker operating effectively.
Dr Martin Read Pat Zito Role The Nominating Committee has a number of responsibilities as set out in its terms ofreference which are I have chaired the Nominating Committee since available on the Groups website.
In summary the key roles 17July 2009. areto: I am pleased to present this report of the Nominating review the structure, size and composition including the Committee which explains our role and our principal skills, knowledge, experience and diversity required of activities during the year.
the Board compared to its current position and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any There have been a number of changes to the Board during changes: the year and this has been an area of focus for the consider succession planning with regard to the Board Nominating Committee.
We were very pleased to be able and senior leaders: and to recommend to the Board the appointment of Deena make recommendations to the Board regarding the Mattar as a new non-executive director and David Thomas appointment, reappointment and retirement of and Victoria Hull as executive directors.
They all have high directors.
skill levels which will contribute to the effectiveness of the Board and, with their fellow directors, help support the Activities of the Nominating Committee long-term success of the Company.
Set out below are the key matters considered by the Nominating Committee during 2011 12.
Board changes Following the appointment of Wayne Edmunds the former CFO as Chief Executive, the Nominating Committee led the selection process for a new Invensys CFO.
We engaged the services of a search agency.
The search was undertaken against a detailed job specification and included both internal and external candidates.
Having completed the process, the Nominating Committee recommended the appointment of David Thomas who had been Acting ChiefFinancial Officer since 24 March 2011 and he was subsequently appointed to the Board on 28July 2011.
The Nominating Committee also recommended to the Board the appointment of Victoria Hull as an executive director.
Ms Hull joined the Company in 2001 as the Groups Chief Legal Officer with responsibility for the management of legal, compliance and commercial risk across the Group.
Itwas agreed that her legal skills and commercial acumen would greatly assist the Boards decision making.
She was appointed to the Board on 29November 2011.
54 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Diversity Succession planning The Nominating Committee reviewed the Succession planning is a key area of discussion for the recommendations of Lord Davies report Women on Nominating Committee.
We reviewed the capability Boards which was published in February 2011.
We of our leadership team and considered the succession recognise the importance and benefits of diversity and will plans for the executive directors.
The chart below details continue to take this into account in our recruitment the Chairman and non-executive directors and their terms processes whilst ensuring that candidates are selected on of office.
The Nominating Committee regularly reviews merit and ensuring that there is an appropriate range and this information to help plan the membership of the Board balance of skills, experience and background on the Board.
to ensure we have the appropriate skill sets, relevant experience and diversity on the Board.
As detailed onpage50, the Board agreed that the appointments ofSirNigel Rudd, Francesco Caio, Michael Parker andDrMartin Read each be extended for a further three-year term.
Board tenure Chairman and non-executive directors 1 2 Director Date of appointment 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Bay Green 01 January 2005 3 Michael Parker 16 May 2006 Pat Zito 23 May 2007 3 Sir Nigel Rudd 01 January 2009 3 Francesco Caio 18 July 2009 3 Dr Martin Read 18 July 2009 Paul Lester 01 January 2010 Deena Mattar 19 May 2011 Third term Second term First term Notes 1 All directors are subject to annual re-election.
2 The commencement of the first term of office is the date of the AGM in the relevant year of appointment.
3 Appointment to be extended for a further three-year term.
Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman of the Nominating Committee Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 55 Corporate Governance continued Finally, in such a widespread and diverse Group it is inevitable Audit Committee Report that something may go wrong however well managed.
In such an event, the Audit Committee examines the circumstances Report from Bay Green, in detail and seeks to ensure that such improvements as are appropriate are implemented without delay.
ChairmanofAudit Committee Membership Members Qualification All of the members of the Audit Committee are Bay Green Fellow of Institute of independent non-executive directors.
Chairman of Audit Committee Chartered Accountants I am a qualified chartered accountant and Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Francesco Caio FCA and have worked in financial roles for over 30 years.
My full biography is set out on page 47 together with those Deena Mattar Fellow of Institute of of the other members of the Audit Committee.
As part of Chartered Accountants my commitment to the Audit Committee, I attend technical Michael Parker update seminars on a regular basis.
Pat Zito Chartered Accountant I was delighted that Deena Mattar, FCA, joined the Audit Committee on her appointment as a non-executive director on 19 May 2011.
She chairs the audit committee at RM plc I have chaired the Audit Committee since 2006 and I am and was formerly CFO at Kier Group plc.
She is a valuable pleased to have this opportunity to explain the work of the addition to the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Audit I invite all members ofthe Board to meetings of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience as Committee.
Executivesfrom the Groups finance team as required for corporate governance purposes.
well as the external auditor and internal audit partner as required joinour meetings.
Consequently, our meetings Meetings are well attended.
The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings during the year and details of members attendance are set out on A description of our activities during the year is set out page 49. below but I would like to preface them with a few introductory remarks about some of our work.
During the The chart below shows how we spent our time and our last year, we have continued to work with the executives activities are described in detail on pages 57 to 59. toenhance key financial controls and resolve promptly anycontrol weaknesses.
Our Group was largely built Categories of activities % through acquisition and has a very broad geographic spread of operations with the inevitable result that there Financial reporting 28 have been many variations in operating procedures.
The Internal controls 15 Group also continues to take on larger long-term contracts Risk management 11 External audit 17 in emergingmarkets requiring diligent monitoring and Internal audit 10 control.
Against this background the Group has been Other matters 19 working to standardise routine accounting processes and strengthen contract execution and commercial management activities on major projects.
One of the Audit Committees key priorities is to ensure that it provides oversight of the risk processes to enable the In addition, I meet periodically with the Chief Financial Group to achieve its strategic goals.
We have therefore Officer and Group Financial Controller for business updates continued to focus on risk management and the risk with particular emphasis on financial performance.
In advance reporting systems that were formalised some six years ago of each Audit Committee, I meet with key executives and when the calibration of risk was only just starting to gain the the external auditor to ensure that the reporting and general recognition and emphasis that it has today.
We aim discussion will appropriately address the Audit Committee constantly to improve the risk reporting systems to deliver agenda matters.
At the time of the half-year and full-year the key information in a succinct and clear format.
We have results, I have a private meeting with the external auditor to had our risk systems reviewed against current practices ensure that any issues they have identified are raised and elsewhere and are encouraged that our framework is discussed appropriately at the subsequent Audit relatively well advanced.
In this connection, we were Committee meeting.
These are supplementary to those pleased to be recognised during the year in the Institute of meetings between the Audit Committee and the external Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA Hermes auditor without management being present as Transparency Awards for the Best Risk Management recommended for good corporate governance.
Disclosure in last years Annual Report.
The Board, the Audit Committee and the executives have put much time In addition to their attendance at relevant meetings where and effort into risk management.
internal audit findings are considered, I meet at least once a year with the managing partner from Deloitte LLP who is responsible for the provision of internal audit services to the Group.
56 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Effectiveness of the Audit Committee Internal controls The  Board evaluation detailed During the year we have examined the key elements of on page 51 confirmed that the Audit Committee was the internal control processes and provided assurance operating effectively, being diligent and providing good to the Board on the effectiveness of the internal control judgement.
An area where we intend to continue to focus environment.
Set out below are a number of the activities in the coming year is long-term contract risk, particularly in that have been completed in our review of financial, the monitoring and control of major long-term contracts.
We considered the results of internal control selfRole and responsibilities assessment returns from the businesses and reviewed The Audit Committee has a number of responsibilities as management responses to any identified weaknesses.
set out in its terms of reference which are available on the We received a report from the external auditor which Groups website.
In summary the key roles are to: sets out their key observations on the internal control review and recommend to the Board the financial environment that had arisen during their annual audit, statements and formal announcements relating to along with managements remediation plans to financial performance, including a review of accounting strengthen further the internal controls within the Group.
policies and financial reporting judgements: At most meetings we receive a summary of the financial examine, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of the control audits performed by Internal Audit, including the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management: key recommendations.
The audits include reviews of monitor and review the effectiveness of the Internal processes relating to accounting and finance, revenue, Audit function: project management and contracting, capital oversee the relationship with the external auditor and expenditure, procurement, inventory, payroll and make recommendations to the Board regarding their general computer controls.
Particular attention has appointment and remuneration: and been given to ensuring a timely remediation of any agree the policy on auditor independence and the audit recommendations.
We reviewed arrangements under which employees can, on a confidential basis, raise concerns about potential The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are irregularities in financial reporting on other matters, and reviewed on an annual basis.
No material changes the arrangements for follow-up actions.
were made to the terms of reference during 2011 12.
Significant variances between results and internal The Audit Committee is satisfied that it has fully discharged forecasts are considered and where such variances are its responsibilities under its terms of reference.
indicative of control failings, management actions to address weaknesses are reviewed.
Activities of the Audit Committee We commissioned Deloitte LLP see section on internal Set out below are the key matters considered by the Audit audit on page 59 to conduct a review of compliance with Committee during 2011 12. financial controls of the Groups Agent Policy.
We have monitored the development and implementation Financial reporting of a governance risk and compliance software application We reviewed the form and content of the Groups Annual for the monitoring of key financial controls across the Report and Accounts and half-year financial report prior Group to strengthen the overall control environment.
This to their publication to provide assurance that the disclosures application known as the Internal Control Framework made in the financial statements were set properly in context.
will document the Groups key financial controls and As part of this process, we received reports from management collect evidence from business units of compliance with and the external auditor.
In particular we reviewed areas of those controls.
critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions.
The Boards review of the risk management process and its These are set out in Note 3 to the Group Financial Statements statement on internal control is contained on page 53. and include construction and long-term service provision contracts, impairment of goodwill, pension and postRisk management retirement benefits, development costs and provisions As the Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing risk and contingent liabilities.
management processes and reporting systems on behalf The Audit Committee reviewed the liquidity risk and the of the Board, presentation of an update from the Risk basis for preparing the Group accounts on agoing concern Committee has become a regular cadence.
As well as basis, this being a relatively straightforward activity this reviewing the major risks we monitored the mitigation year following the securing of new five-year bank facilities.
actions put in place by management and reviewed the minutes of the Risk Committee.
The role of the Risk Committee is described fully on pages 37 and 38 and the risk management and review process isoutlined on pages 38 and 39.
A summary of the principal risks anduncertainties facing the Group is presented on pages 39 to 44.
com 57 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Report Non-audit services policy Under this policy the external auditor is prohibited from continued undertaking any work that is considered to threaten its independence or objectivity in its role.
Prohibited work External auditor specifically includes bookkeeping services, the design Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys auditor and implementation of financial information systems, sinceOctober 1999.
During the year we reviewed the appraisal or valuation services, actuarial or legal services qualification of the audit team, the rotation policies, auditor and any other work that would involve the external independence and their firm-wide procedures and auditor in preparing financial information that is included credentials, together with the effectiveness of the audit or disclosed in the audited financial statements, or process.
This assessment included feedback from the in making judgements or taking decisions on behalf Groups senior finance management.
We also considered of management.
Ernst & Young LLPs own annual transparency report which provides information on the structure and governance of The external auditor is permitted to undertake work the audit firm and outlines their processes relating to audit in other areas as long as it is the most suitable supplier quality and auditor objectivity.
Following the results of the of the service and the terms and conditions of the assessment we remained satisfied with the effectiveness engagement, including the level of the fee, do not impair and performance of Ernst & Young LLP and recommended its objectivity or independence.
Under the policy, the to the Board their reappointment which will be considered Audit Committee pre-approves the use of the external at the 2012 AGM.
auditor for routine non-audit services, subject to a quarterly and annual monetary cap.
Routine non-audit Consistent with market practice, Ernst & Young LLPs audit services include advice on accounting, auditing and services to the Group are provided annually through terms financial reporting matters: assurance over internal of engagement which we reviewed.
These terms do accounting and risk management procedures: nonnot include any contractual obligations under which statutory audit including reviews of interim financial the directors would be prevented from appointing information : project assurance and advice on a different firm.
accounting process improvement: due diligence in As part of the annual assessment we discuss whether connection with business acquisitions and disposals: there would be any benefit from a change in auditor or corporate income tax and indirect tax compliance and a competitive tendering process.
Whilst the Audit advisory services: and tax services in respect of business Committee remains satisfied with the serv ices provided acquisitions and disposals.
Specific approval is required by Ernst & Young LLP, we have been following the debate from the Audit Committee for any of these services that about changes to the audit system including proposals would result in the pre-approved monetary cap being from the Financial Reporting Council and the European exceeded, and for any other services that are not Commission.
Pending finalisation of these initiatives and included in the list of pre-approved services.
taking into account also the disruption to the finance team When determining whether the external auditor in organising a tender process and internal cost to the is the most suitable supplier of a particular service, Group, the Audit Committee does not see any benefit management and the Audit Committee take into account in retendering at this time.
the cost-effectiveness of the service and the external We also discussed the pro posed audit plan with the auditor auditors knowledge of the Group.
and agreed key initiatives to drive cost efficiencies without Ernst & Young LLP has policies and procedures in place impairing the service quality.
Long-term contracting is a key to ensure that the highest standards of objectivity, area of focus in the audit.
independence and integrity are maintained and these comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APB Ethical Non-audit services Standards for Auditors.
The audit engagement partner One of our responsibilities is to ensure theindependence must approve any non-audit services offered to the of our external auditor is not impaired in the provision Group.
This ensures that the objectives of the proposed ofany non-audit services.
We have a policy in place which engagement are not inconsistent with the objectives of governs the non-audit services that can be a ppropriately the audit: allows the identification and assessment of any performed by the external auditor.
This isset out in the related threats to Ernst & Young LLPs objectivity: and following table.
assesses the effectiveness of available safeguards to During the year we receive a quarterly report on non-audit eliminate such threats or reduce them to an acceptable services which we review at our scheduled meetings.
Ernst & Young LLP do not carry out non-audit services where no satisfactory safeguards exist.
Ernst & Young LLP was not engaged to undertake any significant new areas of work during the year.
They continued to provide services under the global tax compliance and legal entity rationalisation programmes, both of which comm enced during the previous year.
Other potential suppliers were originally considered for these programmes, but the external auditors knowledge of the Group, and the efficiencies that could be achieved as a result, were key factors for their engagement with this work.
58 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Internal audit Other matters The majority of internal audit work for the Group continues We have initiated a review with management of the cost to be outsourced to Deloitte LLP.
The Group maintains and direction of our information technology systems and a small internal audit function, to manage the outsourcing are intending to benchmark them in more detail against contract and undertake certain assignments.
LLP internal audit managing partner has a direct reporting As sponsor of a programme to reduce the number of line to me and at least once a year we hold a private legal entities in the Group to simplify the structure and meeting without management present.
reduce operating costs, we review a six-monthly update on its progress.
Internal Audit has reported regularly to the Audit We review and approve for recommendation to the Committee on the results of internal control audits Board, amended delegated authorities which set limits undertaken under a rolling plan agreed in advance.
Internal of approval for certain matters to Group management control issues are monitored by the Audit Committee to and the divisions.
We observe closely the monitoring of major projects and Going forward, Deloitte LLP will operate to an annual plan receive detailed reports on such projects.
Over the last for financial control audits in conjunction with central two years we have attended field reviews of major continuous monitoring of these controls using the Groups projects.
The internal audit We review the adequacy of the Groups borrowing plan will be risk-focused in the audit of financial controls, facilities.
long-term contracts and other operational audits.
To ensure that the preparation of the annual report and accounts takes account of current best practice we We have reviewed the performance of Internal Audit and consider guidance issued by the Financial Reporting consider the function to be effective and to perform in Council and comments made by shareholder bodies on accordance with the relevant professional standards.
the adequacy of our disclosures.
The Audit Committee receives briefings from the Group Financial Controller and Chief Legal Officer about developments in financial reporting standards, compliance matters and best practice to ensure we continue to focus on the right areas.
Bay Green Chairman of the Audit Committee Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
