Effective corporate governance The ultimate goal of your board is to collectively and effectively lead the delivery of long-term, sustainable success.
Maintaining strong corporate governance practices is a core board responsibility in support of this goal.
I firmly believe that strong corporate governance is about Executive remuneration is under increased scrutiny, with helping our company to run well and needs to be deeply legislation planned around reporting and approval.
Your embedded in the DNA of our organisation.
It is about board continues to monitor and discuss proposals in this leadership, collaboration and constantly seeking area and the conclusions reached inform the work of the improvement.
We welcome the ongoing discussion in this remuneration committee.
We welcome the moves to area and continue to seek to incorporate improvements increase clarity, as can be seen in the report on page 56. into our way of working.
As a board, we need to ensure that We will continue to seek to attract and retain good we focus on those issues that are key to achieving our management, incentivising them to increase the value goals.
Our board agenda is carefully planned to facilitate ofAMEC for its shareholders.
this and I am cognisant of my responsibility as Chairman AMEC has an extensive investor relations programme for inensuring we deliver.
The board is regularly updated on We have made progress on a number of fronts during 2012. this interaction and supports it, with non-executive directors also happy to meet with shareholders when requested.
I said last year that we had strengthened the terms of During 2012, I hosted investor group lunches in London reference of the ethics committee.
During 2012, we updated and Edinburgh and found the informal setting a good our Code of Business Conduct training, compulsory for conduit to meaningful discussions on the company, its allemployees.
In addition, we have made our mandatory strategy, management and the approach of the board.
I will global policies and procedures simpler and clearer and continue to prioritise these and other similar interactions.
these changes are due to be introduced in early 2013.
We work hard to provide, in this report, the information you I touched on external board evaluation in my introductory need to assess our strategy see page 10 and performance statement.
This took place in the first half of the year and see pages 26 to 37 and to present this in such a way that it concluded that the company has in place a strong, highly can be readily understood.
I would also encourage you to competent board that performs well.
Key areas for make use of the additional information contained on our improvement were relatively minor and included the website amec.
com and to attend our annual general further development of the boards role in the development meeting AGM on 4 April 2013. and stewardship of strategy, consideration of the efficacy ofthe groups organisational structure and continued focus As a board, we support the Code and believe we have on succession management and improving board diversity.
complied with the provisions of the June 2010 edition Following the review in October 2012, we appointed throughout the year ended 31 December 2012.
Although LindaAdamany tothe board and implemented a revised itis not a formal requirement to comply with the new Code organisational structure.
In accordance with the terms for this period, we have endeavoured as far as practicable ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code Code, thenext to report in accordance with the provisions of the revised externally facilitated review will be undertaken nolater Code published in September 2012. than 2015.
Ourpriorities for 2013 include agreeing our m Further details on how we have applied the principles of policy on diversity and the measurable objectives we wish the Code to our activities can be found in the corporate to set totrack progress.
governance statement on pages 43 to 51 and in the remuneration report on pages 56 to 64 Your board continues to place particular emphasis on monitoring risk and on the structured approach to the management of risk in the company.
Our approach to John Connolly riskmanagement and a review of key risks are presented Chairman on pages 21 to 23.
14 February 2013 Printed copies of the Code can be obtained free of charge at frcpublications.
com 38 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials AMEC governance overview Board committees Audit Board The board has ownership of the global policies Remuneration Group management team Nomination is responsible for implementation Ethics Chief Executive Management committees Share allotment Chief Financial Officer Pensions and retirement benefits Risk Business Unit leaders Functional leaders HSSE review Corporate transactions Business Unit teams Functional teams Tender review Delegated authority In addition to the matters reserved for the board, certain Attendance at meetings items are considered at every scheduled board meeting, The board holds regular meetings throughout the year, scheduled in accordance with an annual timetable and including financial results, health and safety reports, short-range plan progress and strategy performance asotherwise required to ensure the effective discharge ofits duties.
Directors are expected to attend all board and reviews.
The Chief Executive updates the board on market trends, developments and opportunities, the competitive relevant committee meetings, unless they are prevented positioning of the company and its current priorities.
from doing so by unavoidable prior work commitments or other valid reasons.
Where a director is unable to attend a Business unit management is invited to present at boardmeetings from time to time.
meeting, they are provided with the papers scheduled for discussion and fully briefed as appropriate.
The table To ensure effective strategic planning, the board holds an belowis a record of director attendance at the board and additional meeting each year to perform a full strategic board committee meetings held during the year ended review of the group.
In October 2012, the board spent a day 31December 2012.
All directors attended scheduled board focused, within the context of AMECs performance, on and board committee meetings.
Neil Carson, Colin Day market strategies and growth opportunities, particularly and Simon Thompson were occasionally unable to attend those facilitated by the recently announced reorganisation.
unscheduled meetings due to prior work commitments.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Ethics Board committee committee committee committee Number of meetings 12 3 5 4 2 John Connolly 12 5 4 Samir Brikho 12 Ian McHoul 12 Neil Bruce resigned 5 October 2012 8 Linda Adamany appointed 1 October 2012 4 1 3 1 Neil Carson 11 3 5 3 2 Colin Day 10 3 5 4 2 Tim Faithfull 12 3 5 4 2 Simon Thompson 11 3 5 3 2 Linda Adamanys appointment took place after the last nominations committee meeting held in 2012 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 39 Mission Vision Values Code of Business Conduct Global policies Global mandatory procedures Operating policies and procedures Operating policies and procedures
