Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate governance statement AMEC supports the UK Corporate Governance Code and we believe we have complied with the provisions of the June 2010 edition throughout the year.
Thissection explains in more detail how we have applied these provisions.
foundon pages 40 and 41 and thiswill enable shareholders The board to make an informed decisionontheir re-election.
Board composition As at 31 December 2012, the board comprised the m Details of the directors service contracts, emoluments non-executive Chairman John Connolly : two executive and share interests are set out in the remuneration directors: the Chief Executive Samir Brikho and the Chief report on pages 56 to 64 Financial Officer Ian McHoul : and five non-executive directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Neil Bruce resigned from the board on 5 October 2012 and The company does not combine the roles of Chairman Linda Adamany was appointed a director on 1October 2012. andChief Executive.
There is a clear and well established Taking into account the provisions of the Code, the board division of accountability and responsibility between the has determined the non-executive directors remain roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive and these are independent and free from any relationships or set out in writing and have been agreed by the board.
The circumstances that could affect their independent consequence of this clear division of responsibility at the judgement.
The Chairman was considered to be head of the company is such that no individual has independent on appointment at 1June 2011. unfettered powers of decision.
The directors consider the size, combination of skills and weight of industry experience on the board appropriate to The Chairman is principally responsible for the leadership the range and breadth of markets in which AMEC operates.
and effectiveness of the board.
At a high level, he is The balance of executive and non-executive directors, accountable for facilitating constructive relations between, reinforced by adherence to sound governance procedures and the participation of, all board members, so as to and the fostering of mutual respect and individual director encourage a culture of openness and debate and enable integrity, ensures no one individual, or group of individuals, the board to fulfil all aspects of its role.
The Chairman has dominates the boards decision-making process.
The undertaken to ensure that the board discharges its duties varied backgrounds and commercial experience provided to promote the success of the company, and to guide by the non-executive directors, and their independence AMECs business and conduct in accordance with the from management, ensure rigorous debate at meetings highest ethical standards.
In setting the boards agenda, and the constructive challenge of the executive directors in the Chairman ensures sufficient time is available for relation to both the strategic direction and performance of discussion and meaningful challenge of all matters the group.
The entire board receives a succession planning beforethe board, particularly strategy, performance, presentation each year and is mindful, when considering valuecreation and accountability.
recommendations from the nominations committee, The Chief Executives principal responsibility is running ofthemaintenance of an appropriate balance of skills AMECs businesses with the primary objective of creating andexperience both at, and directly below, board level to shareholder value.
Consistent with this objective, the Chief ensure the delivery of the groups strategy and performance.
Executive has ultimate responsibility for the proposal, development and implementation of the groups strategy.
In line with the recommendations of the Code, and The building and maintenance of an effective executive inaccordance with article 81 of the articles of association management team, and the allocation of responsibility ofthe company, Linda Adamany will retire from office at within it, are key components of, and essential to, the the 2013 AGM and offer herself for election.
In compliance performance of the Chief Executives role.
The Chief with the Code, all of the other directors wishing to Executive takes the lead role in the promotion of AMEC, continueserving, and considered eligible by the board, gives personal leadership to the preservation of AMECs willoffer themselves for re-election.
Details of the culture and values and encourages the highest standards directors, including their biographies, othersignificant of safety, health and environmental performance.
commitments and committee memberships can be AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 43 Corporate governance statement continued ofthe Code.
Prior to appointment and on any material The board continued changes, the external commitments of each non-executive Senior Independent Director director, including those of the Chairman, are reviewed.
Tim Faithfull has acted as the boards Senior Independent Any significant external commitments are disclosed to Director since 13 May 2009.
He was selected for the role on theboard to ensure that the non-executive directors will account of his extensive experience of serving as both an beable to commit sufficient timeto meet what AMEC executive and non-executive director.
In this role, he is expects of them.
On 8 June 2012, theChairman was responsible for: appointed Chairman of G4S plc, a FTSE100company.
providing additional support to, and acting as a sounding Theboard concluded that given the relinquishment of his board for, the Chairman roles with Deloitte and the relatively small commitment tohis other business interests, this would not have a acting as an additional channel of communication detrimental effect on the fulfilment of his role as Chairman between the Chairman and the other directors of AMEC.
Each directors undertaking as to their ongoing being available to shareholders for concerns they may commitment to the role, together withan assessment of have that have not been resolved through the normal their continued independence, isreviewed as part of their channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or other performance evaluation.
executive directors, or which are not appropriate to The non-executive directors are not employed by the raisethrough these channels company in any capacity, nor have they been in the past.
acquiring an objective understanding of the issues and The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors concerns of AMECs shareholders through attendance are available for inspection at the companys registered at a sufficient number of meetings with the companys office by request to the Company Secretary and will be major shareholders and financial analysts available for inspection at the companys forthcoming AGM.
at least annually establishing the views of the Role and responsibilities non-executive directors as to the performance The board is ultimately responsible for ensuring the oftheChairman long-term success of the company in accordance with theexpectations of, and its obligations to, all stakeholders.
following completion of the above evaluation exercise, Inorder to discharge its role the board must provide providing feedback to the Chairman on his performance leadership of the company within an entrenched system overseeing the recruitment of the Chairman.
ofeffective controls to ensure the assessment and management of risk.
It is responsible for setting the Non-executive directors companys strategy and ensuring the security of the Our non-executive directors are crucial in bringing resources necessary to achieve the resulting objectives.
anexternal view and wide range of skills, experience, Fundamentally the board must also set and guarantee the expertise and diversity of views to the boards deliberations dissemination of, and adherence to, the companys values and development of strategy.
They constructively challenge and standards.
The directors believe that the board leads andscrutinise the performance of management against and controls the group effectively and that all directors agreed objectives and provide an invaluable contribution actin accordance with what they consider to be the best tothe work of the boards committees.
The board benefits interests of the company, consistent with their statutory greatly from the contribution and balance provided by the duties under the Companies Act 2006 and other legislation.
To ensure the preservation of thisbenefit, the Chairman holds regular meetings with In order to ensure it retains appropriate overall control thenon-executive directors, without the executive directors ofthe group, the board maintains a schedule of matters present.
Such meetings are scheduled to be held after reserved for its approval.
The matters reserved include each regular board meeting.
thefollowing areas: The boards policy is that non-executive director annual strategic and short-range plans appointments are normally for three consecutive threefinancial and treasury policies year terms, subject to review after the end of each term.
Inaccordance with the companys articles of association, risk identification, risk appetite, risk management and all directors are required to seek re-election by internal control systems shareholders at the AGM following initial appointment major acquisitions and disposals andevery three years thereafter.
However, our practice isthat all directors submit themselves for re-election Code of Business Conduct onanannual basis, in line with the recommendations 44 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials annual and interim accounts they arise, in accordance with the companys articles of association.
Accordingly, each director is aware of their dividend policy responsibility, under the Companies Act 2006, to avoid succession planning for directors and senior executives asituation where they have an actual or potential conflict ofinterest, the requirement to keep the same under review group-wide policy framework and inform the Chairman and Company Secretary of ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices.
Executive directors are not permitted to accept external directorships without the prior The reserved powers of the board are complemented by approval of the board.
Where applicable, details of any the management of AMECs businesses on a decentralised remuneration received by an executive director from an basis.
Overall operational management has been passed external directorship can be found on page 62.
The to the Chief Executive who has in turn delegated authorities Company Secretary isresponsible for keeping appropriate to the Chief Financial Officer CFO and the business unit records, including the scope, of any authorisations granted leads.
The business unit leads have further delegated by the board, and ensuring the board undertakes regular authorities to their respective teams.
The management reviews of conflict authorisations.
During the financial year philosophy is to empower the business unit leads and their under review, noconflicts have arisen.
teams to take the actions necessary to deliver the companys operational business objectives.
The board regularly reviews Professional development its operational structure and in October 2012 announced a A comprehensive induction programme is in place for all new geographic structure, designed to more fully support new directors which, taking into account their previous the future needs of AMECs customers.
During the year the experience, background and role on the board, is designed board also reviewed the schedule of matters reserved for to further their knowledge and understanding of the group its approval and the delegations of authority to take account and their associated role and responsibilities.
The Chairman of the revised organisational structure.
is responsible for ensuring, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, the provision and development of an To ensure the operation of AMECs businesses in effective programme in accordance withbest practice and accordance with a cohesive policy framework, the board feedback received from members ofthe board.
All new has issued a number of group-wide policies, including the directors are provided with key board, corporate and Code of Business Conduct, which set out the standards all financial information: attend meetings with other members AMEC employees are expected to achieve and adhere to.
of the board, group management and their extended teams: During the year a team was set up to produce a global receive briefings on governance within AMEC: and, where mandatory policies and procedures framework, which possible, meet AMECs major shareholders.
Where a willsupport AMECs vision and values and the Code of newdirector is to serve on a board committee, induction Business Conduct, and this willbe an integral part of material relevant to the committee isalso provided.
The board also takes a significant interest in the groups commitment Following induction, the Chairman is keen to continue tohealth, safety, security and the environment HSSE.
regular reviews of each directors individual training and development needs to ensure the continued enhancement The board is supported in its work by four board committees oftheir skills and knowledge, in order that they may audit, remuneration, nominations and ethics, chaired bestfulfil their role on the board and its committees.
solely by either the Chairman or another non-executive Internally facilitated training is arranged as necessary director, and a number of management committees, bythe Company Secretary on topical issues.
The board chaired by executive directors, to which specific receives presentations from management on changes and responsibilities have been formally allotted.
It also receives regular updates on HSSE matters and changes in legislation m Details of the membership, duties and responsibilities of the committees are set outonpages 47 to 50 fromthe HSSE Director and regular communications from the Company Secretarys office on key developments in Conflicts of interest corporate governance.
To further develop the directors The board has procedures in place for the disclosure of understanding of the groups operations and culture, the conflicts of interest.
Prior to appointment, director-elects board undertakes visits tovarious places of AMEC provide information on any conflicts of interest, and business.
During the year, the board visited a UK-based thereafter potential conflicts of interest are considered project site.
A formal process alsoexists for the directors to atthe start of each board meeting.
An effective procedure receive, where appropriate, external training organised by is in place for theboard to deal with any conflicts, should the Company Secretary, atthe companys expense.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 45 Corporate governance statement continued informed debate and challenge at meetings.
Where the The board continued directors, particularly non-executive directors, require Evaluation further insight on any issue, the Company Secretary will The board has the benefit of an open and honest facilitate this from the business or relevant members atmosphere on all matters and is cognisant of the value ofthesenior management team.
Members of senior ofcontinued self-assessment as a key component in its management are also regularly invited to attend board performance.
Additionally, during the year, the Chairman meetings to present on specific projects and issues as asked the Inzito Partnership to undertake a rigorous required.
In addition to the advice and services of the independent external assessment of the effectiveness Company Secretary, which are available toall of the ofthe board and its main committees.
Inzito have not directors, a formal process exists for the directors to undertaken any other work of any kind for the board takeindependent professional advice, at the companys orthecompany.
The conclusion of this board evaluation expense, where they conclude it necessary to discharge review was that the company has in place a strong, their responsibilities.
The Company Secretary is highlycompetent board that performs well.
Key areas responsible for the organisation and co-ordination forimprovement were relatively minor and included the ofaccess to such advice.
further development of the boards role in the development and stewardship of strategy, consideration of the efficacy The Company Secretary is also accountable for ensuring ofthe groups organisational structure and continued focus that an accurate record is taken of all meetings of the on succession management and improving board diversity.
If a director had a concern Following thereview in October 2012, we appointed aboutthe running of the company or a proposed action LindaAdamany to the board and implemented a revised that could not be resolved, this would be recorded in the organisational structure.
In accordance with the terms minutes.
Further, on resignation, should a director have ofthe Code the next externally facilitated review will be any such concerns, they would be invited to provide the undertaken no later than 2015.
The Chairman is confident Chairman with a written statement for circulation to the in the continued commitment to therole and effective board.
Nosuch statements were received during 2012. contribution of each director and isfocused on the Theappointment and removal of the Company Secretary regularreview of their developmental priorities and the isoneof the matters reserved for the board.
improvement of the boards behaviours, processes and Board committees effectiveness in line with the results of the 2012 As mentioned above, the board governs through, and has performance evaluation.
formally allotted specific responsibilities and duties to, As required by the Code, during the year the Senior various committees.
The Chairman is responsible for Independent Director, apprised of the views of the ensuring the board committees have appropriate terms non-executive and the executive directors, reviewed the ofreference, which are reviewed by the board against best performance of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent practice on a regular basis.
Full written terms of reference Director met with the Chairman in February 2013, to for the audit, nominations, remuneration and ethics reviewhisperformance during 2012.
The Chief Executive committees can be found at amec.
com about us culture conducts annual performance development reviews corporate governance.
The Chairman is also responsible withhis direct reports.
for ensuring that the board committees are properly structured.
All of the boards independent non-executive Information and support directors are members of each of the board committees.
The Chairmans responsibilities for ensuring that the The board considers that this structure and consistency directors receive accurate, timely and clear information ofmembership contributes to the effectiveness of the are, in the main, discharged by the Company Secretary, committees, such that no one member is unduly relied who is fundamental in ensuring the efficiency and upon and the benefit of each members independence effectiveness of the board.
andexternal viewpoint is extended to their work.
The The Company Secretary ensures that all board procedures secretary to each board committee ensures that a proper are followed and that the board is informed of all legislative, and timely record of allmeetings is made and circulated regulatory and governance matters related to its operation.
Thechairman of each board committee The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring provides regular updates on its proceedings, as the flow of information to the board and its committees.
Details of each committee, Agendas and supporting papers are circulated including membership, duties and responsibilities, are approximately one week prior to all meetings toallow setout on the following pages.
sufficient time for digestion and reflection and toensure 46 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Audit committee The purpose of the audit committee is to provide It also reviews the auditors management letter, independent scrutiny of the companys financial and managements responses to it and the audit non-financial performance and of the adequacy of representation letters and makes recommendations the risk management framework and the internal tothe board.
Ernst & Young LLP replaced the previous controls.
There is a wide diversity of experience and auditor incumbent in 2010 following a formal tender knowledge on the committee to enable this purpose review by the committee to benchmark the level to be achieved effectively and provide constructive ofservice, fees and value being delivered.
In 2012, the challenge and guidance to the executive team.
review of the effectiveness of the external auditor was carried out on behalf of the committee bythe Head of Members Internal Audit.
The committee concluded the outcome The audit committee comprises all the independent ofthe review was positive.
The quorum for the committee istwomembers.
AMEC has a formal procedure for the provision of non-audit services to ensure that neither the nature of Colin Day chair such services nor the level of reliance placed on it by the Linda Adamany company impair the objectivity and independence of the Neil Carson external auditor.
The procedure clearly outlines the category of work the external auditor is permitted to Tim Faithfull carry out and the rules governing what is not permitted.
Simon Thompson The procedure follows the guidelines set out by the Colin Day has relevant and recent experience in auditing Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and accounting.
Biographies of all committee members and has an approval matrix for all non-audit services, can be found on pages 40 to 41. andfees for other services that total 100,000 or more require advance approval from both the Chief Financial m Details of the committee meetings during the year and Officer and the Chairman of the audit committee.
This of members attendance can be found on page 39 process is also continually monitored by the Head of Internal Audit.
Details of all other services performed Roles and responsibilities are formally presented to the audit committee twice The committee reviews the annual and half yearly results, ayear.
It is the responsibility of the audit committee the report and accounts and other formal announcements tomonitor the overall level of non-audit fees in relation in connection with the companys financialperformance toaudit fees from an independence point of view.
and recommends their approval tothe board.
It also During 2012, the fees paid to Ernst& Young LLP and reviews the companys internal financial controls and itsassociates for non-audit work were 0.7 million, internal control and risk managementsystems.
whichcomprised 0.4 million relating to taxation and It oversees AMECs relations with the external auditor, 0.3million for otherwork 2011: 0.4million relating including making recommendations on its appointment totaxation including a minimal amount for other work.
which is subject to review annually, re-appointment, All Ernst & Young fees for non-audit work were approved removal, remuneration and terms of engagement.
It in accordance with AMECs policy covering non-audit assesses its qualifications, expertise, effectiveness and services.
As a result of the application of this policy and independence atleast annually and discusses the nature additional discussions with them, the directors do not and scope of the audit, together with any issues arising believe that Ernst & Youngs independence has been from the audit process.
No significant issues were raised compromised because of this additional work on behalf during the year.
Continued on page 48 f AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 47 Corporate governance statement continued Audit committee continued Roles and responsibilities continued In 2012, this assessment was carried out on behalf of the committee by the Head of Internal Audit.
No material The Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor are changes were identified as being necessary as a result both given the opportunity to discuss matters with the ofthis exercise.
The Head of Internal Audit formally committee, without the executive directors being present.
reports to the committee Chairman.
There were no matters raised in this context during the year.
The committee has unrestricted access to company During the year, the committee reviewed certain policies documents and meets with any other relevant member relating to the external auditor including the policy regarding of staff, without the executive directors being present, as the provision by the auditor of non-statutory audit work necessary.
The audit committee reviews the Head of and the terms of reference of both the committee and Internal Audits regular reports and carries out an annual theinternal audit department.
In December 2012, the assessment of the internal audit functions effectiveness.
committee received a presentation on AMECs IT strategy.
Nominations committee The nominations committee leads the process for Roles and responsibilities identifying, and makes recommendations to the The committee evaluates the structure, size and board concerning the appointment or termination composition of the board, including the mix of skills, of, any new director or the Company Secretary experience, independence and knowledge of the directors.
and, in the case of non-executive directors and the In considering recommendations to the board, with regard Chairman, the extension of existing appointments.
to any changes considered necessary to maintain the It make recommendations to the board on appropriate balance of skills and experiences to progress appointments to board committees.
the groups strategy, thecommittee is cognisant of the benefits of diversity, including but not limited to gender.
Members The nominations committee comprises all the The committee also reviews board succession planning, non-executive directors including the Chairman.
in conjunction with reports from the Chief Executive and The quorum for the committeeis threemembers.
Group HR Director on senior management succession planning, so as to ensure that an appropriate balance of John Connolly chair skills is maintained both within AMEC and on the board.
Linda Adamany During 2012, the committee recommended to the board Neil Carson that Simon Thompson be appointed as non-executive Colin Day director for a second term and, with the assistance of Tim Faithfull external search consultants the Zygos Partnership, conducted the rigorous recruitment processes that led to Simon Thompson the appointment of Linda Adamany as a new non-executive The number of meetings of the committee during the director.
Zygos had previously worked with AMEC to year and details of members attendance can be found assist with the search for a new Chairman in 2011 but onpage 39. other than this have not undertaken any other work of any kind for the board or the company.
During 2013, the committee will consider and make recommendations to the board on its policy on diversity.
48 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Remuneration committee The remuneration committee ensures that its assessment of the policy, in conjunction with the auditcommittee, relating tosuch matters as financial remuneration packages enable AMEC to fulfil its strategic aims by recruiting, motivating and retaining performance setting and measurement for both bonus its key management team.
Members It considers and determines the individual remuneration The remuneration committee comprises all the packages and contracts for the Chief Executive, other non-executive directors including the Chairman.
executive directors and the Company Secretary on Thequorum for the committee is two members.
appointment and reviews these as required and agrees the performance targets of the executive directors and Tim Faithfull chair the levels of bonus paid to them under the bonus and Linda Adamany long-term incentive schemes.
It also agrees with the Neil Carson board the remuneration structure, including annual bonus, for other designated executives.
John Connolly Colin Day It agrees the terms to be offered to a proposed new Chairman and reviews these terms as required.
Simon Thompson It also approves the structure, performance targets, Roles and responsibilities participation and level of awards for any executive The committee sets and reviews the overall share-based incentive scheme.
remuneration policy framework for the Chairman, theexecutive directors and the Company Secretary m For further information, see the remuneration report andother designated executives, including a risk on pages 56 to 64 Ethics committee The purpose of the ethics committee is to assist the anddiscrimination or inappropriate behaviour in the board in upholding AMECs core value of integrity.
It also reviews and approves AMECs Code ofBusiness Conduct at least annually to ensure that it Members addresses the above issues.
The ethics committee comprises all the independent non-executive directors.
The quorum for the committee It considers and reviews the scope and planning of all istwomembers.
compliance activity within AMEC and reviews the extent and effectiveness of AMECs internal training and Simon Thompson chair external reporting of compliance and ethics matters.
Linda Adamany The company has in place arrangements with an Neil Carson independent third party provider for employees to raise Colin Day concerns or report compliance issues in confidence.
Inthe event of an actual or suspected material breach Tim Faithfull ofAMECs Code of Business Conduct or any relevant Roles and responsibilities legislation, a member of the committee will take The committee reviews and monitors business ethics responsibility for and manage any investigation into within AMEC, including compliance with relevant therelevant matter with the support of the General legislation, regulation and current best practice Counsel and Company Secretary.
The committee may relatingto such matters as the prevention of bribery useinternal resources and is also authorised to employ andcorruption, government contracting, competition external consultants to carry out any such investigation.
andimport export restrictions, trade compliance AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 49 Corporate governance statement continued Management committees Corporate transactions Pensions and retirement benefits Members Members Chief Executive chair : Chief Financial Officer: Chief Financial Officer chair : Group HR Director: General Counsel and Company Secretary Corporate Pensions Manager Responsibilities Responsibilities To consider mergers, acquisitions and disposals and To review and recommend the establishment of any toapprove transactions where the consideration or new or replacement pension arrangements, any assumption ofliabilities, as appropriate, is 5 million or significant amendments to existing pension schemes, less, and above this level to submit recommendations and the discontinuance, winding up or merger of any to the board for approval.
In addition, to determine existing arrangement.
To agree with the trustees of transaction guidelines that are in line with group those pension arrangements appropriate funding policies and procedures.
plansto secure the benefits promised.
Risk Share allotment Members Members Chief Executive chair : Chief Financial Officer: All directors: General Counsel and Company Secretary: GeneralCounsel and Company Secretary: Deputy Company Secretary the chair to be appointed Head of Risk Management andInsurance from those directors present Responsibilities Responsibilities To perform an integral role in the governance of risk The allotment of new shares or issue of existing shares within AMEC.
To help the board fulfil its responsibility held in treasury following the exercise of options under todetermine the risk appetite of the group and ensure the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
the soundness of the risk management and internal control systems that support it.
To keep under review, and make recommendations in respect of, the AMEC plc risk register and the potential impact of any issue onthe risk appetite and the risk profile, of the group.
Toreport where necessary on key risk issues such as new business and geographical locations.
Also to make recommendations on the insurance programme for thegroup.
Health, safety, security and environmental review Tender review Members Members Chief Executive chair : Group HR Director: Chief Executive chair : Chief Financial Officer: GeneralCounsel and CompanySecretary GeneralCounsel and CompanySecretary: Responsibilities Head of Risk Management andInsurance: Group To assist the board in fulfilling its responsibilities to Commercial Director: Head of Finance Operations oversee the companys management of risk in the Responsibilities areas of health, safety, security and the environment Prior to submission and upon any material change, through particular focus on the safety management toreview and approve proposed tender submissions arrangements implemented by members of the forcontracts to be undertaken by the business units executive management of the operating units.
that are outside the delegated authority of the business  on the groups annual unit leads.
50 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Internal control Relations with shareholders The board is responsible for reviewing AMECs systems of The executive directors and senior management undertake internal control.
The reviews cover the effectiveness and an extensive programme of meetings with institutional adequacy of financial, operational, compliance and risk shareholders during each year.
Events such as results management systems and are undertaken regularly.
presentations and other capital market events are webcast These systems can, however, only provide reasonable and made available on our website for those unable to assurance against material misstatement or loss, as attend in person.
theyare designed to manage rather than eliminate the Each year, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director riskof failure to achieve business objectives.
write to all major shareholders, reminding them that they The board and its committees have an ongoing process, are available for meetings or telephone calls with them, as that is reviewed regularly by the board and accords with the required.
John Connolly wrote such a letter in March 2012.
Turnbull guidance, for identifying, evaluating and managing Major UK-based shareholders were invited to join the significant risks faced by AMEC, including strategy, major Chairman for an informal lunch in London or Edinburgh, projects to be undertaken, significant acquisitions and depending on their location.
Eight institutions in total disposals, as well as entry into and exit from different accepted the invitation and contributed to interesting and markets.
This process has been in place for the year wide-ranging discussions.
The Chairman and the Senior underreview and up to the date of approval of this report.
Independent Director attend full-year results presentations.
Where appropriate, business decisions are reached following a structured and documented review of potential Ad-hoc requests from shareholders for meetings with opportunities and threats, taking steps designed to members of the board are facilitated by the investor manage or mitigate any risk exposure.
In 2012, two such meetings were arranged.
The threats and opportunities associated with tender An in-depth perception study of investors views is prepared submissions are reviewed by commercial review boards at each year by an independent third party and presented to various levels in the group, in line with delegated authorities.
In 2012, this took place in February at a meeting The highest value tenders are, in addition, reviewed by the also attended by the companys brokers.
The board also tender review committee.
AMEC applies a set of contracting receives unedited feedback reports following shareholder principles, under which the level of approval required meetings and all material brokers research notes on isdependent on the contractual provision inquestion.
Themost significant issues in terms of risk require the approval of the tender review committee.
The internal control processes are complemented by anannual control self-assessment exercise carried out bythe principal businesses.
This covers health, safety and environment, legal, commercial and contractual, financial, information technology and human resources.
The results are reviewed by the board, through the audit committee, aspart of the ongoing internal control monitoring process.
AMEC has interests in a number of joint ventures and joint arrangements where controls may not be reviewed as part of AMECs formal corporate governance process because of the joint management responsibilities.
Responsibility for such reviews rests with the joint venture boards and these are reviewed from time to time as part of AMECs normal internal audit process.
m Details of significant joint ventures can be found on page 120 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 51
