Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination Committee comprises Neil England, Michael Hartle and Linda Jensen and is chaired b Marco Sodi Iollowing his appointment to the Board on 1 Februar 2012.
Iain Paterson also served as a member until 23 March 2012.
It meets as reTuired and is responsible Ior considering and recommending to the Board suitable candidates Ior appointment as E[ecutive and Non e[ecutive Directors.
There is a Iormal, rigorous and transparent procedure Ior the appointment oI new Directors to the Board which involves the Nomination Committee interviewing candidates proposed b either e[isting Board members or b an e[ternal search compan.
CareIul consideration is given to ensure appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance oI skills, knowledge and e[perience on the Board is maintained.
When dealing with the appointment oI a successor to the Chairman, the senior independent Non e[ecutive Director will chair the Committee instead oI the Chairman.
When the Committee has Iound a suitable candidate, the Chairman oI the Committee will make a proposal to the whole Board and the appointment is the responsibilit oI the wholeBoard Iollowing recommendation Irom the Committee.
The Committee recognise the importance and benets oI diversit which is taken into account in our recruitment processes.
Our aim is to ensure that there is a relevant and appropriate balance oI skills, e[perience and background in our Board members and we will continue to have regard to the importance oI diversit going Iorward.
The Committee met si[ times during the ear and was active in the appointment oI ITEs new Non e[ecutive Chairman, Marco Sodi.
Led b the senior independent Director, Michael Hartle, an appointment specication Ior the role was developed b the Committee Iollowing which, gos, e[ternal search consultants, were commissioned to carr out a search and review oI prospective internal and e[ternal candidates.
AIter completion oI a rigorous interview process, the Committees recommendation that Marco Sodi be appointed was passed unanimousl b the Board, with Marco Iormall Moining the Compan as a Non e[ecutive Director and Chairman Designate on 1 Februar 2012, and taking over as Chairman on 23 March 2012.
Other activities during the ear included: Further development oI succession planning and talent mapping processes Ior senior management Reviewing the balance oI skills and e[perience on the Board and considering iI an changes were necessar Considering the responses to the Tuestionnaire used Ior the annual evaluation oI the Board and its Committees, prior to review b the whole Board.
Marco Sodi Chairman oI the Nomination Committee 3 December 2012 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51
