Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee comprises Neil England and Linda Jensen and is chaired b Michael Hartle.
The Board is satisfied that Michael Hartle has appropriate financial e[pertise to Iull this role.
Its role is to monitor the financial reporting process, the integrit oI the Groups interim and annual financial statements prior to their submission to the Board and the statutor audit oI the annual and consolidated accounts.
It is also responsible Ior reviewing the Groups internal financial control and risk management s stems, advising the Board on the appointment oI e[ternal auditors, overseeing the relationship with the e[ternal auditors, approving auditor remuneration, reviewing the Groups whistle blowing procedures, reviewing accounting policies and compliance, and monitoring and reviewing the eIIectiveness oI the Groups internal audit Iunction.
The Committee met five times during the ear.
On each occasion the Finance Director, and other members oI staII as reTuired, attended b invitation.
The e[ternal auditors attended all five meetings.
significant areas oI work covered b the Audit Committee included: Reviewing the Groups final and interim financial statements Reviewing results Irom audits undertaken and progress against the internal audit plan IdentiI ing, evaluating and managing the ke risks Iaced b the Group Reviewing the issues raised in the Management Letter b the auditors and the actions taken to address them b the Group and Reviewing the Groups internal control environment and its eIIectiveness.
The Audit Committee regularl monitors the relationship with, Deloitte LLP, the e[ternal auditors and assesses their perIormance, cost eIIectiveness, obMectivit and independence.
It agrees the scope oI the audit work and discusses the results oI the Iull ear audit and interim review each ear.
At each Audit Committee meeting the e[ternal auditors are able to meet with the Committee without management being present and did so at least once in the ear.
Deloitte LLP were first appointed b the Compan in 2002.
The current audit partner was appointed in 2008 and will be replaced b rotation Iollowing the completion oI the 2012 audit.
A rigorous process was conducted b the Chairman oI the Audit Committee together with the Finance Director to select the new lead audit partner.
The Committee recommend their reappointment Ior 2012 13 and Mudges them on the Tualit oI their audit findings, managements response and stakeholder Ieedback.
It also took note oI the findings set out in the Public Report on the 201112 inspection oI Deloitte carried out b the Audit Inspection Unit.
Furthermore, the Committee considers their independence is displa ed through their challenge to management.
It is a specic responsibilit oI the Audit Committee to ensure that an appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group and its auditors.
The Group has a polic oI controlling the provision oI non audit services b the e[ternal auditors in order to maintain their independence and ensure that their obMectivit and independence are saIeguarded.
This control is e[ercised b ensuring non audit proMects, where Iees are e[pected to e[ceed 50,000, are subMect to the prior approval oIthe Chairman oI the Audit Committee, who reports an such approvals at the ne[t meeting oI the Audit Committee.
In addition, where a proposed service is outside the normal scope oI non audit services, the engagement must be approved in advance b the Chairman oI the Audit Committee.
In awarding work Ior non audit services, the Group takes into account a range oI Iactors including Tualit oI service, cost eIIectiveness, and historic knowledge oI the business or sector.
The Committee has scrutinised the internal procedures oI Deloitte LLP and satisfied itselI that the independence and obMectivit oI the auditors are not aIIected b the non audit work undertaken.
Full details oI the split between audit and non audit Iees can be Iound in note 6 on page 77.
Internal audit function The Group engages.
PMG to perIorm internal control audits at its main oIces.
This work is coordinated b the Head oI Internal Controls and Procedures who reports.
PMGs findings directl to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considers the Group to have an eIIective independent internal audit Iunction.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibilit Ior the Groups s stem oI internal control and risk management and Ior reviewing its eIIectiveness.
In discharging that responsibilit, the Board confirms that it has established the procedures necessar to appl the Code, including clear operating procedures, lines oI responsibilit and delegated authorit, which are reviewed regularl.
Business perIormance is managed closel and the Board has established processes, as part oI the normal good management oI the business, to monitor: Strategic plan achievement, through a regular review oI progress towards strategic obMectives Financial perIormance, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting Iramework, including budgeting and Iorecasting, financial reporting, anal sing variances against plan, e[change rate volatilit, and taking appropriate management action Capital investment and asset management perIormance, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews and ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Principal risks and risk management processes, which accords with the Turnbull guidance, and that the significant risks Iaced b the Group are being identied, evaluated and appropriatel managed, having regard to the balance oI risk, cost and opportunit.
Risk management process There is in place an ongoing process Ior identiI ing, evaluating and managing the significant risks Iaced b the Group, which has operated throughout the financial ear.
These are reviewed b the Board at each meeting and also in detail b the Audit Committee once a ear.
The risk Iramework governs the management and control oI both financial and non financial risks.
The adoption oI this polic throughout the Group enables a consistent approach to the management oIrisk at both regional and business unit level.
In addition, during the financial ear, the Audit Committee received: Reports Irom the Head oI Internal Controls and Procedures on the work carried out under the annual internal audit plan Risk management reports, including the status oI actions to mitigate maMor risks and the Tuantication oI selected risks both at Group level and b each individual business unit and, Reports Irom the e[ternal auditors.
Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board conducted a review oI the eIIectiveness oI the s stem oI internal control during the financial ear.
The s stem oI internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk oI Iailure to achieve business obMectives and can onl provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that conte[t, the review, in the opinion oI the Board, did not indicate that the s stem was ineIIective or unsatisIactor and the Board is not aware oI an change to this status up to the approval oI this report.
Michael Hartley Chairman oI the Audit Committee 3 December 2012 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 50
