Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance The Compan is committed to high standards oI corporate governance and supports the principles laid down in the U.
Corporate Governance Code issued b the Financial Reporting Council in Ma 2010 the Code.
This statement describes how the principles oI the Code are applied and reports on the Compan s compliance with the Codes provisions.
The Board considers that the Compan has been in compliance with all the principles and provisions oI the Code throughout the ear ended 30 September 2012 and to the date oI this report.
The Board The Board oI Directors the Board currentl has seven members, comprising the Non e[ecutive Chairman, ChieI E[ecutive, Finance Director, an additional E[ecutive Director, and three independent Non e[ecutive Directors.
All the Directors bring strong Mudgement to the Boards deliberations.
The Board is oI suIcient si]e and diversit that the balance oI skills and e[perience is considered to be appropriate Ior the reTuirements oI the business.
The Non e[ecutive Directors are all independent oI management and Iree Irom an business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances reIerred to in provision B.
1.1 oI the Code that could materiall interIere with the e[ercise oI independent and obMective Mudgement.
The Compan considers that the Chairman was independent on appointment.
The Non e[ecutive Directors were all appointed Ior an initial three ear term and, thereaIter, subMect to satisIactor perIormance, ma serve additional three ear terms.
Michael Hartle has served on the Board Ior more than nine ears, having been a Non e[ecutive Director since October 2003.
The Board highl values Mr Hartle s international e[perience and knowledge oI the sector in which ITE operates, and considers that the Tualit oI his continuing contribution to Board debate demonstrates an appropriate measure oI obMective anal sis and challenge.
It thereIore considers him to continue to be independent.
The Chairman and Chief Executive The diIIerent roles oI the Chairman and ChieI E[ecutive are acknowledged.
A responsibilit statement Ior each oI those roles hasbeen agreed and adopted b the Board.
Senior Independent Non-executive Director Michael Hartle was the senior independent Non e[ecutive Director throughout 2012.
His responsibilities included leading therecruitment process Ior the new Chairman, being available to liaise with shareholders who have concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels, being a sounding board Ior the Chairman and leading the annual perIormance evaluation oIthe Chairman.
The Directors The biographical details oI the Board members are set out on pages 40 and 41.
The Directors have all occupied, or occup, senior positions in U. and or non U. listed companies and have substantial e[perience in business.
The Non e[ecutive Directors do not participate in an oI the Groups pension schemes or in an oI the Groups bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
At all times at least halI the Board, e[cluding the Chairman, has comprised independent Non e[ecutive Directors.
At the AGM on 31 Januar 2013 all the Directors will once again oIIer themselves Ior re election in compliance with Code provision B.
Role of the Board The Board is collectivel responsible Ior the proper management oI the Compan.
The Board normall meets not less thanseven times each financial ear and has a Iormal schedule oI matters reserved to it Ior decision making, including responsibilit Ior the overall management and perIormance oI the Group and the approval oI its long term obMectives and commercial strateg, approval oI annual and interim results, annual budgets, material acTuisitions and disposals, material agreements and maMor capital commitments, approval oI treasur policies, and assessment oI its going concern position.
Board members receive appropriate documentation in advance oI each Board or Committee meeting which normall includes a detailed report on current trading and Iull papers on matters where the Board will be reTuired to make a decision or give approval.
There is an established procedure Ior the preparation and review, at least annuall, b the Board oI medium term plans andthe annual budget.
The business reports monthl on its perIormance against its agreed budget.
The Board receives amonthl update on perIormance and reviews an significant variances.
All maMor investment decisions are subMect to post completion reviews.
During the ear the Chairman met with the Non e[ecutive Directors without the E[ecutive Directors present.
Directors and OIcers insurance cover, is provided b the Compan, in line with normal market practice, Ior the benefit oI Directors in respect oI claims arising in the perIormance oI their duties.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board effectiveness review The Iormal annual review oI the perIormance oI the Board, its Committees and the Directors was carried out beIore the ear end.
This consisted oI an internall run e[ercise led b the Chairman assisted b the Compan Secretar.
The appraisal Tuestionnaire used as part oI the process was wide ranging and included Tuestions covering both Board and Committee perIormance.
Individual perIormance was reviewed b the Chairman who, in turn, was appraised b the Senior Independent Director aIter consultation with both the other Non e[ecutive Directors and the E[ecutive Directors.
The appraisal confirmed that the Board and its Committees were operating eIIectivel.
The Ieedback received Irom thereview resulted in a clear action plan Ior the ear ahead which includes Iurther renement oI the Groups strategic obMectives, the ongoing development oI senior management, closer monitoring oI relationships with ke partners and stakeholders, and improving the wa s the Group communicates internall.
Independent professional advice The Board has approved a procedure Ior Directors to take independent proIessional advice at the Compan s e[pense, iI reTuired.
No such advice was sought b an Director during the ear.
In addition, the Directors have direct access to the advice and services oI the Compan Secretar.
Training and development An induction programme is arranged Ior newl appointed Directors which includes presentations on the business, current strateg and shareholder e[pectations.
Guidance is also given on the duties, responsibilities and liabilities oI a Director oI a listed compan and ke Board policies and procedures.
Business Iamiliarisation involves Directors visiting e[hibitions in markets in which the Group operates to gain a greater understanding oI the Groups activities and to meet senior managers throughout the business.
Ever Director has access to training as reTuired and is encouraged to continue his or her own proIessional development through attendance at seminars and briengs.
During the ear, Linda Jensen completed the Financial Times Non e[ecutive Director Certicate programme, which is a Iormall accredited post graduate level Tualication Ior non e[ecutives.
Conicts of interest The Compan s Articles oI Association, in line with the Companies Act 2006, allow the Board to authorise potential conicts oI interest that ma arise and impose limits or conditions, as appropriate.
The Compan has established a procedure whereb an decision oI the Board to authorise a conict oI interest is onl eIIective iI it is agreed without the conicted Directors voting or without their votes being counted.
In making such a decision, as alwa s, the Directors must act in a wa the consider in good Iaith will be most likel to promote the success oI the Compan.
No reTuest to authorise an actual or potential conict oI interest was made during the ear.
Board Committees There are a number oI standing Committees oI the Board to which various matters are delegated.
The all have Iormal terms oI reIerence approved b the Board which are available on the Groups website www.
Their reports are set out on pages 49 to 58.
Attendance at meetings Attendance oI Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the ear was as Iollows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Neil England 75 7 4 Michael Hartle 75 7 6 Linda Jensen 75 7 6 Neil Jones 7 Iain Paterson resigned 23 March 2012 3 4 5 Marco Sodi appointed 1 Februar 2012 5 4 2 Edward Strachan 7 Russell Ta lor 7 Total number of meetings 75 7 6 Shareholder relations The Compan is committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders and has a well established c cle oI communication based on the Groups financial reporting calendar.
The Chairman, ChieI E[ecutive and Finance Director, have dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and general presentations are given to anal sts and investors covering the annual and interim results.
During the ear, a presentation was made to Board members b the Compan s brokers to update them on the views oI maMor shareholders about the Compan.
The Board also received institutional and anal sts Ieedback Iollowing both the interim and annual results roadshows.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 46 Overview Business Review Governance Financial statements The Business Review set out on pages 8 to 39 details the financial perIormance oI the Compan as well as setting out the risks it Iaces and plans Ior the Iuture.
All shareholders will have the opportunit to ask Tuestions at the Compan s AGM on 31 Januar 2013.
At the AGM, the Chairman will give a statement on current trading conditions.
The Chairmen oI the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees will be available to answer Tuestions at the AGM.
In addition, the Groups website containing published inIormation and press releases can be Iound at www.
com Whistle-blowing arrangements The Compan has an established polic which enables and encourages staII to report in confidence an possible improprieties in either financial reporting or other matters.
Corporate social responsibility Neil Jones, Finance Director, is the Board sponsor Ior environmental, social governance, communit investment and other corporate social responsibilit matters.
ASB Guidance on narrative reporting The Compan considers that it is in compliance with the additional guidance on narrative reporting Ior U. companies published b the Accounting Standards Board in Januar 2008.
Anti-corruption policy As part oI ITEs commitment to preventing briber and establishing a culture that does not tolerate corruption wherever and in whatever Iorm it ma be encountered, a Iormal anti corruption polic was approved b the Board in 2011 and appropriate procedures put in place, in line with guidance provided b the Ministr oI Justice to ensure compliance with current legislation and the Compan s polic and related procedures.
During the ear anti briber and corruption training was rolled out to the Board and the Groups senior management as part oI an ongoing programme to heighten awareness oI this subMect.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
