ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Audit Committee Report Strong and effective risk management and control procedures underpin our ability to execute our Transformation Plan and implement our strategy.
Dear Shareholder, On the following pages we set out the Audit Committees Who is on the Committee Report for 2012.
The report comprises four sections: The Committee is composed entirely of non-executive Directors.
The current members are: F How the Committee works F What we focused on in 2012 F John Ormerod Chairman F Internal controls F Mike Clasper F Our auditors F Andy Haste Our principal aims have been to ensure the integrity of the Full details of attendance at Committee meetings can gnancial information provided to our stakeholders and be found in the table on page 65. to assist the Board to monitor and evaluate the internal control environment.
Strong and effective risk management and control procedures underpin our ability to execute our Consistent with these aims, in 2012 the Committee Transformation Plan and implement our strategy.
conducted a tender for audit services.
We compared the quality and effectiveness of audit services offered and In 2012, the Committee has sought to widen its focus to examined the qualigcations, independence and expertise include new and emerging risk areas such as mergers and of the grms under consideration.
The tender process acquisitions and the implementation of new technologies, is described on page 72.
Whilst we do not propose to which will underpin future performance.
change grm, the tender has been a valuable exercise.
It has generated changes in the audit approach that rehect There is considerable debate around the role of audit the changes in our business linked more explicitly to the committees which we welcome, follow with interest and in Transformation Plan and changing media landscape.
Those which we participate where relevant.
We continue to seek changes include greater depth in international coverage to improve our report on the activity of this Committee and increased use of technology and any early focus on new to give shareholders a clearer picture of the key issues we revenue streams.
These changes are all designed to support consider and how we discharge our responsibilities.
We are a robust audit and provide clear relevant feedback to the open to feedback and dialogue with shareholders on audit Committee.
The FRC released its Guidance for Audit Committees in John Ormerod September 2012 which is designed to provide guidance Chairman, Audit Committee to company boards in making suitable arrangements for 27 February 2013 audit committees.
We have reviewed this guidance and are supportive of its aims to enhance disclosure and increase investor congdence in the audit process and integrity of company accounts.
com Stock code: ITV What is our role?
How the Committee works The role of the Committee includes to: The Committee members have a wide range of business and gnancial experience between them which enables F monitor the integrity of the published gnancial the Committee to fulgl its terms of reference in a robust information of the Company: and independent manner.
The Committee considers that John Ormerod has recent and relevant gnancial experience F review and report to the Board on the signigcant gnancial for the purposes of the Code.
Biographical details of the reporting issues and judgements made in connection with members of the Committee, including their qualigcations the preparation of the Companys gnancial statements and experience, are set out on pages 58 and 59. having regard to matters communicated by the auditor, interim reports, preliminary announcements and related Members of the Management Board and other senior formal statements: management regularly attend meetings at the invitation F review the effectiveness of the internal control and risk of the Chairman of the Committee together with the Head management systems: of Internal Audit Deloitte and the external auditor KPMG.
F review the arrangements for employees to raise concerns, The Committee as a whole meets privately with the internal in congdence, about possible wrongdoing in gnancial and external auditors prior to meetings on a regular basis.
reporting or other matters: F monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit In addition, throughout the year the Chairman of the function: Committee meets informally and has open lines of communication with the Group Finance Director, Head of F review the quality and effectiveness of the external audit Internal Audit and the senior engagement team from the and the procedures and controls designed to ensure external auditors.
This group generally meets ahead of each auditor independence: and full Audit Committee meeting to prepare and identify key F consider and make recommendations to the Board areas for consideration by the Committee.
in relation to the appointment, reappointment, replacement, and remuneration of the Companys The Committee works to a structured programme of external auditor.
activities with agenda items focused to coincide with key events of the annual gnancial reporting cycle, together with The Committees terms of reference can be accessed on the standing items that the Committee is required to consider Companys website at www.
regularly under its terms of reference.
The agenda changes to respond to key issues and plans in ITV and the results of the Committees work are reported to the Board.
The Committee works principally from a risk based agenda by reviewing presentations and reports from management, internal audit and external audit.
The Committee raises questions and, where appropriate, challenges information in these reports and communicates its views to the Board.
The Committee members also meet informally with members of the management team.
71 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Audit Committee Report continued F Audit tender: as KPMG had been the Companys auditor What we focused on in 2012 since 2004, the Committee felt that it was appropriate The Committee receives detailed reports on all key and in keeping with good governance to conduct a judgements and continues to challenge auditor tender for audit services.
In response to our statement independence and fees.
of intention in last years report three grms were shortlisted, each with strengths and capabilities relevant to Some of the key issues we considered during the year include: ITV.
After careful and thorough evaluation of what each grm had to offer, the Committee concluded that KPMGs F Financial reporting: the Committee reviewed the approach and detailed knowledge of our business made gnancial information published by the Company, including them the best grm to serve ITV.
Although we do not the annual gnancial statements and interim gnancial propose to change auditor, the tender was a valuable report.
To assist its review the Committee received process as it generated positive change in the audit reports from management and from the auditors on approach.
compliance with accounting standards, key judgements in preparation of the gnancial statements and compliance of those statements with best practice and laid down F Mergers and acquisitions process: the Committee disclosure standards.
reviewed the mergers and acquisitions guidelines including due diligence and approvals.
The guidelines are in place to ensure that opportunities are balanced with In considering reports on 2012 the Committee has appropriate consideration of risk and that transactions considered judgements applied in establishing provisions are aligned with strategy.
Recent material acquisition for taxation and pension obligations and accounting for opportunities have been considered against these multi-year broadcasting rights.
with impairment and the application of the going concern basis were also considered.
The signigcance of these judgements has signigcantly diminished over recent years F Bribery and Fraud: the Committee monitored the as the Companys operating and gnancial performance systems and controls in place for the prevention of has strengthened.
F Risk management: the Committee continued to F Whistleblowing: the Committee oversaw updates to consider the process for managing risk within the ITVs whistleblowing policy and procedures.
Risk management procedures introduced in 2011 were reviewed and the Committee noted that The Committee also conducted its annual review of the these procedures are now increasingly embedded in the Group insurance programme and treasury policies.
Further work to increase their effectiveness will be undertaken in 2013 and will be Annual Review reviewed by the Committee.
An annual review of our performance was conducted as part of the annual board evaluation process.
In addition F Technology governance: as part of the Transformation to feedback from members of the Committee, input was Plan the Company has undertaken and continues sought from the Group Finance Director, KPMG, Deloitte and to undertake radical changes to its technology the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee has focused on reviewing and advising on the governance structures for various Overall, the review concluded that the Committee is systems and processes.
responding appropriately to its terms of reference.
The Committee will continue to shift its focus to consider controls in new and developing areas such as international operations, the impact of newly acquired businesses, pay television and programme progtability.
com Stock code: ITV F Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of Internal controls internal controls: controls are monitored by senior The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups management, internal audit and the Committee.
systems of internal control and for regularly reviewing the Remedial plans are put in place where controls are weak effectiveness of those systems.
The Committee assists the or there are opportunities for improvement.
Serious Board in reviewing the Groups systems of internal control.
control weaknesses if any are reported to the Board and The primary responsibility for the operation of these actions taken as appropriate.
systems is delegated to management.
Such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Key control procedures are Our auditors designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can be Internal auditor summarised as follows: The Groups internal audit activity is outsourced to Deloitte who report directly to the Committee.
The Committee keeps F Strategy and gnancial reporting: the strategy is under review the internal audit relationship with Deloitte reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Group performs and the procedures to ensure appropriate independence of a comprehensive annual strategy review and gve-year the internal audit function is maintained.
In particular, the gnancial planning exercise.
The gve-year plan feeds Committee has approved guidelines in relation to other into the annual budget cycle.
The Executive Directors advisory and consultancy work that Deloitte may undertake review formal forecasts, detailed budgets, strategies and for the Company further information is provided in the action plans and the Board approves the overall Group Remuneration Report on page 76.
An evaluation exercise is budget as part of its normal responsibilities.
The results of undertaken annually to review performance.
operating units are reported monthly, with actual results compared to budget and forecasts and key trends and During the year the Committee considered and approved variances explained and analysed.
the internal audit plan and reviewed internal audit reports, the actions taken to implement the recommendations made in the reports and the status of progress against F Organisational structure and authorisation procedures: previously agreed actions.
The plan is developed on a risk the Group has an established organisational structure basis driven by overall assurance maps.
with clearly stated lines of responsibility, approval levels and delegated authorities.
External auditor Independence, objectivity and fees F Risk assessment and management: management is The Committee regularly monitors the other services responsible for identifying the risks facing the business being provided to the Group by its external auditor, and has and for establishing controls and procedures to monitor developed a formal policy to ensure this does not impair and mitigate those risks.
The policy is based on the gve key principles which underpin the provision of other The Board is responsible for establishing a robust risk services by the external auditor.
These are that the auditor management process and for regularly reviewing the may not provide a service which: identiged risks.
The Committee keeps the effectiveness of the process under regular review.
Details of the F places them in a position to audit their own work: Companys key risks can be found on pages 48 and 49.
F creates a mutuality of interest: F results in the auditor developing close personal F Control environment: gnancial controls, policies, and relationships with ITV employees: procedures are considered as part of the Groups ongoing risk assessment process.
These controls are reviewed F results in the auditor functioning as a manager or to ensure risks are identiged and the processes and employee of ITV: or procedures are in accordance with and aligned to the F puts the auditor in the role of advocate for ITV.
The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the effectiveness of the Groups systems The policy is reviewed annually and is available in full on the of internal control and risk management, reporting to Companys website at www.
both the Management Board and the Committee.
Other than in exceptional circumstances management and the Committee do not expect non-audit fees to be in excess 73 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Audit Committee Report continued of fees for audit and audit related services and generally less.
The non-audit fees for 2012 were half that of the audit fees.
A report on the level of non-audit work provided by the auditor is given to the Committee half yearly.
Details of the related audit and other services are set out in section 2 on page 109.
The signigcant engagements relate to VAT and corporate tax services, including tax restructuring advice.
Signigcant engagements require the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The senior audit partner serves no more than gve years continuously and the independent review partner serves no more than seven years continuously.
Other key partners serve no longer than seven consecutive years.
The Committee monitors the tenure of partners and senior staff as well as former employees working for the Company.
The appointment by the Company of former senior employees of the external auditor would require approval of the Committee.
Reappointment During the year the Committee considered the performance and audit fees of the external auditor, and the level of nonaudit work undertaken, and recommended to the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc for a further year as the Companys auditor be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in May 2012.
The resolution was passed and KPMG Audit Plc was reappointed for a further year.
Following the audit tender, the Committee has recommended the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc at the AGM in May 2013.
Performance The Committee performs a specigc evaluation of the performance of the external auditor annually, through assessment of the results of questionnaires completed by the executive Directors and relevant senior management in addition to committee members own views of auditor performance.
The Committee also reviews and discusses with the auditors the reports on KPMG and other major grms issued by the Audit Inspection Unit.
Approval The Audit Committee Report was approved by the Board on 27 February 2013 and signed on its behalf by John Ormerod.
