com Stock code: ITV Corporate Governance F Board members and Management Board members How the Board works Our role F Chairman and non-executive Directors the Chief The Board as a whole is collectively responsible for delivering Executive is sometimes invited to attend the long-term success of the Company by: F Senior Independent Director and non-executive Directors without the Chairman present F providing entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be What we have done in 2012 assessed and managed: Some of the things the Board has focused on during 2012 F supporting the executive team to formulate and execute include: the Companys long-term objectives and strategy, ensuring that the necessary gnancial and other resources UK and international content strategy are in place for the Company to meet its objectives, and Pay strategy reviewing management performance: and Further review of news strategy F setting the Companys values and standards and ensuring Rebrand that its obligations to its shareholders and others are Succession planning understood and met.
Governance and board performance Plans for 2013 There is a schedule of specigc matters reserved to the Board Some of the things the Board is planning for 2013 include: for decision which is available on our website at www.
Broadcast strategy Risk appetite, progle and mitigation Our meetings Five year plan review The number of meetings held during the year and attendance of Directors is set out in the table on page 65.
The Board agrees an annual schedule of matters it Board Composition wishes to consider at each of its meetings and those of its committees.
The schedule ensures that all relevant matters Executive for the Board are considered and receive appropriate attention.
Meetings are normally held at one of the London sites and at least once a year they are held at one of the 25% regional or international ofgces.
In 2012 the Board met colleagues in Manchester where they were able to see the Non-executive developments at Media City.
Board meetings are structured around the following areas: 75% F Operational and functional updates F Financial updates Read more on Diversity Pages 52, 53 and 67.
F Strategy and risk F Progress against Transformation Plan priorities F Other reporting and items for approval F Feedback from committees Senior executives and other colleagues are regularly invited to attend meetings for specigc items.
In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, meetings take place between: 63 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Corporate Governance continued Our Governance structure Board Chairman, two Executive Directors, gve non-executive Directors Remuneration Committee Chairman and three non-executive General Purpose Management Board Directors Committee Senior executives of Group functions Executive Directors and divisional businesses Audit Committee Disclosure Committee Three non-executive Directors Divisional Boards Executive Directors and other Studios Board and Broadcast Board senior management Executive Directors and senior executives of divisional businesses Nomination Committee Chairman and non-executive Directors The diagram above shows ITVs governance structure.
Mike Clasper completed seven years as a non-executive Director in January 2013 and has been asked by the Board to Details of membership of the Management Board can be continue in this position for a further twelve month period.
Archie Norman has served as Chairman of ITV for three years The Board has approved a formal framework for the and the Board has agreed that he should serve a further approval of expenditure within the Company around this three year term as Chairman.
As recommended by the Code, there will be resolutions to Who is on our Board and how we work as a team re-elect each of the Directors at the AGM in May 2013.
Composition and appointments Details of Board membership during 2012 is set out in the Non-executive Directors are expected to commit at least table on page 65.
18 to 20 days per annum to the Company and the Board is satisged that each of the non-executive Directors commits In October 2012 the Board appointed Roger Faxon as a sufgcient time to the business of the Company.
Roger was selected from a number of the terms of engagement for the non-executive Directors of potential candidates.
The Board felt that Rogers wealth can be found on our website at www.
com about of experience in the adaptation of media and rights governance.
management business to the digital world would be an asset to the Board and assist with the execution of the Skills and experience Transformation Plan.
Executive search grm, JCA Group, were Biographical details, including prior experience, for each of engaged to assist with the rigorous selection process.
JCA the Directors are set out on pages 58 and 59.
Group have no other connection with ITV.
There are job descriptions in place for each of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, and the Senior Independent Director which have been agreed by the Board.
com Stock code: ITV The Board is still of the view that the non-executive Directors are independent in both character and judgement.
They constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
The Board works well together bringing strong, independent, balanced judgement, knowledge, and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Each non-executive Director has appropriate skills and experience that their views carry signigcant weight in the Boards decision making.
Board and Committee membership and attendance at meetings in 2012 Scheduled meetings shown in black and ad hoc meetings shown in orange.
Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Date of appointment Status to the Board 9 1 1 2 4 3 4 4 Mike Clasper Independent SID 3 January 2006 9 1 1 2 4 3 4 4 Adam Crozier Executive 26 April 2010 9 1 Roger Faxon Independent 31 October 2012 1 0 1 2 Ian Griffiths Executive 9 September 2008 9 1 Andy Haste Independent 11 August 2008 9 1 1 2 4 3 4 4 Lucy Neville-Rolfe Independent 3 September 2010 9 0 1 2 Archie Norman Independent Chairman 1 January 2010 9 1 1 2 4 1 John Ormerod Independent 18 January 2008 9 1 1 1 4 3 4 4 Notes: 1 Roger Faxon joined the Board on 31 October 2012.
8 of the 9 scheduled Board meetings were held prior to his appointment.
Board Committees In addition to considering matters under its terms of The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its reference, the Committee considered candidates for a committees.
The terms of reference for each committee non-executive Director appointment.
The Committee also are reviewed annually and the current versions are available reviewed a detailed succession planning framework and on the Companys website at www.
com about undertook an annual review of conhicts of interest.
Full details of attendance at Committee meetings can be Audit Committee: see the Audit Committee Report on found in the table above.
General Purpose Committee: the Committee is composed Remuneration Committee: see the Remuneration Report of the Executive Directors.
The Committee meets as on page 75. required to conduct the Companys business within the clearly degned limits delegated by the Board and subject to Nomination Committee: the Committee is composed of those matters reserved to the Board.
Disclosure Committee: the Committee is composed of The role of the Nomination Committee is to: members of the senior management team.
The function of the Committee, in accordance with the Companys Inside F review the structure, size, and composition of the Board, Information Policy, is to ensure compliance with continuing including skills, knowledge and experience: obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules.
F identify and nominate for board approval candidates to gll Board vacancies: F consider succession planning for Directors and other senior executives: and F consider and review any conhicts of interest that may be reported by the Directors.
65 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Corporate Governance continued The chart below shows the current balance of the Board.
Effectiveness Evaluation The Board has established a process for the annual Board Tenure evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees, and individual Directors.
The Directors are made aware 02 years on appointment that their performance will be subject to an annual evaluation and that a Director would not be put up for re-election at an AGM unless the Chairman has 12.5% decided that they continue to perform effectively and show commitment to the role.
24 years How the evaluation process works The evaluation of Directors focuses on processes, roles and 37.5% responsibilities, culture, balance of skills and experience, diversity and how the Board works together.
In particular, 47 years the evaluation focuses on how effective the Directors are in assisting the executive team in achievement of the Transformation Plan.
50% In 2012 the Board engaged YSC, a global grm of business psychologists, to conduct a detailed board development Succession planning review.
YSC conducted a series of interviews with Directors The Board has agreed a succession planning framework to and senior Executives, reviewed key Board papers and ensure that: attended several Board and Committee meetings, both formal and informal.
A detailed report was considered at F board tenure is appropriate and encourages fresh thinking the Board meeting in January 2013 and further work will be and new ideas: undertaken over the next few months to build on this work F the Board is sufgciently diverse but most importantly has and create a Board development plan.
the appropriate mix of generalist and specialist skills: and F non-executive Directors have the appropriate level of Succession planning and diversity independence, from the executive and each other.
Board tenure All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of When planning succession within the Company Association to be elected by shareholders at the grst AGM consideration is given to emergency cover together with following their appointment by the Board.
Subsequently, all medium and long-term succession.
There is particular Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least emphasis on growing the internal leadership pipeline every three years.
However, as recommended by the Code, through the launch of the following key programmes: all Directors will be submitted for re-election at the AGM in 2013.
F Executive Development Programme for next generation potential board successors giving them an opportunity to develop their management potential and gain a greater understanding of the business F Developing Future Leaders Programme for delegates selected from across the business identiged as a result of the performance review process.
Content includes understanding what it means to be a leader at ITV, how to manage performance effectively, coaching skills and change management 66 ar2012.
com Stock code: ITV F Graduate Programme launched in September 2012 The Board recognises that diversity in board composition is important in ensuring its effectiveness and considers F Apprentice Programme launched in November 2012 diversity to extend beyond gender alone to incorporate executive and other experience.
When considering A comprehensive portfolio of development courses and new appointments it is the Boards policy to give equal workshops for all colleagues which address common consideration to these factors.
development needs is in place.
Induction and continuing professional development Diversity The Company has a policy and programme for induction The Board is proud of the diversity within ITV as a whole.
and continuing professional development of Directors.
On Diversity within the organisation is integral to achieving our appointment, each Director takes part in a comprehensive business aims.
Rehecting the demographics of our customers induction programme where they: assists in understanding their needs and ensuring that our brand, services and products have relevance and a wide appeal.
F receive information about the Group in the form of presentations by executives from all parts of the business The Companys aim is to rehect UK demographics both and on the regulatory environment: representationally within the organisation and on-screen.
F meet representatives of the Companys key advisers: Year-on-year progress has been achieved in working towards this target.
Key activity in 2012 included: F receive information about the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference F Awareness training for line managers, supervisors and and membership of board committees and the powers programme makers delegated to those committees: F Sustaining programme portrayal monitoring across 80% F receive information about the Companys corporate of our programmes governance practices and procedures and the latest gnancial information about the Group: and F Positive action writers scheme to attract and retain minority talent F are advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a director of a listed company.
F Workshops across the country to support future generations of diverse talent from BAME Black, Asian, Minority Ethnics and individuals with disabilities This is supplemented by visits to key locations, including studios and regional sites, and meetings with key senior executives and with major shareholders where appropriate.
The Company is a member of a number of national and sector specigc equality and diversity organisations.
In The key stages of the induction programme are: addition, a number of joint industry-wide activities have been undertaken including a senior diversity mentoring Stage one Matters covered programme and Equality Act workshop for independent Provision of documents Duties of a Director, board programme suppliers.
The Company is recognised as a procedures, board and strategy positive employer and holds the two-tick disability symbol.
papers and corporate governance Stage two Matters covered The table below sets out diversity data for ITV including the Meeting with CEO and Group Business overview, current trading ITV Senior Leadership Team SLT which comprises the top Finance Director and key commercial issues 140 executives.
Meetings with non-executive Open discussion forums SLT Other SLT Other Directors 2012 2012 2011 2011 Average age 45 37 44 37 Meetings with Management Commercial issues and projects Average service years 9.3 7.5 8.0 7.8 Board members and other Male 62% 48% 64% 51% senior executives Female 38% 52% 36% 49% BAME 9.71% 10.80% 8% 9% Stage three Matters covered Declared Disability 1.36% 2.42% 1% 2% Site visits Understanding of the business and operations 67 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Corporate Governance continued During their period in ofgce, the Directors are continually Risk management updated on the Groups businesses and the competitive and Details of our High Impact Low Likelihood HILL and regulatory environments in which they operate.
This is done strategic risks and our approach to risk management are set through: out on pages 48 and 49.
F updates and papers which cover changes affecting the Internal Control Group and the market in which it operates: The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls for the year ended F meetings with senior executives across the Group and key 31 December 2012.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company advisers: has complied with the internal control requirements of the F regular updates on changes to the legal and governance Code throughout the year, maintaining an ongoing process requirements of the Group and in relation to their own for identifying, evaluating, and minimising risk.
Further position as Directors: and information is set out in the Audit Committee Report on F presentations given at board and committee meetings page 73. on business matters and technical update sessions from external advisers where appropriate.
Going Concern The going concern statement is set out on page 102.
As part of their professional development Executive Directors may accept external appointments as nonRelations with shareholders executive directors of other companies and retain any The Board attaches a high priority to effective related fees paid to them.
Details of fees received by communication with shareholders and has regular and Executive Directors during 2012 can be found in the open dialogue with our institutional investors.
The Board Remuneration Report on 84. believes that continued engagement with our shareholders is benegcial to both ITV and its stakeholders as it helps Conflicts of interest to build a greater understanding of investors views, The Board has delegated the authorisation of conhicts to opinions and concerns.
Adam Crozier, Ian Grifgths and the Nomination Committee and has adopted a Conhicts of our investor relations team meet with many institutional Interest Policy.
investors throughout the year to keep them updated on the Companys performance and the Transformation The Board has considered in detail the current external Plan.
These range from one-to-one meetings to group appointments of the Directors which may give rise to a presentations including the Full year and Interim results and situational conhict and has authorised potential conhicts the AGM.
Specigcally, following the Full year and Interim where appropriate.
results one-to-one meetings are held with our largest institutional investors.
This authorisation can be reviewed at any time but will always be subject to annual review.
The Board is congdent The Chairman responds to shareholder queries and holds that these procedures operate effectively.
Insurance and indemnities The Company maintains a programme of engagement The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors with the investment community, including the results and ofgcers which is renewed on an annual basis.
The presentations, briegngs to brokers and other sales forces Company has also entered into deeds of indemnity with and attendance at a number of investor conferences.
A copy of the indemnity can be found on our Presentations given to the investment community are website at www.
available to download from our website at www.
Accountability The Board periodically reviews material internal controls We regularly seek feedback on the perception of the including gnancial, operational, and compliance controls and Company amongst shareholders and the investor risk management systems.
community more broadly via our corporate brokers.
Investor comments are fed back to the Board and its committees regularly.
com Stock code: ITV The Company considers annually whether it is appropriate to commission an investor audit.
No audit was undertaken in 2012.
Private shareholders represent more than 95% of our shareholders holding 3.29% of our shares.
We encourage shareholders to register their email addresses to receive information from us in a timely manner.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM for 2013 will be held on 15 May 2013 further details can be found on page 90.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions being proposed.
The Notice, together with any related documents, is made available to shareholders at www.
com investors , or is mailed to them, if they have elected to receive hard copies, at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Last year all resolutions were passed with votes ranging from 90.03% to 100%.
The meeting is normally attended by approximately 200 shareholders.
Shareholders are invited to meet the Directors prior to and after the formal proceedings.
At the meeting the Chairman and Chief Executive will review the Groups current trading which is followed by a question and answer session.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue and all resolutions are taken on a poll.
The level of votes lodged on each resolution is made available on a regulatory information service and on the Companys website at www.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
Shareholders who are not able to attend the meeting can vote online in advance at www.
com or by completing and returning a form of proxy.
Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board will attend the AGM.
69 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview
