com Stock code: ITV Other Governance and Statutory Disclosures Trusts: The Company has a discretionary trust funded Substantial shareholdings by loans to acquire shares for the potential benegt of As at 31 December 2012 the Company had received employees of the Group.
Details of shares held by the trust notigcations from the following companies and institutions at 31 December 2012 are set out on page 149.
During the of the voting interests of themselves and their clients in 3% year shares have been released from the trust in respect of or more of the issued ordinary share capital carrying rights share schemes for employees.
to vote in all circumstances of the Company numbers of shares and percentage interests are as at the notigcation Change of control dates.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special At 31 December 2012 rights with regard to control of the Company.
Shares % 1 Sky Holdings Ltd 291,684,730 7.46 All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions Blackrock, Inc. 195,504,921 5.00 relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 194,304,930 4.97 options would normally vest and become exercisable on AXA S. A 170,580,317 4.36 a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any Legal and General Investment performance conditions.
Certain of the Groups bonds Management Ltd 153,692,144 3.93 borrowing facilities have change of control clauses whereby Majedie Asset Management Limited 195,687,610 5.00 the issuer can require ITV to repay redeem bonds in the Notes: 1 event of a change of control.
The Company is not aware of Subsidiary of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc.
2 A progle of shareholdings is set out on page 157. any other signigcant agreements to which it is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of Following the year end, a notigcation was received from AXA the Company.
S. A that their interest had risen to 5.06%.
Creditor payment policy Share capital The Companys policy, in relation to all its suppliers, is to Issued: At the date of this report there were 3,912,303,883 settle the terms of payment when agreeing the terms of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue, all of which are the transaction, ensure awareness of the terms and to abide fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
by those terms provided that it is satisged that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the Rights: The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary agreed terms and conditions.
The Company does not follow shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, any code or standard payment practice.
The number of days are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Unless purchases outstanding for payment by the Company as at expressly speciged to the contrary, the Articles may only be 31 December 2012 was nil days 2011: nil.
amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
A copy of the Articles can be obtained from the Companys website Pensions at www.
com about governance or by writing to the The Group operates a pension scheme which provides Company Secretary.
retirement and death benegts for employees of ITV.
The ITV Pension Scheme the Scheme comprises three sections: Restrictions: There are no restrictions on the transfer of A, B and C. Section A includes the degned contribution ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than DC section of the Scheme.
The DC section is open to new those which may be imposed by law from time to time.
The majority of degned benegt DB sections accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency rules, were closed to new members in 2002 with the last section certain employees are required to seek approval to deal in closing on 1 August 2007 but are still open to future accrual.
The Company is not aware of any agreements ITV Pension Scheme Limited the Trustee manages the DB between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the and DC assets of the Scheme, which are held under trust transfers of securities and or voting rights.
separately from those of the Group.
It is the responsibility of the Trustee to have in place appropriate training for its Purchase of own shares: The Directors have the authority directors, governance and effective committees.
to purchase up to 389.2 million of the Companys ordinary shares.
The authority remains valid until the 2013 Annual General Meeting, or 9 August 2013 if earlier.
89 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Other Governance and Statutory Disclosures continued The Trustee has four Committees: Investment, Audit and organisation the staging date.
For ITV, the staging date is Operations, DC and Corporate Affairs.
The Corporate Affairs 1 March 2013 and the Company has undertaken a project in Committee is convened as and when appropriate for dealing order to meet the requirements with effect from that date.
with any corporate activities that may arise.
Pension Scheme indemnities: Qualifying pension scheme The Trustee comprises nine directors the Trustee indemnity provisions, as degned in section 235 of the Chairman, together with four directors appointed by the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the gnancial year Company and four directors nominated by the members.
ended 31 December 2012 and remain in force for the benegt With effect from 31 December 2012 and after some 20 of each of the Directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited, a years in the role, Graham Parrott stepped down as Trustee subsidiary of ITV plc.
These indemnity provisions cover, to the Chairman and was replaced by Max Graesser.
During 2012, extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred one of the member nominated directors resigned and will as a director or ofgcer of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
be replaced by a new director on completion of a selection process.
Audit The Directors who held ofgce at the date of approval of The Trustee board and each Committee have a business the Directors Report congrm that, so far as they are each plan, which is reviewed and updated on an annual basis, aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the together with the associated budget.
The Trustee board also Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken has a risk register, a conhicts of interest policy and a register all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order of interests policy, all of which are reviewed at least annually.
to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that Trustee evaluations take place each year and are currently information.
being further developed as part of a continuing Trustee board effectiveness review.
The Trustee directors receive As recommended by the Audit Committee, a resolution regular training throughout the year: a minimum of two for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor to days training is expected to be undertaken.
Training the Company will be proposed at the 2013 Annual General requirements are identiged by reference to any skills gaps Meeting.
and specigc committee roles and training is delivered both by attendance at external courses and with targeted training Annual General Meeting to support specigc agenda items.
During early 2012, those The Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, Trustee directors who had not completed the Pension 15 May 2013 at 11.00 am at the Queen Elizabeth II Regulators toolkit received training on the Regulators Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London, Trustee Knowledge and Understanding scope guidance to SW1P 3EE.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting assist with completion of the toolkit.
contains an explanation of special business to be considered at the meeting.
A copy of the Notice will be available on the All advisers and suppliers are appointed through a rigorous Companys website at www.
tender process and are monitored through regular informal review meetings.
There is a timetable for completing By order of the Board a formal review of advisers.
The legal advisers, DC administrators and annuity brokers were formally reviewed Andrew Garard in 2012.
The legal advisers and DC administrators were Company Secretary reappointed: an new annuity broker was appointed.
27 February 2013 To encourage greater pension savings, the Government has introduced auto enrolment.
This requires employers to enrol eligible employees into a pension scheme automatically.
ITV plc The requirement to comply with the auto enrolment The London Television Centre regulations is being phased in with effect from 1 October Upper Ground 2012, with larger employers required to comply grst and with London medium-sized and smaller employers following at a later SE1 9LT period.
The size of an employers largest PAYE scheme will Registered number 4967001 determine the point at which the new duties affect their 90
