Corporate governance statement David Tyler Chairman One of our strengths continues to be our diversity which is the result Dear shareholder, of a high proportion of women having been appointed on merit throughout the organisation.
Although Val Gooding stepped down from Your Board is committed to the Board during the year to take up the role of Chairman at Premier Farnell plc, I am pleased to report that we continue to benefit from the effective governance and we very able contributions of Mary Harris and Anna Ford on our Board and believe that we have established Committees.
In addition, during the year, we have increased the number of women who hold the most senior executive positions in the Company.
a strong track record over We have 16 women in our 46 most senior executive positions, and overall 54 per cent of our 150,000 colleagues are female.
Earlier this year, we responded to the report Women on Boards by The governance agenda for the UKs largest companies has continued Lord Davies of Abersoch CBE and confirmed that we anticipate that we to attract attention since I last wrote to you in our 2011 Annual Report.
will maintain and, over time, increase these high proportions of women This is the first year that companies are required to report on their in board and senior positions and be at least in line with the Davies compliance against the standards of the new UK Corporate Governance recommendations, including the aspirational target that 25 per cent of Code the Code.
We have also seen specific aspects of governance board positions at FTSE 100 companies should be filled by women by maintaining a high profile, particularly board diversity and directors 2015.
Appointments, however, will continue to be made on merit.
remuneration and performance related pay.
Directors remuneration continues to attract much focus we believe The Code emphasises the need for well balanced, effective boards, that we have a good track record in this regard.
Our Directors salary strong oversight of risk management, alignment of remuneration increases have been in line with our wider colleague population for a policies with shareholder interests, and sound shareholder relations.
number of years, and that remains the case with the below inflation increases for 2012 13.
We have regularly consulted with our key investors The following pages explain how we apply these principles in order to when we have proposed any material changes to our remuneration help create long-term, sustainable growth in value for shareholders.
policy and this has helped us to develop a range of incentive plans which I can confirm that Sainsburys has complied with all provisions of the create a very strong link between Company performance and Directors Code during the last financial year.
pay, thereby aligning management and shareholders interests.
We have received strong support from shareholders over recent years for the In January 2011, a thorough review of your Boards performance policies and procedures that the Remuneration Committee has applied.
was completed by Manchester Square Partners, a board evaluation Our Remuneration Report is set out on pages 52 to 65 and describes both consultancy.
This confirmed that the Board was seen as being effective, the principles and the actual amounts earned by Directors during the year.
with a number of specific strengths as regards ethics, organisation, information, decision making and culture.
This year, the Board agreed that we should carry out an internal review and this is described in detail on pages 40 to 41.
This exercise showed that we had made satisfactory progress with the priorities that we identified last year as a result of the Manchester Square Partners review.
In particular, we have placed even greater emphasis on our strategic debate and I believe that this has been David Tyler particularly important against the background of the challenging economic Chairman and market conditions that we have faced, and has helped to deliver the pleasing financial results that have been achieved during the year.
38 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Corporate governance statement continued Performance management against delivery of the agreed key targets Compliance is reviewed at every meeting with particular reference to the detailed The following sections explain how the Company applies the main management accounts.
The Chief Executive, Group Commercial Director principles of Section 1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the and Chief Financial Officer comment on the market and current trading Code.
The Board is committed to strong governance and, during at each meeting.
the year, the Company has complied with all the provisions of the Code.
During the year the Board was fully engaged in the development and launch of our new brand, Live Well for Less, as well as the planning and The role of the Board roll out of Brand Match.
The Board also reviewed Sainsburys 20 by 20 The Board is chaired by David Tyler and, at the year-end, there were Sustainability Plan described in the Business review.
three Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
John McAdam is the Senior Independent Director.
The Directors biographical The Board reviews the Companys principal risks on an annual basis, details are set out on page 33. in addition to receiving regular updates on risk management and internal controls from the Chairman of the Audit Committee after each The Boards key focus in helping to create long-term sustainable value committee meeting.
The Board also receives an annual update on all for shareholders is on strategic leadership, performance management, matters relating to safety, supported by regular quarterly updates, investor relations, risk management and governance and succession together with updates on relevant controls and governance.
Any specific planning, each of which is described below.
We have a scheduled issues on these and other matters which might affect the Companys forward programme of Board meetings to ensure that the Board can reputation are reported to the Board as they occur.
The Board also allocate sufficient time to each of these key areas.
This enables us to reviewed Sainsburys business continuity and crisis management plan Board and Committee meetings appropriately and use the time processes and governance.
There is sufficient flexibility in the programme to enable specific items to be added to any particular agenda and this Turning to investor relations, the Board receives an annual independent ensures that the Board can focus on the key matters relating to the survey at the Strategy Conference which reports on the views of business at the appropriate time.
Our annual Board evaluation exercise major shareholders and analysts, together with updates at each enables us to review whether board meetings are structured with a clear Board meeting on the IR programme and feedback from major focus on the key issues facing the Company, with a full and open debate shareholders, particularly following each major announcement before major decisions are taken.
We ensure that all Directors are of the Companys results.
aware of the key discussions and decisions of each of the four principal Committees the Chairman of each Committee provides a detailed Succession plans and management development are considered by summary to all Directors at the Board meeting following the relevant the Nomination Committee each year at the time of the Strategy Committee meeting.
Minutes of Board and Committee meetings are Conference with specific follow up and updates thereafter as necessary.
circulated to Directors shortly after those meetings take place.
The The Nomination Committee also reviews succession to the Board.
Board has a schedule of formally reserved powers which it reviews each year and receives a number of in-depth presentations during the year Division of responsibilities on other key matters including pensions, treasury, brand management, There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and values and governance.
the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, During the year we increased the number of informal meetings of the ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda to enable the Board to Board, which was an agreed action from a previous Board evaluation.
fulfil all aspects of its role.
As set out above, we ensure that the Board These enable all the Directors to spend more time together and to discuss has sufficient time to allocate to its key areas of focus throughout specific areas of the business with individual Operating Board members.
the annual cycle of Board meetings.
The Chairman ensures effective communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the The Board continued to focus on strategic matters during the year.
He facilitates the contribution of the We hold a two-day Strategy Conference in the autumn, with the Non-Executive Directors through a culture of openness and debate, Operating Board Directors in attendance for the first day.
This enables and ensures constructive relations between the Executive and Nonthe Board to conduct an in-depth review of relevant economic factors Executive Directors.
and their likely impact on customers and the market, to evaluate key opportunities and threats, consider the draft budget and corporate The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of plan and agree the strategic goals for the short-term and longer the Company, and executing the strategy, once agreed by the Board.
The Board receives a detailed half-year update on He creates a framework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives progress against the agreed priorities and then, to complete the cycle to ensure the successful delivery of results, and allocates decision in July, agrees the objectives and principal areas of focus for the next making and responsibilities accordingly.
He takes a leading role, with conference.
Specific projects are considered at other meetings during the Chairman, in the relationship with all external agencies and in the year as necessary.
Our 2012 Board Evaluation exercise concluded promoting Sainsburys.
that the Board had made real progress in driving the strategic debate during the year.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 39 Corporate governance statement continued Independence Information and development The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly experience to Board and Committee deliberations.
On appointment briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full they confirm that they will have sufficient time available to be able to and timely access to relevant information.
The quality and supply of discharge their responsibilities effectively.
They are appointed for an information provided to the Board is reviewed as part of the Board initial three-year term, subject to election by shareholders at the first evaluation exercise.
The conclusion from this years evaluation was that AGM after their appointment, after which their appointment may be Board meetings and processes were very effective.
extended for a second term, subject to mutual agreement.
All members of the Board will retire by rotation and seek re-election by shareholders We have a programme for meeting Directors training and development at this years AGM in accordance with the Code.
Newly appointed Directors who do not have previous public company experience at Board level are provided with detailed The Companies Act 2006 provides that directors must avoid a situation training on their role and responsibilities.
All new Directors participate in where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, a comprehensive and tailored induction programme including store and or possibly may conflict, with a companys interests.
Directors of public depot visits and meetings with other members of the Board, members companies may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where of the Operating Board, senior management and external advisors.
The appropriate, if a companys articles of association permit.
Shareholders induction programme includes a full review of corporate responsibility.
approved the appropriate amendments to the Companys Articles at the Subsequent training is available on an ongoing basis to meet any 2008 AGM.
The Board has established procedures for the disclosure particular needs.
Matt Brittins induction programme has addressed all by Directors of any such conflicts, and also for the consideration and of these aspects since his appointment to the Board in January 2011. authorisation of these conflicts by the Board.
In accordance with the Act, the Board considered and authorised each Directors reported During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Fallowfield, has provided potential conflicts of interest during the year.
Whenever a Director takes updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, Directors on additional external responsibilities, the Board considers any potential duties and obligations, and new legislation and its impact on the conflicts that may arise and whether the Director continues to have Company, such as the 2011 Bribery Act.
The Audit Committee regularly sufficient time to fulfil his or her role as a Director of the Company.
The considers new accounting developments through presentations Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest from management and the external auditors.
The consultants to on a regular basis.
the Remuneration Committee advise the Committee on relevant governance and trends in remuneration.
The Board programme includes The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on his regular presentations from management and informal meetings which appointment to the Board in October 2009 and all the Non-Executive increase the Non-Executive Directors understanding of the business Directors are considered to be independent according to the provisions and the sector.
During the year the Board held a Board meeting at of the Code.
The Board has specifically considered the executive or our Coventry Store Support Centre and received presentations from non-executive roles that some of the Non-Executive Directors have with members of the general merchandise and clothing management teams.
companies who may be in competition with, or suppliers to Sainsburys.
Directors have visited stores and other sites as part of their continuing The Board is satisfied that the independence of the Directors who engagement with the business.
have executive or non-executive roles with other companies is not compromised and that they all have sufficient time available to devote All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company to the Company.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for governance matters.
The appointment and removal of During the year the Board considered Mike Coupes proposed the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
appointment as a Non-Executive Director of Greene King plc in There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board may approving the appointment the Board concluded that there was limited take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the potential for conflict with a small supplier and that, in any event, there furtherance of their duties.
were appropriate safeguards in place to manage any conflicts that might arise.
Moreover, joining the board of another listed company Board evaluation would provide a valuable development opportunity for Mike Coupe The Board agreed that the 2011 evaluation exercise should be facilitated and thereby benefit Sainsburys.
by Manchester Square Partners who had no other relationship with Sainsburys.
The key objectives agreed with the Chairman were to ask The Board also considered a potential conflict for Justin King, whose the Board to assess itself by defining its own objectives and analyse son, Jordan King, is one of the countrys top young racing drivers.
how it was performing against these objectives across number of His recent success is attracting interest from potential sponsors.
The review was conducted through a discussion framework Current sponsors include high net-worth individuals and companies circulated in advance to Directors, followed by one-to-one in depth with established interests in motor sport.
Some of the sponsors are interviews with all Directors and the Company Secretary and a review also suppliers to Sainsburys.
Jordan King arranges his sponsorships of relevant papers.
The performance of the Board Committees was through his company, 42 Racing Ltd.
The Board has satisfied itself also reviewed, and Directors provided feedback on each others that Justin King has no direct involvement in the trading relationship contributions.
between Sainsburys and any supplier who may have an interest in 42 Racing Ltd.
It is satisfied that the governance of all supplier relationships is robust and that there is therefore no conflict of interest regarding these arrangements.
40 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Corporate governance statement continued Manchester Square Partners report concluded that the Board was Investor relations working effectively across many dimensions.
The Board identified The Company is committed to maintaining good communications actions to develop some aspects of Board succession and management with investors.
Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility of transition, and to strengthen further the focus on strategic initiatives.
Justin King, John Rogers and Adam Wilson Katsibas, Head of Investor Relations.
The Chairman is generally available to shareholders Following last years external evaluation, the Board agreed that this and meets with institutional and other large investors: the Senior years review should be carried out by the Company Secretary, and Independent Director is also available as required.
that the key objectives were to determine whether progress had been made on last years action points, to identify any emerging themes The Company regularly meets with its large investors and institutional and to consider whether the Board and its committees were working shareholders who, along with sell-side research analysts, are invited to effectively.
A questionnaire was circulated to all Directors seeking presentations by the Company immediately after the announcement their evaluation of a number of subject matters, including strategy, of the Companys interim and full-year results.
They are also invited management transition, succession, Board culture and balance, to participate in conference calls following the announcement of the meetings and processes, investor relations, risk management and board Companys trading statements.
The content of these presentations and committees.
This was followed up in separate discussions with each of conference calls are webcast and are posted on the Companys website the Directors to take their detailed feedback on any emerging themes.
co. uk investors so as to be available to all investors.
The Company Secretary then presented the principal conclusions to the During the year, the Investor Relations department met with members Board at a meeting convened for that purpose, and the Board discussed of The UK Small Shareholders Association.
the key points and agreed certain actions.
The Board regularly receives feedback on the views of major investors The Board agreed that good progress has been made on the action and the IR programme.
In addition, Makinson Cowell provide investor points from the 2011 evaluation, especially as regards the focus on the relations consultancy services to the Company and give an external strategic debate which has become particularly important against the analysis to the Board at the strategy conference on the views of background of a challenging and changing market.
Steps have also institutional investors and sell-side analysts.
Non-Executive Directors been taken to develop the transition plans at Operating Board level, also receive regular market reports and broker updates from the culminating in the new roles for Roger Burnley and Helen Buck, and Companys Investor Relations department.
The Board concluded that it was working well as a team and was benefiting from a broad range of skills Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board and diversity, with a strong and open culture.
at the AGM, which this year will be held on 11 July 2012.
There will be a display of various aspects of the Companys activities and Justin King Various actions were agreed from this years exercise, including finding will make a business presentation.
A detailed explanation of each item of more opportunities for the Non-Executive Directors to meet other special business to be considered at the AGM is included with the Notice members of the management team and to learn more about them and of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days their roles.
All resolutions proposed at the AGM will be taken on a poll vote.
This follows best practice guidelines and enables the As part of the Board evaluation exercise, the Senior Independent Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders who attend Director reviewed the Chairmans performance with the other Directors the meeting.
and subsequently met him to provide feedback.
The Chairman provided feedback to each Director on their individual contribution to the Board Information on matters of particular interest to investors is set out on and considered their development priorities with each of them.
pages 120 to 122 and on the Companys website www.
Attendance The table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings.
The Board scheduled eight meetings during the year, including the two-day Strategy Conference, and additional ad hoc conference calls were also convened to deal with specific matters which required attention between scheduled meetings.
Board Audit CR Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Matt Brittin 7 8 4 4 4 4 Mike Coupe 8 8 Anna Ford 8 8 2 2 4 4 4 4 Val Gooding 2 3 1 1 1 1 Mary Harris 8 8 1 1 2 2 4 4 3 3 Gary Hughes 8 8 4 4 4 4 Justin King 8 8 1 2 John McAdam 8 8 4 4 4 4 John Rogers 8 8 Darren Shapland 3 3 Bob Stack 8 8 4 4 4 4 David Tyler 8 8 4 4 The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets.
As referred to above there were a number of informal meetings during the year when Directors met individual members of the Operating Board to receive updates on their specific areas of responsibility.
In addition, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors being present, and the Non-Executive Directors also met without the Executive Directors or the Chairman being present.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 41 Corporate governance statement continued Board Committees Board Committees The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal committees.
The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial information, the effectiveness of the financial controls and the internal control The Board delegates certain and risk management systems.
The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and determines their individual remuneration arrangements.
The Nomination Committee responsibilities to its principal recommends the appointment of Directors and reviews succession planning at Board and Operating Board levels.
The Corporate Responsibility CR Committee reviews key CR policies, taking into committees: The Audit Committee: account the Companys CR objectives and the overall strategic plan.
Further details are set out below.
Remuneration Committee: Nomination Committee: and Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Further details are set out over the following pages.
42 42 J S J Sa aiin ns sb bu ur ry p y pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d F Fiin na an nc ciia all S St ta at te em me en nt ts s 2 20 01 12 2 Governance Governance Corporate governance statement continued Nomination Committee Board Committees The Nomination Committee is chaired by David Tyler and comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors.
Justin King is not a member of the The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial information, Committee although he is invited to attend meetings.
the effectiveness of the financial controls and the internal control and risk management systems.
The Remuneration Committee sets As referred to above, the Board evaluations considered the balance, the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and determines their skills and diversity of the Board as part of the review of whether it is individual remuneration arrangements.
The Nomination Committee working effectively.
This assists with succession planning.
Our diversity recommends the appointment of Directors and reviews succession is described in more detail on page 37 of the Directors report and in the planning at Board and Operating Board levels.
The Corporate Chairmans statement above.
Responsibility CR Committee reviews key CR policies, taking into account the Companys CR objectives and the overall strategic plan.
During the year Darren Shapland decided to step down from the Board Further details are set out below.
but agreed to remain Non-Executive Chairman of Sainsburys Bank.
The Committee was fully engaged in the change in responsibilities in July 2011 which resulted from Darrens decision.
Corporate In May 2012 we announced that Bob Stack had decided to stand down Responsibility Audit Committee from the Board with effect from our AGM in July.
Mary Harris will then Committee Gary Hughes take over as chair of the Remuneration Committee.
The Nomination Anna Ford Committee has instructed search consultants Egon Zehnder in connection with the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director.
The Committee has considered the balance of skills, experience and diversity on the Board in determining the types of candidate who might best fit the specification of this role.
Nomination J Sainsbury plc Remuneration Committee Board Committee The Committee also conducted reviews of succession plans for David Tyler David Tyler Bob Stack the Operating Board, Departmental Director development, talent management and the graduate programme at the time of the Strategy Conference.
The Committee was engaged in the changes made to the Operating Board in March 2012 which saw Roger Burnley become Managing Director, General Merchandise, Clothing and Logistics after four years as Retail and Logistics Director, and Helen Buck became Retail Director after 18 months as Convenience Director.
Group The Committees terms of reference are available on the website Safety Trading Board www.
co. uk governance and set out the Committees Committee Mike Coupe responsibilities.
The Committee meets on such further occasions as Tim Fallowfield are necessary and in 2011 12 held four meetings in total.
Audit Committee Operating Board The Committee is chaired by Gary Hughes with John McAdam, Justin King and Matt Brittin as its other members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
See page 46 for further details.
Investment Retail Board Board Helen Buck Remuneration Committee John Rogers The Committee is chaired by Bob Stack, with Anna Ford and Mary Harris as its other members.
Mary joined the Committee in July 2011.
The Corporate Remuneration Report is set out on pages 52 to 65.
Responsibility Steering Group Corporate Responsibility Committee Justin King The Committee is chaired by Anna Ford, and Justin King and Mary Harris are its members.
David Tyler attends each meeting.
It met twice during the year.
These formal committee meetings are supported by CR strategic meetings hosted by Anna Ford and Justin King.
Each meeting is based around one of the five CR principles and key external Operating Board stakeholders are invited to attend.
During the year five such meetings Day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the Operating were held, relating to each of the five principles, framed within our Board, which is chaired by Justin King.
The Operating Board held ten 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan which was launched in October 2011. scheduled meetings during the year and each Directors responsibilities are set out on page 35.
It has formal terms of reference setting out The Committee is supported by an internal corporate responsibility its key responsibilities.
Minutes are copied to the Chairman and governance structure whereby members of the Operating Board have Non-Executive Directors.
responsibility for each of our five values and sit on our Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, which meets quarterly and is chaired by The Operating Board has delegated certain powers to the Trading Justin King.
The members of the Steering Group are shown on page 45.
Board, the Retail & Logistics Board, the Investment Board, the Group Safety Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, This years Corporate Responsibility Report will be published later in each of which has approved terms of reference setting out its areas the year.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 43
