Corporate governance statement continued Gary Hughes Chairman, Audit Committee Audit Committee The Committee is satisfied that there is transparency and clear lines Dear shareholder, of accountability so that the identification and management of risks is embedded throughout the business, with strong oversight by the As part of the Boards Operating Board.
Risks are actively managed and reviewed, with focus on specific areas of change.
In addition to reviewing the overall overall responsibility for risk, processes, the Committee regularly receives updates on the specific supervision of Sainsburys areas of risk from the relevant members of the management team.
internal controls and risk We believe that governance of risk at Sainsburys is strong and this view has been supported by recent annual Board and Committee evaluations, management is clearly delegated which reviewed the overall approach to risk management.
The Internal Audit function plays a vital role in the governance structure and the to the Audit Committee.
We Committee was therefore pleased with the review of the function conducted and presented to the Committee by Deloitte during the year.
have a good balance of skills The overall assessment was that it is a high performing function which is and experience amongst the well respected by its key stakeholders, compliant with the requirements of the Institute of Internal Auditors standards and achieving Committee members, supported performance levels which were considered to be leading practice in many key areas.
The team has strong complementary skills and there by a strong Internal Audit has been significant improvement since the last external review which was conducted five years ago.
function and a management team who have instilled a strong culture throughout the business.
Gary Hughes Chairman, Audit Committee 46 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Corporate governance statement continued The Audit Committee is chaired by Gary Hughes with John McAdam, In addition, the Committee reviewed a number of specific presentations and Matt Brittin as its other members, all of whom are independent and updates during the year.
For instance, it reviewed a new store Non-Executive Directors.
Mary Harris attended one meeting of the audit approach which will be implemented over the coming year and Committee before she joined the Remuneration Committee in July.
an update on the Companys IT change framework and an external The Board has determined that Gary Hughes has recent and relevant independent review on IT security.
The Chairman, Justin King, John Rogers, Susannah Hall Director of Internal Audit, other senior members of the Finance The Committee has regularly reviewed the Internal Audit departments Division and the external auditors are invited to attend Committee resources, budget, work programme, results and managements meetings.
Tim Fallowfield is secretary to the Committee.
Susannah Hall reports to the Committee Chairman and has direct access to all members of the The Committees terms of reference, which are available on our Committee and the Chairman.
She meets the Committee separately website www.
co. uk governance, set out the Committees after each meeting without management being present.
meetings with all Committee members.
The purpose, authority and responsibility of Internal Audit are defined in the Internal Audit Charter.
Principal activities during the year The Committee reviews the Charter annually.
During the year the During the year the Committee met on four occasions, the agendas independent review of the Internal Audit function described above was being organised around the Companys reporting cycle.
The Committee conducted and presented to the Committee by Deloitte.
regularly met with the external auditors without management being present.
It monitored the integrity of the financial statements and any As described in detail below, the Committee has also reviewed: formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewed any significant financial judgements contained in them.
the effectiveness of the Companys financial controls and the systems of internal control by approving the Internal Audit plans twice yearly The Committee has a calendar of standard items within its remit: and reviewing the findings quarterly, and by reviewing the scope of work and reports of the external auditors.
The detailed actions for resolution of any identified weaknesses are closely monitored by the Standard items Committee through to completion: and September Accounting update the management of risk by reviewing the risk assessment process and PwC performance review corporate and divisional risk maps and registers twice yearly.
The risk Litigation report registers outline the key risks faced by the business including their Internal controls framework and fraud update impact and likelihood, along with the relevant mitigating controls, Risk management update assurance providers and actions, and they form the basis of the Sainsburys Bank report Internal Audit planning process.
PwC audit plan, audit strategy and fees Terms of reference update The Committee also regularly reviews the Companys funding and liquidity position and has considered its impact on the Companys November Half-year accounting update financial and operational capabilities.
The Committees detailed review PwC Interim review report of the year-end position assisted the Board in making the going concern Draft interim statement statement set out on page 37.
Litigation report Internal controls framework and fraud update The Committee reviewed  LLPs PwC overall Sainsburys Bank report work plan and approved their remuneration and terms of engagement Update on PwC management letter and considered in detail the results of the audit, PwCs performance Non-audit fees and independence and the effectiveness of the overall audit process.
March Accounting update PwC have been the Companys auditors since 1995.
PwC are required Litigation report to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary Internal controls framework and fraud update audits every five years.
Richard Hughes, the current audit partner, Risk management update was appointed in July 2010.
The Committee recommended PwCs Internal audit charter re-appointment as auditors to the Board and this resolution will be Principal risks and uncertainties put to shareholders at the AGM.
PwC internal controls report PWC report on auditor independence In order to ensure their independence, the Committee has implemented Non-audit fees the Companys policy which restricts the engagement of PwC in relation Sainsburys Bank report to non-audit services.
The majority of the non-audit work undertaken by PwC during 2011 12 related to a segregation of duties review in May Year-end accounting update, including going concern relation to a systems upgrade.
The non-audit fees for the year were review 0.1 million, and the audit fee for the year in respect of the Group, Litigation report Company and its subsidiaries including the fee for the interim review Annual Report and Financial Statements totalled 0.8 million.
The policy was reviewed during the year and is Non-audit fees consistent with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards No.
5 PwC year-end report and required communications Non Audit Services.
The policy is designed to ensure that the provision External auditors appointment of such services does not have an impact on the external auditors Internal controls framework and fraud update independence and objectivity.
It identifies certain types of engagement Sainsburys Bank report that the external auditors shall not undertake, including internal audit and actuarial services relating to the preparation of accounting estimates for the financial statements.
It also requires that individual engagements above a certain fee level may only be undertaken with appropriate authority from the Committee Chairman or the Committee.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 47 Corporate governance statement continued The policy also recognises that there are some types of work, such The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of as accounting and tax advice, where a detailed understanding of the internal controls and has ensured that any required remedial action on Companys business is advantageous.
The policy is designed to ensure any identified weaknesses has been, or is being taken.
that PwC is only appointed to provide a non-audit service where it is considered to be the most suitable supplier of the service.
The Risk management Committee receives a report at each meeting on the non-audit services Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the risk being provided and the cumulative total of non-audit fees.
In the event management system is designed to identify key risks and to provide that cumulative non-audit fees exceed the audit fee then all subsequent assurance that these risks are fully understood and managed.
The non-audit expenditure must be approved by the Committee Chairman.
effectiveness of the process is reviewed twice a year by the Audit Committee.
The Board carries out an annual review of the significant The Companys whistleblowing procedures ensure that arrangements risks facing the business.
are in place to enable colleagues and suppliers to raise concerns about possible improprieties on a confidential basis.
All issues raised have The Operating Board maintains an overall corporate risk register which been investigated and appropriate actions taken.
Any significant issues is reviewed twice yearly by the Audit Committee and formally discussed would be highlighted to the Audit Committee.
The risk register contains the significant risks faced by the business and identifies the potential impact and likelihood at both The Company has a fraud policy and a Serious Fraud Committee, which a gross level before consideration of mitigating controls and net level convenes in the event of serious incidents to oversee case management after consideration of mitigating controls.
This gives the Board the and ensure appropriate actions are taken.
The Audit Committee opportunity to review the level of risk that the business is prepared to receives a fraud update at each meeting.
The register also contains the assurance provided over current key mitigating controls.
Where further actions have been identified The Committee receives an update at each meeting about matters to mitigate risks to a level deemed acceptable, these are agreed with discussed at the Sainsburys Bank Audit Committee and on any other specific timelines for delivery and are monitored closely until fully key matters.
Given the economic climate it has continued to focus on the implemented.
Banks liquidity and cash flows, capital adequacy and risk management processes.
The risk management process is cascaded from the Operating Board through to each of the operating divisions of the business as follows: Grocery Supply Code of Practice In February 2010, a new Grocery Supply Code of Practice GSCOP the divisional operating management teams are responsible for was implemented following the recommendation of the Competition managing the risks to their business objectives and for identification Commission.
Each grocery retailer to which it applies had to appoint and implementation of internal controls so as to provide reasonable, a Code Compliance Officer whose duties include hearing disputes but not absolute, assurance that the risks in their areas of between suppliers and the relevant retailer.
Sainsburys has appointed responsibility are appropriately identified, evaluated and managed: the Director of Internal Audit as its Code Compliance Officer.
this divisional risk process is achieved through twice yearly workshops in January August held by the divisional management and facilitated GSCOP requires that each grocery retailer to which it applies must by Internal Audit.
Each divisional management team produces and deliver an annual compliance report to the Office of Fair Trading which maintains a divisional key risk register.
The likelihood and impact of has been approved by the chair of the Audit Committee.
Furthermore, each key risk is evaluated and actions deemed necessary to mitigate a summary of the compliance report must be included in our Annual them are identified.
In addition, the risks and the robustness of the Report and Financial Statements.
mitigating controls are regularly reviewed by divisional management as part of their normal business activities: Summary Annual Compliance Report Sainsburys has invested significant time and resource in providing management certify annually in May that they are responsible for comprehensive training to all relevant colleagues as required under managing their business objectives and that the internal controls are GSCOP.
This training is reinforced by online knowledge testing and such that they provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that further supported by training and reference materials on our intranet.
the risks in their areas of responsibility are appropriately identified, Sainsburys has also dedicated internal legal resource to provide all evaluated and managed: relevant colleagues with day-to-day advice and guidance.
the Operating Board reviews in February August and challenges the output of the divisional risk process and then updates the overall A small number of alleged breaches of GSCOP has been received in the corporate risk register as appropriate: reporting period, all of which either have been or are in the process of being resolved to the suppliers satisfaction within the Trading Division Game-Changer risk workshops are held in June July to focus on using our standard internal escalation procedure.
The resolution of external and unknown risks: one alleged breach was facilitated by the Code Compliance Officer in the corporate and divisional risk registers form the basis of the accordance with GSCOP.
risk-based plan of Internal Audit for the subsequent half-year period in March September : Risk management and internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management and system of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Certain the Audit Committee as to the existence and effectiveness of the risk of these responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit Committee management process: and as outlined on page 47.
The system is designed to manage rather The Board reviews, in May, the risk process, corporate risks and than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys business approves the Companys Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risk management process and the system of internal controls have been in place for the whole year, up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, and accord with the Turnbull guidance and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
48 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Corporate governance statement continued The risk management process is illustrated below: Companys strategy, plans and objectives Divisions Operating Board Audit Committee Plc Board Internal Audit 3 January 1 2 Divisional Risk Operating Board February Workshops Risk Review assess key risks review challenge divisional risk output to their business & update corporate objectives risk register as appropriate March Audit Committee review corporate Internal Audit and divisional risks risk-based & sign-off half-year plan Principal risks & uncertainties May Management Plc Board annual certification review of risk that risks in their process, corporate areas of responsibility risks and sign-off are identified, of Principal risks evaluated & & uncertainties managed June 2 July Game-Changer Risk Workshops Operating Board Annual focus on external Risk and unknown Workshop risks August 2 Divisional Risk Operating Board Workshops Risk Review assess key risks review challenge divisional risk output to their business & update corporate objectives risk register as appropriate September Audit Committee Internal Audit review corporate risk-based and divisional half-year plan risks Output: Output: Output: 1 2 3 Divisional risk maps Corporate risk Principal risk & uncertainties & registers map & register reflecting key corporate risks Internal controls regular reviews by management of the risks to achieving objectives The system of internal control encompasses all controls including those and mitigating controls and actions: relating to financial reporting processes including the preparation of regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee of the the consolidated Group accounts, operational and compliance controls, scope and results of the work of Internal Audit across the Company and those relating to risk management processes.
It also includes the and of the implementation of their recommendations: controls over Sainsburys interests in Sainsburys Bank and property joint ventures.
regular reviews by the Audit Committee of the scope and results of the work of the external auditors and of any significant The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal controls issues arising: systems on an ongoing basis, enabling a cumulative assessment to be regular reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies and made.
The processes used during the year to support this assessment levels of delegated authority: and are as follows: regular reviews by the Board and the Audit Committee of material discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys strategy, fraudulent activity and any significant whistleblowing by colleagues plans and objectives, and the risks to achieving them: or suppliers, and actions being taken to remedy any control weaknesses.
review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, including those for both revenue and capital expenditure: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 49
