CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The identified risks are assessed based on the likelihood The Company has key controls, as follows: of a risk occurring and the potential impact to the business, should the risk occur.
Authority limits and controls over cash-handling, purchasing commitments and capital expenditure The head of internal audit determines and reviews the A budgeting process, with a detailed 12-month risk-assessment process and will communicate the operating plan and a mid-term financial plan, both timetable annually.
approved by the board Business results reported weekly, with a report The risk register is presented to the audit committee every compared with budget and previous year six months, with a schedule of audit work agreed on, on Forecasts prepared regularly throughout the year, a rolling basis.
The purpose of this work is to review, on for review by the board behalf of the Company and the board, those key risks Complex treasury instruments are not used.
The and the systems of control necessary to manage such Company, from time to time, as revealed in our report risks.
The results of this work are reported back to and accounts, enters into swap arrangements which fix relevant senior management and the audit committee.
interest rates at certain levels for a number of years and Where recommendations are made for changes in enters into supply arrangements with fixed prices for systems or processes to reduce risk, internal audit will electricity and gas, for example, which run for between follow up regularly to ensure that the recommendations one and three years are implemented.
An annual review of the amount of external insurance which it obtains, bearing in mind the availability of such A summary of the financial risks and treasury policies can cover, its costs and the likelihood of the risks involved be found on pages 40 and 41, together with other risks Regular evaluation of processes and controls, in relation and uncertainties.
to the Companys financial reporting requirements Internal control The directors confirm that they have reviewed the During the year, the Company provided an internal audit effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The attempt to create a system of internal control and risk mitigation is a key part The Company maintains adequate directors and officers of the Companys operations and culture.
The board is insurance cover.
responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The function can only manage, rather than entirely eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only Kirk Davis reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Company Secretary misstatement or loss.
Ongoing reviews, assessments and 14 September 2012 management of significant risks took place throughout the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and accord with the Turnbull Guidance Guidance on Internal Control.
The Company has an internal audit function which is discharged as follows: Regular audits of the Company stock Unannounced visits to retail units Monitoring systems which control the Companys cash Health & safety visits, ensuring compliance with Company procedures Reviewing and assessing the impact of legislative and regulatory change Annually reviewing the Companys strategy Risk-management process, identifying key risks facing the business 62 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
