John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 34 Corporate governance continued Committees of the Board Board and Committee meeting attendance 2012 The Board has delegated some of its Board Committee Nomination Audit Remuneration membership Committee Committee Committee responsibilities to committees the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Key N Chairman N N Retired member N Member N A R Remuneration Committee.
A summary of the work of the Nomination Committee and the Number of meetings held 10 3 4 4 Audit Committee is set out below and the report Executive directors of the Remuneration Committee is included in the Directors remuneration report on pages Sir Ian Wood resigned 31 October 9 N A A 2 38-48.
A G Langlands 10 N A A 1 The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website.
A G Semple 9 R Keiller 9 Attendance by directors at the meetings of the Board and its committees is summarised here.
M H Papworth resigned 30 June 3 The dates of future Board meetings have now M Straughen 10 been agreed until the end of 2014.
L J Thomas resigned 30 June 6 Non-executive directors N A R I D Marchant 9 3 4 N A R M Contie 9 3 4 Dr C Masters resigned 10 May 3 N A R 2 J C Morgan resigned 10 May 4 N A R 1 2 N H Smith 9 N A R 3 4 N A R J R Wilson 10 3 2 N A R D K Woodward 10 3 4 4 M L Shafer-Malicki N A R 6 3 2 appointed 1 June Nomination Committee Members of the Nomination Committee N Allister G Langlands Ian D Marchant Thomas M Botts Michel Contie Mary L Shafer-Malicki Neil H Smith Jeremy R Wilson David K Woodward Who is on the Nomination Committee?
Main responsibilities: The Nomination Committee is The Nomination Committee comprised the reviewing Board structure, size and responsible for recommending Chairman and all of the independent noncomposition executive directors.
T M Botts was appointed candidates to the Board and making recommendations to the Board to the Committee following the year end, on with regard to any changes appointment as a non-executive director in ensuring succession plans identifying and nominating candidates for January 2013. the approval of the Board are in place.
The Nomination lling Board vacancies Committee aims to promote How does the Committee discharge its ensuring succession plans are in place responsibilities?
high standards of corporate The Committee meets at least once a year, An external consultant was retained to advise and has written terms of reference which are governance by ensuring the the Nomination Committee in connection with available on the Groups website setting out its balance of skills, knowledge the appointment of M L Shafer-Malicki as a nonroles and responsibilities.
executive director in 2012. and experience of the Board The Committee met three times during 2012. both now and in the future.
Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements 35 Audit Committee Members of the Audit Committee A Ian D Marchant Mary L Shafer-Malicki David K Woodward Who is on the Audit Committee?
Re-appointment of external auditors The Audit Committee is The Audit Committee comprises the pictured  LLP PwC have been responsible for reviewing the Board members above.
During the period, the Groups external auditors since the Group J C Morgan and Dr C Masters also served became a publicly listed company in 2002. effectiveness of the Groups until their resignation at the 2012 AGM.
The The ongoing effectiveness of the external Committee has written terms of reference internal financial controls, auditors is considered by the Audit Committee setting out its roles and responsibilities, on an annual basis as described below.
monitoring the integrity of the including: Groups financial statements Notwithstanding the length of their tenure, to reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups date the Committee has been satisfied with financial controls and internal and external the effectiveness of the external auditors and monitoring the integrity of the Groups have not considered it necessary to require audit functions.
The Audit financial statements and its interim and PwC to tender for the external audit work.
Committee aims to promote preliminary announcements The re-appointment of the external auditors is submitted for approval by the shareholders high standards of corporate monitoring and assessing the effectiveness annually at the Annual General Meeting.
of the Groups internal audit function governance by ensuring To assess the effectiveness of the external reviewing the terms of engagement and auditors, the Committee has reviewed the robust and effective financial independence of the external auditors standing, experience and tenure of the external and audit controls.
audit lead partner, the arrangements for assessing the audit process and the ensuring the independence and objectivity of effectiveness of the external auditors to the external auditors, the nature and level of supply non-audit services, in accordance services provided, including the robustness with Group policy of the external auditors handling of key reporting to the Board, identifying any judgemental areas and the quality of the matters in respect of which it considers external auditors interaction with, and reporting that action or other improvement is to, the Committee.
needed and making recommendations as There are no contractual obligations that restrict to the steps to be taken the Groups choice of external auditors.
How does the Committee discharge its External auditor independence and responsibilities?
non-audit services The Committee met four times in 2012.
The Committee has overall responsibility Attendance at Committee meetings is at the for ensuring that the external auditors invitation of the Chairman of the Committee: independence and objectivity is not and the CFO, Group Financial Controller, Head compromised.
of Internal Audit and the external auditors are generally invited to attend.
The Head of Internal During the year we received conrmation Audit and the external auditors have the right of from the external auditors regarding their direct access to the Chairman of the Committee independence.
In accordance with UK at all times and to meet the Committee without regulations and to help ensure independence, management present.
our auditors adhere to a rotation policy based on best practice accounting standards.
During 2012 the Committee: Accordingly, there will be a change of audit reviewed the annual report for 2011 and partner for the 2013 audit.
One of the key the interim report for 2012 risks to external auditor independence is the provision of non-audit services by the external reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups auditor.
The Committee considers and approves internal financial controls fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors in accordance with the discussed with management and the Groups policy in this area, which is set out in external auditors significant issues the Audit Committees terms of reference.
The and areas of financial risk, accounting cost of non-audit services provided in 2012 is principles, practices and judgements reported in note 3 to the financial statements.
In considered with the external auditors the the opinion of the Committee, the provision of significant matters arising from the annual these non-audit services did not impair PwCs external audit independence.
reviewed reports prepared by the internal audit function together with managements response and the actions taken focused on complex or unusual transactions and judgemental areas John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 36 Corporate governance continued Ongoing procedures Going concern Internal control Overall control environment: The Group has a The Groups business activities, together with The Board is ultimately responsible for the clear organisational structure for the control and the factors likely to affect its future development, Groups system of internal control and for monitoring of its businesses, including dened performance and position are set out in the reviewing its effectiveness.
lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Operational review on pages 11 to 13.
The The Group has issued policies which define The Board has established an ongoing process financial position of the Group, its cash ows, the standards of business conduct and include for identifying, evaluating and managing the liquidity position and borrowing facilities are Accounting Policies, Contract Risk Management significant risks faced by the Group that has described in the Financial review on pages and Review: Health, Safety and Environment: been in place for the year under review and up 14 to 17.
In addition, note 17 to the financial and Business Ethics.
The Group Ethics helpline to the date of approval of this annual report.
statements includes the Groups objectives, has been established to enable staff and third The process is regularly reviewed by the Board policies and processes for managing its capital, parties to raise ethical concerns in confidence.
and is in accordance with the revised guidance its financial risk management objectives, on internal controls published by the Turnbull For further details please refer to the Financial details of its financial instruments and hedging Review Group.
The Group, for the purposes of Responsibility and Integrity sections of Core activities, and its exposures to credit risk and applying the Turnbull Review Group guidance Values on pages 24 and 25. liquidity risk.
referred to above, comprises John Wood Group The Group has considerable financial resources PLC, its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Risk identication and management: The together with the cash inows generated from process for risk identication and management Any system of internal control is designed to its existing activities as set out in notes 13, is outlined on page 31. manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure 15 and 26 to the financial statements.
As a to achieve business objectives and can only For further details please refer to Principal risks consequence, the directors believe that the provide reasonable and not absolute assurance and uncertainties on pages 18 and 19.
Group is well placed to manage its business against material misstatement or loss.
Having made the appropriate enquiries including a review of cash ow The key elements of the ongoing procedures Monitoring of the internal control systems: The projections and key sensitivities, the directors which the directors have established to review Board has agreed certain reporting procedures consider, in accordance with the Governance the effectiveness of the system of internal to monitor key risk areas on an ongoing basis, Code, that the business is a going concern.
control on an annual basis are listed to the right.
including safety, legal and financial matters.
Adequate resources exist for the Group to The Audit Committee has been delegated the As a result of these ongoing procedures the continue in operational existence for the responsibility to review the effectiveness of the Boards assessment was that the internal foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue internal financial control systems implemented control environment was operating effectively.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing by management.
It is assisted by the internal the financial statements.
auditors and, where appropriate, the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on their discussions.
Information and communication: The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting performance to the Board.
This includes monthly and quarterly reports.
The quarterly reports include a detailed financial review against budgets and, at least twice a year, revised forecasts.
The executive directors also receive detailed monthly financial reports and meet on a monthly basis to discuss financial performance and other operational matters.
In addition, each division holds Quarterly Review Meetings QRMs involving discussions with senior managers and certain of the executive directors.
The CEO and the CFO normally attend the QRMs.
Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements 37 The directors are responsible for keeping Statement of directors proper accounting records that disclose with responsibilities reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and The directors are responsible for preparing the to enable them to ensure that the financial annual report, the Directors remuneration report statements and the Directors remuneration and the Group and the parent company financial report comply with the Companies Act 2006 statements in accordance with applicable law and, as regards the Group financial statements, and regulations.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Company law requires the directors to prepare responsible for safeguarding the assets of financial statements for each financial year.
the Company and the Group and hence for Under that law the directors have prepared the taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Group financial statements in accordance with detection of fraud and other irregularities.
International Financial Reporting Standards The directors are responsible for the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, maintenance and integrity of the Companys and the parent company financial statements website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom in accordance with applicable law and United governing the preparation and dissemination of Kingdom Accounting Standards United financial statements may differ from legislation in Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting other jurisdictions.
The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law to give Each of the directors, whose names and a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the functions are listed on page 28 and 29, confirms Company and the Group and of the profit or that, to the best of their knowledge: loss of the Group for that period.
the Group financial statements, which In preparing those financial statements, the have been prepared in accordance with directors are required to: IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, select suitable accounting policies and financial position and profit of the Group, then apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are the directors report on page 30 includes reasonable and prudent a fair review of the development and state that the Group financial statements performance of the business and the comply with IFRSs as adopted by the position of the Group, together with a European Union, and with regard to the description of the principal risks and parent company financial statements that uncertainties that it faces applicable UK Accounting Standards have So far as the directors are aware, there is been followed, subject to any material no relevant audit information of which the departures disclosed and explained in the Companys auditors are unaware.
Relevant financial statements information is dened as information needed by the companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
Each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 38 Directors remuneration report This is the Boards report to shareholders on directors remuneration and covers both executive directors and non-executive directors.
It has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board.
This report is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Contents Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder I assumed Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee in May 2012, following the retirement of John Morgan who had chaired the Committee Part 1 Executive directors remuneration very effectively for many years.
a Remuneration Committee Our objective continues to be the provision of a remuneration package b Remuneration policy to attract and retain executive directors and senior management of the necessary calibre to support the future growth of the business.
We do this c Remuneration arrangements for executive directors through a balance of xed and variable pay, which we intend will result in i Basic salary and benets total remuneration around the market median for target performance and ii Annual bonus approaching top quartile for exceptional performance.
After consideration of both the external market and salary increases across the wider iii Long-term incentives workforce, the Remuneration Committee has determined increases of 3% iv Pensions and life cover to base salary for existing executive directors for 2013. v Remuneration arrangements for executive directors Over the first three cycles of the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Wood d Service contracts Group has ranked 7th out of 21 2008 2010, 5th out of 21 2009 2011 e Matters relating to Board changes during the year and 2nd out of 21 2010 2012 in TSR performance against selected peer companies, with strong adjusted earnings per share AEPS growth Part 2 Non-executive directors remuneration for the second and third cycles.
Bonus awards for 2012 reect good a Remuneration policy Group performance during the year and are differentiated as appropriate for divisional and personal performance.
b Annual fee structure c Remuneration of non-executive directors in 2012 The existing LTIP and Long-Term Retention Plan LTRP were both approved through to 2012 and will be replaced in 2013.
During 2012, Part 3 Additional statutory and other disclosures we have developed proposals for a single replacement plan Long-Term Plan LTP.
Two distinct awards will be made under the LTP covering a Summary of executive directors emoluments in 2012 both incentive and retention awards.
In developing this new plan we b Total Shareholder Return TSR performance graph have endeavoured to build on the successful elements of the previous c Long-term incentives plans while simplifying our arrangements and incorporating current best practice to develop a framework which we believe will continue to support i Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP achievement of the Groups strategic goals.
ii Long-Term Cash Incentive Plan LTCIP iii Long-Term Retention Plan LTRP The LTP will be subject to shareholder approval at the 2013 AGM and is described in further detail in this report as well as in the explanatory note to iv Executive Share Option Schemes ESOS AGM business.
Overall the new LTP will not materially impact the total cost v Proposed changes to long-term incentives of the long-term incentives.
It is intended that awards of a similar nature d Share options table to those made under the old LTIP, LTCIP and LTRP will be made under the LTP in 2013.
For executive directors and senior executives long-term e Directors interests incentives will continue to vest subject to stretching targets in relation to TSR, AEPS and EBITA performance.
Audited Unless otherwise noted, the disclosures in the Directors remuneration report are un-audited.
Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements 39 Members of the Remuneration Committee R David K Woodward Michel Contie Neil H Smith Jeremy R Wilson We are also proposing to have the exibility to allocate up to 25% of Part 1 Executive directors remuneration the maximum award to be based upon clearly dened and measurable strategic key performance indicators KPIs, although it is not our current 1a Remuneration Committee intention to use the strategic KPIs with the first cycle under the LTP.
The Committee advises the Board on executive remuneration and sets the The Committee is confident that these measures are an appropriate remuneration packages of each of the executive directors.
reection of the long-term performance of Wood Group.
TSR, in particular, helps to ensure that participants are well aligned to the interests of our The Committee is comprised solely of independent non-executive shareholders.
The Committee is mindful of the need to ensure growth is directors.
During the year, the members were: sustainable.
In 2013, a portion of awards under the new plan will continue to be restricted for a further two years ensuring executives are rmly J C Morgan resigned as Chairman May 2012 aligned to the longer-term interests of the Group.
D K Woodward appointed as Chairman May 2012 Provisions in the new plan will allow unpaid or unvested awards to be M Contie reduced or cancelled in the event of material misstatement of financial results, material failure of risk management or HSE controls, serious N H Smith reputational damage or misconduct or fraud.
J R Wilson appointed August 2012 During the year, Deloitte LLP have been retained as remuneration The Committee has a written charter which is publicly available on the consultant to provide advice to the Committee going forward and ensure Groups website.
current best practice has been adopted in the design of the LTP.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Group Chairman As part of the review of remuneration during 2012, the Committee and CEO attended meetings in 2012, except when their own remuneration decided to introduce shareholding requirements for executive directors to was being discussed, to provide advice on setting remuneration for other further strengthen the alignment between the executive directors and the executive directors.
The Group Head of Human Resources also attended long-term interests of the Companys shareholders.
More details of this and, in December 2012, the Company Secretary was appointed as requirement are in this report.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee considered in particular the The Committee have appointed independent remuneration consultants compensation packages for Allister Langlands, Bob Keiller, and for Robin Deloitte LLP and has taken advice during the year from them in relation Watson and Mark Dobler on their appointments as Chairman, CEO and to certain executive remuneration matters.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the executive directors respectively.
The Committee carefully considered the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under transition arrangements in Allister Langlands move from Chief Executive the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the to Chairman.
In 2013 he retains an executive package but his package in UK.
During the course of the year Deloitte LLP provided external advice 2014 will reect his planned role as part-time Chairman.
The Committee particularly on matters concerning the design and structure of the Groups also reviewed the exit packages for Les Thomas and Mark Papworth as long-term incentive plans.
More details are contained in this report.
The aim of the Committee is to establish an overall remuneration structure The existing long-term plans together with the other elements of the which will: compensation package, which overall provide a balance of xed and variable pay, a focus on performance incentives, transparency of attract, retain and motivate executives objective setting and appropriate deferral mechanisms have provided a remuneration framework which has supported delivery of the Groups reect the size and complexity of the Groups business business objectives.
take account of executives individual responsibilities and geographical location clearly align remuneration with the Groups long-term strategy in the pursuit of maximising shareholder value consider executive remuneration within the broader setting of pay conditions elsewhere within Wood Group David K Woodward In setting remuneration policy the Committee gives full consideration to Chairman, Remuneration Committee the relevant provisions of the Governance Code and relevant regulations enforced under the Companies Act 2006.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Committee met four times to discuss the remuneration issues arising and the operation of the remuneration policy.
The following table sets out what the Committee covered at each of the meetings over the course of the year.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 40 Directors remuneration report continued What was on the Remuneration Committee agenda for 2012?
Meeting Regular standing items Other agenda items February 2012 confirmed executive directors salaries for 2012 confirmed no changes to Senior Management Incentive Plan SMIP structure for 2012 confirmed executive directors annual bonuses for 2011 Reviewed LTIP awards for 2009-2011 cycle Reviewed 2011 Directors remuneration report Approved LTIP targets and participants for 2012-2014 cycle Reviewed Remuneration Committee Charter May 2012 Approved renewal of ESOS schemes Reviewed a benchmark report on Executive Remuneration confirmed approval of ESOS and LTRP grants Agreed to consider the use of Remuneration Consultants going forward Appointed David K Woodward as Chairman of Remuneration Committee August 2012 Discussed performance measures for SMIP Reviewed proposed new long-term plan LTP Approved the remuneration for the new CEO Agreed compensation on end of employment for M H Papworth and L J Thomas December 2012 Approved executive directors salaries for 2013 Agreed remuneration for the Chairman in 2013 Reviewed estimate of SMIP bonuses for 2012 Reviewed proposed changes to long-term incentives from January 2013 confirmed approval of ESOS and LTRP grants Reviewed progress against LTIP targets for cycles 3 & 4 confirmed the appointment of Deloitte LLP as consultants to the Remuneration Committee 1b Remuneration policy Each year, the Committee reviews the remuneration policy for executive directors and other senior executives, taking into account both the external market and the Companys strategic objectives over the short and the medium term.
The Committee considers the level of rewards that are offered by other companies, including those within comparable sectors, size and geography.
Remuneration packages comprise xed and variable performance related elements and are aligned with maximising shareholder value and achieving the long-term strategy of the Group.
The Committee monitors the participation of senior executives in the Groups short-term and long-term incentive arrangements and reviews the levels of compensation for internal equity and external competitiveness.
Component Purpose Performance period Methodology in determining award Basic salary Attraction and retention Not applicable Individual responsibilities and geographical location Fixed Benets and pension Attraction and retention Not applicable Established market practice in relevant geographical areas Annual bonus To provide incentives to deliver One year, a portion of which is Achievement of financial SMIP performance targets and aid deferred for two years performance targets and personal retention objectives Long-term incentive To provide incentive to achieve longFor awards to executive Achievement of long-term financial Variable schemes term value for shareholders and aid directors and other senior performance against predetermined retention executives, performance is financial targets, AEPS and TSR.
measured over a period of three years, a portion of which is deferred for a further two years
