Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements 33 All directors are encouraged to attend relevant How does the Board discharge its The Company has been notied, in external seminars.
There is a procedure for responsibilities?
accordance with DTR 5 of the following any director to take independent professional There were six scheduled Board meetings major shareholdings in the Company as advice at the Groups expense and all directors during 2012 as well as four additional meetings of 15 March 2013. have access to the services of the Company convened to consider transactional activity Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that and Board appointments.
Four of the meetings Number % of the Boards procedures are followed.
were scheduled as two-day sessions and Name of of issued issued were held in Aberdeen and Houston.
Safety & How is the Boards performance shareholder shares held shares Assurance is always the first item on the agenda evaluated?
The Board received detailed BlackRock, Inc. 55,822,209 15.0% The Board completed a formal evaluation of presentations from senior management within its own performance and of its committees, Aberdeen Asset 18,696,597 5.0% the Groups businesses during the year, each individual directors, and of the Chairman during Management including updates on Safety & Assurance.
This involved directors completing Schroder 16,777,852 4.5% The executive directors, excluding the detailed questionnaires, the results of which Investments Chairman, attended 11 Group Executive were analysed by the Company Secretary and Committee meetings throughout the year which presented for discussion both at a full Board include reports and discussions on Safety & meeting and separate meetings between each Assurance, operational issues, finance, legal & director and the Chairman.
The non-executive ethics, investor relations and human resources directors, led by the senior independent director, matters.
In addition, divisional directors are responsible for the performance evaluation conduct Quarterly Review Meetings with senior of the Chairman, taking into account the views managers of all businesses within their division.
An independent These meetings are also normally attended by consultant has been retained to facilitate the the CEO and the CFO.
evaluation of the Board in 2013.
How are conicts of interest dealt with?
In addition to Board meetings, the Board The Board requires directors to declare any receives a monthly report which gives a appointments or other situations which would summary of safety, financial and operational amount to a possible conict of interest.
Board has procedures in place to deal with and, The directors have access, via a secure intranet if necessary, approve any such conicts.
site, to presentations from the Groups brokers which contain investors feedback, copies Stewardship how do you engage with of relevant regulations, analyst research and your shareholders?
Our investor relations activities are led by the Groups CEO and CFO, supported by What training do the Board members the investor relations team.
significant shareholders to meet with the CEO The training needs of directors are periodically and CFO twice a year around the interim and discussed at Board meetings and briengs final results announcements.
Our investor arranged on issues relating to corporate relations team organises ad-hoc meetings with governance.
Arrangements are in place for management, manages capital markets day newly appointed directors to undertake an presentations for investors and analysts and induction process designed to develop their maintains an ongoing dialogue with the financial knowledge and understanding of the Groups community through analyst relationships.
This includes brieng sessions Further details can be found in the Financial during regular Board meetings, visits to Group Responsibility section of the Living Our Values operating sites and discussion of relevant section of this report on page 24. business issues.
Upon their appointment, The Chairman and the senior independent directors are advised of their legal and other director are also available to shareholders on duties and their obligations as directors of a request.
listed company and under the Companies Act 2006.
The Board evaluation process Matters considered Observations Action taken to be taken The effectiveness of the Board and Committee feedback to the Board Committee feedback sessions to be formally committee meetings appreciated timetabled Individual director performance and Detailed questionnaires analysed by the Results reviewed by the Board and in an assessment of the Chairman Company Secretary separate meetings between the Chairman and individual directors The nature and extent of the Boards The non-executive directors in particular Target of two Board meetings outside UK interaction with the management of the benefit from meetings around the per year Group Group, site visits and presentations from A minimum of four presentations from management management and offer of site visits as often as practicable
