Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements 31 Corporate governance Statement of Compliance The Board remains fully committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and believes that this is key to overall performance and integrity.
The following section explains how the Company has applied the main principles of Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code.
A copy of the Governance Code is available at www.
Save as set out in the Chairmans letter on page 27, the directors consider that the Company has fully complied with the provisions of the Governance Code during the year ended 31 December 2012.
The Board also believes that good corporate governance extends beyond regulatory compliance and consistently monitors developments in best practice, including guidance published by investor groups.
How does the Board manage risk?
Oversight We continue to review our approach to risk The Board formally reviews risk management management and seek to continuously improve Effective risk management arrangements twice a year, usually in February associated internal control processes.
Some The Board is responsible for the Groups system and August, and through the course of the year of the more recent developments introduced in of internal control and risk management which is the Board will consider current and emerging 2012 include: fundamental to the achievement of the Groups risks facing the Group.
In addition, the Board a specic exercise to consider information strategic objectives.
Clear risk management monitors the Groups attitude to risk.
security risks across the Group is required in all aspects of our activities as commenced during Q4.
The output from outlined and represented below.
Our leadership teams provide oversight through this exercise will help inform any necessary specic mechanisms designed to monitor key Our Core Values changes to IT security policies and risks in such areas.
This is an ongoing and The effective management of risk is necessary associated processes and controls evolutionary process and we are continually across all aspects of our business model and seeking to enhance our risk monitoring and a two-day workshop involving participants our Core Values provide our people, customers reporting tools.
from across the Group was held to review and suppliers with a clear view on how we current Joint Venture processes and operate which helps frame the risk culture Assurance associated risks across the Group.
Various assurance mechanisms are utilised across the Group such as peer reviews on further development of our commercial Operations certain significant or higher risk contracts, audits contract risk management system Our people across our business operations are performed by the Group Internal Audit function at the forefront of effective risk management.
and contracts audits undertaken by Group increasing emphasis on a bottom up The risk prole across each of our divisions Legal.
This work complements business specic approach to risk identication to improve varies through the nature of our activities, activity in areas such as Safety, HR, and Quality.
the consistency of risk information specic customer contracts and geographic reported across the Group spread, and each division operates under an established policy and procedural framework which supports our corporate attitude to risk.
Risk management HIGH HIGH Risk is managed through our four lines of defence Define who we are, how we work, what we believe in and what we stand for 1 Wood Group Values Our Values Set out how we act and how we expect to be treated underpin Provide a sound basis on which to make decisions all lines of defence Established policy and procedure framework 2 Operations Authorisation, approval, monitoring controls Management reporting Set direction, define policies 3 Oversight Provide guidance over the management of risk within the business Compliance with law, regulation and quality standards Assurance across Independent challenge 4 Assurance operations Evaluate risk management, control and governance processes and oversight Recommend process and control improvements activities LOW John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 32 Corporate governance continued J C Morgan and C Masters resigned as a nonWhat is the role of the Board?
Are the Board members independent?
executive directors at the 2012 AGM after 14 The Board has a schedule of matters specically After careful consideration, the Board and 10 years on the Board, respectively.
M L reserved for its consideration and approval.
considers all of its non-executive directors to Shafer-Malicki was appointed as a new nonThese include responsibility for Group strategy, be independent in character and judgement executive director on 1 June 2012. the annual budget, significant acquisitions, risk and, other than set out below, that there are management and the overall system of internal no relationships or circumstances which are On 1 January 2013, M S Dobler and R Watson control.
Executive management is responsible likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their joined the Board as executive directors.
T M for the implementation of Board decisions in judgement.
Brief biographies of the directors Botts joined the Board as a non-executive on these areas and all other aspects of managing appear on pages 28 and 29.
A typical Board agenda is set out J R Wilson is Vice Chairman of the Energy below.
A clear separation of the roles of the Chairman Group at J. P. Morgan where he advises oil & and the CEO has been agreed by the Board, gas operators, principally the major international in compliance with the Governance Code.
The What is the composition of the Board?
The Company has a Chairman is responsible for the leadership and The Board comprised between 10 and 14 material business relationship with J. P. Morgan effectiveness of the Board.
He chairs the Board directors during the year.
Other than during Cazenove, who act as joint corporate broker, meetings, ensures the agendas are appropriate the period 11 May to 30 June pending the adviser and lender to the Company.
The Board and is responsible for facilitating that all directors previously announced resignations of L J has considered whether his role at J. P. Morgan actively contribute to the determination of the Thomas and M H Papworth, the non-executive could affect his judgement as a director of Groups strategy.
The CEO is responsible for directors comprised a majority of the Board the Company.
J R Wilson does not advise the the day-to-day management of the Group and excluding the Chairman as recommended by Group and no part of his remuneration at implementation of the Group strategy, develops the Governance Code.
J. P. Morgan is linked to their relationship with proposals for Board approval, and ensures the Group or advisory services provided to that a regular dialogue with shareholders is the Groups energy service company peers.
Executive Board Members report The Board believes that he is independent in directly to the CEO.
character and judgement and, accordingly, has determined that he is an independent non-executive director for the purposes of the Governance Code.
Are Board members standing for re-election?
All directors will seek election or re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Typical Board agenda Reports covered at each meeting Safety & Assurance report, CEOs report, Divisional updates, HR report, Audit Committee report, Financial updates including tax & treasury and investor relations.
The Board also receives a series of management presentations and has the opportunity for site visits through the year.
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Annual agenda items included Acquisition performance review AGM statement review Annual HR update Corporate Governance review Annual Safety & Assurance Corporate Governance review Ethics update Remuneration Committee report to presentation the Board Pre-close trading statement review Remuneration Committee report to Ethics update the Board Strategy update Review of shareholder feedback and Remuneration Committee report to strategic positioning with advisers Review of half year results and interim the Board report Strategy update Review of preliminary statement and Review of risk annual report Review of risk Additional 2012 business The Board allows for time on other items where necessary.
In 2012, six Board calls were also held, during which considerable time was spent on the Board succession planning and strategy & potential acquisitions were discussed.
