88 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board Committees The board has established the following committees: The Nomination Committee The Audit Committee The Management Development and Remuneration Committee MDRC.
The Nomination Committee Report is on page 105, the Audit Committee Report is on pages 106 and 107 and the Remuneration Report, which describes the work of the MDRC, is on pages 108 to 117.
The reporting framework of the board committees and of the Chief Executives Committee and its sub-committees is shown below.
BOARD Chairman Tim Stevenson Chief Executive NOMINATION AUDIT MDRC COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Chairman Chairman Chairman Michael Chief Executives Committee Tim Stevenson Alan Ferguson Roney Finance CSR Contracts and Compliance Review IT Committee Administration Key: Committee Committee Committee Board Committees Executive Committees The board ensures that its committees with its duties, each committee is authorised The board committees formally report are provided with sufficient resources to by the board to take such independent to the board on their proceedings after each undertake their duties, including access to advice including legal or other professional meeting and generally on all matters and the services of the Company Secretary as advice, at the companys expense, as it activities for which they are responsible required.
Each board committee has the considers necessary.
Each committee may through the committee chairmen and via authority to seek any information that it request information from, or commission committee minutes.
requires from any officer or employee of the investigations by, external advisers.
In connection Board Committee Membership Each independent non-executive director is a member of each board committee.
No one other than the board committee chairmen and members is entitled to be present at a meeting of the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee or the MDRC.
Others may attend, however, at the invitation of the board committee.
Executive directors are not members of the board committees.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each of the board committees.
Alan Ferguson was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from the close of the 2011 Annual General Meeting, having been appointed as a non-executive director on 13th January 2011.
Michael Roney took over the chairmanship of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee, also with effect from the close of the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The current membership of the board committees is shown below: Nomination Committee Audit Committee MDRC Tim Stevenson Chairman Invited to attend Member Neil Carson Invited to attend Invited to attend Invited to attend Alan Ferguson Member Chairman Member Sir Thomas Harris Member Member Member Robert MacLeod Invited to attend Larry Pentz Michael Roney Member Member Chairman Bill Sandford Dorothy Thompson Member Member Member The board takes into account the value of ensuring that board committee membership is refreshed when deciding chairmanship and membership of the committees, and in doing so seeks to ensure that undue reliance is not placed on particular individuals.
