105 Nomination Committee Report Only members of the Committee have Role Tim Stevenson the right to attend committee meetings.
Chairman of the Nomination The terms of reference of the Nomination However, the Chief Executive, the Group Committee Committee are summarised on page 89.
Director, Human Resources and Environment, The terms of reference can be found in the Health and Safety, external advisers and Investor Relations Corporate Governance others may be invited to attend for all or part section of the companys website or may of any meeting as and when appropriate.
be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Nomination Committee.
Composition The Committee has the authority to The Nomination Committee comprises all seek any information that it requires from the independent non-executive directors any officer or employee of the company or together with the group Chairman.
In connection with its duties, quorum necessary for the transaction of the Committee is also authorised by the business is two, each of whom must be board to take such independent advice an independent non-executive director.
including legal or other professional advice, Biographical details of the independent at the companys expense as it considers non-executive directors and the group necessary.
This includes requesting Chairman are set out on page 83.
Their information from, or commissioning I am pleased to present remuneration is set out on page 114. investigations by, external advisers.
The group Chairman acts as the the Report of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Meeting Frequency Nomination Committee although he does not chair the Committee Meetings are held on an ad hoc basis, for 2012. when it is dealing with the matter of usually immediately after a board meeting, succession to the chairmanship of the but on such other occasions as may be company.
A non-executive director may not needed.
chair the Committee when it is dealing with a matter relating to that non-executive director.
Main Activities in the Year The Nomination Committee met twice during the year ended 31st March 2012, on the following dates, and it conducted the following business: Meeting date Main activities 10th May 2011 Agreed to recommend to the board the appointment of Michael Roney as Senior Independent Director and as Chairman of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee MDRC with effect from the close of the annual general meeting in July 2011 following the retirements of Alan Thomson and Robert Walvis respectively 29th March 2012 Reviewed board size, structure and composition.
The Chairman reported that Sir Thomas Harris would be retiring from the board at the close of the 2012 Annual General Meeting Considered the process for the search for a new non-executive director, including the appointment of external search consultants Discussed the selection criteria for the proposed appointment of a new non-executive director Since 31st March 2012, the Nomination Committee met once, on the following date, and it conducted the following business: Meeting date Main activities 31st May 2012 Reviewed progress in respect of the search for a new non-executive director, including the appointment of external search consultants Boardroom Diversity including in setting selection criteria.
This is considered a specification which set out The search for board candidates is referred to further in the boards statement certain essential characteristics for the role, conducted, and appointments made, on on board diversity dated 28th November while stating the desirability of diversity.
merit, against objective selection criteria 2011 which is published in the Investor having due regard, amongst other things, Relations Corporate Governance section On behalf of the Nomination Committee: to the benefits of diversity on the board, of the companys website and is set out on including gender.
Diversity is considered by page 92. the Nomination Committee on behalf of the In respect of the proposed recruitment board in considering board composition and of a new non-executive director, at its in its process for making board appointments, meeting on 29th March 2012 the Committee Tim Stevenson Chairman of the Nomination Committee
