92 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The board also recognises the The board of Johnson Matthey has Appointments to the Board and importance of recruiting non-executive followed the important debate around the its Committees directors with the necessary technical skills recommendations of Lord Davies review The board, through the Nomination and knowledge relevant to the work of its on Women on Boards and the question Committee, follows a formal, rigorous and committees and who have the potential to of boardroom diversity.
We do not think transparent procedure for the selection and take over as committee chairmen.
quotas, for the proportion of women on appointment of new directors to the board.
the board or otherwise, are appropriate The processes are similar for the appointment Succession Planning for a number of reasons.
We believe all of executive and of non-executive directors.
appointments should be made on merit The board, through the MDRC, is actively The Nomination Committee leads the rather than through positive discrimination.
engaged in ongoing succession planning in process for board appointments and makes We are clear, however, that maintaining an order to ensure that plans are in place for recommendations to the board.
Further appropriate balance around our board table the orderly and progressive refreshing of the information on the Nomination Committee through a diverse mix of skills, experience, board and for the identification and and its work is set out in the Nomination knowledge and background is of paramount development of senior management with Committee Report on page 105. importance.
Gender diversity is a significant potential for board and CEC positions.
In considering board composition, the element of this.
Each division and corporate function Nomination Committee assesses the range At present the board has one woman across the group prepares and maintains and balance of skills, experience, knowledge member in a board of nine.
When we next succession plans with the assistance of and independence on the board, identifies make an appointment to the board, our divisional and group Human Resources.
any gaps or issues, and considers any need brief to search consultants in the selection The CEC rigorously reviews these plans in to refresh the board.
If it is determined in process as regards external candidates will detail annually, with a focus on ensuring an light of such evaluation that it is necessary be to review candidates from a variety of appropriate pipeline of talented and capable to appoint a new non-executive director, backgrounds and perspectives.
The individuals to fill senior roles.
A key aim is to the Committee prepares a description of the consultants will be asked to work to a ensure broad experience and encourage role and of the capabilities required for the specification which will include the strong cross fertilisation across the groups appointment and sets objective selection desirability of producing a long-list of possible divisions.
The CEC also considers the criteria accordingly.
In doing so it has regard candidates which fully reflects the benefits identification and development of high for the benefits of diversity on the board, of diversity, including gender diversity.
The review of the plans including gender diversity.
This is discussed appointment of an internal candidate, while by the CEC generally leads to further more fully under Boardroom Diversity below.
similarly based on merit, will also take into refinement and changes, resulting in the final The Committee considers any account the benefits of diversity, including plans which are submitted to the MDRC.
proposed recruitment in the context of the gender diversity.
The MDRC reviews succession policy, the companys strategic priorities, plans and Looking beyond the board to our wider succession plan and the management objectives as well as the prevailing business workforce, we recognise the importance of development and succession planning environment.
The Committee also takes into diversity, including gender diversity, and the process each year.
account succession plans in place and this benefits this can bring to our organisation.
is discussed further under Succession With regard to gender diversity specifically, Boardroom Diversity Planning below.
The Committee seeks Johnson Matthey faces challenges similar prospective board members who can make The board believes that diversity is important to those faced by other organisations in the positive contributions to the board and its for board effectiveness.
The board has chemical, technology and manufacturing committees, including the capability to followed carefully the debate regarding the sectors.
To address these, we have policies challenge on such matters on strategy.
representation of women in the boardroom and processes in place which are designed This is balanced with the desire to maintain following the publication of Lord Davies to support gender diversity in employee board cohesiveness.
report, Women on Boards, in February recruitment, development and promotion The Committee uses external search 2011 the Davies Report.
and we are committed to ensuring that consultancies to assist in the appointment women have an equal chance with men of Statement on Board Diversity process.
Appointments are ultimately made developing their careers within our business.
In response to the Davies Report, on on merit against the agreed selection criteria.
Finally, we encourage gender diversity at the 28th November 2011 the board published The board recognises the importance early career stage by working outside the following statement on board diversity.
of developing internal talent for board Johnson Matthey to encourage women to It is set out in the Investor Relations appointments as well as recruiting externally.
enter scientific and industrial fields.
Corporate Governance section of the In this regard, the company has in place companys website.
various mentoring arrangements and various types and levels of management development programmes.
