93 Gender Diversity Statistics Number Proportion The board 1 woman on the board as at the date of 11% of board membership publication of this annual report Senior management 32 women out of 196 total as at 16% of senior management 31st March 2012 Graduate intake 30% of graduate intake The group 2,205 women employees as at 22% of group employees 31st March 2012 The company has taken, and continues to take, several steps to promote diversity, including gender diversity, at senior management level and in the boardroom.
The basis of these measures is in developing policies and processes that prevent bias in relation to recruitment and promotion, but the key to progress is in actively promoting diversity, ensuring that other positive measures are taken.
These include requesting balanced shortlists when recruiting, looking at diversity mix in company events and conferences, actively discussing diversity in succession planning, promoting industrial and scientific careers to young women and developing family friendly and flexible employment policies.
There are challenges to overcome, particularly in respect of gender diversity, given the sector within which the group operates but the group is making good progress.
Boardroom Diversity Policy Further information is set out under or may appear to affect, the judgment Following the publication of the Davies 2011 12 Evaluation Process on pages 96 of any non-executive director and each Report, in October 2011 the FRC confirmed and 97. non-executive director was determined by its intention to include revisions in the next the board to be independent in character Appointments to the Board version of the amended Code to be and judgment.
As described under Appointments to the published in 2012 in order to accommodate There are no cross directorships or Board and its Committees on page 92, the the Davies Report recommendation in reciprocal directorships among the search for board candidates is conducted, respect of diversity policy.
These revisions directors: no two directors are also directors and appointments made, on merit, against will require companies to include in the of another company.
objective selection criteria having due regard section of the annual report describing Tim Stevenson was considered by the for the benefits of diversity on the board, the work of the nomination committee board to meet the independence criteria set including gender.
Further information on a description of the boards policy on out in the Code on his appointment as a diversity in the context of board appointments diversity, including gender, any measurable non-executive director and Chairman is contained in the Nomination Committee objectives that it has set for implementing Designate in March 2011 and on his Report on page 105. the policy and progress on achieving the appointment as Chairman in July 2011. objectives.
The changes will formally Sir John Banham, who retired as Chairman Board Balance Independence apply to companies with a financial year at the close of the 2011 Annual General of the Non-Executive Directors commencing on or after 1st October 2012, Meeting in July 2011, was not involved in and of the Chairman and so for Johnson Mattheys year ending the selection or appointment of Mr Stevenson 31st March 2014. as Chairman.
The question of the independence of the The board is in the process of Information on the companys non-executive directors is relevant to board reviewing the broad question of diversity procedures for authorising potential conflicts balance.
within the group and is considering a policy of interest is set out under Directors Director independence was reviewed for diversity.
Conflicts of Interest on page 95. by the board at its meeting on 29th March 2012.
In making its determination of Board Evaluation Process independence in respect of a director, the The FRC also announced in October 2011 board considers all relevant relationships that a new supporting principle would be and circumstances, including those set out included in the Code to the effect that in the Code.
The board considers, for evaluation of the board should consider the example, whether the director has, or has balance of skills, experience, independence had within the last three years, a material and knowledge of the company on the business relationship with the company, board, its diversity, including gender, how holds cross directorships or has significant the board works together as a unit and links with other directors through other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
involvement in other companies or bodies, Again, this change will be incorporated in or represents or has a material connection to an updated version of the Code to be a controlling or significant shareholder or is published in 2012.
The board is following nominated by a shareholder.
this principle in its board and committee The board considers that there are evaluation process which is underway as at no business or other relationships or the date of publication of this annual report.
circumstances which are likely to affect,
