103 Other than the matters referred to below, Appointment and Replacement Powers of the Directors these are not deemed by the company to of Directors The powers of the directors are determined be significant in terms of their potential The rules about the appointment and by the companys Articles of Association, effect on the group as a whole.
replacement of directors are contained in UK legislation including the 2006 Act and The group has a number of loan notes the companys Articles of Association.
The any directions given by the company in and borrowing facilities which may require Articles of Association provide that the general meeting.
prepayment of principal and payment of number of directors is not subject to any The directors have been authorised by accrued interest and breakage costs if there maximum but must not be less than six, the companys Articles of Association to is change of control of the company.
The unless otherwise determined by the company issue and allot ordinary shares and to make group has also entered into a series of by ordinary resolution.
Directors may be market purchases of its own shares.
These financial instruments to hedge its currency, appointed by an ordinary resolution of the powers are referred to shareholders for interest rate and metal price exposures members or by a resolution of the directors.
renewal at each annual general meeting.
which provide for termination or alteration Under the Articles of Association, a Any shares so purchased by the company if a change of control of the company director appointed by the directors must may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
materially weakens the creditworthiness retire at the next following annual general Further information is set out under of the group.
meeting and is not taken into account in Purchase by the Company of its Own The company is party to a marketing determining the directors who are to retire Shares on page 101. agreement with a subsidiary of Anglo by rotation at the meeting.
Also under the American Platinum Limited, originally The Interests of Directors in the companys Articles of Association, at least entered into in 1992, under which the Companys Shares one third of the board must retire by company was appointed as sales and rotation at each annual general meeting.
The interests of persons who were directors marketing agent for refined platinum group Notwithstanding these provisions, the of the company at 31st March 2012, and metals worldwide excluding the US and the board has agreed that all directors will seek their connected persons, in the issued company agreed to provide certain re-election at each annual general meeting shares of the company or in derivatives or marketing services.
The agreement contains in accordance with the Code.
Accordingly, other financial instruments relating to such provisions under which the counterparty all directors other than Sir Thomas Harris shares as at that date notified or notifiable may have the right to terminate the will be offering themselves for re-election to the company under the FSAs DTRs are agreement on a change of control of the at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
given in the Remuneration Report on pages company.
A director may be removed by a 116 and 117.
The Remuneration Report also The executive directors service special resolution of the company.
In sets out details of any changes in those contracts each contain a provision to the addition, a director must automatically interests between 31st March 2012 and effect that if the contract is terminated by cease to be a director if i he or she ceases 31st May 2012. the company within one year after a change to be a director by virtue of any provision of of control of the company, the company will the 2006 Act or he or she becomes Directors Interests in Contracts pay to the director as liquidated damages prohibited by law from being a director, or an amount equivalent to one years gross Other than service contracts, no director ii he or she becomes bankrupt or makes basic salary and other contractual benefits had any interest in any material contract with any arrangement or composition with his or less the period of any notice given by the any group company at any time during the her creditors generally, or iii he or she is company to the director.
year ended 31st March 2012 or from that suffering from a mental disorder, or iv he or The rules of the companys employee date up to the date of publication of this she resigns from his or her office by notice share schemes set out the consequences annual report.
There were no contracts of in writing to the company or, in the case of of a change of control of the company on significance as defined in the FSAs Listing an executive director, the appointment is participants rights under the schemes.
Rules subsisting during the year ended terminated or expires and the directors Generally such rights will vest and become 31st March 2012 or from that date up to the resolve that his or her office be vacated, exercisable on a change of control subject date of publication of this annual report to or v he or she is absent for more than six to the satisfaction of relevant performance which any group undertaking was a party consecutive months without permission of conditions.
and in which a director of the company is the directors from meetings of the directors During the year ended 31st March or was materially interested.
and the directors resolve that his or her 2012 and from that date up to the date of office be vacated, or vi he or she is publication of this annual report there were Change of Control requested in writing, or by electronic form, no other agreements between the company by all the other directors to resign.
During the year ended 31st March 2012 or any subsidiary and its or their directors or and from that date up to the date of employees providing for compensation for The Companys Articles of publication of this annual report there were loss of office or employment whether Association no significant agreements to which the through resignation, purported redundancy company or any subsidiary was or is a party The companys Articles of Association are or otherwise that occurs because of a that take effect, alter or terminate on a available on the Investor Relations takeover bid.
change of control of the company following Corporate Governance section of the a takeover bid.
The companys Articles However, the company and its of Association may only be amended by a subsidiaries were, during this period, and special resolution at a general meeting of are, as at the date of publication of this the company.
annual report, party to a number of commercial agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the agreements on a change of control of the company following a takeover bid.
