86 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The board discharges its The Role of the Chairman The Role of the Chief Executive responsibilities through an annual The Chairman leads the board.
He is The Chief Executive has day to day programme of board and other meetings.
responsible for creating the conditions for, management responsibility for the running Through a planned programme of board and for ensuring, an effective board and of the groups operations, for the application agendas, referred to further under The Role of effective contributions from individual of group policies and for the implementation the Chairman below, the board ensures that directors, particularly non-executive directors, of group strategy and policies agreed by the all necessary matters are discussed.
The based on a culture of mutual respect, board.
The board has given the Chief board is afforded sufficient time for debate openness, debate and constructive challenge.
Executive broad authority to operate the and challenge, particularly in respect of To achieve this it is necessary for the business of the group and he is accountable strategy and risk, including risk appetite.
Chairman to facilitate and encourage open for, and reports to the board on, the The board also seeks to allow sufficient communication and constructive working performance of the business.
The Chief opportunity for the review of past decisions relations between the executive and Executive also has a key role in the process where necessary.
At board meetings, the non-executive directors.
The Chairman for the setting and review of strategy.
More board receives and considers papers and seeks to ensure that the executive directors broadly, the Chief Executive promotes the presentations from management in respect are open and responsive to constructive companys culture and standards, including of matters under review.
Effective review and challenge by the non-executive directors of appropriate governance standards, decision making is supported by provision executive proposals.
The Chairman is in throughout the group.
In addition, he to the board of high quality, accurate, clear frequent contact with the Chief Executive, ensures that the views of the executive and timely information and the obtaining by meeting face to face or by telephone at least directors on business issues and, as the board of expert and independent once each week.
The Chairman also keeps appropriate, employees views on relevant opinion, analysis and advice where necessary the non-executive directors up to date with issues are communicated to the board in a see Information and Support on page 94. significant developments between board balanced way.
The boards processes in respect of conflicts meetings.
The Chairman is also responsible In carrying out his responsibilities, the of interest are dealt with under Directors for ensuring effective communication with Chief Executive is supported by the Group Conflicts of Interest on pages 95 and 96. shareholders and this is discussed further Finance Director who, together with the The board delegates certain specific under Relations with Shareholders on Chief Executive, is responsible amongst responsibilities to board committees, as pages 98 and 99. other things for ensuring that high quality described under Board Committees on The Chairman sets the boards agenda information is provided to the board on the page 88. and ensures that adequate time is dedicated companys financial performance.
for discussion of all agenda items, particularly The Role of the Executive strategic issues and risk appetite.
Since his The Roles of the Chairman and appointment as Chairman in July 2011, Directors the Chief Executive and Division Mr Stevenson has led a detailed process of of Responsibilities The biographical details of the executive board agenda review and planning, working directors and details of their relevant Tim Stevenson was appointed Chairman with the Company Secretary, the chairmen of experience and other significant with effect from the close of the 2011 the board committees and the Chief Executive.
commitments are set out on page 83.
Annual General Meeting on 19th July 2011, During the year, the board approved an The executive directors have specific having been appointed to the board on annual agenda plan designed to ensure that executive responsibilities but as directors their 29th March 2011.
Mr Stevensons all necessary matters are reserved for board duties extend to the whole of the groups biographical details including details of his decision and are afforded adequate time for operations and activities and are not confined relevant experience and other significant discussion throughout the year.
Particular to the parts of the business encompassed commitments are set out on page 83. attention has been paid to ensuring that by their specific executive roles.
Neil Carson was appointed Chief sufficient time is made available for the Executive in July 2004.
Mr Carsons discussion of strategy in order to allow the The Role of the Non-Executive biographical details including details of his opportunity for the non-executive directors Directors relevant experience and other significant to challenge and help develop strategy The biographical details of the non-executive commitments are set out on page 83. proposals.
Strategy is discussed in detail on directors including details of their relevant There is a clear division of pages 12 to 15.
The Chairman monitors, with experience and other significant responsibilities between the running of the assistance from the Company Secretary, the commitments are set out on page 83. board and the executive responsibility for information distributed to the board to The role of the non-executive directors is the running of the companys business.
No ensure that it is of high quality, accurate, to scrutinise the performance of management one individual has unfettered powers of clear and timely.
in meeting agreed goals and objectives and decision.
The roles of Chairman and Chief During the year ended 31st March to monitor the reporting of performance.
Executive are separate and the division of 2012, the Chairman met with the Their role is also to satisfy themselves on responsibilities between these roles is clearly non-executive directors without the the integrity of financial information and that established in a written statement adopted executives being present in order to financial and non-financial controls and by the board on 28th April 2005.
This is set review executive director performance.
systems of risk management are robust out in full in the Investor Relations and defensible.
Corporate Governance section of the companys website.
