.. Development of new products for automotive glass Sustainability initiatives at Johnson Mattheys sites around the world applications at our Colour Technologies business are focused on improving resource efficiency and developing more technology centre in Maastricht, the Netherlands.
from the businesses across the group on In line with our Equal Opportunities Following the development last year lost time accidents, as well as details of Policy, we recruit, train and develop of a ten year human resources strategy to any contractor incidents, occupational employees who meet the requirements of support business growth over the next illness, sickness absence and any regulatory the job role regardless of gender, ethnic decade, the focus now is on significant action.
The board reviews EHS strategy origin, age, religion, sexual orientation or recruitment in our operations in Asia as our and reviews the EHS assurance process disability.
The policy recognises that people businesses in the region continue to expand.
with disabilities can often be denied a fair All EHS audit reports, including health chance at work because of misconceptions management reviews, are reviewed by about their capabilities and seeks to the CSR Compliance Committee and enhance the opportunities available by appropriate follow up actions are taken attempting, wherever possible, to overcome on outstanding issues.
During 2011 12 a obstacles, such as the need to modify total of 26 detailed compliance audits and equipment, restructure jobs or to improve 19 one day audit action reviews were access to premises, provided such action completed.
Health management reviews does not compromise health and safety were conducted at 16 facilities.
A variety of training programmes are Similarly, employees who become in place to support continuous improvement disabled during their employment will be in EHS performance and regular meetings offered employment opportunities are held in Europe, North America and Asia consistent with their capabilities.
We value to enable the groups EHS professionals to the diversity of our people as a core network, share best practice and discuss component of a sustainable business and the impact of future EHS legislation.
employment applications are welcomed and encouraged from all sections of the community including minority groups.
Human Resources The Management Development and The groups human resources standards Remuneration Committee takes a special are progressive, consistent and aimed at interest in ensuring compliance with the bringing out the best in our people.
Training and Development Policy objectives Group policies are supported by in order to: detailed regional and individual business Ensure highest standards in the procedures which are regularly updated to recruitment of employees reflect both regional best practice and local legislation.
Site specific human resources Assess training needs in the light of policies and procedures are communicated job requirements to staff at inductions and through staff Ensure relevance of training and link handbooks.
Human resources policies and with business goals risks are examined by the CEC and the Employ and evaluate effective and CSR Compliance Committee.
efficient training methods The groups policies on equal opportunities and training are published Promote from within, from high on the companys website and are also potential pools of talent detailed below.
Understand employees aspirations View the policies online at Provide development opportunities www.
to meet employees potential and aspirations.
View the policy online at www.
