80 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance Governance Governance continued Business Integrity and Ethics Supply Chain Management Environment, Health and Safety Johnson Matthey strives to maintain the Management of supply chain and Johnson Matthey is committed to providing highest standards of ethical conduct and contractor activities is a core component the highest level of protection to the corporate responsibility worldwide to of the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 series of environment and to safeguarding the health, ensure we act with integrity, transparency standards.
Supply chain and contractor safety and wellbeing of its employees, and care for the rights of the individual management questionnaires are a customers, communities and other wherever we do business.
The groups requirement for achieving and maintaining stakeholders.
This is supported by policies, ethical principles and standards are set out registration and, as such, ISO registered a comprehensive management system, in its Business Integrity and Ethics Policy Johnson Matthey operations require the governance, careful risk assessment, which applies to all the groups employees.
auditing and training which promote For those operations without ISO continuous improvement and ensure that View the policy online at registration, the group EHS management high standards are achieved at sites www.
system provides policy and guidance on worldwide.
In addition, all facilities have supply chain management and contractor developed local policies to meet The board and its committees, the control.
international, national, local and corporate Chairman, the Chief Executive and the The groups Ethical and Sustainable requirements.
other individual directors all play key roles, Procurement Policy provides clear The Environment, Health and Safety together with management, in the promotion guidance on various topics including those Policy is a written statement, formulated and monitoring of ethical behaviour and relating to the selection of suppliers, and agreed by the CEC.
Signed by the the safeguarding of the groups reputation.
auditing against standards and ethical Chief Executive, it is available at all sites Compliance training is provided to conduct with suppliers.
and forms the basis of the group EHS employees to support their understanding management system.
of, and commitment to, group policies in View the policy online at order to protect and enhance the www.
View the policy online at companys reputation.
educates managers in their responsibilities Johnson Matthey is confident of the for employees, commercial contracts and human rights performance of its own The group EHS management system company assets and is delivered globally operations but recognises that business is available to all employees via the group via online learning programmes, face to practices in the supply chain are not intranet.
It is regularly reviewed and, face seminars and individual training.
always transparent and represent a risk together with the corporate policies and Online compliance training for employees that must be managed.
Every effort is objectives, it defines accountability and addresses the bribery and corruption, made to ensure the issues are managed sets the standards against which money laundering and competition risks effectively.
We support the principles conformance audits are assessed.
defined within the United Nations Universal EHS compliance audits are conducted All facilities have established policies Declaration of Human Rights and the to maintain continuous improvement and and procedures for employees to raise International Labour Organisation Core all Johnson Matthey operated manufacturing employment related issues for consideration Conventions including the conventions and research and development facilities and resolution.
in relation to child labour, forced labour, are included in the audit programme.
Audit A confidential, secure, externally-run non-discrimination, freedom of association frequency for each facility is determined whistleblowing website and telephone and collective bargaining.
Compliance with by the scale, inherent risk and past helpline are also in place to give all and respect for these core principles are performance of the operation.
Audits are employees additional means to raise any integrated within the risk assessment carried out by experienced ISO qualified issue of concern.
The website offers procedures and impact assessments EHS professionals and controlled by the multilingual access and allows for written which are undertaken when entering into Group EHS Assurance Director.
The site is publicised business in a new territory and within the management reviews are undertaken every via site notice boards and the companys due diligence processes when making an three to four years at all operational sites.
Reports received acquisition or entering a joint venture.
They are conducted by the Director of through the website and helpline as well Johnson Mattheys North American Group Health who provides consulting as any received through other media, businesses have developed a Conflict Free advice to support the prioritisation and such as email, telephone or letter are Minerals Policy in response to US legislative planning of programmes to optimise appropriately investigated in accordance moves to address reports on the role of workplace health and promote workforce with the Group Human Resources Policy conflict minerals in financing human rights sustainability.
In addition, all businesses on Whistleblowing.
Responses and violations in the Democratic Republic of the undertake annual health management outcomes are posted on the website, or Congo.
The policy was published in March improvement planning to adjust health are communicated to employees via other 2011.
In January 2012, these businesses programmes to meet changing business internal media, such as site notices or also issued a Slavery and Human Trafficking needs.
For the group as a whole, there Policy in response to the California At each board meeting, the board was a total of eight new whistleblowing Transparency in Supply Chains Act 2010. reviews group EHS performance reports reports in the calendar year 2011 and all Both policies are available on the for the prior months.
These reports set out but two have been resolved as at the date companys website.
the groups EHS performance in terms of of publication of this annual report.
accident and incidence rates, lost work View the policies online at days and the rolling all lost time accident www.
The reports also contain information
