85 This section of the annual report discusses The company has not complied with The board approves the groups the companys corporate governance part of Code provision E. 1.1, which provides governance structures and reviews the structures and processes.
that the senior independent director should groups internal control and risk management attend sufficient meetings with a range of framework to ensure that they are prudent The UK Corporate Governance major shareholders to listen to their views and effective and that risk is able to be Code in order to help develop a balanced assessed, monitored and managed.
The understanding of the issues and concerns board is collectively responsible to the The UK Corporate Governance Code the of major shareholders.
The board considers companys shareholders for the groups Code, issued by the Financial Reporting that there are appropriate mechanisms for system of corporate governance and is Council FRC in June 2010, contains broad the views of shareholders to be listened to ultimately accountable for the groups principles together with more specific and communicated to the board as a whole, activities, strategy, risk management and provisions which set out standards of good without it being necessary for the Senior financial performance, for stewardship of practice in relation to board leadership and Independent Director to attend meetings the groups resources and for social, effectiveness, remuneration, accountability with major shareholders.
The Senior environmental and ethical matters.
Listed Independent Director is, however, available Key matters for board decision include companies, such as Johnson Matthey, are to attend such meetings if requested by approval of the annual group operating and required to report on how they have applied shareholders.
The board believes that its capital expenditure budgets and annual the main principles of good governance set practices in this respect are both consistent group three year plan, as well as the group out in the Code and either to confirm that with the relevant main principle of the Code strategy.
The board also approves they have complied with the Codes concerning dialogue with shareholders, to announcements of the groups results, provisions or to provide an explanation which the Code provision relates, and the Annual Report and Accounts, the where they have not.
The Code replaced the consistent with good governance.
More declaration of the interim dividend and previous Combined Code on Corporate information on relations with shareholders recommendation of the final dividend.
The Governance and applied to the company is set out on pages 98 and 99. board is responsible for considering and throughout the year ended 31st March 2012. approving major capital projects, major In his statement on pages 6 and 7, acquisitions and major disposals of assets the Chairman comments on how the Code or operations in excess of defined Leadership principles relating to the role and effectiveness thresholds.
of the board in Sections A Leadership and In discharging its responsibilities the The Role of the Board B Effectiveness of the Code have been board seeks to set, promote and applied throughout the year ended The names and biographical details of all demonstrate adherence to clear values and 31st March 2012. the members of the board including details ethical standards for the group.
The board This Corporate Governance Report, of their relevant experience and other also remains cognisant of the need to together with the Nomination Committee significant commitments are set out on observe the duties owed by directors in law, Report on page 105, the Audit Committee page 83. including the overriding duty for each director Report on pages 106 and 107 and the The boards role is to provide to act in the way he or she considers, in Remuneration Report on pages 108 to 117, leadership of the company and direction good faith, will be most likely to promote the describes how the company has complied for management.
It is collectively responsible success of the company for the benefit of its with the provisions of the Code and applied and accountable to the companys members as a whole, whilst balancing the the main principles set out in the Code shareholders for the long term success of interests of stakeholders the companys during the year ended 31st March 2012. the group and for ensuring the appropriate shareholders, the groups employees, management and responsible operation of suppliers and customers and the broader Statement of Compliance with the group in pursuit of its objectives.
the Provisions of the Code board reviews management performance The board determines the structure, and the operating and financial performance Except as referred to below, the company size and composition of the board, of the group as a whole.
The board is has complied with all relevant provisions appointments to the board, selection of responsible for ensuring that the necessary of the Code throughout the year ended the Chairman and the Chief Executive, resources are provided for the company to 31st March 2012 and from that date up to appointment of the Senior Independent meet those objectives.
the date of publication of this annual report.
Director and membership and chairmanship The board sets, and is collectively of board committees.
The board has overall responsible to the companys shareholders responsibility for succession planning for the for the achievement of, the groups strategic Chief Executive and the other executive and objectives and it determines the nature and non-executive directors and is involved in extent of the significant risks it is willing to succession planning for senior management.
take in order to achieve those objectives.
Further information on the succession Strategy is discussed in detail on pages 12 planning process is set out on page 92. to 15.
The process for the consideration of Certain types of decision are taken by risk is discussed on pages 20 to 21. the board and others are delegated by the board to executive management.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for board decision has been adopted by the board.
This is set out in full in the Investor Relations Corporate Governance section of the companys website.
