98 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Risk Management and Internal carefully the impact of any weaknesses, The board, in part through the Audit Control Systems whether necessary actions are being taken Committee, has conducted an overarching The groups risk management and internal promptly and whether more extensive review of the effectiveness of the companys control systems comprise group policies, monitoring is needed.
Amongst other risk management and internal control procedures and practices covering a range matters, the Audit Committee reviews the systems, covering all material controls, of areas including the appropriate groups credit control procedures and risks, including financial, operational and authorisation and approval of transactions, controls over precious metals, IT controls compliance controls, for the year ended the application of financial reporting and the groups whistleblowing procedures.
31st March 2012 and up to the date of its standards and the review of financial The Audit Committee also reviews the approval of this annual report on 6th June performance and significant judgments.
performance of both the internal and 2012.
The review process accords with the The Group Control Manual, which is external auditors.
The Audit Committee also Revised Turnbull Guidance.
Following this distributed to all group operations, clearly considers observations by the external review, the group is enhancing and sets out the composition, responsibilities auditor in relation to internal financial control.
standardising the stock take procedures and authority limits of the various board and The groups internal audit function across its gold and silver refineries.
executive committees and also specifies plays an important part in the assessment of what may be decided without central the risks facing the group and is responsible approval.
It is supplemented by other for independently monitoring and assessing Remuneration specialist policy and procedures manuals the adequacy and effectiveness of the issued by the group, divisions and individual groups systems of internal financial The board has established a remuneration businesses or departments.
Internal audit reports on control committee, the Management Development effectiveness to the Audit Committee in line and Remuneration Committee MDRC.
Review of Effectiveness of the Groups with the agreed audit plan and Audit The membership of the MDRC is set Risk Management and Internal Control Committee agenda plan.
The internal audit on page 90.
Systems function is a unified, groupwide function The terms of reference of the MDRC A key responsibility of the board is for under the leadership of the Head of Internal are summarised on page 90.
The terms reviewing, assessing and confirming the Audit and Risk.
The global nature of the of reference can be found in the Investor adequacy and effectiveness of the groups function allows for more holistic assurance Relations Corporate Governance section risk management and internal control and consistency in approach.
The Head of of the companys website or may be systems including financial controls, Internal Audit and Risk has a dual reporting obtained from the Company Secretary.
controls in respect of the financial reporting line to the Group Finance Director and to the The Remuneration Report, which process and controls of an operational and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Audit describes the work of the MDRC, is set out compliance nature.
The board has Committee approves the plans for internal on pages 108 to 117. delegated part of this responsibility to the audit reviews and receives the reports Audit Committee.
In addition to determining produced by the internal audit function on risk appetite, the board specifically reviews a regular basis.
Plans for corrective action Relations with Shareholders EHS strategy, performance and assurance and control improvement are agreed with processes as well as the performance of management to address any issues, Dialogue with Shareholders group HR and IT.
The Audit Committee non-compliance or control deficiencies reviews other key risk areas and the identified by internal audits.
Internal audit The board welcomes the opportunity to assurance processes in respect of the follows up the implementation of its openly engage with shareholders as it management of risk.
recommendations, including any recognises the importance of a continuing The board, through setting its own recommendations to improve internal effective dialogue whether with major annual agenda plan and in approving that controls, and reports the outcome to senior institutional investors, private or employee of the Audit Committee, defines the process management and to the Audit Committee.
shareholders based on the mutual to be undertaken for the review, including Each year businesses are required understanding of respective objectives.
The the scope and frequency of assurance to formally review their financial and board as a whole takes responsibility for reports received throughout the year.
The non-financial controls and their compliance ensuring that such dialogue takes place.
board and Audit Committee agenda plans with group policies and statutory and are designed to ensure that all significant regulatory obligations and to provide Reporting of Results, Interim areas of risk are reported on and considered assurance on these.
The results of these Management Statements and during the course of the year.
reviews are collated and summarised by the the Investor Day The Audit Committee receives and internal audit function and a report is made The company reports formally to shareholders considers regular reports and presentations annually to the Audit Committee.
when its full year results are published in from management, from the heads of group The Audit Committee conducts an June and its half year results are published corporate functions such as group treasury annual assessment of effectiveness on in November.
The companys results are and from internal audit.
These identify and behalf of the board in order for the board to posted on the Investor Relations Results provide assessments of areas of significant report on effectiveness in the annual report.
Centre section of the companys website.
risk either for the businesses or the group The Audit Committee reports to the board The full year results are included in the as a whole and of the effectiveness of the on the operation and effectiveness of the companys annual report.
control systems in managing those risks.
risk management and internal control At the same time as publication of the Any significant issues are highlighted and systems and such reports are considered results, executive directors give presentations discussed.
The Audit Committee is thus by the board in forming its view of their on the half year and full year results in face able to focus on the key risk areas and effectiveness.
A report from the Audit to face meetings with institutional investors, effectively assess how they have been Committee on its activities and on the analysts and the media in London.
Live identified, evaluated and managed.
In work of internal audit is given on pages webcasts of these results presentations are assessing the effectiveness of the control 106 and 107. available on the companys website.
systems, the Audit Committee considers
