97 The Chairman proposes to report the Directors and Auditors Responsibility Accountability outcome of the evaluation process to the A statement of the directors responsibility board meeting in July 2012.
The board will for preparing the Annual Report and The Audit Committee debate the findings and any lessons to be Accounts is set out on page 120.
A The membership of the Audit Committee learned and will agree any follow up actions statement by the auditor, KPMG Audit Plc is set on page 90. and responsibilities as appropriate.
The key about its reporting responsibilities is set out The terms of reference of the Audit outcomes of the evaluation processes and on page 121.
Committee are summarised on pages 89 the steps the board intends to take to and 90.
The terms of reference can be Risk Management and Internal address any issues will be reported in the found in the Investor Relations Corporate 2013 annual report.
Control Governance section of the companys The board is ultimately responsible for website or may be obtained from the Future Reviews maintaining sound risk management and Company Secretary.
The board intends to undertake an externally internal control systems including financial The Audit Committee Report, which facilitated evaluation process at least every controls, controls in respect of the financial describes the work of the Audit Committee three years.
In the intervening years, the reporting process and controls of an in discharging its responsibilities, is set out review will be facilitated by the Chairman operational and compliance nature.
on pages 106 and 107. supported by the Senior Independent As the company is the parent company Director and the Company Secretary.
Financial Experience of a group, its internal control systems are The board is satisfied that at least one on a groupwide basis and the review of their Review of the Chairmans member of the Audit Committee, Alan effectiveness is implemented and reported Performance Ferguson, has recent and relevant financial from a groupwide perspective.
The The non-executive directors recognise that experience.
His biographical details are set directors review of the effectiveness of the Chairmans effectiveness is vital to that out page 83. internal control systems and the application of the board.
Led by the Senior Independent of the Revised Guidance for Directors on the Director, the non-executive directors are Financial and Business Reporting Combined Code issued by the FRC in responsible for performance evaluation of October 2005 Revised Turnbull Guidance In its reporting to shareholders the board the Chairman and for providing a fair and extends to the company and its recognises its responsibility to present a fair, balanced assessment to shareholders.
balanced and understandable assessment In view of the change in the The groups risk management systems of the groups position and prospects.
This chairmanship of the company with the and internal control systems are designed to responsibility covers the Annual Report and appointment of Tim Stevenson as Chairman meet the groups needs and manage the Accounts and extends to interim and other on 19th July 2011, a separate formal review risks to which it is exposed, including the price sensitive public reports and reports to of the Chairmans performance was not risk of failure to achieve business objectives, regulators as well as to information required undertaken during the year ended 31st March but such risks cannot be eliminated.
Such to be presented by statutory requirements.
2011 but feedback on the Chairmans systems can only provide reasonable, but The Business Review on pages 4 to 75 performance was reflected in the externally not absolute, assurance against a failure to sets out explanations of the basis on which facilitated evaluation referred to on page 96. meet business objectives or against the risk the company generates or preserves value A review of the Chairmans performance of material misstatement or loss.
They can over the longer term the business model was, however, undertaken in the year ended never completely protect against such and the strategy for delivering the objectives 31st March 2012.
On 28th March 2012, factors as unforeseeable events, human of the company.
This annual report is the non-executive directors, led by the fallibility or fraud.
intended to provide the information Senior Independent Director, met separately, The board confirms that there is a necessary to enable an assessment of the without the Chairman being present, to framework of continuous and ongoing companys performance, the business discuss the Chairmans performance.
In processes established in accordance with model and its strategy.
doing so they took into account the views the Revised Turnbull Guidance in place for The groups organisational structure is of executive directors.
The results were identifying, evaluating and managing the focused on its three divisions.
These are all subsequently reported by the Senior significant risks faced by the group.
These separately managed but report to the board Independent Director to the board.
They processes are regularly reviewed by the through a board director.
The CEC receives considered that the Chairman demonstrated board and the Audit Committee as and reviews monthly summaries of financial effective leadership and that his appropriate and have been in place during results from each division through a performance and contribution were strong.
the year ended 31st March 2012 and up to standardised reporting process.
Forecasts the date of approval of this annual report.
are prepared monthly throughout the year.
The board is responsible for The group has in place a comprehensive determining the nature and extent of the annual budgeting and planning process significant risks it is willing to take in including plans for the following two years.
The Budgets are approved by the board.
boards view of the groups key strategic Variances from budget are closely and operating risks and how the company monitored.
In addition to the annual seeks to manage those risks is set out on budgeting process, there is a ten year pages 20 to 23. strategy review process as referred to on page 12.
