79 The CEC also addresses risk and control within it address the issues which could Governance and Sustainability issues and reviews key EHS, social and potentially have a material effect on the Introduction governance issues.
The CSR Compliance groups future performance.
The groups The group has well established policies, Committee, a sub-committee of the CEC, materiality map outlines the key material processes and management systems to has specific executive responsibility for issues and the targets in place to address support its governance and sustainability the identification and monitoring of risks and monitor them.
efforts, which apply to all group operations in these areas.
It sets and oversees worldwide.
These encompass the key compliance with group standards through View the materiality map online at areas of: the dissemination, adoption and www.
implementation of appropriate group Business integrity and ethics policies and other operational measures.
The area of sustainability continues to Supply chain management Every business is required to include develop rapidly and we continually monitor sustainability in its annual budget setting emerging issues, regulation, legislation, Environment, health and safety EHS process and define the nature of standards and good practice.
programmes and projects to be undertaken are proactively managed through reviewing Together they provide the framework together with capital expenditure the external landscape to understand the for managing environmental, social and requirements and value generated over a material issues that may negatively impact governance matters.
Brief summaries are three year business cycle.
Plans are the group or present real business set out in this section.
Further details, discussed with the CEC and are formally opportunities.
Responsibility for identifying together with information about progress approved by the board.
As part of the and assessing these issues lies with the and developments over the year to process, progress against the Sustainability group sustainability team and the CSR 31st March 2012, can be found on the 2017 targets is assessed on a group basis Compliance Committee.
to establish if additional management action During the year a gap analysis and is required.
peer review study against the ISO 26000 Read more at We have a formal system of site and guidelines on social responsibility were www.
functional reviews to drive improved conducted to ensure the group remains performance in sustainability.
In 2011 12, abreast of best practice developments in Compliance with applicable legal 12 site reviews and six sustainability training sustainability.
We continued to develop requirements is a minimum standard for sessions were undertaken.
our understanding of life cycle assessment group operations and employees.
In many The groups sustainability strategy LCA and completed the first full quantitative cases we set standards which are in as detailed in the section on Our Strategy LCA of our automotive emission control advance of these.
on pages 13 and 14 was defined following catalysts see page 29.
In addition, a Employment contracts, handbooks an assessment of the risks, major impacts project to understand potential implications and policies specify acceptable business and future commercial opportunities open of water stress to our operations was practices and the groups position on to the business.
The long term targets carried out as described on page 74. ethical issues.
The Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group operations, and security manuals provide further operational guidelines to reinforce these.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 84 to 99 describes the role of the board, the Audit Committee and other committees in risk management and internal control.
SUSTAINABLE The board of directors is ultimately BUSINESS responsible for social, environmental and ethical matters.
These matters are embedded into the groups risk Health management processes and reviewed Social Environment Governance Financial and Safety annually by the board.
The Audit Committee LOCAL ACTION IN BUSINESSES monitors performance and reviews the Putting principles into practice business risks associated with corporate social responsibility CSR at least once POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS a year.
Policies are set and approved by Key objectives for assessment and control of risks the Chief Executives Committee CEC.
CSR COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVES COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE Setting standards and overseeing Policy setting and approval Monitors performance compliance Identify and monitor EHS, Addresses risk and control issues Annual review of CSR risks social and governance risks JOHNSON MATTHEY BOARD Responsibility for social, environmental and ethical matters Risk management processes and review
