99 The companys first quarter and third The board believes that appropriate All directors, including the chairmen quarter Interim Management Statements steps have been taken during the year to of the Nomination Committee, the Audit issued respectively on the day of the annual ensure that the members of the board, and Committee and the MDRC, who are able general meeting in July and in early February in particular the non-executive directors, to attend the annual general meetings do so.
each year are also made available on the develop an understanding of the views of The entire board was in attendance at the Investor Relations Results Centre section major shareholders about the company.
companys 2011 Annual General Meeting, of the companys website.
Such steps have included, for example, except for Michael Roney who was unable The company also holds an annual analysts and brokers briefings, consideration to attend the meeting because of coinciding Investor Day for its institutional investors by the board of monthly brokers reports commitments at Bunzl plc, where he is and analysts.
At the 2012 Investor Day held and of feedback from shareholder meetings Chief Executive.
in London on 1st February, the company on a six-monthly basis.
The canvassing of In order to better communicate with gave a presentation in respect of its major shareholders views for the board in a shareholders a business presentation is Precious Metal Products Division.
This was detailed investor survey is usually conducted made by the Chief Executive at the annual designed to provide a deeper understanding every two years by external consultants.
Shareholder participation of the division, its strategy and drivers and its meeting in November 2011, the board at the meeting is encouraged.
All directors to highlight why the division is such an considered a perception analysis report in attendance are available to answer intrinsic part of the group.
The presentation prepared for the company by Smiths questions in their capacity as directors or as also outlined the groups role in the global Corporate Advisory dated October 2011. committee chairmen, formally through the platinum group metals market and the The purpose of this was to ascertain the Chairman during the meeting and informally dynamics of the divisions businesses.
It also views and opinions of a broad range of both afterwards.
explained the role of R&D in adding value shareholders and non-shareholders.
At the meetings, the company and providing future growth opportunities.
Also, as reported in the Remuneration proposes separate resolutions on each A live webcast of the Investor Day Report in the 2011 annual report, a selection substantially separate issue, including on presentations is made available on the of major institutional shareholders and the Annual Report and Accounts.
A copy of the Investor institutional investor bodies were consulted resolution, shareholders have the option Day presentation is posted on the Investor in detail by the MDRC during 2010 11 in a through the proxy appointment forms Relations Presentations section of the collective consultation exercise as part of its provided to direct their proxy to vote either companys website.
comprehensive review of executive director for or against the resolution or to withhold and senior management remuneration their vote.
The proxy form itself and the Shareholder Contact arrangements within the group.
announcement of the results of a vote make The board takes the view that these it clear that a vote withheld is not legally a While the Chairman takes overall responsibility methods, taken together, are a practical vote and is not counted in the calculation for ensuring that the views of shareholders and efficient way for the board, including of the proportion of the votes cast for and are communicated to the board as a whole the Senior Independent Director, to keep in against the resolution.
All valid proxy and that all directors are made aware of touch with shareholder opinion and views appointments received are properly major shareholders issues and concerns, and to reach a balanced understanding recorded and counted.
contact with major shareholders is principally of major shareholders objectives, issues All resolutions at the annual general maintained by the Chief Executive and the and concerns.
meeting are decided on a poll as required by Group Finance Director.
They maintain a the companys Articles of Association rather continual dialogue with institutional Annual General Meetings than on a show of hands and poll voting is shareholders throughout the year on carried out by electronic means.
performance, plans and objectives through An important part of effective communication The results of the poll are announced a programme of regular one to one and with shareholders is the Annual General to the market as soon as possible and group meetings and they ensure that Meeting.
posted on the Investor Relations shareholder views are communicated to the The companys annual general meeting Shareholder Centre Annual General board.
The groups Investor Relations takes place in London.
Notice of the Meeting section of the companys website.
Department acts as a focal point for contact meeting and any related papers are sent to The announcement shows votes for and with investors throughout the year.
shareholders at least 20 working days against as well as votes withheld.
The Chairman is available to meet with before the meeting and are also published Details of the annual general meeting institutional investors to hear their views and on the Investor Relations Shareholder to be held on 25th July 2012 are set out in discuss any issues or concerns, including Centre Annual General Meeting section of the circular to shareholders accompanying on governance and strategy.
The Senior the companys website.
The circular sent to this annual report and the resolutions to be Independent Director and the other shareholders with the notice of meeting proposed are summarised under 2012 non-executive directors are also available to aims to set out a balanced and clear Annual General Meeting on page 100. meet with major shareholders if requested.
explanation of each resolution to be Other than meetings held with shareholders proposed.
by Tim Stevenson as part of his induction programme, no such meetings were held or requested during the year ended 31st March 2012 or from that date to the date of publication of this annual report.
