101 Other than as referred to under At the 2012 Annual General Meeting Nominees and Liens Employee Share Schemes on page 102, the board will again seek shareholders During the year ended 31st March 2012 and during the year ended 31st March 2012 and approval to renew the annual authority for from that date up to the date of publication from that date up to the date of publication the company to make purchases of its own of this annual report: of this annual report there were no shares through the market.
No shares in the company were arrangements under which a shareholder acquired by the companys nominee, Rights and Obligations Attaching to has waived or agreed to waive any or by a person with financial assistance Shares dividends nor any agreement by a from the company, where the company The holders of ordinary shares in the shareholder to waive future dividends.
has a beneficial interest in the shares company are entitled to receive dividends and there was no person who when declared, to receive the companys Dividend Payments and DRIP acquired shares in the company in a annual report, to attend and speak at Dividends can be paid directly into previous financial year in its capacity as general meetings of the company, to shareholders bank accounts.
A Dividend the companys nominee or with financial appoint proxies and to exercise voting Reinvestment Plan DRIP is also available.
assistance from the company : and rights.
This allows shareholders to purchase As at 31st March 2012 and as at the The company did not obtain or hold a additional shares in the company with their date of publication of this annual report, lien or other charge over its own shares.
Further information and except as referred to below, there are no a mandate can be obtained from the Allotment of Securities for Cash and restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares companys registrars, Equiniti, whose details Placing of Equity Securities in the company, no limitations on the holding are set out on page 175 and on the Investor During the year ended 31st March 2012 and of securities and no requirements to obtain Relations section of the companys website.
from that date up to the date of publication the approval of the company, or of other of this annual report, the company has not holders of securities in the company, for a Share Capital and Control allotted, nor has any major subsidiary transfer of securities.
Capital Structure undertaking of the company allotted, equity The directors may, in certain The issued share capital of the company at securities for cash other than pursuant to circumstances, refuse to register the transfer 31st March 2012 was 214,675,736 ordinary an open offer, a rights issue or any issue of a share in certificated form which is not shares of 1.00 each excluding treasury specifically authorised by shareholders fully paid up, where the instrument of shares.
The company did not allot any shares or otherwise.
During the year ended transfer does not comply with the during the year ended 31st March 2012.
31st March 2012 and from that date up requirements of the companys Articles of As at 31st March 2012, the company to the date of publication of this annual Association, or if entitled to do so under the held 5,997,877 treasury shares.
There were report the company has not participated Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. no purchases, sales or transfers of treasury in any placing of equity securities.
The directors may also refuse to register a shares during the year ended 31st March transfer of ordinary shares in certificated 2012. form, which represent 0.25% or more of the Listing of the Companys Shares issued share capital of the company, The companys shares have Premium Listing Purchase by the Company of its following the failure by the member or any on the London Stock Exchange and trade Own Shares other person appearing to be interested in as part of the FTSE 100 index under the At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, the shares to provide the company with symbol JMAT.
shareholders renewed the companys information requested under section 793 of authority to make market purchases of up the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
to 21,467,573 ordinary shares representing No person holds securities in the American Depositary Receipt 10% of the issued share capital of the company carrying any special rights with Programme company excluding treasury shares as at regard to control of the company.
There are The company has a sponsored Level 1 1st June 2011.
This authority subsisted at no restrictions on voting rights including any American Depositary Receipt ADR 31st March 2012. limitations on voting rights of holders of a programme which BNY Mellon administers During the year ended 31st March given percentage or number of votes or and for which it acts as Depositary.
Each 2012 and from that date up to the date of deadlines for exercising voting rights except ADR represents two ordinary shares of publication of this annual report, the that a shareholder has no right to vote in the company.
The ADRs trade on the US company did not make any purchases of its respect of a share unless all sums due in over-the-counter market under the symbol own shares or propose to purchase its own respect of that share are fully paid.
When dividends are paid to shares either through the market or by an are no arrangements by which, with the shareholders, the Depositary converts such offer made to all shareholders or otherwise, companys cooperation, financial rights dividends into US dollars, net of fees and nor did the company acquire any of its carried by shares in the company are held expenses, and distributes the net amount own shares other than by purchase.
Since by a person other than the holder of the to ADR holders.
Contact details for BNY 31st March 2012 the company has not shares.
As at 31st March 2012 and as at the Mellon are set out on page 175. effected any purchases of its own shares, date of publication of this annual report, entered into any options to purchase its own there are no agreements known to the shares or entered into any contracts to company between holders of securities that make such purchases including transactions may result in restrictions on the transfer of made through the market or by an offer securities or on voting rights.
made to all shareholders or otherwise.
