96 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Established procedures in accordance 2010 11 Evaluation Process Good progress was noted across all with the companys Articles of Association Following the appointment of Tim Stevenson the areas of review, building on initiatives are in place to ensure compliance with the as Chairman Designate in March 2011, the and action developed as a result of prior directors conflicts of interest duties under board instigated a formal evaluation of its effectiveness reviews.
Certain suggestions the 2006 Act and for dealing with conflict performance and that of its committees were made to ensure continuing progress.
The company has and individual directors.
This evaluation was The evaluation process gave assurance that complied with these procedures during the led by Tim Stevenson and was externally each director continued to contribute year ended 31st March 2012 and from that facilitated by an independent consultant effectively and demonstrated commitment date up to the date of publication of this experienced in board evaluation.
During the year, details of any the first time that the board had undertaken The Chairman agreed with the board new conflicts or potential conflict matters an externally facilitated evaluation process.
that no actions or changes to board or were submitted to the board for consideration The external facilitator had no other committee practice were required in the and, where appropriate, these were connection with the company and was not immediate term following the review but that approved.
subject to any conflict of interest.
The the output would be considered further In March 2012, the board undertook evaluation was designed, in particular, to following his appointment as Chairman in an annual review of the register of previously allow Tim Stevenson to gain an objective July 2011 and in the course of the review for approved conflict or potential conflict overview and evaluation of the workings of 2011 12 to ensure continuing improvement.
matters and, to the extent that these were the board and its committees, of strengths 2011 12 Evaluation Process still relevant, agreed that they should and weaknesses, of areas for further As the 2010 11 review process had been continue to be authorised on the terms improvement and of the contributions of externally facilitated, the board decided to previously set out.
In each case, the review individual directors.
The review was conduct an internal review process during was undertaken by directors who were intended to build on the internal board 2012.
The evaluation of the performance genuinely independent of the conflict matter.
review carried out by the Company and effectiveness of the board and its Authorised conflict or potential conflict Secretary in 2009 10. committees and individual directors is being matters will continue to be reviewed by the The methodology of the evaluation conducted by the Chairman in collaboration board on an annual basis.
included a series of detailed one to one with the board committee chairmen.
The The board confirms that the company meetings with each director and the evaluation is not complete at the date of complies with its procedures in place to Company Secretary in order to gather views publication of this annual report.
authorise conict situations and is satisfied and feedback.
The external evaluator also The evaluation process has included that its powers to authorise conict attended one full board meeting as an one to one interviews by the Chairman with situations are being exercised properly and observer.
The review covered the following each director and the Company Secretary.
effectively and in accordance with the main areas, which were determined by the The topics being discussed, which were companys Articles of Association.
Chairman and the external evaluator to be determined by the Chairman to be the of most importance or value to the board: Evaluation of the Board, Board principal areas of focus following the Overall board working and efficiency: externally facilitated review in the previous Committees and Directors Board composition and balance: year, include: With the aim of improving effectiveness, the Succession planning: Strategy and strategy focus: board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Strategy process: Monitoring financial and non-financial committees and individual directors.
The performance: Financial and non-financial monitoring: evaluation, which is led by the Chairman, Stakeholder relationships: aims to be as rigorous and objective as Risk management and risk possible.
management systems: and Risk and uncertainties: The process for evaluation of the board Board development including training Executive remuneration: and considers its strengths and weaknesses, and site visits.
the range and balance of skills, experience, Key themes for discussion focus in independence and knowledge of the The full evaluation process was not 2012 13. company on the board, its diversity, complete at the date of publication of the In carrying out the evaluation, the including gender diversity, how the board 2011 annual report and has since been board is following the new supporting works together as a unit and any other concluded.
Overall feedback from the principle to be included in the Code, as factors considered relevant to its evaluation was provided in the form of a announced by the FRC in October 2011, effectiveness.
Individual evaluation aims to presentation by the external evaluator at a to the effect that evaluation of the board show whether each director continues to meeting of the board in May 2011, which should consider, amongst other things, contribute effectively and to demonstrate then debated the findings.
The board also the boards diversity, including gender commitment to the role including time discussed the evaluation process itself and diversity.
Further information is set out under commitment.
The Chairman acts on the agreed that the external evaluation was Board Evaluation Process on page 93. results of the performance evaluation.
The external evaluator also The strengths are recognised and any provided a comprehensive written report weaknesses addressed.
to the Chairman, feedback to the board committee chairmen and individual feedback for the Chief Executive.
