91 Board and Committee Attendance The attendance of members at board and board committee meetings in the year ended 31st March 2012 was as follows: Board Nomination Committee Audit Committee MDRC Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Director attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended 2 2 1 2 Tim Stevenson 76 2 1 4 43 1 Sir John Banham 33 11 2 22 1 1 Neil Carson 77 2 4 Alan Ferguson 77 22 444 4 3 Sir Thomas Harris 77 21 44 44 1 Robert MacLeod 77 4 Larry Pentz 77 4 4 4 Michael Roney 76 22 43 43 Bill Sandford 77 Dorothy Thompson 77 22 444 4 Alan Thomson 33 11 222 2 Robert Walvis 33 11 222 2 Notes 1 Includes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of meeting.
2 Tim Stevenson was unable to attend the board meeting and the meetings of the Nomination Committee and the MDRC on 10th May 2011 as the date coincided with the annual general meeting of The Morgan Crucible Company plc of which he is Chairman.
3 Sir Thomas Harris did not attend the meeting of the Nomination Committee on 29th March 2012, at which the matter of the appointment of an additional non-executive director following his prospective retirement from the board was discussed.
4 Michael Roney was unable to attend the board meeting on 19th July 2011, the 2011 Annual General Meeting held later that day or the meetings of the Audit Committee and the MDRC held on the previous day because of coinciding commitments at Bunzl plc, where he is Chief Executive.
Where directors are unable to attend a Director, Corporate and Strategic responsibilities effectively.
Further information board or board committee meeting, they Development: the Group Director, Human on board and committee appointments is communicate their comments and Resources and Environment, Health and set out on page 92 under Appointments to observations on the matter to be considered Safety: and the Company Secretary and the Board and its Committees and in the in advance of the meeting via the group Group Legal Director.
Nomination Committee Report on page 105.
Chairman, the Senior Independent Director During the year ended 31st March The board is of the view that it is of or the relevant board committee chairman 2012, the CEC met eight times.
In order a size such that the requirements of the for raising as appropriate at the meeting.
to more effectively use the time of its business can be met, that changes to the Individuals attendance at board and members, the CEC no longer meets formally boards composition and that of its board committee meetings is considered, as every month except in August and after committees can be managed without undue necessary, during the one to one meetings September 2011 moved to a programme disruption, and that it is not so large as to conducted by the Chairman with directors of meeting formally every other month and be unwieldy.
The board is also of the view as part of the formal annual review of their informally on such other occasions as may that it includes an appropriate combination performance.
Further information on be necessary.
of executive and non-executive directors performance evaluation is given under The CEC has a number of and, in particular, independent non-executive Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees sub-committees as referred to further directors.
The size of the board, as well as and Directors on pages 96 and 97. on page 88. its composition, is kept under review by the Nomination Committee.
The Chief Executives Committee Throughout the year ended 31st March 2012, and from that date up to the publication Effectiveness In discharging his responsibilities, the Chief of this annual report, at least half the board Executive is assisted by the Chief Executives members, excluding the Chairman, were The Composition of the Board Committee CEC.
The CEC is a non-executive directors determined by the management committee chaired by the The board comprises the Chairman board to be independent as referred to Chief Executive.
It is responsible for the Tim Stevenson, the Chief Executive further on page 93. recommendation to the board of strategic Neil Carson, three other executive As announced on 22nd May 2012, and operating plans and on making directors Robert MacLeod, Larry Pentz Sir Thomas Harris will be retiring from the recommendations on matters reserved and Bill Sandford, and four independent board at the close of the 2012 Annual to the board where appropriate.
It is non-executive directors Alan Ferguson, General Meeting on 25th July 2012. responsible for the executive management Sir Thomas Harris, Michael Roney and Following his retirement there will be a of the groups businesses.
majority of executive directors on the board During the year ended 31st March 2012 The board seeks to ensure that both pending the appointment of an additional the CEC comprised the Chief Executive: it and its committees have the appropriate independent non-executive director.
As the Group Finance Director: the two other range and balance of skills, experience, described in the Nomination Committee executive directors: the division directors knowledge and independence to enable Report on page 105, the process for the who do not sit on the board: the Group them to discharge their respective duties and appointment of an additional non-executive director has commenced.
