104 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance Governance Other Statutory Information continued authority will be subject to an overall Disabled Persons Political Donations and aggregate limit on donations and Expenditure A description of the companys policy expenditure of 50,000.
As permitted under applied during the year ended 31st March It is the policy of the group not to make the 2006 Act, the resolution will extend to 2012 and from that date up to the date of political donations or incur political political donations made, or political publication of this annual report relating to expenditure.
expenditure incurred, by any subsidiaries the recruitment, employment and training Under applicable UK legislation the of the company.
of disabled employees can be found on 2006 Act, political donations by the page 81. company to any political parties, other Financial Assistance Received political organisations or independent from Government Employee Involvement election candidates or the incurring by the The group received no financial assistance company of political expenditure are A description of the action taken by the from government during the year.
prohibited unless authorised by shareholders company during the year ended 31st March in advance.
Under the legislation, the terms 2012 and from that date up to the date of Auditors and Disclosure of political donation, political party, political publication of this annual report relating to Information organisation and political expenditure are employee involvement can be found on capable of wide interpretation.
Sponsorship, In accordance with section 489 of the 2006 pages 48 to 59. subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid Act, resolutions are to be proposed at the leave for employees fulfilling public duties Use of Financial Instruments 2012 Annual General Meeting for the and support for bodies representing the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor Information on the groups financial risk business community in policy review or of the company and to authorise the management objectives and policies and its reform may fall within these definitions.
directors to determine its remuneration.
exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest During the year ended 31st March 2012: So far as each person serving as a rate risk and foreign currency risk can be director of the company at the date this No political donations were made by found on pages 155 to 160.
Report of the Directors was approved by the the company or its subsidiaries to any board is aware, there is no relevant audit EU political party, to any other EU Branches information that is information needed by political organisation or to any EU The company and its subsidiaries have the auditor in connection with preparing its independent election candidate established branches in a number of report of which the companys auditor is 2011 nil : different countries in which they operate.
Each such director hereby No EU political expenditure was confirms that he or she has taken all the Policy on Payment of incurred by the company or its steps that he or she ought to have taken as Commercial Debts subsidiaries 2011 nil : and a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and The groups policy in relation to the payment No contributions were made by the to establish that the companys auditor is of all suppliers and persons who may company or any subsidiary to any aware of that information.
become suppliers is set out in its Group non-EU political party within the Control Manual, which is distributed to all meaning of the 2006 Act 2011 nil.
The groups policy is that The term EU as used above applies payment should be made within the credit The Report of the Directors is the to parties, organisations and independent terms agreed with the supplier, subject to management report for the purposes of election candidates that seek public office in the supplier having performed its obligations the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure any EU Member State and to expenditure under the relevant contract.
It is not the and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
incurred in their support or in relation to any groups policy to follow any other specific referendum held under the laws of an EU code or standard on payment practice in The Report of the Directors was approved Member State.
Non-EU political party respect of its suppliers.
by the board on 6th June 2012 and is means any political party which carries on, At 31st March 2012, the companys signed on its behalf by: or proposes to carry on, its activities wholly aggregate level of creditor days amounted outside EU Member States.
Creditor days are calculated by The company has no intention either dividing the aggregate of the amounts which now or in the future of making any political were outstanding as trade payables at donation or incurring any political 31st March 2012 by the aggregate of the expenditure in respect of any political party, amounts the company was invoiced by political organisation or independent election suppliers during the year ended 31st March Simon Farrant candidate.
However, to avoid inadvertently 2012 and multiplying by 365 to express the Company Secretary contravening the 2006 Act, the board is ratio as a number of days.
proposing at the 2012 Annual General Meeting to renew the authority, first granted Charitable Donations by shareholders at the annual general During the year ended 31st March 2012 the meeting in 2004, and renewed at each group donated 645,000 2011 517,000 to subsequent annual general meeting, for the charitable organisations worldwide, of which company to make political donations and to 378,000 2011 320,000 was in the UK.
The proposed Further information on donations made by the group worldwide are given on page 58.
