94 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The circular sets out to shareholders why Time Commitment of Terms of Appointment of the the board believes each director should be the Chairman and of the Non-Executive Directors re-elected based on continued satisfactory Non-Executive Directors The non-executive directors are appointed performance in the role.
In the circular, the for specified terms subject to annual The board recognises that it is vital that all Chairman confirms to shareholders that, election and to the provisions of the directors should be able to dedicate following formal performance evaluation, the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act relating sufficient time to the company to effectively performance of each non-executive director to the removal of a director.
proposed for re-election continues to be Any term beyond six years for a The time commitment required by the effective and to demonstrate commitment non-executive director is subject to company is considered by the board and by to the role including commitment of time particularly rigorous review and takes into individual directors on appointment.
The for board and board committee meetings.
account the need for progressive refreshing letters of appointment of the Chairman and Further information on performance of the board.
No non-executive director who of each non-executive director set out the evaluation is given under Evaluation of the will be proposed for re-election at the 2012 expected minimum time commitment for Board, Board Committees and Directors Annual General Meeting on 25th July 2012 their roles.
Each undertake that they will on page 96. will then have served longer than six years.
have sufficient time to meet what is expected The terms and conditions of of them for the proper performance of their Information and Support appointment of the non-executive directors duties and acknowledge that there may, on The board has in place processes to ensure and the contracts of service of the executive occasion, be a need for additional time that it is supplied in a timely manner with directors with the company are available to commitment.
The minimum time commitment information in a form and of a quality be inspected by any person at the considered by the board to be necessary for appropriate to enable it to discharge its registered office of the company during a non-executive director and provided in the duties.
The Chairman, through the Company normal business hours.
They are also letters of appointment is two days per Secretary and with the support of the available for inspection at the annual general month following induction.
In his letter of executive directors and management, meeting of the company prior to the meeting appointment, the Chairman undertook to ensures that this information is of high and during the meeting.
Accordingly, they devote such time to the affairs of the quality in terms of its accuracy, clarity, will be available for inspection at Merchant company as is required by his duties appropriateness, comprehensiveness and Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, as Chairman.
London EC2R 8JB from 10.00 am on The other significant commitments of the Directors are able to seek clarification Wednesday 25th July 2012 until the Chairman and of each non-executive or amplification from management where conclusion of the 2012 Annual General director are disclosed to the board before necessary.
appointment, with an indication of the time The role of the Company Secretary in commitment involved.
The board requires to providing support and information is set out Annual Re-Election of Directors be, and is, informed of subsequent changes on page 87. as they arise.
The companys Articles of Association Details of Tim Stevensons other require one third of the board to retire by Independent Professional Advice significant commitments are set out on rotation at each annual general meeting.
There were no changes to these The non-executive and the executive However, the Code provides that all during the year ended 31st March 2012. directors have access to independent directors of FTSE 350 companies should On 8th May 2012 it was announced by external professional advice such as legal be subject to re-election by their The Morgan Crucible Company plc that and financial advice at the companys shareholders every year subject to Mr Stevenson would be retiring as chairman expense where they judge this necessary to continued satisfactory performance.
In of that company on 31st July 2012. discharge their responsibilities as directors.
accordance with this provision, the board Details of the non-executive directors has decided that all directors will retire at Director Induction, Familiarisation, other significant commitments are set out each annual general meeting and offer Training and Development on page 83.
Alan Ferguson has, since his themselves for re-election by shareholders.
appointment to the board, been appointed Each director stood for re-election Induction as a non-executive director of Croda at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
All The company puts in place full, formal and International Plc in July 2011, where he directors will be offering themselves for tailored induction programmes for all new has chaired the audit committee since re-election at the 2012 Annual General directors on joining the board.
He was also appointed as a Meeting except for Sir Thomas Harris, who takes into account the directors different non-executive director of The Weir Group PLC will be retiring from the board at the close of backgrounds and experience, the induction in December 2011 and has chaired its that meeting.
is aimed to be a broad introduction to the audit committee since May 2012.
These Biographical details of each of the groups businesses and its areas of appointments were reported to the board directors, including details of their other significant risk.
Key elements of the induction as they arose.
The board assessed the directorships and responsibilities and relevant process are meeting the executive directors impact of these appointments and believes previous positions held, together with any and senior and middle management that Mr Ferguson continues to be able to further relevant factors including details of the individually and collectively and visiting the manage his time commitments and allocate their skills and experience and contributions groups major operating sites.
sufficient time to the company to discharge to the board, are set out in the circular to his responsibilities effectively, including his shareholders in respect of the 2012 Annual responsibilities as Chairman of the Audit General Meeting.
This is to assist Committee.
shareholders to take an informed decision on the resolutions for their re-election.
