95 Since their appointments Tim Such presentations, meetings and site Copies of the Deed Polls and the Stevenson and Alan Ferguson have visits assist the non-executive directors in companys Articles of Association are undergone tailored induction programmes familiarising themselves with, and gaining a available to be inspected by any person at facilitated by the Company Secretary.
These greater insight into, the groups businesses the registered office of the company during programmes included meetings with the and help to give a balanced overview of the normal business hours.
They are also Chief Executive, the executive directors and group.
They enable the non-executive available for inspection at the annual general senior management in order to be briefed directors to continue to develop and refresh meeting of the company prior to the meeting on group strategy and on individual their knowledge and understanding of the and during the meeting.
Accordingly, they businesses, briefing sessions with key group groups businesses, the markets in which it will be available for inspection at Merchant functions and visits to the principal UK sites.
operates and its key relationships.
They are Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, The programmes also allowed Mr Stevenson also important for building links with the London EC2R 8JB from 10.00 am on and Mr Ferguson to familiarise themselves groups employees.
Wednesday 25th July 2012 until the with any issues arising from service on, or As part of the annual performance conclusion of that meeting.
As part review process referred to under Evaluation Neither the company nor any of his induction programme, Tim Stevenson of the Board, Board Committees and subsidiary has indemnified any director of had separate meetings with several major Directors on page 96, the Chairman meets the company or a subsidiary in respect of shareholders.
with each director annually on a one to one any liability that he or she may incur to a basis to review and agree their individual third party in relation to a relevant Familiarisation, Training and Development training and development requirements.
To ensure the effective fulfilment of the roles of the directors on the board and on the Indemnification of Directors Directors Conflicts of Interest board committees and to ensure that their and Insurance Under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 contributions remain informed and relevant, Act, a director must avoid situations in Under Deed Polls dated 20th July 2005 the various steps are taken to ensure that all which he or she has, or can have, a direct company granted indemnities in favour of directors are able to gain and to continually or indirect interest that conflicts with, or may each director of the company in respect of update and refresh their knowledge and conflict with, the interests of the company.
any liability that he or she may incur to a skills.
The intention is that all directors have This covers, in particular, the exploitation of third party in relation to the affairs of the familiarity with, and appropriate knowledge property, information or opportunity and it company or any group member.
Such of, the company and gain access to its applies whether or not the company is in a indemnities were in force during the year operations and employees.
The board position to take advantage of it.
There is no ended 31st March 2012 for the benefit of all ensures that the company provides the breach of this duty if authorisation of the persons who were directors of the company necessary resources to allow this to happen.
conflict situation has been given by the at any time during the year and remain in Each board meeting includes one or independent directors.
The companys force for the benefit of all persons who are more business or strategy presentations Articles of Association give power to the directors of the company as at the date from senior managers.
To ensure that the independent directors to give such when this Report of the Directors was board is kept up to date on important authorisation but board authorisation is not approved and from that date up to the date matters, including environmental, legal, permitted in respect of the acceptance of of publication of this annual report.
governance and regulatory developments, benefits from third parties.
Directors also Under Deed Polls also dated 20th July presentations are also made to the board by have a duty under the 2006 Act to make 2005 the company granted indemnities in both external and internal advisers.
prior declaration to the other directors of the favour of each director of its subsidiaries in The board also holds at least one board nature and extent of any direct or indirect respect of any liability that he or she may meeting per year at one of the groups interest in a proposed transaction or incur to a third party in relation to the affairs of operational sites and takes the opportunity arrangement with the company.
Such indemnities were to tour the site and discuss business issues, directors must declare the nature and extent in force during the year ended 31st March risks and strategy with local management.
of any direct or indirect interest in an existing 2012 for the benefit of all persons who were During the year ended 31st March 2012, transaction or arrangement entered into by directors of the subsidiaries at any time the board visited Fine Chemicals API the company, to the extent that the interest during the year and remain in force for the manufacturing facility at Riverside, has not been declared under the duty in benefit of all persons who are directors of Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, USA in respect of proposed transactions or the subsidiaries as at the date when this September 2011 and Precious Metal arrangements.
Report of the Directors was approved and Products Catalysts and Chemicals from that date up to the date of publication manufacturing facility at Royston, of this annual report.
Hertfordshire in the UK in March 2012.
The company has in place appropriate The board toured these sites and received directors and officers liability insurance cover presentations from management on the in respect of legal action against, amongst recently acquired facility at Riverside and others, its executive and non-executive on Catalyst and Chemicals new products directors.
Individual non-executive directors also undertake site visits.
