87 As members of the board, the The Senior Independent Director is Board Meetings non-executive directors have a key role available to shareholders should they have The board meets regularly throughout the in constructively challenging in all areas concerns which contact through the normal year in order to effectively discharge its duties.
and this is vital to the independence and channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or During the year ended 31st March 2012 objectivity of the boards deliberations other executive directors has failed to the board met seven times.
The board met and decision making.
This is particularly resolve or for which such contact may be once between 31st March 2012 and the important in helping develop proposals inappropriate.
He is available to attend date of publication of this annual report.
The Chief Executive and the meetings with major shareholders to listen At its meeting on 29th September other executive directors are open and to their views in order to help develop a 2011, the board reviewed and approved the responsive to constructive challenge by balanced understanding of their issues and board agenda plan for 2012 13 and for the non-executive directors of executive concerns.
The board agreed that proposals.
Non-executive directors also The Senior Independent Director plays the business usually conducted at the have an important part to play in supporting an important role in respect of succession meeting held in early May each year could the Chairman and the executive directors in to the group chairmanship by ensuring there be conducted at other meetings during the instilling the companys culture, values and is an orderly succession process.
Alan year and that such a meeting was not, standards within the board and more Thomson, the then Senior Independent therefore, required or necessary.
Director, led the work of the Nomination Accordingly, the board has agreed to reduce As chairmen of the board committees Committee in selecting and appointing a the number of meetings it holds each year Michael Roney of the Management successor to Sir John Banham as Chairman to six by eliminating its meeting in early May.
Development and Remuneration Committee of the board.
The board will keep the efficacy of this and Alan Ferguson of the Audit Committee, The Senior Independent Director is change under review.
the non-executive directors fulfill important responsible for leading the annual appraisal During the year ended 31st March leadership roles.
The non-executive directors of the Chairmans performance and this is 2012, the board met outside the UK on are also responsible for determining discussed further under Review of the one occasion, in September 2011, in appropriate levels of remuneration for the Chairmans Performance on page 97.
Philadelphia, USA when it visited Fine executive directors and have a prime role in Chemicals active pharmaceutical ingredients The Role of the Company appointing and, where necessary, removing API manufacturing facility at Riverside, executive directors, and in succession Secretary Conshohocken, Pennsylvania.
Further information on succession Simon Farrant was appointed Company planning is set out on page 92.
He is secretary to the board and all of its committees.
The Role of the Senior Mr Farrants biographical details are set out Independent Director on page 83.
Michael Roney was appointed by the board The Company Secretary reports to the as the Senior Independent Director with Chairman on board governance matters.
effect from the close of the 2011 Annual Together with the Chairman he keeps the General Meeting on 19th July 2011. efficacy of the companys and the boards The role of a Senior Independent governance processes under review and Director is to provide a sounding board for considers improvements.
He is also the Chairman, to serve as a focal point and responsible to the board in respect of intermediary for the concerns of the other compliance with board procedures.
He is non-executive directors when necessary responsible, through the Chairman, for and to ensure that any key issues not being advising and keeping the board up to date addressed by the Chairman or the executive on all legislative, regulatory and governance management are taken up.
While no such matters and developments.
Under the circumstances have arisen in respect of the direction of the Chairman, the Company company, the board and the Senior Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring Independent Director recognise that the good information flows within the board Senior Independent Director may, if and its committees and between senior circumstances dictate, be required to work management and non-executive directors, with the Chairman or others or to intervene as well as facilitating induction and assisting to resolve any significant issues arising with professional development as required.
which threaten the stability of the company The advice, services and support of the or the board.
Company Secretary are available to all individual directors.
