Summary Corporate Governance The Board needs to ensure that the risk management measures and internal controls Committed to that are put in place are appropriate and effective.
Finally, the Board must remain aware of its obligations to the Companys good governance shareholders and other stakeholders and respond to their needs with transparent reporting and active engagement.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance The role of the Chairman in determining the in its management of the affairs of the Group and in its accountability effectiveness of the Board is vital.
It is the responsibility of the Board to demonstrate continues to provide entrepreneurial leadership leadership and effectiveness and be accountable to its shareholders to the Board, while ensuring that sound effective corporate governance practices and other stakeholders.
are embedded in the organisation and its The last few years have seen a number Although the Governance Framework decision-making processes.
He sets the of reviews and consultations aimed at report set out on pages 50 to 63 has Boards focus and establishes an environment examining and improving corporate been prepared in accordance with the of collaborative, but robust discussion, governance practices.
Following its review UK Corporate Governance Code issued encouraging challenge and contributions of the UK Corporate Governance Code by the FRC in June 2010 the Code which from all Directors.
during the year, the Financial Reporting applies to the Companys Annual Report and The Board has four principal committees Council FRC published a revised edition Accounts for the year ended 31 December to deal with specic aspects of the Groups of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, the Company has taken steps to adopt affairs.
Detailed information on the roles and the New Code in September 2012 some of the provisions of the New Code responsibilities, and the activities undertaken which applies to companies with a premium earlier than formally required.
during the year by each committee are set listing on the London Stock Exchange with The Companys policies on corporate out in their respective sections as referred accounting periods beginning on or after direction and control ensure that the to on page 23.
1 October 2012, which for Kazakhmys is Company applies all of the principles of the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
New Chairman good governance contained in the Code to The Company is currently reviewing the Having put in place the listing on the the organisational structure it has adopted provisions of the New Code and considering London Stock Exchange, the funding of to conduct its business, its remuneration how best it can comply with all of the our growth projects and the start of their policy, its relations with its shareholders, recommendations to ensure the continued development, our current Chairman, and the procedures adhered to in its successful operation of its business.
Vladimir Kim, announced at the Annual financial reporting, internal control and General Meeting in May 2012 that he felt it assurance processes.
was the right time to hand on the role to a The Governance Framework report set out new, independent non-executive Chairman on pages 50 to 63 explains in detail how which would bring the Company fully into the Company has applied the principles line with the provisions of the Code.
He will and complied with the provisions of the remain on the Board as a non-independent Code, the steps it has taken to adopt some non-executive Director and continue of the provisions of the New Code and also to be closely involved with the Company.
provides further details of the matters the The process to identify a new Chairman Board and its committees considered during was led by myself, as Senior Independent the financial year.
However, I would like to Director.
A formal, rigorous and transparent draw your particular attention to some search process was put in place with a specic points.
candidate prole and position specication prepared and an executive search consultant, Board role and effectiveness Spencer Stuart, appointed to assist with the The core purpose of the Board is to process.
In accordance with best practice, create and deliver the long-term success Vladimir Kim was not involved in the process of the Company and long-term returns to recruit his successor.
This requires the Board to set the Companys strategic aims, A number of candidates, both external and ensure that the necessary financial and internal, were considered for the role and human resources are in place to achieve the it was agreed that Simon Heale met the Companys objectives, review management specication of the role, possessing all the performance in delivering against strategy necessary skills, experience, knowledge and set the Companys risk appetite.
As announced on 22 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report: Summary Corporate Governance Detailed Information Financial Statements For more information see pages 50 Governance Framework 58 Board committees 28 February 2013, Simon Heale will assume demographics of the countries in which we Audit Committee having delegated authority the role of Chairman following the conclusion operate and the general employee base.
for reviewing the Groups risk management of the Companys Annual General Meeting framework.
More detailed information The Board consists of Directors of different on 17 May 2013.
More detailed information on the Groups system of internal control ages with a wide range of skills and business on the process to identify the new Chairman and risk management can be found in experience drawn from a number of is set out in the Nomination Committee the Governance Framework report on industries, which is critical for bringing section of the Governance Framework pages 56 to 57 and the Summary Risk both the expertise required, and to enable report on page 63.
Management section on pages 16 and 17. different perspectives to be brought to Board discussions.
Furthermore, the Board Shareholder engagement Diversity comprises a range of nationalities, which Engaging with shareholders is one of the Following the publication of the Davies brings cultural diversity as well as different key aspects of corporate governance.
Report on the representation of women geographical experiences and viewpoints.
During the year the Chairman, Chief on plc boards, our Nomination Committee The combination of these factors means Executive, Chief Financial Officer and I, discussed its recommendations.
The that the Board benets from a diverse supported by the Groups corporate Company takes account of diversity when range of competencies, perspectives communications team, have regularly met recruiting, including when we consider our and thoughts, which provides a dynamic with institutional shareholders and analysts.
Board appointments, and will continue to environment for decision making.
The Board also receives regular reports do so in the future.
However, whilst we from the Corporate Communications see a significant business benefit in having The Nomination Committee regularly department on its activities and, in particular, a Board drawn from a diverse range of reviews the composition of the Board, its on shareholder sentiment and feedback.
backgrounds who bring the required committees and the succession planning The Board continues to believe that ongoing expertise, cultural diversity and different of the non-executive Directors in respect engagement with shareholders and other perspectives to Board discussions, we do of skills, knowledge, experience and general not believe this is achieved through simple stakeholders is vital to ensuring their views diversity, including gender.
quotas, whether it be gender or otherwise, and perspectives are fully understood.
This and will continue to appoint candidates will remain a key focus for the Board in 2013.
Internal control and risk management based on merit and relevant experience The Board has overall responsibility for At the Companys forthcoming Annual in accordance with the requirements the Groups system of internal control and General Meeting all Directors who are able of the Code.
risk management and for reviewing the to attend will be available, as usual, to meet The Board recognises the need to create the effectiveness of this system.
The Board has with shareholders after the meeting to conditions that foster talent and encourage adopted a risk-based approach in establishing discuss any issues they may have.
I encourage more women to achieve their full potential the Groups system of internal control and as many shareholders as possible to attend in their careers in the Company.
As part of in reviewing its effectiveness.
The Group, the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2013. our overall approach to human resource in the course of its business activities, is management we encourage employee exposed to strategic, financial, operational Philip Aiken diversity and aim to ensure that Kazakhmys and compliance risks.
Overall management Senior Independent Director future senior leadership team reects the of these risks is vested in the Board, with the Board committees Audit Committee GHSE Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee See page 59 See page 61 See page 62 See page 64 Simon Heale Philip Aiken Vladimir Kim Lord Renwick of Chairman, Audit Committee Chairman, Group Health, Chairman, Nomination Clifton, KCMG Safety and Environment Committee Chairman, Remuneration Co Comm mmiit tte tee e Co om mm miit tte tee e www.
