Governance Framework The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved for its decision which is reviewed regularly.
A summary of the matters Governance reserved for the Board is set out below.
These are matters that are significant to the Group as a whole because of their strategic, financial or reputational implications or consequences.
The Board Framework has four principal committees to deal with specic aspects of the Groups affairs.
The chairmen of the Board committees report regularly to the Board on the matters discussed at the Board This section of the Annual Report and Accounts has been prepared committees, thereby ensuring that all Directors have visibility in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code issued and the opportunity to discuss such matters.
by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2010 the Code Directors are required to demonstrate unquestioned honesty which applies to the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the and integrity, a willingness to question, challenge and critique, and year ended 31 December 2012.
However, the Company has taken a desire to understand and commit to the highest standards of steps to adopt some of the provisions of the revised edition of the governance.
Each Director must ensure that no decision or action UK Corporate Governance Code the New Code published by is taken that places his interests in front of the interests of the the FRC in September 2012, which applies to the Companys Annual business.
Directors commit to the collective decision-making Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013, processes of the Board.
Individual Directors are required to earlier than formally required.
debate issues openly and constructively and be free to question or challenge the opinions of others.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code compliance During the year, the Company has complied fully with the provisions of the Code, save in the respect that the Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment.
This arises due to Vladimir Kims significant shareholding in the Company.
Vladimir Kim joined the Group in 1995 and has made a major contribution to its development into an international company.
The Board is unanimously Matters reserved for the Board of the opinion that his continued involvement with the Company is Key matters reserved for the Board include the approval of: vitally important to the success of the Group.
t the Groups strategy, and medium and short-term plans: Following Vladimir Kims decision to step down as Chairman at the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting on t major acquisitions, mergers or disposals: 17 May 2013 and the appointment of Simon Heale as non-executive t major capital investments and projects: Chairman, the Company will from this date comply fully with the t the annual production and financial budget: provisions of the Code.
t the Groups risk management strategy: Leadership t health, safety, environmental and ethical policies: The Role of the Board t the Companys dividend policy: The Board is responsible for managing the Company on behalf of its shareholders and each Director must act in a way that he considers t the appointment and removal of any Directors of promotes the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of the Company: shareholders as a whole.
The Board also ensures that an appropriate t the authorisation of Directors conicts or potential balance between promoting long-term growth and delivering conicts of interest: short-term objectives is achieved.
t the annual performance evaluation of the Board, The Board is primarily responsible for determining strategic direction its committees and individual Directors: and demonstrating leadership: focusing on matters that consistently t the Annual Report and Accounts and half-yearly reports: add value for the shareholders of the Company, both present and t all circulars, reports, prospectuses or other related future: the governance and stewardship of the Group to provide documents for shareholders: protection and security for the shareholders assets: the management of the Groups employees: setting the Groups standards and values, t the principal regulatory lings with stock exchanges: and ensuring that its obligations to shareholders and others are t the rules and procedures for dealing in the Companys understood and met: and determining the nature and extent of the shares: and significant risks the Group is willing to take to achieve its strategic t the appointment or removal of the Companys external objectives.
Another key responsibility of the Board is to ensure that auditor and main financial, legal and technical advisers.
management maintains a system of internal control that provides assurance of effective and efficient operations, internal financial controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
50 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Governance Framework Financial Statements Division of Responsibilities Non-executive Directors The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between The non-executive Directors provide a strong independent element the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The roles of the Chairman, on the Board and a solid foundation for good corporate governance.
Chief Executive and other Directors are clearly dened so that Although all Directors are equally accountable under the law for no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
the proper stewardship of the Companys affairs, the non-executive Directors full a vital role in corporate accountability.
They have a The Chairman is responsible for the strategic direction of the particular responsibility to examine critically the strategies proposed Group, overseeing the responsibilities of management, leadership by the executive Directors, scrutinise the performance of management of the Board and the relationships with the Government and in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and play a leading role in the business community in Kazakhstan.
Further details of the roles functioning of the main Board committees.
Between them, the current and responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior non-executive Directors have the appropriate balance of skills, Independent Director are set out on page 52. experience, knowledge and independent judgement from a variety of business sectors and public life.
Corporate governance framework Elect the external auditor Group Health, Safety and Shareholder External Auditor Environment Committee Developing Ongoing dialogue to Appointment Findings and framework seek and provide removal of recommendations of HSE policies information Directors in relation to and standards financial reporting to manage risks Audit Committee Integrity of financial information and Board of Directors internal controls Day-to-day running of the Group Chief Executive Remuneration Executive Committee framework Board composition and individual and succession Director packages Management Team Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee www.
com 51 Governance Framework continued Roles and responsibilities Chairman In addition to being a Board member responsible to the Company and t ensuring the performance of the Board, its committees and shareholders, the key roles and responsibilities of the Chairman include: individual Directors is formally evaluated on an annual basis, with an external evaluation being conducted every three years: t ensuring the creation and maintenance of a safe working environment t promoting effective and constructive relationships and and a safety-focused culture within the Groups operations: communications between non-executive Directors and t promoting the interests of the Company especially with regard executive Directors and senior management, and holding to Group planning: meetings with the non-executive Directors without the t setting a vision for the Group and formulation of its strategy: executive Directors being present: t ensuring the effective operation of the Board and its committees in t ensuring effective communication with shareholders and conformity with the highest standards of corporate governance: that their views are understood by the Board: t providing leadership to the Board, setting its agenda, style and tone t maintaining effective and constructive relations with the of meeting discussions to promote open and constructive debate Government and business community in Kazakhstan: and and effective decision making: t maintaining an effective working relationship with the t ensuring that shareholders and the Board receive accurate, timely Chief Executive.
and clear information on all important matters, including Director remuneration, corporate governance and strategic issues: Chief Executive In addition to being a Board member responsible to the Company t ensuring that the Groups operations comply with all relevant and shareholders, the key roles and responsibilities of the health and safety standards and activities are undertaken with special regard for environmental and social concerns in the Chief Executive include: countries in which the Group operates: t leading the management team in the day-to-day running of the t planning human resourcing to ensure the Company has the Groups business: capabilities and resources required to achieve its plans: t chairing meetings of the Executive Committee: t establishing a senior management team which has the knowledge, t developing Group objectives and strategy having regard to the skills, attitude and motivation to achieve the Groups business Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees objectives both now and in the future: and other stakeholders: t recommending to the Board an annual budget and medium-term t responsibility to the Board for the performance of the business financial and production plan: consistent with agreed plans, strategies and policies: t developing and maintaining an effective framework of internal t establishing and maintaining an international organisation that will controls over risk in relation to all business activities: enable the Groups strategy to be implemented effectively: t developing and promoting effective communication with t developing through investment and divestment an appropriate asset shareholders and other interested parties: and base for the Group to execute its strategy: t ensuring that the ow of information to the Board is accurate, t ensuring at all times the Group conducts its business in accordance timely and clear.
with the legal requirements of the countries in which it operates and the Companys standards, if higher: Senior Independent Director In addition to being a Board member responsible to the Company t meeting with the non-executive Directors without the Chairman and shareholders, the key roles and responsibilities of the Senior being present at least annually and leading the Board in the ongoing monitoring and annual performance evaluation of the Chairman: Independent Director include: t monitoring the training and development requirements t acting as a point of contact for shareholders and other stakeholders of Directors: and to discuss matters of concern which would not be appropriate t attending sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
No such matters of major shareholders and reporting the outcome of such meetings of concern were raised by shareholders during the year ended at subsequent Board meetings.
31 December 2012: t acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and serving as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: 52 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Governance Framework Financial Statements Effectiveness Clinton Dines Composition of the Board Appointed to the Board: 2009 Effective management and good stewardship are led by the Board, Nationality: Australian which currently consists of 10 Directors, nine of whom served Skills and experience: Clinton Dines has been involved in business throughout the financial year, with Michael Lynch-Bell having been in China since 1980, including senior positions with the Jardine appointed on 27 February 2013.
Including the Chairman, there are Matheson Group, Santa Fe Transport Group and Asia Securities three executive Directors, six independent non-executive Directors Venture Capital.
In 1988, he joined BHP as their senior executive in and one non-independent non-executive Director: this balance China and, following the merger of BHP and Billiton in 2001, became ensures that no individual or small group of Directors can dominate president, BHP Billiton China, a position from which he retired in the decision-making process and that the interests of the minority 2009 prior to joining Kazakhmys.
He brings exceptional knowledge shareholders are protected.
Biographies of all Directors are set of China combined with global resource industry and management out on pages 20 and 21. experience.
Other appointments: Executive chairman Asia of Caledonia It is Kazakhmys policy that at least half the Board should be Private Investments Pty Limited, a non-executive director independent non-executive Directors.
Other than Daulet Yergozhin, of Zanaga Iron Ore Company Limited and a member of the the Board considers each of its current non-executive Directors to advisory board of Pacic Aluminium.
be independent in character and judgement.
In reaching its Committee memberships: Member of the Audit, and Group Health, determination of independence, the Board has concluded that each Safety and Environment Committees.
provides objective challenge to management, is willing to stand up and defend their own beliefs and viewpoints in order to support the Simon Heale ultimate good of the Company and there are no business or other Appointed to the Board: 2007 relationships likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgement Nationality: British of Philip Aiken, Clinton Dines, Simon Heale, Michael Lynch-Bell, Lord Skills and experience: Simon Heale has significant global marketing Renwick and Charles Watson.
The Board carries out a review of the and business operations and management experience having been independence of its Directors on an annual basis.
Daulet Yergozhin chief operating officer of Jardine Fleming Limited, deputy managing is not considered by the Board to be independent from his date director of Cathay Pacic Airways and chief executive of The of appointment as he is a representative of the Government of London Metal Exchange.
He has also been a non-executive Kazakhstan, a major shareholder in the Company.
director and chairman of Panmure Gordon & Co plc.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of The Morgan Crucible Company plc, Coats plc, Marex Spectron Group Limited Board composition and PZ Cussons plc.
He is also a trustee and treasurer of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Executive Directors 3 Committee memberships: Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 Independent and a member of the Group Health, Safety and Environment, non-executive Directors Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Non-independent non-executive Directors As announced on 28 February 2013, Simon Heale will replace 6 Vladimir Kim as Chairman at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Michael Lynch-Bell Appointed to the Board: 27 February 2013 The independent non-executive Directors are: Nationality: British Philip Aiken Skills and experience: Michael Lynch-Bell has extensive experience Appointed to the Board: 2006 in the mining, oil and gas industries having spent his whole 38 year Nationality: Australian career with Ernst & Young developing and later leading its global Skills and experience: Philip Aiken has extensive global experience mining and energy practices.
During his time with Ernst & Young, in the engineering and energy sectors.
He was formerly group he played a key role in establishing Ernst & Youngs practice in president of BHP Billitons energy business, an executive director Kazakhstan and advised a number of major CIS companies on of BTR plc, held a number of senior positions in BOC Group plc and transactions.
He retired as senior partner of their transaction was a senior advisor to Macquarie Capital Europe Limited.
Age 64. advisory practice for mining and metals and as an elected member Other appointments: Chairman of AVEVA Group plc, senior of Ernst & Youngs global advisory council in June 2012.
He continues independent director of Essar Energy plc and a non-executive to act as a senior advisor to Ernst & Youngs transaction advisory director of National Grid PLC.
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Group Health, Safety Other appointments: Board member and treasurer and Environment Committee and a member of the Nomination and of Action Aid International.
Committee memberships: Member of the Audit Committee.
com 53 Governance Framework continued Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG The attendance of Directors at scheduled meetings of the Board Appointed to the Board: 2005 which they were eligible to attend and the number of meetings Nationality: British attended during 2012 is shown below: Skills and experience: Lord Renwick has had a diplomatic career Number of Number of scheduled Board scheduled spanning over 30 years, including serving as British Ambassador meetings eligible Board meetings to the United States and to South Africa.
He was a non-executive Directors during the year to attend attended director of BHP Billiton plc, SABMiller plc, British Airways plc, Liberty Vladimir Kim 5 5 International plc, Fluor Corporation and Harmony Gold Mining Oleg Novachuk 5 5 Company Limited.
Lord Renwicks diplomatic, financial and mining Eduard Ogay 5 4 experience make him a valuable contributor to the Board.
Philip Aiken 5 4 Other appointments: Deputy chairman of Fleming Family & Partners Limited and a non-executive director of Compagnie Clinton Dines 5 4 Financire Richemont SA and Bumi plc.
He is also vice chairman, Simon Heale 5 5 Investment Banking of J. P. Morgan Europe and vice chairman of Lord Renwick 5 5 J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
Charles Watson 5 5 Committee memberships: Chairman of the Remuneration Daulet Yergozhin 5 3 Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Charles Watson Eduard Ogay and Clinton Dines missed one Board meeting each due Appointed to the Board: 2011 to a conict in schedules, Philip Aiken missed one Board meeting due Nationality: British to a ight delay and Daulet Yergozhin missed two Board meetings Skills and experience: Charles Watson has an extensive background due to a conict in schedules arising from his commitments as a in both operational management and major project delivery, having minister in the Government of Kazakhstan.
They provided any spent 29 years at Shell.
During his time at Shell he held a number of comments to the Chairman or Company Secretary on matters senior executive positions throughout the world, culminating in his to be discussed in advance of those meetings they missed.
appointment as executive vice president covering Russia and the In addition to the five scheduled meetings of the Board during the CIS, including oversight of Shells activities in Kazakhstan, chairman year, one further meeting was held during the year which focused of Shell Russia and chairman of the board of directors for the solely on a review of the Groups strategy.
Other appointments: Non-executive director of Taipan Resources Development Inc. and JSOC Bashneft.
Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive a Committee memberships: Member of the Audit, and Group Health, comprehensive and structured induction tailored to their individual Safety and Environment Committees.
The induction programme, which is arranged by the Company Secretary, includes visits to some of the Groups businesses Commitment and meetings with senior managers and advisers as appropriate.
All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and The programme is designed to facilitate their understanding of each meeting of the committees of which they are members, the Group, the key drivers of business performance, the role of the unless there are exceptional circumstances which prevent them from doing so.
Scheduled Board and committee meetings are Board and its committees, the Companys corporate governance arranged at least a year in advance to allow Directors to manage practices and procedures, and provides them with appropriate their other commitments.
training and guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a public limited company.
All Directors are provided with the papers for consideration and other relevant information in advance of each meeting.
If a Director To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, there are is unable to attend a meeting because of exceptional circumstances, procedures to provide them with appropriate and timely information, he will still receive the papers and other relevant information in including information between meetings about developments in the advance of the meeting and will have the opportunity to discuss with Groups business and financial performance, so that they can discharge the chairman of the meeting or the Company Secretary any matters their duties on strategic, financial, operational, compliance and he wishes to raise to ensure his views are given due consideration governance issues.
and, if necessary, follow up with the decisions taken at the meeting.
Where appropriate, additional training and updates on particular The Chairman, Chief Executive and Company Secretary are always issues are arranged.
For example, over the last 12 months, members available for the Directors to discuss any issues relating to a Board or of the Board have made visits to the Groups operations in Kazakhstan committee meeting or other matters.
Reasons for non-attendance and have received specic briengs by management on the Financial are generally prior business and personal commitments or illness.
Services Authoritys FSA consultation on Enhancing the Effectiveness of the Listing Regime, the FRCs publication of the revised edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code and Guidance on Audit Committees, and changes to the disclosure of inside information regime in Hong Kong which brings it into line with the current equivalent legislation in the United Kingdom.
All Directors are provided with the opportunity, and encouraged to attend, for training to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant 54 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Governance Framework Financial Statements legal and financial developments or changes in best practice, and The Board questionnaire focused on: changing commercial and other risks.
Typical training for Directors t Board composition, expertise and dynamics: includes attendance at seminars, forums, conferences and working t adequacy of information provided by management and time groups as well as receiving e-mail alerts from relevant bodies allocated for discussion: providing updates on various legal, regulatory and corporate governance matters.
t performance of Board committees: t the Boards strategic and operational oversight: To ensure the Board as a whole remains fully informed of the views of shareholders, the Board receives regular reports on shareholder t risk management and internal control: sentiment from the Head of Corporate Communications.
Although t succession planning and human resource management: not part of their induction programme, all non-executive Directors t the information ow on the process for the secondary listing have a standing invitation to attend shareholder meetings and analyst on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange: and presentations, and shareholders may meet informally with Directors t the priorities for improving the Boards performance in the future.
at the Annual General Meeting.
This was followed by one-to-one interviews between the external Information and support consultant and each Director and the preparation by the external The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible for consultant of a composite written report.
The results of the Board advising the Board on all governance matters and for ensuring that performance evaluation report were presented at the May 2012 Board procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations Board meeting and it concluded that the Board and its committees are complied with and that due account is taken of relevant codes continue to operate effectively and each Director is contributing of best practice.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for effectively and demonstrates commitment to his role.
However, a ensuring good information ows within the Board and its committees number of areas were identied for improvement including ensuring and between senior management and non-executive Directors.
the non-executive Directors were adequately briefed on countryAll Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company specic issues relating to the performance of the Company: more Secretary and, in appropriate circumstances, may obtain independent review by the Board of past decisions to capture any lessons available: professional advice at the Companys expense.
The appointment and greater involvement by the Board in reviewing the Groups strategy: removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the and more focus at Board level on the succession planning for the Board as a whole.
executive Directors and for key senior management positions.
The Company Secretary is Robert Welch, who joined the Group During the year, the Chairman held a number of meetings with in 2006 as Deputy Company Secretary and was appointed to his non-executive Directors without executive Directors being present.
He is an Associate of the Institute The Senior Independent Director also led the non-executive of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and is secretary to Directors in evaluating the performance of the Chairman.
As part all of the Board committees except the Audit Committee.
The of the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman, the Board secretary to the Audit Committee is Stephen Hodges, Deputy remains satisfied that the Chairman is able to full all of the Company Secretary, who joined the Group in 2007 and is also commitments required of his role.
an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Re-election New Directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves Performance evaluation for election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following A full Board performance evaluation process was undertaken their appointment.
Michael Lynch-Bell, having been appointed by in late 2012 early 2013 in respect of the calendar year 2012.
The the Board on 27 February 2013, will retire and submit himself for process was carefully structured but pragmatic, designed to bring election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Code about a genuine debate of issues that are relevant, and assist in requires that all Directors be subject to annual re-election by identifying any potential for improvement in the Companys shareholders.
The Board has adopted this requirement as part of processes.
It entailed the completion of tailored questionnaires on its commitment to shareholder accountability.
Accordingly, all other the performance of the Board, its committees and its executive and Directors will be submitted for re-election at the forthcoming non-executive Directors by each Director and the preparation of a Annual General Meeting.
The results of the performance evaluation report will be presented and discussed at the May 2013 Board meeting and Conicts of interest will be disclosed in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
The Companies Act 2006 introduced a new statutory duty requiring a Director to avoid a situation in which he has or can have a direct As set out in last years Annual Report and Accounts, and in line or indirect interest that conicts or possibly may conict with the with the Companys policy and in compliance with the provisions interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the existing duty of the Code, a full Board performance evaluation process, facilitated that a Director owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any by an external consultant, Lintstock Ltd, was undertaken in late transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
2011 early 2012 in respect of the calendar year 2011, the previous The Companys Articles of Association include provisions giving the externally facilitated Board performance evaluation having been Directors authority to approve such situations and to allow conicts performed in 2008.
The process entailed the completion of detailed of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the position that questionnaires on the performance of the Board, its committees existed prior to the coming into force of this legislation.
There is and its executive and non-executive Directors by each Director no breach of duty if the relevant situation has been so authorised excluding Charles Watson who was appointed on 24 August 2011, in advance.
which were completed in 2011. www.
com 55 Governance Framework continued The Board has a procedure when deciding whether to authorise procedures, there were a number of areas which needed to a conict or potential conict of interest.
Under this procedure, be considered further, including communications, procurement Directors are required to declare all directorships or other activities, assurance and the remit of the compliance function.
appointments outside of the Group and which could give rise to The matters raised in the review will be addressed as part of the a conict or potential conict of interest.
In consideration of each Groups ongoing programme to establish the highest practicable conict or potential conict of interest declared by a Director, rstly, standards of anti-bribery and corruption practices across the Group.
only independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, Accountability and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a Internal control way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system the Companys success.
In addition, the Directors will be able to of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think effectiveness of this system.
Such a system is designed to identify, this is appropriate.
evaluate and manage the significant risks associated with the Groups achievement of its business objectives, with a view to safeguarding The Company Secretary minutes the consideration of any conict or shareholders investments and the Groups assets.
This system is potential conict of interest and authorisations granted by the Board designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to are recorded by the Company Secretary in a register of conicts which it is exposed, and is designed to manage rather than eliminate of interest.
On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for risk.
Because of the limitations inherent in any system of internal informing the Company Secretary of any new, actual or potential control, such a system can provide reasonable, but not absolute, conicts of interest that may arise or, if there are any changes in assurance against material misstatement or loss.
circumstances that may affect an authorisation previously given.
Even when provided with authorisation, a Director is not absolved The Board confirms that, throughout the year ended 31 December 2012 from his duty to promote the success of the Company.
and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, there have been processes in place for identifying, evaluating and Furthermore, the Companys Articles of Association include further managing the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance provisions relating to condential information, attendance at Board with the Turnbull Guidance as amended by the Flint Review.
The meetings and availability of Board papers to protect a Director being Company is aware that the FRC are proposing to publish updated in breach of duty if a conict of interest arises.
These provisions will Turnbull Guidance for consultation during 2013.
The Company will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conict of review the updated Turnbull Guidance when published and review interest has previously been authorised by the Directors.
its internal control and risk management policies and procedures in UK Bribery Act 2010 light of the revised guidance.
The UK Bribery Act 2010, which came into force on 1 July 2011, The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the established criminal offences of bribing another person, being Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
bribed, bribery of foreign officials and the failure of a commercial To identify and manage key risks, the Board has established a number organisation to prevent bribery.
In response to the legislation, the of Group-wide procedures, policies and standards, has set up a Group has implemented a Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption framework for reporting matters of signicance, has authorised Compliance Programme to assist in the prevention of involvement the Audit Committee to review the Groups approach to risk of individuals or Group entities in unlawful activities.
The Board has management and the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, adopted a clear position on bribery and corruption and attaches internal control and assurance systems, has developed a system the utmost importance to the Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption of regular reports from management and has reserved specic key Compliance Programme in clarifying the standards expected of all matters for its decision.
The process is designed to provide assurance employees of the Group wherever it does business.
by way of cumulative assessment.
The Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance Programme All of the Groups internal control and corporate governance includes a clear statement of an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies and procedures are contained in a single document entitled culture fully and visibly supported by the Board: corruption risk Group Policy Guidelines on Corporate Governance with the aim assessments across the Group: clear and practical policies and of better promoting a culture of pragmatic corporate governance procedures: due diligence of business partners: training: monitoring: through raising awareness of the policies and procedures amongst and assurance.
As part of the Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption senior management.
Compliance Programme, a number of Group policies have been established including Anti-Bribery and Corruption Code, Facilitation Key elements of the Groups system of internal control which have Payments Policy, Gifts and Hospitality Policy, Third Party Due operated throughout the year are: Diligence Compliance Programme, Conicts of Interest Policy t Group financial, treasury, operating and administrative policies and and Speak-Up Policy.
procedures which incorporate statements of required behaviour: During 2012, an independent review of the adequacy of the Group t continuous review of safety, operating and financial performance Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance Programme in meeting of the Groups businesses: the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010 was conducted by an external consultant, Good Corporation.
The review determined that, whilst good progress had been made in establishing adequate 56 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Governance Framework Financial Statements t regular reports to the Board and Group Health, Safety The Audit Committee receives reports from the Head of Internal and Environment Committee on health, safety and Audit on the departments work and findings and the effectiveness environmental matters: of the internal audit function is reviewed and discussed on an annual basis with the Head of Internal Audit.
t monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting system, including monthly results, periodic short-term Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal forecasts, annual budgets and medium-term plans: controls together with agreed management action plans to resolve t well-dened procedures for appraisal, approval, control and the issues raised.
Internal audit follows up on the implementation of monitoring of major capital projects, including acquisitions recommendations and reports progress to senior management and and disposals: the Audit Committee.
t an established methodology for ranking the level of risk Relations with shareholders in each of its business operations and the significant risk Dialogue with shareholders issues associated therewith: The Board recognises the importance of good communications t implementation of appropriate strategies to deal with with shareholders and maintains an active dialogue with its key significant risks, including measures such as insurance and financial audiences, including institutional shareholders, sell-side use of external specialists: analysts and potential shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief t a centrally coordinated internal audit programme to support Financial Officer are closely involved in investor relations and the the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment: Head of Corporate Communications has day-to-day responsibility t regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy and for such matters.
effectiveness of internal control: and The Company has approved a communications policy which has t a remuneration policy for executives which motivates them, been adopted throughout the Group.
The executive Directors are without delivering excessive benets or encouraging excessive available, through the Head of Corporate Communications, to risk taking.
discuss the concerns of major shareholders at any time during the year and the Chairman is available to discuss governance and strategy The Board, in conjunction with management, continues to review and with major shareholders.
Non-executive Directors, and in particular further develop the internal control environment where appropriate.
the Senior Independent Director, will continue to make themselves All acquired businesses will be brought within the Groups system available to attend meetings with shareholders in order to develop of internal control as soon as practicable and in any event within an understanding of their views.
During the year, Philip Aiken, 12 months of acquisition.
ENRC PLC, in which the Group has a Senior Independent Director, attended a number of meetings with 26% shareholding, has not been incorporated into the Groups institutional shareholders to discuss their views on the Group and system of internal control.
received feedback on the Chairmans performance following the annual Board performance evaluation process.
The Company The Groups approach to risk management and how it proles the responds as necessary to requests from individual shareholders risks it has identied is set out in the Summary Risk Management on a wide range of issues.
There is regular dialogue with key institutional shareholders, Internal audit Internal audit advises management on the extent to which systems fund managers and sell-side analysts to discuss strategy, financial of internal control are adequate and effective to manage business performance and investment activities throughout the Group, who risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and ensure compliance with also from time to time visit the Groups operations.
During 2012, legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance executive Directors and senior management met with institutional investors in the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Canada, on risk and controls to senior management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
United States of America, China, Hong Kong and Singapore and attended several conferences in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong Internal audits work is focused on the Groups significant risks and and United States of America providing a comprehensive dialogue the Head of Internal Audit and the Group Risk Manager work closely with shareholders.
when considering the internal audits to be performed.
The mandate and programme of work of the internal audit department is approved The Company issues quarterly production updates normally in by the Audit Committee.
Based on the approved audit plan, internal January, April, July and October and interim management statements audit has undertaken a number of audits across the Groups operations normally in April and October to the market.
These, together and functions to facilitate improvement of the Groups internal controls with copies of institutional analyst presentations each half year, the and reports findings to relevant operational management.
The Head Groups preliminary and half-yearly results and all announcements of Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee and the issued to the London Stock Exchange and Hong Kong Stock Exchange chairman of the Audit Committee reviews the remuneration of the in English and in Chinese, are available on the Companys website Head of Internal Audit.
com 57 Governance Framework continued General Meetings Board committee membership The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders The current membership of the Boards committees is shown in at least 20 business days prior to such a meeting and it is Company the table below: policy not to combine resolutions.
All shareholders are invited to Group Health, attend the Annual General Meeting at which there is an opportunity Safety and for individual shareholders to question the Chairman and, through him, Audit Environment Nomination Remuneration the chairmen of the principal Board committees.
After the Annual Committee Committee Committee Committee General Meeting, shareholders can meet informally with the Directors.
Vladimir Kim C Oleg Novachuk All members of the Board excluding Daulet Yergozhin who was unable to attend due to a conict in schedules arising from his Eduard Ogay commitments as a minister in the Government of Kazakhstan Philip Aiken C M M attended the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
At the Annual General Clinton Dines M M Meeting, the Chairman provides a brief summary of the Companys Simon Heale C M M M activities for the previous year to shareholders.
All resolutions at Michael Lynch-Bell M the 2012 Annual General Meeting were voted by way of a poll.
The Lord Renwick M C procedure for voting on a poll follows best practice and allows the Charles Watson M M Company to count all votes rather than just those of shareholders Daulet Yergozhin attending the meeting.
As recommended by the Code, all resolutions were voted separately and the voting results, which included all votes C: Chairman of committee cast for, against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged M: Member of committee prior to the meeting, were announced to the London Stock Exchange and Hong Kong Stock Exchange and made available on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
As in previous years, the Form of Proxy made it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against a resolution.
Board committees The four principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Group Health, Safety and Environment, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Board committee members are appointed by the Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which reviews the composition of each committee regularly.
Committee members are expected to attend each committee meeting, unless there are exceptional circumstances which prevent them from doing so.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Group Health, Safety and Environment, Nomination and Remuneration Committees and the Deputy Company Secretary is secretary to the Audit Committee.
The terms of reference of each committee are available on the Companys website www.
com and on request from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
The terms of reference of each committee are reviewed annually.
Each committee reports on its activities to the next Board meeting following its meeting.
58 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Governance Framework Financial Statements Audit Committee Attendance at Audit Committee meetings The Board relies on the Audit Committee to provide effective There were six scheduled meetings of the Audit Committee, governance over financial reporting, internal control and assurance including two scheduled meetings which were convened to discuss processes, together with the identication and management of risk.
one item of business only, being the financial disclosures in the Interim Management Statements, during 2012 with each member The current members of the Committee are: attending as shown below: Simon Heale, Chairman Attendance at Committee scheduled meetings Clinton Dines Members member since during 2012 Michael Lynch-Bell from 27 February 2013 Simon Heale 1 January 2007 6 6 Charles Watson Clinton Dines 1 October 2009 3 6 The Committee is primarily responsible for reviewing and Charles Watson 24 August 2011 6 6 monitoring the integrity of financial reporting by the Company, for reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management Clinton Dines missed three Committee meetings due to a conict in systems, for monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal schedules.
He provided any comments to the Committee chairman audit function and for overseeing the relationship with the or the Company Secretary on matters to be discussed in advance external auditor.
of those meetings he missed.
Governance In addition to the six scheduled meetings of the Audit Committee Simon Heale and Michael Lynch-Bell have recent and relevant during the year, one further meeting was arranged at short notice financial experience: their biographies are set out on pages 20 to deal with the external auditor tender process.
The other members of the Committee, Clinton Dines Role of the Audit Committee and Charles Watson, have broad commercial experience and Key roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: knowledge of international businesses which they bring to the Committees deliberations.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial t monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the annual Officer, Company Secretary, Head of Internal Audit and the external and half-yearly results, interim management statements and any auditor are normally invited to attend Committee meetings.
other formal announcement relating to financial performance, including a review of the financial reporting judgements which At the end of each meeting the Committee normally meets they contain: separately with both the external auditor and Head of Internal Audit, without management present, to discuss any matter relating t reviewing the Companys internal financial controls, internal to its remit and any issues arising from external and internal audits.
control and risk management systems: Arrangements have also been adopted to ensure that the Head of t monitoring the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function: Internal Audit has direct access to the chairman of the Committee t overseeing the work of the Projects Assurance Committee: and is accountable to the Committee.
Furthermore, the chairman t establishing and overseeing the Companys relationship with the of the Committee meets from time to time with the external external auditor, including the monitoring of their independence auditor and senior management to ensure a full understanding and expertise, the terms of reference of their engagement and of relevant issues.
fees, and assessing the effectiveness of the audit process: During the year, the Committee decided to commence a formal, t agreeing the scope of the external auditors annual audit plan competitive tender process for the provision of external audit and reviewing the output: services.
The criteria for the selection of the external auditor t considering and making recommendations to the Board on the was prepared by management and approved by the Committee.
appointment and re-appointment of the external auditor: and The incumbent external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, was invited to participate in the tender process.
The tender process consisted t reviewing annually the Committees own performance, of three stages with meetings between the external auditor constitution and terms of reference.
rms, management in the UK and Kazakhstan and the Committee Activities in 2012 chairman, the submission by the external auditor rms of formal At its meetings in 2012, the Committee considered, amongst other proposal documents, and presentations by the external audit rms matters, the following: to an evaluation panel established by management.
Following the completion of the tender process, the Committee recommended Financial reporting: to the Board, and the Board approved, the appointment of KPMG t reviewed annual and half-yearly results and interim management Audit Plc as external auditor to the Group.
KPMG Audit Plc were statements, including accounting policies, significant financial appointed as external auditor in June 2012 at which time the reporting estimates and judgements applied in preparing them incumbent external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, resigned.
KPMG and the transparency and clarity of the disclosures within them: Audit Plc performed the review of the Groups half-yearly results t received reports from management and the external auditor for the period ended 30 June 2012.
An ordinary resolution on accounting, financial reporting and taxation issues: appointing KPMG Audit Plc as external auditor and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the t reviewed the methodology for producing the disclosure of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
mining reserves and resources and other relevant disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts: and t reviewed the basis for preparing the Group accounts on a going concern basis.
com 59 Governance Framework continued Internal control: t assessed the independence and objectivity of the external auditor t reviewed the design and effectiveness of the Groups system of and in this process reviewed a report from the external auditor internal control as set out on pages 56 and 57 and the disclosures on all relationships that might reasonably have a bearing on their made in the Annual Report and Accounts on this matter: independence and the audit partner and staffs objectivity, and the related safeguards and procedures: t reviewed and recommended to the Board amendments to the Group Treasury Policy: t reviewed the transition plan of the new external auditor for the half-yearly review and year end audit: t reviewed the Groups processes for disclosing information to the external auditor and the statement concerning such disclosure t received reports on the findings of the external auditor during in the Annual Report and Accounts: their half-yearly review and annual audit and reviewed the recommendations made to management by the external auditor t received a presentation on the controls and assurance plan over and managements responses: geological reserves and resources: and t reviewed the quality assurance processes of the external auditor: t considered and approved the establishment of a sub-committee of the Committee, Projects Assurance Committee, for the purpose t reviewed letters of representation to the external auditor: of assisting the Committee in procuring third party, independent t assessed the performance and effectiveness of the external operational and financial assessments of the Groups major growth auditor: and projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay, and its terms of reference.
t recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor.
The Committee members are Charles Watson Chairman, Oleg Novachuk and David Munro.
Other matters: t reviewed reports on changes to UK and Kazakhstan tax legislation Risk management: and significant Group tax projects: t reviewed the risk management activities undertaken in order t reviewed the Speak-Up policy and the independent and condential to identify, measure and assess the Groups significant risks: arrangements in place by which staff may, in confidence, raise t reviewed and challenged the Groups significant risks identied concerns about possible legal, regulatory or other improprieties by management in the Group risk map, and reviewed the in matters of financial reporting and other matters: effectiveness of the Group risk management framework as t received reports on matters raised via the Speak-Up facilities, the described on pages 16 and 17, and reports arising out of the process for the investigation of those matters raised, the outcome risk management process: of the investigation and any actions taken: t monitored the Groups significant insurance arrangements and t received a presentation by the external auditor on the economic, reviewed the Groups insurance broking arrangements: and financial and legal developments in Kazakhstan: t received a presentation on a risk management review of the t received an update from management on the latest technical Groups Procurement department.
accounting and regulatory issues: Internal audit: t reviewed its terms of reference and the results of the t reviewed and approved the re-focus of the internal audit performance evaluation of the Committee: and department on the Groups significant risks, including rotational t reviewed the training requirements of the Committee members.
and ad hoc internal audits: The Committees policy on the use of the external auditor for t approved the internal audit departments three year strategic non-audit services includes the identication of certain non-audit plan and annual operational plans and reviewed reports from services which may or may not be provided and a process through the internal audit department relating to control matters: which other non-audit services may be approved.
The policy requires t reviewed the level of resources allocated to the internal audit any new engagement with the external auditor for the provision of department to ensure the annual operational plans could be non-audit services in excess of 100,000 to be approved in advance delivered as part of the overall assessment of the effectiveness by the Chief Financial Officer and the Committee chairman or a of the internal audit department: and sub-committee of any two members, with any non-audit services up t considered the proposal to engage external specialists to assist to a limit of 100,000 being approved by the Chief Financial Officer.
the internal audit department in performing internal audits of Any project or engagement with the external auditor in excess of health and safety procedures, the execution of major growth projects and other specialist areas.
20,000 that is not included in the list of those non-audit services which may be provided by the external auditor must be approved in External auditor: advance by the Committee or a sub-committee of any two members t conducted a formal, competitive tender process for the provision of the Committee, with any such services up to a limit of 20,000 of external audit services: being approved by the Chief Financial Officer.
In addition, any such t approved the terms of engagement of the external auditor, the non-audit services in excess of 100,000 must be subject to a fees paid to them and the scope of work carried out by them: competitive tender process.
t performed an annual review of the policies on the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, and the employment of former employees of the external auditor: 60 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Governance Framework Financial Statements The non-audit services of the external auditor will only be used Attendance at Group Health, Safety and Environment where the Group benets in a cost-effective manner and the Committee meetings external auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence There were three scheduled meetings of the Group Health, and objectivity.
Details of all non-audit services are reported to Safety and Environment Committee during 2012 with each the Committee twice a year.
The policy will be kept under review member attending shown below: and may be amended from time to time as necessary.
Attendance at Committee scheduled meetings Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor for audit and Members member since during 2012 non-audit services for the year ended 31 December 2012 and Philip Aiken 1 November 2006 3 3 information on the nature of non-audit fees appear in note 10 Clinton Dines 25 August 2010 3 3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 118.
Charles Watson 16 November 2011 3 3 significant issues considered by the Committee Role of the Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee During the year, the Committee considered, amongst other Key roles and responsibilities of the Group Health, Safety and matters, a number of significant issues in relation to the financial Environment Committee include: reporting of the Group including: t keeping under review the development and maintenance of t the requirement for an impairment review of the Groups a framework of policies and standards for managing health, investment in ENRC PLC and the assessment of the write-off safety and environmental risks and their impacts on the which was recognised: Groups activities: t the requirement for an impairment review of the Groups t reviewing compliance by the Group with relevant health, mining assets, including the Bozymchak project, for which safety and environmental legislation: a write-off was recognised: t monitoring and assessing the behaviour of management toward t the requirement for a review of the Groups net asset managing health, safety and  risks: carrying value as it was below the Groups market value: t reviewing significant safety incidents and considering the key t the continued classication of MKM as an asset held for sale causes, consequences and actions taken by management to in light of the ongoing disposal negotiations: prevent similar incidents occurring in the future: t the accounting treatment for a refund of excess profits tax t making proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding paid in prior years: and appropriate health, safety and environmental performance t the assessment of the provision for the Groups disability benets objectives for executive Directors and certain senior managers obligation as a result of changes to legislation in Kazakhstan.
and, in due course, providing its assessment as to performance against such objectives: Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee t reviewing the findings of any internal or external reports on the Improving our health, safety and environmental performance is Groups health, safety and environmental systems, assessing any a priority and we will continue to work hard to strive toward strategies and action plans developed by management in response meeting international standards.
to issues raised and where appropriate, making recommendations The current members of the Committee are: to the Board on such matters: and Philip Aiken, Chairman t reviewing annually the Committees own performance, Clinton Dines constitution and terms of reference.
Simon Heale from 27 February 2013 Activities in 2012 Charles Watson At its meetings in 2012, the Committee considered, amongst The Committee is primarily responsible for keeping under review other matters, the following: the development and maintenance of a framework of policies t reviewed and evaluated fatal and serious incident reports and standards for identifying, assessing, managing and reporting through the Fatal and Serious Incidents Review Panel: health, safety and environmental risks and their impacts on the t monitored and evaluated a number of key safety and Groups activities.
environmental initiatives: All meetings of the Committee during the year were held in t reviewed and evaluated reports on the implementation and Kazakhstan and involved site visits and meetings with management effectiveness of a number of health, safety and environmental responsible for health and safety, with all visits lasting for two or policies and procedures: three days.
t monitored and evaluated performance against the Groups five year health and safety management plan and five year environmental plan: t monitored and evaluated the safety training activities of the Group, including those programmes developed in conjunction with DuPont Sustainable Solutions: t reviewed contractor and sub-contractor safety processes and procedures: t reviewed safety processes and systems at the Bozshakol site: and t reviewed its terms of reference and the results of the performance evaluation of the Committee.
com 61 Governance Framework continued Nomination Committee comprising all the independent non-executive Directors.
Any The Nomination Committee has had a busy year, recruiting a new, independent non-executive Director who wished to be considered non-executive Chairman and also securing the appointment of a for the role of non-executive Chairman was required to step new independent non-executive Director.
It has focused on ensuring down from the sub-committee at that time.
Three meetings of Kazakhmys has the best Board to support its business going forward.
the sub-committee of the Committee were held during the year.
The current members of the Committee are: Role of the Nomination Committee Key roles and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: Vladimir Kim, Chairman Philip Aiken t regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including Simon Heale the skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity, Lord Renwick including gender of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: The Committee is primarily responsible for leading the process t giving full consideration to succession planning for Directors and for Board appointments and for keeping under review the balance certain senior managers, taking into account the challenges and of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity, opportunities facing the Company, and the skills and expertise including gender, on the Board to ensure the orderly evolution needed on the Board in the future: of the membership of the Board.
t responsibility for identifying and nominating for the approval of the The Committee, which provides a formal and transparent procedure Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise: for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, generally consults t before any appointment is made by the Board, evaluating the external consultants and advisers on prospective Board appointments.
balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and The Committee keeps under review the planned and progressive diversity, including gender, on the Board, and, in light of this refreshing of the Board and its committees, prepares a description evaluation, preparing a description of the role and capabilities of the specic experience and skills needed for an appointment, required for a particular appointment: considers candidates put forward by external consultants, and recommends to the Board the appointment of all Directors after t keeping under review the Directors existing and any new conicts having met short-listed candidates.
It also supervises and puts into of interest and reporting to the Board and making recommendations place succession planning for non-executive Directors and certain as to whether the conict should be authorised: senior managers and reviews and, where appropriate, recommends t keeping under review the leadership needs of the Company, both to the Board for authorisation Directors conicts of interest.
executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace: Governance The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Company.
Whilst t reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation process he is not deemed to be independent, the majority of the members that relates to the composition of the Board and reviewing annually of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors in the time commitments required from the non-executive Directors accordance with provision B.
2.1. of the UK Corporate Governance to full their duties: Code.
When dealing with any matters concerning the Chairman of t reviewing annually the Committees own performance, constitution the Company, the chairman of the Committee will absent himself and terms of reference: from meetings, as required, and Lord Renwick would take the chair.
t recommending to the Board suitable candidates for the role of Attendance at Nomination Committee meetings Senior Independent Director, and membership of the Audit, Group There were two scheduled meetings of the Nomination Committee Health, Safety and Environment and Remuneration Committees: during 2012 with each member attending as shown below: t recommending the re-appointment of any non-executive Attendance at Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office Committee scheduled meetings having given regard to their performance and ability to continue Members member since during 2012 to contribute to the Board in the light of the skills, experience, Vladimir Kim 1 October 2005 1 2 independence and knowledge required: and Philip Aiken 1 November 2006 2 2 t recommending the re-election by shareholders of any Director Simon Heale 1 January 2007 2 2 in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Lord Renwick 1 December 2005 2 2 Governance Code having due regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in the light of One of the Nomination Committee meetings held during the year the skills, experience and knowledge required and the need for was convened for the purpose of considering the establishment of progressive refreshing of the Board.
a sub-committee of the Committee with the objective of selecting and recommending to the Board a new, non-executive Chairman.
The Committee approved the establishment of a sub-committee 62 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Governance Framework Financial Statements Activities in 2012 appropriately implemented by the management team.
Spencer At its meetings in 2012, the Committee considered, amongst Stuart held meetings with all current Directors to assess their other matters, the following: opinion on the attributes required for the new, non-executive Chairman, at which time any independent non-executive t the establishment of a sub-committee of the Committee Director who wished to be considered for the role could with the objective of selecting and recommending to the inform Spencer Stuart.
Board a new, non-executive Chairman: Four candidates were short-listed for the role from a wider pool t reviewed the composition of the Board and its committees reviewed by Philip Aiken.
Following meetings with all four candidates, to ensure the appropriate mix of skills, experience and the sub-committee agreed that Simon Heale met the specication knowledge is present: of the role, possessing all the necessary skills, experience, knowledge t under the retirement provisions in the Companys Articles and independence to full the role.
The sub-committee unanimously of Association, recommended to the Board the election of recommended his appointment as non-executive Chairman to the Charles Watson by shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Board, which the Board approved.
Meeting having due regard to the performance and ability for him to continue to contribute to the Board and its committees: New independent non-executive Director Following the appointment of Simon Heale as non-executive Chairman, t in accordance with provision B.
7.1. of the UK Corporate Governance the Nomination Committee agreed it was necessary to consider the Code, recommended to the Board the re-election of all other appointment of a new independent non-executive Director who could Directors by shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting replace Simon Heale as chairman of the Audit Committee.
Following having due regard to the performance and ability for each Director the introduction of Michael Lynch-Bell by a member of the Board, the to continue to contribute to the Board and its committees: Nomination Committee unanimously agreed it was not necessary to t reviewed the time commitment required by non-executive look further for a suitable non-executive Director as he brought the Directors to full their duties: and skills, experience, knowledge and independence required of the role.
t reviewed its terms of reference and the results of the In particular, the Nomination Committee noted his recent and performance evaluation of the Committee.
relevant financial and mining experience would be invaluable to the Audit Committee and to the Board as a whole.
Recruitment process The Nomination Committee unanimously recommended to the New Chairman Board the appointment of Michael Lynch-Bell as an independent Following the announcement by Vladimir Kim at the Annual General non-executive Director, which was unanimously approved by the Meeting in May 2012 that he intended to step down as Chairman Board.
He will be appointed as chairman of the Audit Committee and to hand on the role to a new, non-executive Chairman bringing when Simon Heale replaces Vladimir Kim as Chairman at the the Company fully into line with the provisions of the UK Corporate conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2013.
While Governance Code, the Nomination Committee commenced the neither an executive search consultancy nor open advertising process for the appointment of a new, non-executive Chairman.
were used, the appointment was made on merit based on the The process to identify a new, non-executive Chairman commenced requirements identied by the Nomination Committee.
in May 2012 and was led by Philip Aiken, as Senior Independent Director.
A sub-committee of the Nomination Committee was The Nomination Committee plans to ensure the recruitment established, comprising all independent non-executive Directors, processes for the appointment of future non-executive Directors with the objective of selecting and recommending to the Board is in line with best practice.
Any independent non-executive Director who wished to be considered for the role of non-executive Chairman was required to step down from the sub-committee at that time.
In accordance with best practice, Vladimir Kim was not involved in the process to recruit his successor.
Three executive search consultants were invited to tender and, having reviewed the proposals received, the sub-committee agreed to appoint Spencer Stuart as the executive search consultant to assist the sub-committee in the process.
A formal, rigorous and transparent search process was put in place with a candidate prole and position specication prepared including time commitment expected, experience, ability to lead the Board, ability to be the public face of the Company with investors and other stakeholders, overall responsibility for corporate governance and ability to ensure matters of safety, strategy, performance and finance were www.
