32 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Corporate governance The KCOM Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance and responsiveness to stakeholder expectations.
Wereportasfully and transparently as possible on our methods  and on whether we have complied with theUKCorporate Governance Code.
We regularly review published guidance regarding corporate governance and, wherever possible, weaimtofollowthebest practices.
Bill Halbert Executive Chairman Appointment and replacement of Directors The Articles of Association of the Company require that one-third of the Directors retire by rotation ateach Annual General Meeting AGM : however, Provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code requires that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
At the time ofthe 2011 AGM, KCOM Group was not a member of the FTSE 350 and therefore did not implement this provision.
However, in September 2011 we became amember of the FTSE 350 and therefore the Board has resolved that at the 2012 AGM the entire Board will be standing for re-election.
The Nomination Committee and the Board as awhole have reviewed the performance and contribution of each of the Directors and have nohesitation in proposing the re-appointment ofthe entire Board.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Board may appoint a new Director at any time but the new Director will only hold office until the next AGM at which point they must stand for election or vacate the office.
The Articles of Association state also that the Company may remove a Director by ordinary resolution with special notice before the expiration of their period of office.
Independence All three of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent in relation to the criteria set out in Provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the NAPF Corporate Governance Voting Policy and Guidelines.
Martin Towers and Tony Illsley were appointed in 2009 and elected by the shareholders at the AGM in 2009.
Graham Holden was appointed by the Board in 2007, elected by the shareholders at the AGM in 2008 and then re-elected bythe shareholders in 2011.
The Board reviews the independence of the Non-Executive Directors each year and takes into account the length of tenure, relationships and circumstances as well as the behaviour of the individual at Board meetings and their contribution to unbiased and independent debate.
All of the Non-Executive Directors were independent upon appointment and the Board believes that all three remain wholly independent.
Commitments of the Executive Chairman Bill Halbert works full-time for the Company.
Hesitson the boards of a number of smaller privatelimited companies but these do not require a significant time commitment and he manages successfully these commitments alongside his role at KCOM Group.
His commitments have not changed significantly inthe year.
Monitoring the combined roles of Chairman and Chief Executive The main principle of the Code, which is supported by Provision A.
2.1, is There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility for the running of the Companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
To ensure that we comply with this principle whilst combining the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive, we have put the following measures in place: we have a Senior Independent Director, Tony Illsley, who, along with the Executive Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors, is responsible for ensuring that there is a culture ofopenness, debate and challenge amongst the Board members.
Tony is available to any shareholders who request a meeting or who have concerns that contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve, or where such contact is inappropriate.
No such requests orconcerns were received from shareholders during the year: we have an equal number of Executive and Non-Executive Directors on the Board and a clear schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board so that no single group or individual is able to dominate decision-making: the Company Secretary, along with the Executive Chairman, takes responsibility for ensuring that there is the right flow of information to the Board and that the Board agenda covers all of the topics that the Board should be considering: we ensure that the Non-Executive Directors have regular meetings with senior management from across the Group to enable them to receive information first-hand and to gain greater insight and understanding of Group operations outside of the boardroom: and our Executive Chairman has received training on his responsibilities as an Executive Director and asthe Chairman of the Board and is careful to ensure thathe does not perform one role at the expense of the other.
The Senior Independent Director supports him in this and acts as a sounding board for the Executive Chairman when required, as well as an intermediary for the other Directors ifnecessary, to mitigate further any potential problems arising out ofthe dualrole.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 33 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 UK Corporate Governance Code Balance of Executive and Bill Halbert was appointed as our Executive Chairman in July 2009.
Combining the roles of Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Chief Executive is not in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Provision A.
2.1 and at the time of his appointment it was intended that his dual role would be for a maximum of two years whilst he Executive Directors Bill Halbert oversaw the required transformation of the business.
However, in 2011 the Board requested that Bill stay Paul Simpson on in a dual role for a further year to oversee the transition into the early stages of the Groups growth Kevin Walsh plans.
This was a move which was supported by our shareholders, as shown by the re-election of Bill at our Non-Executive AGM in 2011 by 96.2% of our shareholders.
Following further consultation with our largest shareholders, Directors Graham Holden who supported unanimously the proposal, the Board has requested once again that Bill remains in his dual role.
Tony Illsley This reflects the strong performance that the Group has delivered under Bills leadership and the desire of Martin Towers theBoard and our largest shareholders to ensure that Bill continues to lead the business while we seek toachieve our long-term vision.
Group Leadership team by gender Apart from the exception noted above, the Board considers that it has complied with all the detailed provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2012 and the Board as a whole is committed entirely to the principle of achieving and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance.
Female 44% How the Board operates The Board meets nine times a year and considers allaspects of Group performance.
The Board considers both past Male performance and the future long-term success of the Group and sets accordingly the strategic aims of the Group.
56% During the year the Board held meetings to consider specifically the future direction of the Group and to discuss, challenge anddevelop the future strategies of each part ofthe business.
The Board receives regular reports from the business on financial performance, human resources, health, safety and environmental matters, investor relations, governance and risk, along with regular updates on key projects and strategic programmes.
There is a schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board which is reviewed and updated annually.
This schedule requires that specific matters relating to budgets, strategy, performance against objectives, financial reporting, internal controls, communications, remuneration and governance, along with any proposed changes to business operations or the structure and capital of the Company, are referred totheBoard for consideration and approval.
The Group operates also within a contracting risk framework which has been drawn up by the internal legal team and which indicates clearly when contractual clauses must be escalated to the Board for approval.
Business cases of a certain value are submitted also to the Board for approval, in accordance with our Group-wide delegations ofauthority.
Our Company Secretary, Kathy Smith, has been with the Group for over six years.
She is a Chartered Accountant and Graduate member of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
TheBoardplaces great importance on the role of the Company Secretary in helping the Group and theBoard to ensure it has the right governance in place.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who ensures that Board processes are followed and that good corporate governance standards are maintained.
The Company Secretary meets with each of the Directors individually as necessary to discuss governance-related matters and provides a governance report to the Board on a monthly basis.
The Directors are able also to obtain independent professional advice at the Groups expense whenever necessary.
Board length of service Access this report online www.
com ar12 Appointment 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Bill Halbert 1 September 2006 Paul Simpson 24 May 2004 Kevin Walsh 24 May 2004 Graham Holden 27 November 2007 Tony Illsley 2 June 2009 Martin Towers 2 June 2009 34 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Corporate governance continued The balance of the Board It is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to review continually the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it is optimal to meet the requirements of the Group.
During the year the Nomination Committee proposed a Board Appointments policy, which wasapproved by the Board.
This policy sets out theprocedure which will be followed in the event ofa Board vacancy being identified, along with theapproach of the Board to diversity.
The key principle set out in the policy is that theBoard will seek always to appoint on merit, inlinewith the current and foreseeable future requirements of the Group.
The Board recognises the benefits of diversity of all types, including gender diversity, and will aim always to develop thediversity of the Board, whilst remaining true tothe key principle of appointing on merit.
The Board believes that setting specific targets for the proportion of women on the Board may lead torecruitment decisions being made which are not aligned with this key principle.
The policy states also that the Nomination Committee will ensure always that it only uses executive search firms that have signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and best practice, that female applicants are given the same consideration and opportunity as male applicants and that gender diversity is considered specifically when drawing up a list ofpotential candidates.
In addition, through the Board Appointments policy, the Board has committed to: continue to seek to identify and develop the talented individuals in the Group, regardless ofgender: review regularly the proportion of women at each level in the organisation to ensure that equal opportunities are being presented to individuals at every level: and ensure always that there is a confidential way inwhich concerns can be raised without fear of repercussion if anyone, regardless of gender, has a concern about the opportunities available tothem.
Whilst we do not have currently any female representation on the Groups Board of Directors, 44 per cent of our Group Leadership team, which sits just below Board level, is female.
This is broadly consistent with the proportion of women across the Group as a whole, which sits at 39 per cent.
Training and development The Board receives monthly updates on governance-related matters and more formal training where appropriate.
Potential training needs are discussed as part of individual performance evaluation, plus each Board member is given the opportunity to flag any additional training requirements which they may have identified as part of the annual Board evaluation process.
Performance evaluation For the past nine years the Board has undertaken a formal internal process to evaluate the effectiveness of its own performance, as well as that of its various Committees.
The Board acknowledges that, now it isa member of the FTSE 350, the UK Corporate Governance Code requires an externally facilitated evaluation at least once every three years.
As a result of the value gained from the internal process in 2011 it was decided to once again use an internal process in 2012 but to give consideration to an externally facilitated evaluation over the nexttwo years.
The internal evaluation process in 2011 and 2012 has consisted of a questionnaire, drawn up by the Company Secretary, which covers all of the different areas of Board and Committee responsibility.
This enables each Board member to provide detailed feedback on how they feel the Board and the Committees have performed.
The feedback from the questionnaire is collated and discussed by the whole Board at a subsequent meeting: in addition the Executive Chairman meets with each Board member individually to go through the feedback from the questionnaire and to discuss individual performance.
The Non-Executive Directors meet separately to discuss the performance of the Executive Chairman and the Senior Independent Director then discusses this feedback with the Executive Chairman.
The results of the performance evaluation process this year indicated that the Board members are satisfied with the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, aswell as the effectiveness and commitment of each Director.
Particular areas of strength were identified during the evaluation, including the level of contact with senior managers outside of the Board, the culture of open challenge and debate in the boardroom and the mutual trust and respect between the Board members.
The process identified the following areas for focus in the coming year: more f ormal industry updates to be provided to the Board: such updates are currently provided on an ad-hoc basis: and a formal long-term milestone plan has been developed by the Group: this will be regularly reviewed by the Board as part of the consideration of the long-term.
success ofthe Group In 2011 the areas for focus that were identified were: Area identified What have we done?
The Board requested increased Each member of the senior management team has been through a rigorous assessment process in the year to visibility of succession planning identify their strengths and potential areas for development, as part of the people strategy work, which is described forkeysenior management further on page 26.
The output from this work has been reviewed by theBoard and used as the basis for outsideoftheBoard.
This will continue to be a regular agenda item for the Board going forward to ensure that the Board has the continued visibility that it requires in this area.
The Board proposed obtaining Formal feedback was obtained from the Group Leadership team, which sits just below Board level, regarding the moreformal 360-degree feedback performance of the Board, the interaction of the Board with senior management and the communication of onBoard performance from Board decisions to the rest of the Group.
This did not highlight any areas for concern: however, suggestions for seniormanagement.
minor improvements were discussed and subsequently implemented by the Board.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 35 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Meetings The record of Directors attendance at Board meetings is set out below.
During the year the Board held nine scheduled meetings.
Six of the meetings were preceded the evening before by an informal meeting allowing more time to debate issues in depth.
Number of Out of Director meetings possible Bill Halbert Chairman 9 9 Paul Simpson 9 9 Kevin Walsh 9 9 Graham Holden 8 9 Tony Illsley 9 9 Martin Towers 9 9 The Non-Executive Directors have a regular dialogue concerning Board matters and the Executive Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors, without theother Executive Directors present, at regular intervals.
The Non-Executive Directors met formally twice during the year without any of the Executive Directors present to discuss matters, including the performance of the Executive Chairman.
Board Committees The Board has established and delegated specific responsibilities to the following Committees and takes care to regularly review Committee membership to ensure continued effectiveness.
Each Committee reports back to the Board after each meeting and minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all Board members, where appropriate, to ensure that the whole Board is aware of the matters considered by the Committees.
Remuneration Committee The membership and attendance at Committee meetings during the year is shown on page 36.
The report of the Remuneration Committee and details ofitsroleare given on pages 41 to 51.
Audit Committee The membership and attendance at Committee meetings during the year is shown on page 36.
Details of therole of the Audit Committee are given onpages20to 22.
Nomination Committee The membership and attendance at Committee meetings during the year is shown on page 36.
The Nomination Committee meets as often as required and is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and ensuring that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board is right for the Group, both in terms of the current challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the skills and expertise thatare expected to be needed on the Board in the future.
The approach of the Nomination Committee to diversity on the Board is noted on the previous page.
When Board vacancies arise, the Nomination Committee is responsible for preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment and then identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board.
In order to identify suitable candidates the Committee uses open advertising or the services of external advisors to facilitate the search, where appropriate.
The Committee is responsible also for considering succession planning for the Directors and for key senior management across the Group: as noted on the previous page this hasbeen a matter considered also by the full Board during the year.
The Nomination Committee reviews annually the time required from each of the Directors to perform their role effectively.
Following this review in the year, theCommittee is satisfied that each of the Directors committed sufficient time during the year to fulfil their duties as Directors of the Company.
The Committee reviews the re-appointment of any Director standing for re-election at the AGM, giving regard to their performance and ability to continue tocontribute to the requirements of the Board.
TheNomination Committee then makes recommendations to the Board on whether each Director under consideration should be put forward for re-election.
The Committees Terms of Reference are in line with the recommendations in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the ICSA Guidance on Terms of Reference for Nomination Committees.
Copies ofthe Terms of Reference are available from the Company Secretary and are on our website, www.
36 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Corporate governance continued Attendance at Committee meetings Remuneration Committee Number of Out of Director meetings possible Graham Holden Chairman 7 7 Tony Illsley 7 7 Martin Towers 7 7 Audit Committee Number of Out of Director meetings possible Martin Towers Chairman 3 3 Graham Holden 3 3 Tony Illsley 3 3 Nomination Committee Number of Out of Director meetings possible Tony Illsley Chairman 5 5 Graham Holden 5 5 Martin Towers 4 5 Risk management and internal control The required corporate governance disclosures in respect of risk management and internal control are made within the risk management section of the Directorsreport on pages 20 to 23.
Proposal to re-appoint the external auditors  LLP have advised of their willingness to continue in office and have confirmed their continued independence.
Following consideration of the relationship with the external auditors, as described on page 22, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that  LLP are reappointed and aresolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the AGM.
They have provided an independent audit opinion on these accounts which can be found onpage 53.
Powers of the Directors The business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Articles ofAssociation, relevant statutes and any special resolution of the Company.
The Articles of Association give the Directors the power to authorise conflicts of interest in relation totransactions or arrangements with the Company, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Conflicts of interest are a standing agenda item atBoard meetings and each Director proposes any potential conflicts for consideration assoon as they become aware of them.
The Director with the potential conflict is excluded from the vote to authorise the transaction or arrangement.
Any conflicts that are authorised are then logged on a register, along withdetails of any specific terms imposed upon authorisation.
Internal controls are in place to ensure that transactions or arrangements which may lead to a potential conflict of interest are conducted on an arms length basis.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 March 2012, the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to three per cent or more of the voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
As at 23 May 2012, there had been no additional disclosures received.
Substantial shareholdings Number of shares % of total with voting rights voting rights Invesco Asset Management 56,146,530 10.87 SVG Capital 27,729,523 5.37 Schroder Investment Management 27,068,801 5.24 Aberforth Partners 26,418,983 5.11 Legal & General Investment Management 18,613,970 3.60 JP Morgan Asset Management 18,035,747 3.49 Scottish Widows Investment Partnerships 17,400,791 3.37 Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 37 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Relations with shareholders We place a great deal of importance on communicating with our shareholders and understanding theirviews.
Our Executive Chairman and Chief Financial Officer meetregularly with our institutional shareholders to discuss the strategy, performance and governance of the Company andto obtain feedback.
There are also generalpresentations following the interim and final results announcements each year.
During the year, meetings have been held with 34 such shareholders.
Since the year end the Executive Chairman and Senior Independent Director have met also with six of our largest shareholders to discuss the current Board structure and the proposal from the Board to extend further the dual role of the Executive Chairman.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is discussed as a standing agenda item at each Board meeting, along with details of any analyst reports, to ensure that each of our Directors has a clear understanding of the views of our shareholders.
OurNon-Executive Directors are available to meet face-to-face with our institutional shareholders if requested to do so, although no such requests have been received during the year.
We have a large number of shareholders in Hull and East Yorkshire and, as a Group, are very much involved in local life in the region.
More information about ourcommunity activities is on pages 24 and 25.
We believe that being a part of local life enables us to learn more aboutour local shareholders and the issues that matter to them.
We consider our AGM to be an important means of communication between our shareholders and ourDirectors.
Our Directors are all available at the AGM toanswer questions and we seek to encourage shareholder participation by inviting questions inadvance.
We believe that voting on a show of hands at our AGM provides a valuable opportunity for local sentiment and concerns to be expressed but we will keep under review developing best practice with regard to voting of all resolutions on a poll.
The results of proxy voting are made available at the AGMand subsequently on our website.
All of our Company announcements are published on our website, together with presentation materials and financial reports, so that all of our shareholders cankeep up-to-date with ournews.
Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable lawand regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website, www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the Directors whose names and functions are listed on pages 30 and 31 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description ofthe principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Amendments to the Companys Articles ofAssociation Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association may be made by passing a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Going concern The Directors confirm that, having reviewed the Groups budget and forecasts along with the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board Kathy Smith Company Secretary 31 May 2012
