OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41 Principal Risks and Uncertainties In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the United Kingdoms Financial Services Authority, the Directors are required to give a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
These are addressed in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties outlined on pages 26 to 29.
Going concern The Directors confirm that it is appropriate to apply the going concern concept in preparing the Financial Statements of the Group.
In forming this view, the Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets and projections, and have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Jersey company law requires the Directors to prepare the Financial Statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: t Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them on a consistent basis.
t Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
t State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material differences disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements.
t Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is not appropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have prepared the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The Directors are also required by the Listing Rules issued by the London Stock Exchange, to prepare a Report of the Directors and reports relating to Directors remuneration and corporate governance.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the United Kingdoms Financial Services Authority the Transparency Regulations, the Directors are required to include a management report containing a fair review of the business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper books of accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to ensure that the financial statements comply with relevant legislation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors Statement Pursuant to the Transparency Regulations Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 38 and 39, confirms that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: t the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and t the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the Groups business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
On behalf of the Board of Directors Christian Brown Ed Power Director Director 22 March 2013 www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Kentz Corporation Limited 42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of Compliance The Board considers that applying best practice in corporate governance is an integral element in developing, maximising and maintaining the success of the Group and in achieving its long-term goals.
It is therefore committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and to instilling in the Group the related principles with which it believes business should be undertaken.
This process is reviewed on a quarterly basis at each Audit Committee meeting where the Group Compliance officer and the Committee review relevant updates and best practices in relation to Corporate Governance requirements.
The Company is substantially compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and, except where indicated, the provisions have been met.
The Directors are responsible for the management and control of the Company and recognise the value of the principles of good governance whereby the Company follows the recommendations of the Code.
Board composition Director Position Year appointed Experience and skills Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman Non-Executive Chairman 1994 Public company boards, executive management, international finance David Beldotti Senior Independent Director 2003 Engineering, international oil and gas, operational and executivemanagement Hans Kraus Non-Executive Director 2008 Engineering, international oil and gas, operational and executivemanagement Brendan Lyons Non-Executive Director 2008 Engineering David MacFarlane Non-Executive Director 2012 International oil and gas, international finance, publiccompany boards, executive management Christian Brown Chief Executive officer 2012 Engineering, international oil and gas, operational and executive management Ed Power Chief Financial officer 2008 International oil and gas, international finance, executivemanagement Board changes On 31 January 2012, Hugh ODonnell resigned as Chief Executive officer and as a Director of the Company.
He was succeeded in these roles by Christian Brown on 1 February 2012 who previously held the position of Group Chief Operating officer.
On 29 August 2012, Hassan Abas resigned as Non-Executive Director and Member of the Audit Committee and was replaced by David MacFarlane on the same date.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors are included in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 54 and 55 of the Annual Report.
Re-election The Company does not currently comply with the Code in respect of the annual re-election of all Directors.
The Board believes that its existingarrangements on the re-election of Directors as set out in the Articles provide continuity of governance, while enabling proper accountability and underpinning board effectiveness.
In accordance with Articles 33 and 34 of the Articles of Association, the Directors submit for re-election every three years with the exception of David Beldotti who having been a Director for more than nine years will submitfor re-election on an annual basis.
At the AGM in 2013, David Beldotti, Brendan Lyons, Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman and DavidMacFarlane will retire and, being eligible will offer themselves for re-election.
Independence The Board considers the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors upon appointment and on an annual basis or at any other time when circumstances change.
The Board is satisfied that its composition will ensure that no individual, or group of individuals, will dominate the decision-making process.
Following a review of the Board composition, the Company, in line with provisions B.
1.1 of the Code, regards four of the current Non-Executive Directors to be independent within the meaning of Independent as dened in the Code.
The Board considers that David Beldotti, Hans Kraus, Brendan Lyons and David MacFarlane are independent in character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances that affect their judgement.
In judging the independence of these individuals, the Board has taken account of the following: t Independent Directors are not and have never been employees of the Group.
t Independent Directors do not receive any remuneration from the Group other than Director fees, nor do they participate in the Companys share option scheme, long-term incentive plan or the Companys pension scheme.
t Independent Directors do not have any close family ties with any of the Companys advisers, Directors or senior employees.
t Independent Directors do not have any shareholdings in the Company other than a nominal amount of shares.
t Independent Directors do not have any links with other Directors through involvement in other companies.
Kentz Corporation Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
