59 Corporate governance statement The Board considers Richard Bailey, Chris The UK Corporate Governance Code Board of directors The Board recognises the importance of The Board is responsible to shareholders Geoghegan, Amanda Mellor and Nick Winser high standards of corporate governance for the success of the Company.
The Board to be independent directors.
The chairman of and is committed to managing the Groups develops the Groups strategy, monitors the Board, Phil White, was also considered operations in accordance with the principles and reviews its business performance and to be independent on his appointment.
set out in The UK Corporate Governance controls risk.
The Board has put in place Code the Code.
The Company has complied reporting processes and other controls which A table of attendance of directors at with the Main Principles of the Code are designed to ensure that it is provided meetings of the Board and its committees throughout the year.
The Company has also with relevant information on a timely basis, is set out on page 62.
Outside the formal complied with the Code Provisions set out which set authorisation limits and which schedule of meetings, the non-executive in the Code throughout the year, except as reserve certain significant matters for the directors met without the executive directors explained below.
With effect from the appointment of Amanda The Groups chairman, who leads the Board, All directors have access to the advice and Mellor to the Board on 1 December 2011, is Phil White.
The chairman is responsible services of the company secretary and the the Board has comprised four executive for the Boards effectiveness and sets its directors are also able to seek independent directors and four independent non-executive agenda, ensuring that the directors receive professional advice, if necessary, at the directors, together with the chairman.
The accurate, timely and clear information.
Training is available Board believes that its current structure is The chairman also facilitates the effective for new directors and subsequently as is satisfactorily balanced, with the independent contribution of the non-executive directors considered necessary.
All directors are non-executive directors having and ensures a positive and constructive subject to election by shareholders at the a substantial presence in Board debate, relationship between the executive and first annual general meeting following their constructively challenging the executive non-executive directors.
Under the Articles, each directors and assisting in the development responsible for effective communication director is subject to re-election thereafter of strategy.
with shareholders and for ensuring that the at intervals of no more than three years.
directors continually update their skills and However, at the forthcoming annual general knowledge, and familiarity with the Group, meeting of the Company, notwithstanding the Matters considered by the Board in order to fulfil their roles.
Phil Whites other provisions of the Articles, all of the directors during the year included: significant commitments are his roles as will offer themselves for re-election in the Groups strategy, budgets, structure and chairman of The Unite Group plc and Lookers accordance with the Code.
Amanda Mellor, financing requirements: plc and as a non-executive director of having been appointed as a director since the the Groups annual and interim financial Stagecoach Group plc.
2011 annual general meeting, will be subject statements taking into account the views to election at this years meeting.
Executive of the Risk Management and Audit The Groups chief executive is Paul Sheffield, directors are required to seek approval from Committee : who is responsible for the operational the Board before accepting any external nonthe Groups interim management management of the Group and is executive positions, although no such statements: accountable to the Board for the positions are currently held.
implementation of the Groups strategy.
the implications of prevailing economic The chief executive meets regularly with a The executive directors service agreements conditions and the appropriate strategy management committee comprising the other and the non-executive directors letters of relating to them: executive directors focusing on a variety of appointment are available for inspection at the Groups pension schemes: matters, including strategy, material issues the Companys registered office and will be facing the Group and succession planning on display prior to and at the forthcoming potential acquisitions and disposals: and also chairs regular meetings with the annual general meeting.
strategic issues relevant to the Groups management of each of the divisions.
business: The chief executive also meets regularly Board performance evaluation with the Groups company secretary, During the year, Independent Board material operational issues and human resources director and health and Evaluation IBE completed its facilitation of opportunities: safety director.
the evaluation of the performance of the health and safety issues: Board, its committees and the individual The senior independent non-executive directors which had begun in the financial material human resources issues affecting director is Chris Geoghegan.
The senior year ended 30 June 2011. the Group, including succession planning independent non-executive director is and diversity both at Board level and available to shareholders if they have throughout the Group: and concerns which contact through the normal the Groups strategy with respect to channels of the chairman, the chief executive disputes or proceedings including the or the other executive directors has failed to issues relating to the Castlepoint Shopping resolve or for which such contact is Centre car park, Bournemouth.
In addition, the senior independent non-executive director is responsible for the appraisal of the chairmans performance.
60 Corporate governance statement continued The aim of the evaluation process was the Board was of the view that it had a the Board should receive appropriate to obtain open and constructive feedback good relationship with shareholders: and training to enable it to discharge its duties.
that would: By way of example, at the December 2011 that those members of senior management Board meeting, the Board received in-depth provide an insight into the Boards, who had been invited to attend or present training on certain key accounting issues.
its committees and each individual at Board meetings valued the experience, directors effectiveness: particularly as this provided an opportunity In addition, throughout the year, the chairman to develop relationships with the nonof the Board held regular discussions with assist to develop an action plan to ensure executive directors.
members of the Board and the company that the Board operates as effectively as secretary to assess the performance of the possible: and The evaluation process also resulted in a Board, its committees and the individual number of actions for the Board, including: directors.
Actions arising from these establish a benchmark for measuring discussions were implemented throughout future progress.
the need to ensure an appropriately the year.
diverse Board, whether in terms of The evaluation process comprised IBE experience, gender or otherwise.
So as Risk Management and Audit observing the performance of the Board and to continue to broaden the range of Committee the individual directors at meetings of the skills and expertise on the Board, Members of the Risk Management and Audit Board and its committees, together with Amanda Mellor, the Group Secretary and Committee individual meetings with each of the directors Head of Corporate Governance of Marks Richard Bailey chair to discuss their views and solicit their and Spencer Group plc, joined the Board Chris Geoghegan opinions, and meetings with senior with effect from 1 December 2011 and, Amanda Mellor management below Board level to ascertain since her appointment, Amanda has Nick Winser their views on the effectiveness of the Board made a significant contribution to the and the directors.
Board and its committees: The Risk Management and Audit Committee comprises the non-executive directors.
Subjects covered by the review included the identifying opportunities to hold Board Richard Bailey, a chartered accountant with directors views on the Boards culture, its meetings in the Groups offices and sites recent and relevant financial experience, is composition and succession planning and around the country so as to provide the chairman of the committee.
Views were also opportunities to meet senior members of the committee is Hugh Raven.
sought on the Boards development of the of staff.
During the year, Board meetings Groups strategy, governance and compliance were held on the sites of a number of the The committee met three times during the and risk management.
Groups projects in London and at the year.
These meetings were also attended by Groups offices in Birmingham and London.
the Group finance director and the director IBE produced reports with respect to the During the financial year ending 30 June responsible for internal audit.
The KPMG performance of the Board, the chairman, the 2013, Board meetings are scheduled to audit engagement partner attended all of committees and the individual directors.
The take place at the Groups offices or sites the meetings and met the chairman of the report relating to the Board was discussed at in Stoke and Bristol: committee without management being the Board meeting which took place in present.
The chairman of the Board is invited October 2011.
Subsequent to this meeting, inductions for new Board members need to attend the committee meetings and the reports relating to the Board committees to be tailored to the individuals specific executive directors attend when it is were discussed with the chairmen of these requirements.
A thorough and rigorous considered necessary or appropriate for committees, the chairman of the Board induction programme was agreed with them to do so.
provided feedback to each individual director, Amanda Mellor upon her appointment to and the senior independent non-executive the Board, which included a number of site The committee has clearly defined terms of director gave feedback to the chairman of the visits, meetings with members of senior reference which outline its objectives and Board on the chairmans performance.
management within the business and responsibilities relating to financial reporting, discussions with other relevant individuals, internal controls, risk management and the The key points raised in the feedback including the company secretary, the application of appropriate accounting policies included: human resources director and the chief and procedures.
information officer: the directors believed that, on the whole, The committee is responsible for overseeing the Board operated effectively, with feedback from the committees of the the Group's internal audit function.
The meetings generally including constructive Board needed to be regular and director responsible for internal audit reports and challenging debate: informative.
The chairmen of Boards to the chairman of the committee.
committees now report back to the Board that there had been a number of recent following the relevant committee meeting: changes to the Board and, in the and immediate future, it would be important to continue to manage this change effectively: 61 During the course of the year, an external The committees terms of reference are The committees terms of reference are review was carried out on the effectiveness available on the Companys website and available on the Companys website and of the internal audit function in the light of on request from the company secretary.
on request from the company secretary.
the current and future needs of the Groups business.
Following the review, an action Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee plan was developed to ensure best practice Members of the Remuneration Committee Members of the Nomination Committee was adopted and, as part of this plan, PwC Chris Geoghegan chair Phil White chair have been engaged as an outsourced internal Richard Bailey Richard Bailey audit and assurance provider to deliver Amanda Mellor Chris Geoghegan specific expertise, experience and resource.
Phil White Amanda Mellor Nick Winser Nick Winser The committee is also responsible for monitoring and reviewing the performance, The Remuneration Committee comprises The Nomination Committee comprises the independence and objectivity of KPMG, the the non-executive directors.
Chris Geoghegan Groups non-executive directors.
is the chairman of the committee.
The is the chairman of the committee.
The secretary of the committee is Hugh Raven.
secretary of the committee is Hugh Raven.
The provision of non-audit services by KPMG over a pre-determined cost threshold, other The committee met five times during the The committee met twice during the year.
than tax compliance and routine taxation year.
The meetings were also attended by advice, must be referred to and agreed by the the chief executive, the finance director and The committee is responsible for monitoring committee and any work costed below that the Groups human resources director when the composition and balance of the Board, threshold must be pre-approved by the Group it was considered appropriate for them making recommendations to the Board on finance director.
These controls enable the to do so.
new Board appointments and succession committee to be satisfied that KPMGs planning.
objectivity and independence as auditor has The committee makes recommendations to not been impaired, notwithstanding the the Board on the Companys framework of Matters considered by the Nomination provision of non-audit services in the year.
executive remuneration and determines, on Committee during the year included: its behalf, specific remuneration packages for The fees paid to KPMG during the year in the appointment of Amanda Mellor to each of the executive directors.
In doing so, the Board: respect of non-audit services were 85,500 it takes the advice of independent external 2011: 265,000, of which 13,500 related succession planning in relation to both the consultants.
Further information relating to to KPMG providing certain software licences, Board and the senior management team: the committee and its workings is contained 50,000 to the auditing of the Corporate in the directors remuneration report on Responsibility Annual Report, 12,000 to the diversity and skills required by the Board pages 64 to 71. to support the future development of the pensions advice and the remaining 10,000 business: and to advising in connection with a project Matters considered by the Remuneration tender process.
The total fees for non-audit the performance of the Executive Committee during the year included: services represented approximately 11% of Management Team.
the audit fees paid for the year 2011: 36%.
approving the 2011 directors remuneration report: Prior to appointing Amanda Mellor as a Matters considered by the Risk Management approving the bonuses paid to the non-executive director, the committee and Audit Committee during the year executive directors in respect of the reviewed the composition and existing skills included: 2011 financial year: of the Board and discussed its diversity, reviewing and recommending for approval by in particular in terms of background, reviewing the executive directors basic the Board the annual and interim financial salaries and benefits and recommending experiences and gender, in light of the statements: increases to be effective from 1 July 2012: Groups current and future needs.
The agreeing the scope and reviewing the committee did not, however, believe that setting the bonus targets applicable to the results of the external audit: either an external search consultant or open executive directors in respect of the 2013 advertising was required in the circumstances.
financial year: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management setting the performance measures relating processes: The committees terms of reference are to, and the quantum of, awards under the available on the Companys website and 2010 LTIP to be made to the executive approving the internal audit plan: on request from the company secretary.
directors during the 2013 financial year: reviewing progress against the internal audit plan and the key findings of the audits: considering external market developments in executive remuneration and their effect monitoring the effectiveness of the internal on the Companys existing arrangements: audit function: and and participating in the executive remuneration agreeing the scope of KPMGs audit, the level of remuneration paid to KPMG and consultation process run by the Department the extent of KPMGs non-audit services.
of Business, Innovation and Skills BIS.
62 Corporate governance statement continued Risk Management Board and committee meetings Board 12 and Audit 3 Remuneration 5 Nomination 2 Details of the number of meetings of the full Richard Bailey 12 3 5 2 Board and its committees during the year are Steve Bowcott 12 set out in the adjacent table.
The table also sets out the number of Board meetings Chris Geoghegan 12 3 5 2 attended by each director and the number Ian Lawson 12 of committee meetings attended by each 1 Amanda Mellor 6 2 1 1 director as a member of the relevant Haydn Mursell 12 committee during the year.
Paul Sheffield 12 The executive directors are not members Phil White 12 5 2 of the Board committees but are invited to Nick Winser 12 3 5 2 attend meetings of these committees when it is considered necessary or appropriate for 1 Amanda Mellor was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 December 2011 and attended all the Board committee meetings since that date, except for the Board and Remuneration Committee meetings held on 14 March 2012 due to business them to do so.
For example, Paul Sheffield commitments with Marks and Spencer Group plc which had been scheduled prior to her becoming a member of the Board.
and Haydn Mursell attended the Risk Amanda reviewed the papers circulated in advance of these meetings and provided her comments to the chairmen.
Management and Audit Committee meetings in their respective capacities as chief executive and finance director.
Phil White is not a member of the Risk Management and Audit Committee but, as chairman of the Board, attended the committees meetings during the year.
Risk management and internal controls The key features of the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls include: The Code requires that the directors review an established management structure internal audits to assess the adequacy and the effectiveness of the Groups risk operates throughout the Group, with clearly effectiveness of internal controls.
The scope management and internal control systems defined levels of responsibility and delegation of the internal audit work covers the key risks and that this review covers all material of authority: faced by the business and is supplemented by cyclical reviews of the core financial process.
controls, including financial, operational and clearly defined operating guidelines and Internal audit findings are reported to the Risk compliance controls.
The directors are procedures with authorisation limits set Management and Audit Committee and the satisfied that procedures are in place to at appropriate levels: executive directors on a regular basis: ensure that the Group complies with the a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting risk registers for each business unit highlighting Turnbull Committee guidance published by process, which is regularly reviewed and key risks facing that business, together with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in updated: an assessment of the effectiveness of England and Wales and that the procedures controls to mitigate those risks: have been applied during the year.
a formal quarterly review of each divisions year-end forecast, business performance, an assurance-mapping process to ensure risk and internal control matters which is the coordination of risk assurance within The Board has overall responsibility for the carried out by the directors of each division the Group: Groups systems of risk management and with the chief executive and finance director internal control and for reviewing their in attendance: a process of risk and control self-assessment effectiveness.
The Board considers that the requiring all operating companies to review Groups systems and controls, which have monthly management reporting, including and confirm that appropriate internal controls regular comparison of actual results against are in place and operating effectively across been developed and refined over many years, latest forecasts: the key risk areas.
The findings of the are appropriately designed to ensure that the assessment are reviewed by the Risk Groups exposure to significant risks is established policies and procedures governing Management and Audit Committee: properly managed.
However, such systems the Groups investment in land, property and are designed to manage rather than other significant assets, including acquisitions reviewing and reporting of safety, health and and disposals.
These include detailed environmental matters: and eliminate the risk of failure to achieve appraisals, appropriate authorisation levels business objectives and can only provide and Board approval depending on value or the provision of a confidential method of reasonable and not absolute assurance perceived exposure: reporting any suspected fraud or similar matter against material misstatement.
In reviewing to the director responsible for internal audit, investment decisions and tenders for contracts the company secretary or the Groups human the effectiveness of internal controls, the being subject to approval by the Board, the chief resources director, as appropriate.
directors have considered the key risks and executive and the finance director or divisional exposures within the Group.
The Group has directors, depending on the value and nature of entered into a number of joint ventures, the investment or contract: which are not controlled by a member of the Group.
These joint ventures are not included for the purposes of the assessment of the Groups internal controls.
63 The Board receives regular reports from all The Group also regularly engages with operating units to monitor their performance shareholders in relation to its corporate and all business unit management teams responsibility CR programme.
During the are briefed on relevant issues arising at year, it also engaged with a number of Board meetings.
shareholders in relation to environmental, social and governance ESG issues arising During the course of a year, members of from the FTSE4Good ESG ratings.
The Group the Board visit a number of the Groups has engaged with the ESG or responsible significant business units and the Board also investment executives of a number of major monitors the control framework of each institutional investors to seek their feedback business.
The Risk Management and Audit on its CR reporting.
As part of this process, Committee reviews the appropriateness and the Group engaged KPMG to provide effectiveness of the Groups internal controls independent assurance for its 2012 and did not consider that any significant CR Annual Report and is now reporting internal control failings or weaknesses were against the Global Reporting Initiative GRI identified by the review conducted during the standard C. course of the year.
The Groups website plays a significant role in its communication with investors, Relations with shareholders The Company has a programme of regular customers, its supply chain, the media and communication and meetings with investors, the general public.
In addition, the Group also investment analysts and brokers.
This includes communicates via a range of social media detailed presentations to investors, analysts tools, including Twitter and YouTube.
and the media when the Company announces its annual and interim results, together with additional engagement following the release of its interim management statements.
This programme assists the Board to understand the views of major shareholders about the Group, its performance and its strategic objectives.
Independent feedback is also provided to the Board by analysts and institutional shareholders.
The Board uses the annual general meeting to communicate directly with shareholders and encourages their attendance at this event where the chairmen of the Boards committees are present to answer questions.
The chairman of the Board also meets regularly with individual shareholders to obtain their views on a variety of matters, as does the chairman of the Remuneration Committee in relation to remuneration matters.
The Board invites investors, brokers and analysts to visit the Groups projects so as to demonstrate the scope and scale of its activities.
These site visits also include a series of presentations by members of the Board and members of senior management about the Groups operations.
During the year, a visit was made to the Crossrail tunnelling project based near Paddington, London.
