BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 27 GOVERNANCE C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE ROLE OF THE BOARD Dear Shareholder, The Board has ultimate responsibility for the management, direction and performance of the Group and leads and controls the Groups business.
At Kingsher, we believe that good governance is essential to the The Board is responsible for ensuring appropriate resources are in place long-term success and performance of the Group.
to achieve its strategy and deliver sustainable performance.
Through The Board is committed to promoting the highest standards of corporate delegated authorities to its Committees, the Board directs and reviews governance, realising that an effective, challenging and collaborative the Groups operations within an agreed framework of controls, allowing Board is fundamental to enabling the business to deliver its strategy risk to be assessed and managed within agreed parameters.
The Board and shareholders long-term interests, whilst generating stakeholder is accountable to the Companys shareholders for the proper conduct of confidence that the business is conducting itself in a responsible manner.
This year is the first in which we are required to report on the operations The Boards powers are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, of the Company by reference to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The which are available to view on its website, and has a formal schedule of Board has reviewed the UK Corporate Governance Code and has, where matters specically reserved for its approval.
During the year, as part of its necessary, taken action to ensure its operation reects the principles annual review process, the matters reserved for the Board were reviewed of the Code and that the Company complies with its provisions.
In and where necessary, amended to reect best practice.
The schedule of accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Board matters includes the consideration and approval of: confirms that throughout the year ended 28 January 2012, and as at the the Groups overall strategy, five-year plans and annual budgets: date of this Annual Report, the Company has been in compliance with financial statements and Group dividend policy including the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the UK Financial Reporting recommendation of the final dividend: Councils 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, save for provision A.
4.1 in relation to the Senior Independent Director and major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure: Schedule A of the Code regarding the phasing of long-term incentive major changes to the capital structure including tax and schemes.
Explanation of the two areas of non-compliance with the Code treasurymanagement: stated above, can be found on page 28 of this report and page 35 of the major changes to accounting policies or practices: Directors Remuneration Report.
the Groups corporate governance and compliance arrangements: This report, together with the Directors Report on pages 23 to 25, and the system of internal control and risk management policy: and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 46, provides details of how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the review of management development strategy.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the Code The Board has delegated authority to primary standing Committees, the is available at www.
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, to carry out certain In October 2011 the Financial Reporting Council announced that, tasks as dened in those Committees terms of reference.
Information on with effect from 1 October 2012, it would amend the Code to require the responsibilities of each of the Boards Committees is set out on pages companies to disclose in their annual reports their policy on diversity, 30 and 32. including gender diversity.
In announcing the retirement of John Nelson Composition of the Board in September 2011, the Board issued a statement on Board composition The Board is made up of a non-executive Chairman, two executive and its approach to diversity.
The statement, which is available on the directors and six non-executive directors.
The current balance of the Companys website www.
com, confirmed that the Board is Board with its skills, experience and knowledge, together with regular committed to ensuring that the directors of the Company demonstrate briengs by executives below Board level, ensures that views, perceptions a broad balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and and discussions are not dominated by any specic executive view.
The diversity, including gender diversity.
The Board believes that balanced executive and non-executive directors have overall collective responsibility and diverse Boards are effective and is committed to maximising the for the direction of the Company.
During the year, John Nelson retired benets of our diverse workforce to deliver real and sustainable benets as Deputy Chairman and Mark Seligman joined the Board as Senior for theGroup.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance is central 14June 2012, shareholders will be asked to appoint Mark Seligman to my role as Chairman and so I am pleased to endorse this Corporate and re-appoint his fellow directors.
The current directors biographical Governance Report, which I believe demonstrates how the Board and its details are set out on page 21.
Committees, through their actions, full their governance responsibilities There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment and embed good governance practices on an ongoingbasis.
of new directors to the Board and this is described in the Nomination Daniel Bernard Committee Report on page 32.
The procedure was followed during the Chairman selection and appointment of Mark Seligman who joined the Board as 21 March 2012 Senior Independent Director.
The terms and conditions of appointment of each of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before the meeting until its conclusion.
28 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 GOVERNANCE C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED During the year, the Board considered the independence of each of September 2011 and January 2012, there were no requests from the non-executive directors other than the Chairman, who was deemed shareholders or other Board directors, for access to the SID.
independent by the Board at the date of his appointment against the Board meetings criteria specified in the Code and concluded that each remained fully The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year.
independent of management and free from any relationship that could Unscheduled supplementary meetings may also take place as and when interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
These meetings are structured to allow open discussion.
At There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the each meeting the Board receives certain regular reports which include an Group Chief Executive.
As part of its annual review process and following update from the Group Chief Executive, current trading finance including the publication of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Guidance liquidity reports from the Group Finance Director, capital expenditure on Board Effectiveness, the Board undertook to review the written roles approvals and reports from the Company Secretary including governance, of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive to ensure they remained legal, insurance and risk, and corporate responsibility updates and the compliant with, and took account of, best practice developments.
roles were expanded in line with FRC guidance, and are available on All directors participate in discussing the strategy, trading and financial the Companys website.
performance and risk management of the Group.
Comprehensive brieng The Chairman is responsible for the overall operation, leadership and papers are circulated to all directors approximately one week before each governance of the Board, setting the tone and style of Board discussions meeting in paper or digital format.
Should a director be unable to attend a and creating the conditions for overall Board and individual director particular meeting, they are provided with all relevant brieng papers and effectiveness.
He is also responsible for ensuring that all members of are given the opportunity to discuss any issues with the Chairman or the the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, Group Chief Executive and, where possible, participate by telephone for that there is an open dialogue with shareholders and the Chairmen of critical discussions and approvals on specic matters.
the Boards primary Committees are available to answer shareholder The Board generally meets at the Groups Head Ofce in London and holds questions at the Annual General Meeting.
at least one meeting each year overseas.
During the year under review, the The Group Chief Executive, IanCheshire, is responsible for all executive Board held a meeting in Paris and conducted visits to stores in the vicinity.
management of the Groups business, consistent with the strategy and In addition to its normal meetings, at least once per year, the Board holds commercial objectives agreed by theBoard.
a meeting off site, which focuses on presentations from the UK executive team and includes visits to stores.
It is the Boards intention to conduct Until his retirement in September 2011, John Nelson acted as the Senior atleast one meeting this year outside the UK in a country in which the Independent Director SID, supporting the Chairman and was available Group operates.
for approach or representation from significant shareholders who felt they were unable to raise issues with theChairman, Group Chief Executive or At the request of any non-executive director, the Chairman will arrange Group Finance Director.
Following the departure of Mr Nelson, the Board meetings consisting of only the non-executive directors.
During the year, operated without a SID until the appointment of Mark Seligman.
During the Chairman and non-executive directors met without the executive this period, a search for a suitable candidate who demonstrated the directors, there were no matters of concern raised at this meeting.
The necessary knowledge, understanding and experience to assume the Chairman maintains regular contact with the Senior Independent Director SID role was conducted.
As part of this process, the role of the SID was and met with each of the non-executive directors individually as part of formally set out in writing, following FRC best practice guidelines, and is the Board evaluation discussions.
available on the Companys website.
During the period between Board and Committee meeting attendance The following table shows the number of years each director has served on the Board as at the financial year end and their attendance at the scheduled Board and Committee meetings which they were eligible to attend: Audit Remuneration Nomination Tenure in years Board Committee Committee Committee Daniel Bernard 510 10 4 4 5 5 Andrew Boneld 29 10 4 4 4 4 5 5 Pascal Cagni 19 10 5 5 1 Clare Chapman 19 10 3 3 4 5 Ian Cheshire 11 10 10 Anders Dahlvig 29 10 3 4 4 5 2 Janis Kong 510 10 4 4 4 4 5 5 Kevin OByrne 3 10 10 3 Mark Seligman 1 1 1 1 1 4 John Nelson 97 7 2 3 3 3 4 4 1 Clare Chapman was appointed to the Remuneration Committee with effect from 16 February 2011 and Chairman of the Committee with effect from 7 September 2011.
2 Janis Kong was appointed to the Audit Committee with effect from 16 February 2011.
3 Mark Seligman was appointed to the Board and the Audit and Nomination Committees with effect from 1 January 2012.
4 John Nelson retired from the Board and Board Committees on 8 September 2011. BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 29 Activities during the year Induction, information and professional development During the year, amongst other things, the Board oversaw the final year All new directors appointed to the Board receive an induction pack of the Groups Delivering Value strategy and was involved in reviewing in addition to a comprehensive induction programme tailored to their and dening its Creating the Leader strategy, questioning and developing, experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is designed where appropriate, managements underlying assumptions for the next to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Groups operations stage of the Groups development.
The Board reviewed the Groups and culture.
approach to anti-bribery and corruption in response to the UK Bribery Act The induction programme includes individual one-to-one meetings with and reviewed the processes to ensure the Group had in place at least the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director adequate anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures.
The Board and other directors, site visits to the Groups stores and those of its received regular strategic presentations from management and held deep competitors, meetings with management of the Groups Operating dive discussions with the Groups Operating Company management and Companies and other senior management and if required, external considered the Groups risk prole and approach to risk appetite.
training courses at the Groups expense.
Board evaluation In accordance with best practice, the Chairman considers and addresses The Board conducts a review of its performance each year.
Following the development needs of the Board as a whole, if any, and ensures that the external evaluation of the performance of the Board conducted in each director updates their individual skills, knowledge and expertise.
2010 11, the Board agreed to evaluate its effectiveness for the year under review, via an externally facilitated questionnaire and a series of one-toSubsequent training in specic aspects of the Groups businesses is one interviews with the Chairman.
The questionnaire was developed by provided to directors, when requested, or regularly as part of site visits.
reference to the topics discussed and recommendations made during Directors are briefed on issues at Board and Committee meetings and the previous evaluation, and were facilitated by an external facilitator, have full and timely access to relevant information ahead of eachmeeting.
Responses to the questionnaire were collated and the output The Board also receives reports in circumstances where issues and was used by the Chairman in his individual meetings with directors as concerns have been raised by the Companys institutional shareholders.
part of the evaluation process.
This process allows the directors to develop the necessary understanding The areas considered by the evaluation were: of the views of these shareholders and also enables the Board to judge whether investors have a sufficient understanding of the Groupsobjectives.
Board composition: As well as planned development and briengs, directors are also expected B oard expertise: to take responsibility for identifying their own individual needs and to take strategic oversight: necessary steps to ensure that they are adequately informed about the Group and their responsibilities as a director.
The Board is confident that risk management and internal control: and all its members have the knowledge, ability and experience to perform succession planning and human resource management.
the functions required of a director of a listedcompany.
There is also an agreed procedure whereby directors may take independent professional The results from the evaluation were considered by the Board at its advice at the Groups expense in the furtherance of their duties.
No significant issues were highlighted and the review concluded that the Board was working efficiently and effectively CONFLICTS OF INTEREST and that the contribution and commitment of each director, and their Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a interaction with each other, was good and that the non-executive directors situation where he or she may have a direct or indirect interest that offered robust challenge where appropriate.
As a result of the review, the conicts with the interests of the Company.
The Company has robust Board agreed to undertake a review of its annual meeting timetable and procedures in place to identify, authorise and manage such conicts of to review the cycle for its review of risk management and risk appetite.
interest, and these procedures have operated effectively during the year.
In addition to the Board review, the Group Chief Executive carried out a A register of directors situational and transactional conicts is maintained performance review of the Group Finance Director.
The non-executive by the Company Secretary and reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, conducted the The Board confirmed during the year that there were no situations of performance review of the Chairman in respect of the financial year.
which they were aware which would, or potentially could, give rise to conicts with the interests of the Company other than those that might The Board has confirmed that the contribution of each of the directors arise from directors other appointments, details of which are set out in continues to be effective and that shareholders should be supportive the directors biographies set out on page 21. of their appointment or re-appointment.
The biographical details of all directors seeking appointment or re-appointment at the 2012 Annual General Meeting are set out on page 21.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and development in the year ahead and the Chairman will use the output of the most recent Board evaluation in his individual meetings with directors during theyear.
30 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 GOVERNANCE C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED COMMITTEES Committee composition The Board has delegated authority to its Committees to carry out certain The Audit Committee comprises four non-executive directors: tasks as dened in each Committees respective terms of reference.
The Andrew Boneld Chairman written terms of reference in respect of the Audit, Remuneration and Anders Dahlvig Nomination Committees are available on the Companys website.
The Janis Kong Board is satisfied that the terms of reference for each of these Committees satisfy the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and having Mark Seligman appointed 1 January 2012 been reviewed and amended during the year will be reviewed on an John Nelson retired 8 September 2011 ongoing basis.
All the Committee members are considered independent in accordance The minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all directors with provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
on a timely basis and at each Board meeting, the chairmen of each of the principal Committees provide the Board with a brief synopsis of the Duties work carried out by the Committee, if any, between Board meetings.
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is required, amongst other things to: Details of each Committee, including membership, are set out in the monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group: following reports: review, understand and evaluate the Groups internal financial risk, and other internal controls and their associated systems: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function on an annual basis: Dear Shareholder, oversee the relationship with the external auditors, making recommendations to the Board in relation to their appointment, The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from its non-executive remuneration and terms of engagement: directors.
The Committee provides effective oversight and governance agree the scope of the auditors annual audit programme and review of risk management and financial reporting and provides updates and the output: and recommendations to the Board.
monitor and review the external auditors independence, objectivity During the year, the Committee continued to focus on internal controls, and effectiveness and to approve the policy on the engagement of compliance, financial governance and internal audit functions.
It the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
continued to maintain its good working relationship with the Group The terms of reference were reviewed in the year and amendments to Audit and Risk Management Director, the Group Financial Controller, reect the Committees activities and best practice were approved by the the Company Secretary and external auditors and developed a standing Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
agenda, linked to the Groups financial calendar, around which to review and monitor the operations of the business, financial reporting and Governance internal audit.
In accordance with the requirements of provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, Andrew Boneld is designated as the The Committee has received presentations from management of Committee member with recent and relevant financial experience.
All other the Groups Operating Companies to improve understanding of their members of the Audit Committee are deemed to have the necessary ability operations, reviewed the Groups adequate procedures in relation to the and experience to understand financial statements.
Full details of the UK Bribery Act and reviewed the Group-wide independent third-party members of the Committee are set out on this page and the number and whistleblowing service and revised whistleblowing policy.
attendance by members at Committee meetings are set out on page 28.
John Nelson retired from the Board and as a member of the Committee All members of the Committee receive appropriate induction, which is in in September 2011 and I would like to thank him for his many years of addition to the induction which all new directors receive.
Mark Seligman joined the Committee in January 2012, programme covers an overview of the business, its financial dynamics bringing with him strong investment banking and financial knowledge and and risks.
New Committee members also obtain access to the Groups experience which will add to the quality and effectiveness of the operations and staff and all members of the Committee undertake discussions at meetings.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 31 The Committee is required by its terms of reference to meet at least Financial Reporting three times a year.
During the year the Committee met four times.
The The Committee reviewed the annual and interim financial statements.
In Committee has a standing agenda linked to events in the Groups financial doing so the Committee reviewed significant accounting policies, financial calendar for consideration at each meeting and within the annual audit reporting issues and judgements including those disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements, together with the reports received from the external cycle, to ensure that its work is in line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At the invitation of the Committee, the auditors on their findings, including any control observations relevant to their audit work.
The impact on the Groups financial statements of Chairman of the Board and the Group Chief Executive regularly attended meetings, as did the Group Finance Director, Group Audit and Risk significant corporate governance and accounting standards applicable during the year, were considered and reviewed by the Committee.
Management Director, Group Financial Controller and the external auditors.
Private meetings were also held with the external and internal Group Internal Audit auditors and the Group Audit and Risk Management Director at which The Committee considered and reviewed updates from the internal audit management were not present.
programme at each of its meetings in the year.
Reports from the internal Detailed below is the key work undertaken by the Committee during audit function to the Committee included updates on the Groups risk the year under review and up to the date of this Annual Report.
management systems, findings from reviews, and reviews of the remit, organisation, annual plan and resources of the internal audit function.
Activities of the Audit Committee during the year The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Governance processes The review was conducted by way of an internal questionnaire with input The Committee conducted a questionnaire based review of its from the functions key stakeholders within the Group, in addition to the effectiveness during the year.
The Committee considered the results Committee.
No significant issues were highlighted by the review.
of the review in January 2012 and concluded that it provided robust challenge and support to the Board.
External Audit During the year, the Committee agreed the approach and scope of the Internal Controls and Risk audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors and undertook an The Committee received and considered reports during the year from assessment of their qualication, expertise and resources, independence the Groups external auditors, Deloitte LLP, and the Groups internal audit and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
It reviewed and agreed function on the work they had undertaken in reviewing and auditing the the terms of engagement, the fees, and areas of responsibility and the Group, in order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the internal work to be undertaken by the external auditors and agreed the fees control system.
payable in respect of the 2011 12 audit work.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors for their audit services are given in note 7 to the The Committee considered reports on the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks and reviewed the accounts on page 62. annual report on the Groups systems of internal control and its The Committee reviewed and approved the scope of non-audit services effectiveness, and reported the results of the review to the Board.
provided by the external auditors to ensure that there was no impairment Further information on the Groups risk management and internal of independence and objectivity, and subsequently monitored the noncontrol procedures can be found on page 33. audit work performed to ensure it was within policy guidelines.
The As part of the Committees continuing programme to increase its Groups policy on the use of external auditors for non-audit work can be awareness of the Groups operations and to understand the found on the Companys website.
implementation of Operating Company control processes, the Committee The Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be met with and received presentations from the senior management of its proposed for re-appointment by shareholders as the Companys external Operating Companies.
In addition, the Committee continued to monitor auditor at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As a result of its work the progress on the standardisation and improvement of the Groups during the year, the Committee has concluded that it acted in accordance internal control processes, in a number of key areas including the B&Q with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence and China business.
objectivity of the external auditors.
The Group operates a whistleblowing helpline which allows employees I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions within the Group to make disclosures about suspected financial and about the work of the Committee.
Following a review by the Committee, the For and on behalf of the Committee SpeakUp service, operated by an independent third-party, was relaunched across the Group.
A revised policy and processes to support the relaunched SpeakUp service were reviewed by the Andrew Boneld Committee and considered to be appropriate.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 21 March 2012 32 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 GOVERNANCE C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED and diversity on the Board against current and future requirements of the REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Company.
The Board believes that its current composition represents a strong, well balanced Board with specialists in retail, technology, finance Full details of the Remuneration Committee composition, role, authority and human resources.
and activities during the year, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 46.
The report will be subject to an advisory vote Activities during the year by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 14 June 2012.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its terms of reference and recommended their amendment to reect best practice as detailed by The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the Annual General the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
The revised Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
terms of reference were approved by the Board and are available on the Companys website.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Having satisfied itself that both Clare Chapman and Janis Kong possessed the necessary experience to support the relevant remit, roles and Committee composition responsibilities of the Remuneration and Audit Committees, the The Committee comprises the Chairman and all the non-executive Committee recommended their appointment to the Remuneration directors and meets as required.
During the year the Committee met five Committee and Audit Committee respectively.
The members of the Nomination Committee are: The Committee received and reviewed a talent and HR update from the Daniel Bernard Chairman Group HR director, which outlined succession planning and talent pipeline Andrew Boneld considerations in support of the Groups Creating the Leader strategy.
P ascal Cagni Having considered the overall balance of skills, knowledge, experience Clare Chapman and diversity on the Board, against current and future requirements of the Group, a search and selection process using the executive search Anders Dahlvig associates Russell Reynolds resulted in the appointment of Mark Seligman Janis Kong as Senior Independent Director.
Having further satisfied itself that he Mark Seligman appointed 1 January 2012 possessed the necessary knowledge and experience to support the relevant remit, roles and responsibilities of the Committees, the Committee John Nelson retired 8 September 2011 recommended his appointment to the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Duties I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions The primary purpose of the Nomination Committee is to lead, on behalf about the work of the Committee.
of the Board, the process for Board appointments and to make recommendations for maintaining an appropriate balance of diversity Daniel Bernard and skills on the Board.
Under its terms of reference, the Nomination Chairman of the Nomination Committee Committee is required to: 21 March 2012 review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board, as appropriate: Group Executive Committee During the year, the Group Executive consisted of the executive directors identify the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and experience and the three divisional Chief Executive Ofcers.
As announced in on the Board and nominate candidates to ll Board vacancies: February 2012, a review of the organisational structure of the Group was review the time commitment required from the non-executive conducted in preparation for the Creating the Leader strategy.
Following directors: the review, it was announced that the CEO of Kingsher International will consider succession planning, taking into account the challenges be leaving the business and the Group Executive consists of the Group and opportunities facing the Group and the future skills and expertise Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and two divisional Chief needed on the Board: and Executive Ofcers.
The Group Executive, who are set out on page 22, meets formally ten times a year under the chairmanship of the Group review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and Chief Executive.
non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Group Executive is primarily responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups businesses and the overall financial Governance performance of the Group against its strategic plans and budget.
The Nomination Committee meets periodically when required and external advisers may be invited to attend.
Following a rigorous search The Group Executive is responsible for reviewing and making and selection process carried out with the assistance of specialist recommendations to the Board on: recruitment consultants, the Nomination Committee considered the strategic and business plans of individual businesses: proposed appointment of Mark Seligman as Senior Independent Director.
monthly Group trading performance: In making its appointment recommendations to the Board, the Nomination Committee reviewed the overall balance of skills, knowledge, experience individual progress of Operating Companies: the Groups capital structure and funding: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 33 capital expenditure proposals, major acquisitions or disposals The responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring the system and of businesses: and the Groups key risks: the maintenance of effective control is delegated to the management of each Operating Company.
The Groups enterprise-wide risk management management development and senior executive succession plans: and reporting process helps Group management to identify, assess, and prioritise and mitigate risk.
Management at each Operating Company has the Groups corporate responsibility programme.
responsibility for the identication and evaluation of the significant risks applicable to their business and any mitigating actions to be taken.
The During the year the Group Executive met ten times and amongst other Group Executive reviews, identies and evaluates the risks that are things reviewed: significant at a Group level, as well as the mitigating actions against those development of the Creating the Leader strategy: risks.
These are then considered by the Board.
The type of risks identied the Groups e-commerce and branding strategies: include strategic risk, external factors such as competition, environment and regulation, change management programmes, health and safety, operating budgets and monthly trading performance: retention of key management and macro-market risks.
revisions to the Groups code of conduct and corporate governancemanual: Management is required to apply judgement in evaluating the risks facing the Group in achieving its objectives, in determining the risks strategy for embedding sustainability into all Groups behaviours: and that are considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of HR proposals for management development and succession those risks materialising, in identifying the Groups ability to reduce the planning.
incidence and impact on the business of risks that do materialise, and in ensuring the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate Company Secretary to the benefit provided.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its Committees and, with the consent of the Board, may delegate Monitoring responsibility for the administration of the Committees to other suitably There are clear processes for controlling and monitoring the system of qualied staff.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring internal control and reporting any significant control failings or weaknesses that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board on together with details of corrective action.
These include: corporate governance matters.
All directors have access to the advice and an annual planning process and regular financial reporting, services of the Company Secretary and their appointment and removal is comparing results with plan and the previous year on a monthly one of the matters reserved to the Board.
The Board also have access to and cumulative basis: the Group Legal Director for legal and compliance advice.
written reports from the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director submitted at each Board meeting: ACCOUNTABILITY, RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Internal control Operating Company management report formally to the Audit The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal Committee on a regular basis on the control environment in their control, which is designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and business and actions taken to maintain or improve the environment ensure the reliability of the financial information for both internal use and as appropriate: and external publication and to comply with the Turnbull guidance.
reports and presentations to the Board on certain areas of specialist The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal risk.
These include treasury, insurance and pensions.
control system, including financial, operational and compliance controls A formal quarterly certication is provided by the managing director and risk management in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance and finance director of each Operating Company stating that appropriate Code for the period from 31 January 2011 to the date of approval of this internal controls were in operation and conrming compliance with Group Annual Report.
Any weaknesses are highlighted and the results If significant losses were to be incurred during the year as a result of are reviewed by regional management, the Audit Committee and the a failure of controls, a detailed report would be provided to the Audit Board.
The internal audit function monitors and selectively checks the Committee and the Board.
The Board confirms that no significant results of this exercise, ensuring that representations made are consistent weaknesses were identied in relation to the review carried out during with the results of its work during the year.
the year and therefore no remedial action was required.
The internal audit function follows a planned programme of reviews that The Board has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks are aligned to the Groups risks.
The function: for effective internal control.
The Group has procedures for the delegation works with the Operating Companies to develop, improve and embed of authorities for significant matters to ensure approval is sought at the risk management tools and processes into their business operations: appropriate level.
These procedures are subject to regular review and reports directly to the Audit Committee and has the authority to provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the review any relevant part of the Group: significant risks faced by the Group.
Such a system is designed to manage oversees the operation of the individual operating businesses audit rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and committees: and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective assurance on the control environment across the Group.
34 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 GOVERNANCE C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Risk appetite hosting investors and analysts sessions at which senior management During the year, the Board discussed the level of risk the Group is from relevant Operating Companies deliver presentations which prepared to accept in pursuit of its business strategy.
A framework provide an overview of their individual businesses: has been developed which considers the financial implications and responding to enquiries from shareholders through the Companys compliance and safety aspects of the actions being taken in order to investor relations team: achieve its objectives.
This framework has been reviewed and approved regular meetings with institutional investors and analysts by the by the Board and will be reviewed annually going forward.
Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to discuss business performance: and AUDITORS Deloitte LLP were appointed as the external auditors to the Group in 2009 a section dedicated to shareholders on the Companys website.
A resolution proposing the re-appointment of The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the chairmen Deloitte LLP as external auditors to the Group will be put to shareholders of the Boards Committees are available to meet major investors on at the 2012 Annual GeneralMeeting.
The Senior Independent Director has a specic responsibility to Each of the Groups businesses is consulted on the effectiveness and be available to shareholders who have concerns, and for whom contact independence of the external auditors annually.
In addition, the external with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director auditors provide the Audit Committee with a schedule of each matter on has either failed to resolve their concerns, or for whom such contact which there was an initial difference between them and management in isinappropriate.
relation to the accounting treatment, and with the final decisions on As part of his formal induction as Senior Independent Director, Mark these issues.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness Seligman met a number of the Groups significant shareholders to obtain and independence of the external auditors.
a better understanding of their views.
In addition to their statutory duties, the services of Deloitte LLP are also engaged where, as a result of its position as external auditor, it ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING either must, or is best placed to, perform the work in question.
This The principal means of communication with private investors is by is primarily work in relation to matters such as shareholder circulars, electronic communications and through the Annual General Meeting, Group borrowings, tax advice, regulatory lings and certain business an occasion attended by all the Companys directors and at which all acquisitions and disposals.
Other work is awarded on the basis of shareholders present are given the opportunity to question the Chairman competitive tendering.
and the directors as well as the chairmen of the Boards Committees.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders have the opportunity to meet The Group has a policy on the use of its external auditors for non-audit informally with directors.
work and this is regularly reviewed.
The external auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their A summary business presentation is given at the Annual General Meeting independence or violate any laws or regulations affecting their before the Chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
At appointment as external auditors.
The approval of the Chairman of the the Annual General Meeting in June 2012, the Chairman will use his Audit Committee is required prior to awarding contracts for non-audit discretion to call for a poll on all resolutions.
The results of the votes in services to the external auditors, where in excess of specified amounts.
relation to all resolutions will be disclosed to those in attendance at the The external auditors report to the Audit Committee annually on their meeting, published on the Companys website and announced via the independence from the Company.
Periodic rotation of key audit partners Regulatory Information Service shortly after the conclusion of the is alsorequired.
During the year, Deloitte LLP charged the Group 1.4m 2010 11: 1.4m for audit and audit-related services and a further 0.5m 2010 11: 0.3m for non-audit services during the year.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company is committed to communicating its strategy and activities clearly to its shareholders and, to that end, maintains an active dialogue with investors through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
The investor relations programme includes: formal presentations of full-year and interim results: conference calls to discuss quarterly trading statements: regular meetings between institutional investors and senior management to ensure that the investor community receives a balanced and complete view of the Groups performance and the issues faced by the Group:
