Governance 30 Corporate governance The Board continues to be committed to high standards of The Board endorses the aims of the Davies Report corporate governance.
The Board strives to provide the right entitled Women on Boards and when considering leadership, strategic oversight and control environment to future appointments, with the support of the Nomination produce and sustain delivery of value to all of the Companys Committee, will aim to build on its current position.
The Board applies integrity, principles of The Company currently has two women on the Board good corporate governance and accountability throughout C M Hodgson and S Bailey and therefore 20% of the Board its activities and each director brings independence of is made up of women.
The Companys current aspiration is character and judgement to the role.
All of the members to increase the percentage of women on the Board to 30% by of the Board are individually and collectively aware of their 2015 and to continue to ensure appropriate representation responsibilities to the Companys stakeholders.
by women, both on the Board and throughout the business, whilst at all times ensuring the Company selects on merit.
"The following describes the Boards approach to corporate governance and how the UK Corporate Governance Code The section ""Nomination Committee"" on page 33 contains has been applied."
further information on Board composition.
The other significant commitments of the Chairman during Compliance statement 2012 are detailed in his biography on page 28.
There were In 2012 the Company was subject to and complied with no significant changes to those commitments during 2012. all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council and Of the seven Board meetings held in 2012 C P Wicks was which is available at www.
unable to attend one meeting before she left the Company due to prior commitments, S Bailey was unable to attend Board one meeting due to other business commitments and The Board currently comprises the non-executive C J Rodrigues was unable to attend one meeting due to Chairman, two executive directors and seven independent illness and was unable to attend a further meeting due non-executive directors.
The Chairman has a primary to other business commitments.
responsibility for the running of the Board and for relations with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is responsible for In addition, the Chairman met during the year with the operations and for the development of strategic plans the non-executive directors without the executive and initiatives for consideration by the Board.
of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and reserved for its decision and approval.
These include the agreed by the Board.
J M Kelly acts as Senior Independent approval of the strategic and annual profit plans, key public Director, whose role is to provide a sounding board to the information releases e. g. financial statements, dividends, Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other major acquisitions and disposals, material contracts, directors when necessary.
Other roles and responsibilities treasury and other Group policies.
The section Internal of the Senior Independent Director are described elsewhere.
control and risk management systems on pages 34 and 35 The Company recognises the value that diversity brings to its contains further information on how the Board operates.
boardroom and believes that the Board performs better and The Company seeks to ensure that the Board is supplied supports its overall objectives within the business strategy with appropriate and timely information to enable it to when it includes the best people representing a range of discharge its duties.
The Board requests additional capabilities, experience, perspectives and backgrounds.
information or variations to regular reporting as it requires.
In line with this, the Company aims to foster a diverse A procedure exists for directors to seek independent Board, including a mix of genders and ethnicities.
professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if The Company has a well established and published equal necessary.
All directors have access to the advice and opportunities policy that guides all colleagues in how they services of the Company Secretary.
fairly deal with all colleagues and customers irrespective of age, gender, sexual orientation, religion, disability, or ethnic All directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
That policy applies on how people are selected to A combination of tailored Board and committee agenda work at the Company and applies at all levels.
The Company items and other Board activities, including briefing sessions, has a succession policy that ensures all key roles including assist the directors in continually updating their skills and director positions are considered and the Company the knowledge and familiarity with the Company required to considers candidates for roles from the widest possible field.
fulfil their role both on the Board and on Board committees.
The Board regularly reviews succession arrangements for In addition, external seminars, workshops and presentations all key roles and the Nomination Committee reviews are made available to directors.
The Company provides the succession arrangements for directors.
necessary resources for developing and updating directors knowledge and capabilities.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Governance 31 The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation process any director may retire from office at any general meeting of its own performance and that of its committees and and that any director so retiring may offer himself or individual directors which in 2012 was externally facilitated herself for appointment or re-appointment as a director by Lintstock.
Lintstock has no other connection with by the members at the meeting: and the Company.
Questionnaires tailored to the specific if a director retires from office at any general meeting, circumstances of the Company were completed by each the director shall retain office until the end of the meeting director in relation to their own performance and on the irrespective of the outcome of any resolution that the effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
director be appointed or re-appointed as a director put to the members at the meeting.
The Chairman conducts an appraisal of each director.
The Senior Independent Director, having consulted with each The UK Corporate Governance Code specifies that all of the other directors, conducts an appraisal interview with directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to the Chairman.
In 2012 a detailed report on the effectiveness annual election by shareholders.
The Company is a FTSE of the Board and its committees was produced by Lintstock.
350 company and all directors will be subject to election or The results of this were considered by the Board and the re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
individual committees and actions arising were agreed.
The independent non-executive directors understand that The following themes were addressed: Board composition, the Board will not automatically recommend their re-election expertise and dynamics: Board support, time management by shareholders.
The Chairman and the independent and Board committees: strategic oversight: risk management non-executive directors are appointed, subject to re-election, and internal control: succession planning and human for a specified term of approximately three years, renewable resources management: and priorities for change.
by one additional period of three years and further Whilst all directors are expected to bring an independent renewable thereafter at the discretion of the Company.
judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, The Companies Act 2006 allows shareholders in general resources including key appointments and standards of meeting by ordinary resolution requiring a simple majority conduct, the independent non-executive directors were of the persons voting on the relevant resolution to remove selected and appointed for this purpose.
any director before the expiration of his or her period of The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the office, but without prejudice to any claim for damages which Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
the director may have for breach of any contract of service between him or her and the Company.
Appointment and replacement of directors A person who is willing to act as a director, and is permitted A person also ceases to be a director if he or she notifies the by law to do so, may be appointed as a director of the Company of his or her resignation, ceases to be a director by Company by shareholders in general meeting by ordinary virtue of any provision of the Companies Act 2006, becomes resolution requiring a simple majority of the persons voting prohibited by law from being a director, has a bankruptcy on the relevant resolution or by a decision of the directors.
order against him or her or is the subject of a relevant No person, other than a director retiring at that general insolvency procedure, or if a medical practitioner gives a meeting, shall be appointed or re-appointed a director at any written opinion stating the director has become physically general meeting unless he or she is recommended by the or mentally incapable of acting as a director and may remain directors or, not less than seven nor more than 35 clear days so for more than three months, or is removed from office by before the date appointed for the meeting, notice executed notice signed by all the other directors sent to the director, by that person of his or her willingness to be appointed or or if the Board so decides following at least six months re-appointed is lodged at the Companys registered office.
consecutive absence without permission or he or she becomes subject to relevant procedures under the mental The articles of association of the Company provide that: health laws.
at every Annual General Meeting any director who has been appointed as a director by the directors since the last Annual General Meeting, or who was not appointed or re-appointed as a director at one of the preceding two Annual General Meetings, must retire from office notwithstanding any agreement the director may have with the Company and that any director so retiring may offer himself or herself for appointment or re-appointment as a director by the members at the meeting: www.
com ar2012 Governance 32 Corporate governance continued The Committee is the body which carries out the functions Powers of the Companys directors required by DTR 7.1.
The main role and responsibilities of Subject to the articles, the directors are responsible for the Committee in 2012 were to: the management of the Companys business, for which purpose they may exercise all the powers of the Company.
monitor the integrity of the financial statements of The shareholders may, by special resolution, direct the the Company: directors to take, or refrain from taking, specified action.
review the Companys internal financial control and risk The directors exercise of the powers of the Company to management systems: borrow money is restricted.
The directors have power to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys issue new shares and to purchase the Companys own internal audit function: and shares, in each case to the extent permitted by law or as oversee the Companys relationship with the external allowed by shareholder resolution resolutions to issue and auditor including the recommendation to the Board of its purchase shares are regularly proposed at the Companys appointment and remuneration.
Should the Committees monitoring and review activities Board committees reveal any material cause for concern or scope for The Board has five standing committees, all of which improvement, it will make recommendations to the Board on have written terms of reference clearly setting out their action needed to address the issue or make improvements.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, which are The main activities of the Committee in 2012 were as follows: reviewed annually, can be viewed at www.
with the assistance of reports received from management In addition, the Executive Committee, Risk Committee, and the external auditor, the critical review of the significant Investment Committee, Digital Committee and Compliance financial reporting issues in connection with the preparation Committee referred to elsewhere are not formal of the Companys financial and related formal statements: Board committees.
assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems Audit Committee established to identify, assess, manage and monitor The members of the Committee are: financial and non-financial risks: Appointment Committee monitoring the integrity of the Companys internal financial date role controls.
The Committee does so by reference to: Darren M Shapland 16 February 2010 Chairman a summaries of business risks and mitigating controls: John M Kelly 1 September 2010 Member b regular reports and presentations from the heads of Christine M Hodgson 1 May 2012 Member key risk functions, internal audit and external audit: and All members of the Committee are independent c the results of the system of annual self-certification of non-executive directors.
Appointments to the Committee compliance with key controls and procedures: are made by the Board at the recommendation of the monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness Nomination Committee, which consults with the Chairman of the internal audit function, including any actions taken of the Audit Committee.
following any significant failures in internal controls: The Board has satisfied itself that the members of the reviewing, with the external auditor, its terms of Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
engagement, the findings of its work, and at the end The Committee is provided with sufficient resources of the audit process reviewing its effectiveness: and to undertake its duties.
It has access to the services of reviewing the independence and objectivity of the the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the external auditor.
Committee and all other employees.
The Committee is able to take independent legal or professional advice when it believes it necessary to do so.
The Committee meets as required, but not less than three times a year.
There was full attendance at the four meetings held in 2012.
Although other directors, including the Chief Financial Officer, attend Audit Committee meetings, the Committee also meets for private discussions with the external auditor, who attends all of its meetings, and can do so with the internal auditor.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Governance 33 The external auditor reports to the Committee on the The main role and responsibilities of the Committee are to: actions taken to comply with professional and regulatory review the structure, size and composition of the Board requirements and with best practice designed to ensure its which includes an objective and comprehensive evaluation independence.
The Committee has agreed a policy on the of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit of the Board and make recommendations to the Board services, the application of which it monitors.
The policy, with regard to any changes: which can be viewed at www.
com, specifies consider succession planning for the directors and other services that may not be provided and contains a level of senior executives and make recommendations to the Board: cost at which Committee approval is required enabling the identify and nominate for the approval of the Board Committee to satisfy itself that auditor objectivity and candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: independence are safeguarded.
review the leadership of the Company to ensure the The Company acknowledges the provisions of the UK continued ability of the Company to compete effectively Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 in the marketplace: in relation to external audit tendering.
It is currently recommend candidates for the role of Senior Independent anticipated that the Company will put the external audit Director and for membership of the Audit and contract out to tender in summer 2013 unless any material Remuneration Committees, in consultation with the changes emerge from the EUs considerations of audit policy.
Chairmen of those Committees: and The results of that tender will determine the identity of the external auditor to be appointed or re-appointed at the make recommendations to the Board concerning the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
re-appointment of non-executive directors at the end of their specified term of office and the re-election by Finance Committee shareholders of any director under the retirement by This Committee meets as required to deal with all routine rotation provisions or otherwise.
business excluding matters that are specifically reserved to the Board or to another committee and specific matters The Committee performed the above activities as necessary delegated to it by the Board requiring attention between in 2012. scheduled Board meetings.
Any two directors can conduct C M Hodgson and R Moross were appointed as non-executive the business of this Committee.
directors with effect from 1 May 2012.
Descriptions of the roles and capabilities required were prepared and suitable Nomination Committee candidates were identified by external advisers, JCA Group, The members of the Committee are the Chairman of the following a review of the structure, size and composition Board and two or more independent non-executive directors.
including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of The current members of the Committee are: the Board.
JCA Group has no other connection with the Appointment Committee Company.
When recommending appointments to the Board, date role the Committee considers the Companys equal opportunities Peter Erskine 18 February 2009 Chairman policy and aspirations regarding women on the Board as set John F Jarvis 14 May 2010 Member out on page 30, whilst ensuring that the Company selects on merit.
John M Kelly 15 February 2011 Member Christopher J Rodrigues 18 May 2007 Member C J Rodrigues has served as an independent non-executive director of the Company for nine years and will retire Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
from the Company at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources During the course of 2012, the Committee met and to undertake its duties.
It has access to the services considered the balance of the Board including its size, the of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the balance of skills, experience, independence and diversity Committee and all other employees.
The Committee is able including gender and also reflected on the findings of the to take independent legal and professional advice when it Lintstock Board evaluation.
It was determined that there believes it necessary to do so.
was no need to appoint a non-executive director to replace C J Rodrigues at this time.
The Committee meets as required but not less than twice a year.
Two meetings of the Committee were held in 2012 and there was full attendance at these meetings.
com ar2012 Governance 34 Corporate governance continued In addition to these, there are four Business Support Units: Remuneration Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee, including Information Technology: membership, are set out in the Directors remuneration Customer: report, which should be read in conjunction with this section.
Finance and Development: and Disclosure Committee Human Resources.
In 2012, the Board established a Disclosure Committee There is an Executive Head responsible for each of these which meets on an ad hoc basis to consider and make Business Units.
decisions relating to the handling of inside information concerning the Company and the Group.
Any executive as well as weekly updates, the Chief Executive and the director of the Company together with the Chairman of the Executive Heads meet monthly the Executive Committee Board can conduct the business of the Committee.
to consider Group strategy, financial performance, The Committee is responsible for ensuring the timely and business development and management issues.
Other accurate disclosure of inside information to the market in senior executives participate as appropriate.
In addition accordance with the Companys obligations under the there are weekly and monthly financial and operational UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and for review meetings together with an annual programme of monitoring compliance with the Companys disclosure plan reforecasting and strategy reviews attended by the controls and procedures.
The Committee receives advice Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer together with, from the Companys external legal, financial and public as appropriate, other Executive Heads and executives: relations advisers as required and reports to the Board.
the Business Units comprise executives with defined In appropriate cases, the decisions of the Committee may responsibilities.
Business Unit management meet be subject to confirmation from the Board.
regularly to manage their respective operations: Internal control and risk management systems key policies and control procedures including treasury, The Board has ultimate responsibility for the internal control compliance and information system controls are and risk management systems operating throughout the documented and have Group-wide application.
There are Group and for reviewing their effectiveness.
No such also operating procedure manuals that are integrated with systems can provide absolute assurance against material Group-wide controls: misstatement or loss.
The Groups systems are designed to high standards of business ethics and compliance with manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve laws, regulations and internal policies are demanded business objectives and to provide the Board with reasonable from employees at all levels.
To underpin the effectiveness assurance that potential problems will normally be of controls, it is Group policy to recruit and develop prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for management and other employees of high calibre, appropriate action.
integrity and with appropriate disciplines: The Company had procedures in place throughout the year there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and and up to 21 February 2013, the date of approval of this managing the risks faced by the Group.
Key risks and their Annual Report, which accord with the Internal Control: financial implications are appraised by the Executive Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Committee which is assisted by a committee of Business published in October 2005.
Unit executives the Risk Committee.
This is an integral part of the strategic planning process.
The appropriateness The Board has delegated the detailed design of the of controls is considered, having regard to cost benefit, systems of internal control and risk management to the materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising: executive directors.
key risks and actions to mitigate those risks are considered The control framework and key procedures during 2012 in at each regular Board meeting and are formally reviewed relation to the financial reporting process were as follows: and approved by the Board twice yearly.
Each key risk is assigned executive director Executive Head ownership: The Group manages its operations through two primary Business Units: the Board establishes corporate strategy and Group-wide business objectives which are formally reviewed annually.
Retail UK and Ireland and International : and Business Unit management integrate such objectives into Digital UK and Ireland and International.
business strategies for presentation to the Board with supporting financial objectives: Business Unit budgets, containing financial and operating targets, capital expenditure proposals and performance indicators, are reviewed by the Executive Committee and support Group strategies.
The Group profit plan is approved by the Board: Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Governance 35 The whistleblowing policy enables and encourages reports on financial and non-financial performance are employees to report in confidence any possible malpractice, regularly provided to directors and discussed at Board impropriety or other matters of concern which may arise meetings.
Performance against both budgets and in the business.
Any matters raised in accordance with the objectives together with management of business risks, policy are investigated thoroughly and reports are provided are reviewed with Group management, as are forecasts at each meeting of the Audit Committee.
and material sensitivities: the Board regularly receives reports from Executive Heads Relations with shareholders covering areas such as operations, forecasts, business There is a regular programme of meetings with major development, strategic planning, human resources, legal institutional shareholders to consider the Groups and corporate matters, compliance, health and safety and performance and prospects.
In addition, presentations corporate responsibility: are made twice yearly after the announcement of results, there is a Group-wide policy governing appraisal and the details of which, together with the Groups financial approval of investment expenditure and asset disposals.
reports and announcements, can be accessed at A committee of the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial www.
The Chairman met in 2012 with Officer considers all significant financial commitments, several institutional investors and their representative including past investment appraisals the Investment bodies in addition to results presentations and the Annual Committee.
Major projects are reported on at each General Meeting.
Other directors are available to meet the scheduled Board meeting.
Post-investment appraisals Companys major shareholders if requested.
are undertaken on a systematic basis and are formally The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders reviewed by the Board twice yearly: if they have concerns, where contact through the usual a system of annual self-certification of compliance with channels of Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial key controls and procedures is operated throughout the Officer has failed to solve, or for which such contact Group: and is inappropriate.
the Group has an internal audit function, outsourced A report on investor relations, which includes updates on to Deloitte LLP, which reports to management and the meetings with major institutional shareholders, is given at Audit Committee on Group operations.
The Companys brokers also present The role of the Audit Committee in reviewing the to the Board annually.
Principles of ownership, corporate effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk governance and voting guidelines issued by the Companys management is explained in the Audit Committee section.
major institutional shareholders, their representative bodies and advisory organisations are circulated to, and considered The Board also conducts an assessment of the effectiveness by, the Board.
of the internal control and risk management systems.
The assessment takes account of all significant aspects The Company corresponds regularly on a range of subjects including: risk assessment: the control environment with its individual shareholders who have an opportunity to and control activities: information and communication: question the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
"information on our relations with shareholders is contained in the ""Shareholder information"" section on page 118."
Anti-bribery and whistleblowing policies The Board recognises that as a global betting and gaming Rights attaching to the shares and restrictions business there is potential for exposure to bribery and on voting and transfer corruption.
Failure by employees, suppliers or agents to The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares 1 comply with anti-bribery and corruption legislation including of 28 3p each.
Subject to any suspension or abrogation of the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices rights pursuant to relevant law or the Companys articles Act, or any failure in policies and procedures to monitor and of association, the ordinary shares confer on their holders prevent non-compliance, anywhere in the world, could result other than the Company in respect of its treasury shares : in substantial penalties, criminal prosecution and significant a the right to receive out of profits available for distribution damage to the reputation of the Company.
such dividends as may be agreed to be paid in the case The Board ensures that there are a number of policies, of a final dividend in an amount not exceeding the amount procedures, management systems and internal controls recommended by the Board as approved by shareholders in place across the business to prevent bribery and in general meeting, or in the case of an interim dividend corruption occurring.
This includes policies on whistleblowing, in an amount determined by the Board.
All dividends anti-bribery, gifts and hospitality, charitable donations and unclaimed for a period of 12 years after having become sponsorship.
Supplementary audit, monitoring and review due for payment are forfeited automatically and cease to processes are designed to identify breaches of Group controls.
remain owing by the Company: www.
com ar2012 Governance 36 Corporate governance continued b the right, on a return of assets on a liquidation, reduction A member may choose whether his or her shares are of capital or otherwise, to share in the surplus assets of evidenced by share certificates certificated shares or the Company remaining after payment of its liabilities pari held in electronic uncertificated form in CREST the UK passu with the other holders of ordinary shares: and electronic settlement system.
Any member may transfer all or any of his or her shares subject in the case of c the right to receive notice of and to attend and speak and certificated shares to the rules set out in the Companys vote in person or by proxy at any general meeting of the articles of association or in the case of uncertificated shares Company.
On a show of hands every member present the regulations governing the operation of CREST which or in the case of a corporation, represented and voting allow the directors to refuse to register a transfer as therein has one vote and every proxy present who has been set out : the transferor remains the holder of the shares until appointed by one or more members present has one vote the name of the transferee is entered in the register of and a second vote where the proxy has been appointed members.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer by more than one member and has been instructed by of certificated shares in favour of more than four persons one or more members to vote for the resolution and by jointly or where there is no adequate evidence of ownership one or more other members to vote against the or the transfer is not duly stamped if so required.
On a poll every member present or The directors may also refuse to register a share transfer represented in person or by proxy has one vote for every if it is in respect of a certificated share which is not fully paid share of which that member is the holder.
Normally, the up or on which the Company has a lien provided that, where appointment of a proxy must be received not less than the share transfer is in respect of any share admitted to the 48 hours before the time of the holding of the relevant Official List maintained by the UK Listing Authority, any such meeting or adjourned meeting: special provision is made discretion may not be exercised so as to prevent dealings in the Companys articles of association as to the delivery taking place on an open and proper basis, or if in the opinion of proxies for use on a poll not taken during the meeting of the directors and with the concurrence of the UK Listing at which the poll is demanded.
Authority exceptional circumstances so warrant provided These rights can be suspended.
If the member, or any other that the exercise of such power will not disturb the market in person appearing to be interested in shares held by that those shares.
Whilst there are no squeeze-out and sell out member, has failed to comply with a notice pursuant to rules relating to the shares in the Companys articles of section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 notice by company association, shareholders are subject to the compulsory requiring information about interests in its shares the acquisition provisions in sections 974 to 991 of the Company can suspend until one week after the default Companies Act 2006 and can be required by the Company ceases the right to attend and speak and vote at a general to transfer their shares following certain action by a meeting and if the shares represent at least 0.25% of their gambling industry regulator as more specifically set out class the Company can withhold any dividend or other in the Companys articles of association.
money payable in respect of the shares and refuse to accept Significant agreements that take effect, alter certain transfers of the relevant shares.
In addition, following or terminate upon a change of control following certain action by a gambling industry regulator as more a takeover bid specifically set out in the Companys articles of association, The agreements between Ladbrokes Group Finance plc the Company may suspend all or some of the rights LGF, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and eight attaching to all or some of the shares held by any relevant separate banks for the provision by the banks of revolving shareholder to attend and to speak at meetings and to vote, credit facilities of up to 540 million on a committed basis to receive any dividend or other money payable in respect of provide that the banks may give notice of cancellation if a the shares, and to the issue of further shares or other change of control occurs.
On cancellation the amounts securities in respect of the shares.
drawn would be immediately repayable.
In the context of a Shareholders, either alone or with other shareholders, takeover bid, the acquirer would normally arrange substitute have other rights as set out in the Companys articles of facilities.
In addition, LGF issued a bond in March 2010.
The association and in company law principally the Companies bond has a Put Event that allows bondholders to exercise a Act 2006. put option when a change of control occurs.
The put option allows the bondholders to require LGF to purchase the The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust, bonds at a price of 101 pence.
which is used in connection with certain of the Companys employee share ownership plans, held 884,126 ordinary Amendment of the Companys articles shares in the Company at 31 December 2012 which are of association not voted by plan members and which it can vote in its The Companys articles of association may be amended absolute discretion.
by the members of the Company by special resolution requiring a majority of at least 75% of the persons voting on the relevant resolution.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
