Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information Corporate governance report for the year to 31 December 2012 The Board considered that during the year ended 31 December 2012 the Company was in compliance with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, with the exception of provision A 2.1 which states that the role of Chairman and Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual.
On 25 November 2011, Peter Hill resigned as Chief Executive due to ill-health.
Nigel Keen assumed the role of Executive Chairman becoming responsible for the day-to-day running of the business in conjunction with a newly appointed Executive Committee made up of the senior managers, including the Divisional Presidents.
David Lockwood joined the Board on 13 August 2012 at which time Nigel Keen resumed his former role as non-executive Chairman.
The Board accepted temporary non-compliance with provision A 2.1, to the extent that the Chairman has acted in an executive capacity, as being in the overall interests of the Company.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is available from the Financial Reporting Councils website at http: www.
The Board The responsibilities and objectives of the Board The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are the owners of the Company.
The Boards principal responsibility is to act in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole within the legal framework of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board establishes the aims and objectives for the Company, approves the strategic direction and plans, and the operating budgets which are proposed by the Chief Executive, and monitors performance against them.
The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Company, for exercising proper and appropriate corporate governance, for establishing and ensuring the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal control and for reviewing management performance.
Through the Chief Executive, the Board has regard to the necessary financial and human resources required to meet the Companys objectives.
The composition of the Board The composition of the Board is outlined on page 45.
The Board comprises an appropriate mix of executive and non-executive directors and is of a size and includes the skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business.
There is a clear written division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which has been agreed by the Board.
Tony Reading is the Senior Independent Director.
The principal role of the Senior Independent Director is to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive.
As has been the practice for a number ofyears, the major shareholders were offered the opportunity to meet with the Senior Independent Director during the year.
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent.
Nigel Keen was appointed to the Board as an independent non-executive director in 1993.
Nigel Keen fullled the criteria for independence as set out in the Code at the time of his appointment.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
All of the directors stand for annual re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
The operation of the Board The Board meets at least eight times a year.
A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be discussed is normally set out at least twelve months in advance.
The Board makes periodic visits to the Companys operations, and in addition the heads of the operating divisions and the Chief Human Resources officer periodically attend Board Meetings.
The Board delegates certain other operating executions including its responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Administration Committees which are described below.
The Board determines the membership and Chairmanship of the Committees.
Minutes of those Committee meetings are circulated to Board members prior to each Board meeting.
Prior to the meetings, all directors receive Board Papers, which include detailed financial information and a comprehensive operational overview, from the Chief Executive.
Normally, the Chairman and the non-executive directors meet at least twice a year without the executive directors present and the Senior Independent Director meets at least annually with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved for Board approval, including for example significant long-term obligations such ascapital investments, acquisitions and divestments above certain levels, the raising of new capital and entering into loan agreements.
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive.
Performance of the Board The Board completes an annual self-evaluation assessment of itself and its Committees.
Following completion of questionnaires by all directors, the Chairman held one-to-one discussions with each director and led discussions to consider the Boards procedures and its 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC Governance Corporate governance report for the year to 31 December 2012 effectiveness.
Certain areas were identied for improvement or action.
The Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees also considered their own performance and reported to the Board thereon.
The performance of individual directors has been considered by the Chairman in discussion with other non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors have considered the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Chairman considered the performance of the executive directors which was also discussed with the non-executive directors.
Korn Ferry, an independent third party, was appointed during 2011 to review the Boards evaluation processes and in addition, they conducted individual interviews with each director and the Company Secretary to understand the workings of the Board and to create a Leadership Road Map.
New directors are provided with training prior to taking up the role and existing directors are provided with training as necessary.
This can take the form of reports and briengs from external advisers and senior employees, attendance at seminars and conferences and bespoke training.
As part of the annual Performance Review each director is asked what training is required so that this can be factored in to forthcoming programmes.
Board attendance The Board held nine meetings during 2012.
There were four Audit Committee meetings, seven Remuneration Committee meetings and six Nominations Committee meetings during the year.
Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings are given below and are discussed in more detail in the separate Committee sections of this report.
Whenever a director is unable to attend a meeting, the director, ifpossible, consults with the Chairman prior to the meeting and is briefed by the Chairman after the meeting.
Attendance at Board meetings and Committees of the Board Director Board 9 Audit 4 Remuneration 7 Nominations 6 Mr N J Keen 9476 1 Mr D C Lockwood 3221 Mr J C Silver 9424 2 Ms P Bell 7354 Sir C Hum 9476 Professor M J Kelly 9476 Mr A J Reading 9476 3 Mr A M Robb 4233 3 Dr W Spivey 4233 1 Joined the Board 13 August 2012 2 Joined the Board 2 March 2012 3 Retired from the Board 4 May 2012 Communications with shareholders The Company is committed to increasing shareholder value and communicates its achievements and prospects to its shareholders in a timely manner and within the limits imposed by the Listing Rules.
Regular communication with shareholders takes place through the Annual Report and Accounts, the Full Year and the Interim Results.
significant matters relating to the trading or development of the business are communicated to the market by way of announcements through a regulatory information service and these announcements also appear on the Companys website, along with other press releases, presentations and webcasts.
The Head of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications works closely with the Chief Executive and Finance Director on a day-today basis, has full responsibility for devising and implementing the Companys communications plan to service its current and prospective shareholders and provides information to financial analysts and the media.
Regular written and verbal reports are presented to the Board on ongoing Investor Relations activity as well as providing feedback from the investor community.
During 2012 the primary focus was on engaging with Lairds institutional and private shareholders within the UK to ensure the Companys prospects and developments were understood, whilst still servicing Lairds overseas investors.
Looking ahead to 2013, the investor engagement plan will include further overseas investor visits.
50 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information Throughout the year the Company participated in 127 shareholder and prospective shareholder meetings, with activity mainly centred on key reporting dates, the March Full Year Results announcement, July Interims announcement, and the May and October Interim Management Statement dates.
Although a programme of coordinated activity is followed throughout the year, where appropriate we also respond to ad hoc requests for meetings.
The majority of the meetings were attended by the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.
For the first half of 2012, meetings included the Chairman whilst in his interim role as Executive Chairman.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available for meetings with shareholders in the event that there are any concerns which cannot be addressed through management, or in connection with any significant change to the Companys strategy, remuneration policy or governance arrangements.
Following the appointment of David Lockwood as Chief Executive, major shareholders were offered meetings with the Chairman to introduce the Chief Executive.
In December, a Business Review presentation for shareholders and financial analysts was hosted in which David Lockwood set out his findings from his first three months in his role as Chief Executive, and the strategic direction going forward.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are encouraged to attend all results presentations and collectively they welcome the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with both private investors and institutional shareholders and encourage them to attend.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the directors informally after the meeting.
The Chairman gives a formal report on the Companys progress at the meeting and a copy of his statement is issued to a regulatory information service and published on the Companys website.
All of the directors attended the AGM in 2012.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees were available to answer questions relating to their area of responsibility.
The number of proxy votes cast for, against and withheld on the resolutions are reported to the meeting and, following the meeting, are published on the Companys website.
Committees of the Board The written Terms of Reference of the Committees are available on the Companys website, from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board, as appropriate, and the minutes ofallCommittee meetings are circulated to the Board.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee members are all independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Paula Bell and the other members of the Audit Committee during the year were Sir Christopher Hum, Professor Michael Kelly, Tony Reading, Andrew Robb and Bill Spivey.
Andrew Robb previous Audit Committee Chair and Bill Spivey retired on 4 May 2012 and Professor Michael Kelly and Sir Christopher Hum were appointed to the Committee, also with effect from that date.
The Board ensures that at least one member, currently Paula Bell, has recent and relevant financial experience, and it is satisfied that the Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient financial, international and commercial experience to enable it to carry out its duties.
Normally, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the external auditor are given notice of all meetings and may be invited to attend and speak at any meeting.
The external auditor has the opportunity to meet with the Audit Committee without any executive directors present whenever necessary and the Audit Committee ensures that this happens at least once a year in order to discuss any issues or concerns from either party.
The Audit Committee and the external auditor met formally without any executive directors present once during the year.
The Audit Committee, which met four times during the year, is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company which are relied upon by the Board.
The Audit Committee Terms of Reference which are available on the Companys website set out its responsibilities and procedures.
The Audit Committee reviews the Group and the Companys financial statements prior to their publication with particular reference to significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
During the year, the Annual Report and Accounts, AGM and interim management statement were reviewed by the Audit Committee before recommending them to the Board for approval.
During the year, the Audit Committee has overseen the Companys work on the Bribery Act 2010, which included reviewing the Companys existing Global Code of Conduct.
It also received three formal reports on litigation and claims.
The Audit Committee oversees the internal audit function and also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial controls.
The Audit Committee considers the scope and planning of internal financial audits and reviews the internal audit process for identifying and managing financial risk and the findings of those audits.
Deloitte LLP, who provide global internal audit services under the direction of the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit, attended one Audit Committee meeting during the year.
The Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit briefed the Audit Committee three times on key internal audit matters and findings of internal audit investigations.
He had the opportunity at each meeting to meet with the Audit Committee without any executive directors present and he met separately with the Chairman of the Audit Committee on four further occasions during the year.
The number of meetings was higher than normal to ensure the smooth transition of the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
51 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC Governance Corporate governance report for the year to 31 December 2012 The Audit Committee reviews the Companys procedure for handling allegations from whistleblowers as set out in the Companys Global Code of Conduct which is on the Companys website and any whistleblowing events are brought to its attention.
A whistleblowing service, which offers a relevant language service in all countries in which Laird operates, is made available to all employees through an independent telephone and internet provider.
Employees have the right to remain anonymous.
A monthly report on any calls received is sent to senior management.
Investigation of all whistleblower communications is overseen by the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit with findings reported to the Board.
The appointment and terms of engagement of Ernst & Young LLP, the external auditor, including the proposed fee structure were considered and the independence of the external auditor assessed.
The Audit Committee considered the scope and planning of the external financial audit and assessed the effectiveness of the audit process, including a report on the audit rms own internal quality control procedures.
The Audit Committee has reviewed Ernst & Young LLPs key policies for maintaining objectivity and independence, including the policy for the rotation of audit partners which requires a new lead audit partner to be appointed every five years.
In accordance with this policy, there was a change in lead audit partner in 2011.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the policy on employment of former employees of the external auditor and confirmed it remained effective.
The Audit Committee also recommends for Board approval a policy for non-audit services to be performed by the auditor.
This policy prohibits the use of the external audit rm for certain specified matters and the hiring of its former employees, without approval from the Audit Committee Chairman.
There are often sound commercial and practical reasons, including condentiality, for using Ernst & Young LLP to provide non-audit services.
During the year, Ernst & Young LLP provided tax planning and compliance advice and regulatory compliance work.
Where applicable, competitive quotes are obtained.
Details of fees for non-audit work are set out in note 6 on page 84.
The Audit Committee has authority to seek any information it requires from any officer or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
It believes that it has received sufficient, reliable and timely information from management to enable it to full itsresponsibilities during the year.
The Audit Committee can take such independent professional advice as it considers necessary.
The Audit Committee recommended to the Board the re-election of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditor.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman, and at least two non-executive directors.
It is chaired by Nigel Keen and comprises Tony Reading and Sir Christopher Hum.
However, during 2012 all of the directors attended at least some of the meetings as succession planning was being discussed.
It met on six occasions in 2012.
The Nominations Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diversity required of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
At least annually the Nominations Committee reviews the performance of the Chief Executive.
It is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board having regard to the overall skills, balance and composition of the Board.
The Nominations Committee reviews and advises upon succession planning and takes into account the need to refresh the Board.
In 2011, the Nominations Committee appointed Korn Ferry, an external consultancy, to assist in its work on refreshing the Board.
As a first step, Korn Ferry conducted individual interviews with each director and the Company Secretary to understand the workings of the Board in order to create a Leadership Road Map.
The Leadership Road Map has helped the Nominations Committee set out a strategic Board development plan and to identify key competencies and requirements for the Board.
Korn Ferry used the plan as the basis for searching for a new non-executive director to become Chair of the Audit Committee in 2012.
Korn Ferrys interviews with the Board also facilitated the identication of the key operational and strategic requirements for the new Chief Executive, resulting in a detailed job specication and high level search strategy.
52 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information The Nominations Committee considers diversity generally when making appointments to the Board taking into account relevant skills, experience, knowledge, personality, ethnicity and gender.
The Board fully supports the recommendations of the Davies Report entitled Women on Boards.
It is the Companys aim to have the appropriate level of diversity in the boardroom to reect the diverse nature of the Companys operations.
Korn Ferry has undertaken to ensure that at least 30% of candidates for their long list are women, unless they can explicitly justify why this is not the case.
Current gender prole of the Groups permanent employees Percentage of women Leadership Team 19.1% Percentage of women Total Workforce 42.9% Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Tony Reading and currently comprises the Chairman and all the other non-executive directors, who are all considered to be independent.
It met seven times in 2012 and is responsible for recommending to the Board the Companys general policy on remuneration and in particular to determine the remuneration and benets of the executive directors, the grant of all options and award of shares under the Companys Long Term Incentive Scheme.
In accordance with the Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of the Board is not the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee, excluding the Chairman, determines the remuneration of the Chairman and the terms of his appointment.
The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings and, when requested by the Chairman of the Committee, attends a portion of the meeting.
Normally, the Chief Executive is consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive directors and employees.
Further details on the Remuneration Committee are to be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 55 to 66.
Administration Committee The Administration Committee of the Board consists of any two or more directors and deals with items of a routine and administrativenature.
Share capital Information on the Companys share capital is set out on page 46 of the directors report and in note 29 on page 105.
Internal control Laird PLC is a holding company registered in the UK with businesses primarily located overseas.
These businesses are organised as subsidiary companies where the management of these companies are appointed to manage within the framework established by the Laird Board, as well as complying with local statutory and regulatory requirements.
Overall responsibility for Lairds systems of internal control and reviewing their effectiveness lies with the Laird Board, who ensure that a review is carried out at least annually to assess the adequacy of those systems.
Primary responsibility for systems of internal control rests with the managers of the subsidiaries.
Laird executive directors are responsible for implementing Group policy and for monitoring the businesses and performance of operating companies and units and reporting to the Board thereon.
Financial information is reviewed at business unit and divisional level as well as by Lairds Finance Department which reviews the consolidation and financial statements to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reected.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in place and complies with the UKCorporate Governance Code and the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
This process has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date the accounts were approved by the Board.
The systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives as well as safeguarding theGroups assets.
These systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Group operating rules are issued periodically to the managers of subsidiaries setting out their responsibilities and delegated authorities.
Theserules require approval for specic transactions and call for accurate and relevant financial information to be delivered on a timely basis.
The ability to identify risk is enhanced by the timely reporting of management information and the short lines of communication with operating managers.
53 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC Governance Corporate governance report for the year to 31 December 2012 Business units submit their budgets annually to divisional management and to Lairds executive directors.
In addition, through a risk and controls assessment process, they are required to identify the key risk and control issues that their businesses face and set out the strategies they will employ to manage them.
The issues raised by the business units are reviewed by the Board as part of the annual risk review process.
A risk management update, reporting emergent risks and any changes to the risk environment, is presented at all Board meetings.
This process is supplemented by papers submitted to the Board by the executive directors throughout the year and by meetings from time to time between the Board and the management of the subsidiaries, some of which take place at the premises of the operating companies.
The Chief Executive presents the Groups business objectives which are approved by the Board, and the Board also addresses those risks which affect Laird as a whole.
The Board instigates further reports and investigations as it considers necessary.
During 2012 the risk governance framework was reviewed in light of strategic and organisational changes, following the appointment of the new Chief Executive.
The Group is transitioning from having two risk bodies, the Risk Management Group and the Risk Management Committee which dealt with strategy and operational oversight respectively, to a new single body, the Risk and Governance Group.
The Risk and Governance Group is chaired by the Chief Executive and includes the Divisional Presidents and the Chief Risk officer, together with the other members of the Executive Committee.
As noted above, the Audit Committee reviews the Group and Companys financial statements.
It also has responsibility for reviewing the process for identifying and managing financial risk and for reviewing the internal financial controls and considers the scope and planning of internal and external audits.
It reviews reports on internal financial control including reports by the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the Finance Director and the results from internal financial audits.
As part of its audit, the external auditor, to the extent it considers necessary to support its audit opinion, reviews and tests the systems of internal control and the data contained in the accounts, including an independent and objective review of the approach of management to the reporting of the operating results and financial condition.
By Order of the Board A M Downie Secretary 28 February 2013 Registered ofce 100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ Registered in England No.
55513 54 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
