01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 61] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance This report combines the Directors Report required to be produced by law and the management report and corporate governance statement required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules.
It also includes sections reporting on the role and work of the Audit & Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee, respectively required by the Disclosure & Transparency Rules and The UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Directors Remuneration Report is contained in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 81 to 100.
Part A of this report sets out the roles, composition, attendance, policies, terms of reference and activities of the Board and its Committees in FY2012.
Part B details our relationship with our shareholders: who are key shareholders are, how we communicate with them, and key features of the 2013 AGM.
Part C sets out the Business Review and statutory disclosures for FY2012.
Introduction: Governance of the Company The Company is led and controlled by the Board, which is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company.
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance to facilitate the sustained success of the Company.
As an English-incorporated company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, Lonmin is subject to The UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2010 and its supporting guidance, all of which is available on the FRC website, www.
During the year to 30 September 2012 and to the date of this report, the Company has in all respects complied with the provisions of the Code, save in relation to the requirement to conduct a review of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and of individual directors.
The continuous improvement opportunity presented by a formal review of the Boards effectiveness is valuable.
Ordinarily, we would have done such a review in August or September 2012, but given all the recent events the Board judged that it would be inappropriate to conduct such a review in 2012.
The Board does not believe that this decision creates any additional risk for Shareholders, and believes that the decision can be justified given that the time otherwise needed for a review was utilised to address the multiple issues then facing the Company.
It is currently intended that an independent facilitator will manage a rigorous review process in 2013.
Almost all of the Companys business is based in South Africa, where the prevailing governance code is the King Report on Governance for South Africa 2009, more commonly known as King III.
While the Company and its subsidiaries are not subject to King III the Board has identified certain provisions which it feels are of benefit to the Companys overall governance framework, primarily in relation to ethics and sustainability, and which we follow on a voluntary basis.
In addition, South African legislation mandates that certain companies must form and operate a Social and Ethics Committee.
To discharge these obligations in relation to the Companys principal operating subsidiaries, Western Platinum Limited and Eastern Platinum Limited, the relevant duties and functions were, to the limited extent that they were not already included, integrated into the terms of reference of the Transformation, Safety & Sustainability and Audit & Risk Committees in March 2012 and accordingly in April 2012 an application was made to the South African Companies Tribunal for a five year exemption from the applicable obligations.
PART A: THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES 1.
How the Board of Directors operates 1.1 The role of the Board The primary purpose of the Board is to ensure the long term success of the Company and protect the interests of shareholders.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed, and is the custodian of the Companys strategic aims, vision and values.
It assesses whether the necessary financial and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives and ensure that it takes full account of safety, environmental and social factors.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 62] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.1 The role of the Board continued The schedule of matters reserved to the Board, last reviewed in January 2012 and available on the Companys website, sets out the Boards ultimate responsibility for the Groups strategy, operations and risks, requiring the Board to maintain oversight of risk management and internal control systems and requiring the approval of the Board for certain decisions of a significant nature.
Monitor and understand the risk environment in which the Company operates Develop the business model Report to shareholders on and provide entrepreneurial business performance, and leadership ascertain their views Appoint the CEO Oversee reporting to other Consider and approve strategy, stakeholders Monitor the delivery of strategy business plans and budgets Challenge or support management as necessary Oversee governance environment, including through oversight delegated to Board Committees Oversee the internal control framework The Board met nine times during the year and used its time 11% Operational in those meetings as shown in the chart alongside.
Inevitably, 8% any agenda item can involve a degree of overlap between 33% Strategic two or more of the categories.
Risk Governance 48% 1.2 Key Board roles The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer is set out in writing and is summarised below, together with the primary responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director and Non-executive Directors, providing a system of checks and balances in which no individual has unfettered decision making power.
1 Chairman Roger Phillimore based in the United Kingdom Chief Executive Officer Ian Farmer based in South Africa Lead and manage the Board Provide leadership to the executive team in running the business Provide strategic guidance to the executive team Develop proposals for the Board to consider in all areas reserved for its judgement Promote the highest standards of corporate governance Ensure effective internal controls and risk management systems are in place Ensure effective communication with shareholders Implement all Board approved actions 1 On 24 August 2012, in view of Mr Farmers illness see page 8, Mr Scott was appointed Acting CEO.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 63] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.2 Key Board roles continued Senior Independent Director Jim Sutcliffe Non-executive Directors Act as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance Be available to shareholders if they have concerns which Review the integrity of financial information and determine contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or whether internal controls and systems of risk management other Executive Directors has failed to resolve, or where are robust such contact would be inappropriate Provide a sounding board for Chairman Determine appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors, be involved in the appointment and, where necessary, the removal of Executive Directors and monitor succession planning Roger Phillimore and Mahomed Seedat joined the Committee in late August 2012 in the light of Mr Farmers absence and the Events at Marikana.
Given their geographical separation, the Chairman has a weekly call with the CEO to discuss current material matters, and the Chairman also visits the operations outside the Board meeting schedule to meet a wider range of senior executives and managers.
A detailed knowledge of South Africa, the mining industry, the PGM business and Lonmins operations is crucial to the Nonexecutive Directors ability to contribute.
On appointment each is provided with a tailored induction, and they are expected to develop and refresh their knowledge and skills on an ongoing basis.
The Company supports this by organising site visits and working sessions with a wide range of operational managers and external experts throughout the year.
The Non-executive Directors have regular contact with the Exco members see section 7 below and the broader management team both at these working sessions and at social occasions.
The Chairman routinely holds discussions with Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present and reviews and agrees with each Director their training and development needs as and when required.
1.3 Appointments to the Board The Companys Articles of Association empower the Board to appoint new Directors.
To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointing new Directors to the Board, a Nomination Committee has been created, whose work is described in section 4 of this report.
In order for any board to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively, it must comprise the right blend of individuals, whose skills and experience were gained in a diverse range of backgrounds.
Above all, the Directors must exhibit independence of mind, integrity and the courage to challenge constructively when appropriate.
Appointments are therefore made on personal merit and against objective criteria.
In the case of candidates for non-executive directorships, care is taken to ascertain that they have sufficient time to fulfil their Board and, where relevant, Committee responsibilities.
As part of this process, candidates disclose all other time commitments and, on appointment, undertake to inform the Board of any changes.
The Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for public inspection and the generic template is provided on the Companys website.
As the current composition of the Board and Exco demonstrates, Lonmin strongly supports the benefits of diversity, both in the boardroom and in the business.
Our principal challenge is in meeting the transformation and employment equity targets we face in South Africa.
In order to prioritise these, we have decided not to impose further, gender-based targets upon ourselves, as these could create an unhelpful constraint on future Board appointments.
1.4 The Board of Directors The Board currently has ten members: a Non-executive Chairman, seven other Non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
The names of the current Directors and their biographical details are set out on pages 58 and 59.
All served throughout the year.
In addition, Michael Hartnall served as Senior Independent Director until 26 January 2012, when he retired after almost nine years service, with Jim Sutcliffe taking on his role.
1.5 Balance and independence of the Board and its Committees The Board believes that it and its committees have an appropriate balance of backgrounds, skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to discharge their duties effectively and to manage succession issues.
A Board with ten members is sufficiently large to meet business needs without being unwieldy.
The blend of individuals and their personal qualities are determining factors in the Boards effectiveness: importantly no one individual or small group is able to dominate decision making.
The Board keeps its membership, and that of its Committees, under review to ensure that this balance is maintained, and that skills and experience continue to be refreshed.
It is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that undue reliance is not placed on any individuals.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 64] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.5 Balance and independence of the Board and its Committees continued The Board determines whether Non-Executive Directors are independent.
Cyril Ramaphosa was nominated to the Board by Shanduka, the parent company of Incwala, Lonmins BEE partner, and as a result, the Board does not judge that Mr Ramaphosa is independent.
In addition, Mahomed Seedat was formerly the Companys Chief Operating Officer and provides consultancy services to the Company, and is therefore not regarded as independent.
All of the other Non-executive Directors are regarded as independent by the Board.
The experience, professional backgrounds and international diversity of the current eight Non-executive Directors can be summarised as follows: Industry sector experience Professional background Current country of primary residence 1 1 2 2 1 4 1 3 6 2 1 Management Legal Natural resources United Kingdom Mining Engineering Accounting Financial services South Africa Spain Actuarial Political A number of the Non-executive Directors have lived and worked in countries other than those in which they currently reside, and the vast majority have strong links with South Africa as evidenced in the biographical details on pages 58 and 60.
1.6 How we assess and refresh the Board and its Committees There are three ways in which we make sure that the Directors continue to provide suitable leadership and direction to the Company: performance evaluation, succession planning and annual re-election by shareholders.
Performance evaluation The Board believes that annual evaluations are helpful in maintaining and enhancing an effective, challenging and dynamic Board.
In FY2010, an externally facilitated evaluation confirmed general board effectiveness and led to the formation of the Transformation Committee.
In FY2011 the Directors completed written assessments, which were then discussed by each Director in one to one meetings with the Chairman.
This process confirmed general board effectiveness and revealed no areas of concern.
It identified three priorities for FY2012: accelerating the delivery of strategy subject to favourable market conditions to enhance shareholder value: focusing on safety, transformation and the delivery of operational results, particularly by enhancing cost-effectiveness: and enhancing the corporate risk register by better ranking key risks and prioritising mitigating action accordingly.
In FY2012, management addressed these priorities, and made significant strides in improving operational performance during the year, with material progress made against a wide range of safety, production, transformation and cost control targets prior to the impact of the Events at Marikana.
The pressures on the Companys liquidity position following these events have resulted in the adoption of the new strategy informing the Lonmin Renewal Plan.
Progress was also made in relation to risk management, with a prioritisation exercise conducted over and above the ranking of risks inherent in the Companys risk assessment methodology.
The implementation of the CURA integrated risk management software system provides further impetus and support for the implementation of mitigating actions.
The effectiveness of the Chairman and each of the Committees was also reviewed in FY2011.
No material issues were identified in these reviews.
The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Building and maintaining an effective board, with members drawn from a diverse range of backgrounds, is of great importance and significant effort has been put into this in recent years: every Director has been appointed on merit and brings valuable skills, knowledge and experience to our deliberations.
Ordinarily, we would have done such a review in August or September 2012, but given the Events at Marikana and the absence of the Chief Executive Officer, the Board judged that it would be inappropriate to conduct such a review in 2012.
The Board does not believe that this decision creates any additional risk for Shareholders, and believes that the decision can be justified given that the time otherwise needed for a review was utilised to address the multiple crises then facing the Company.
It is currently intended that an independent facilitator will manage a rigorous external review process in 2013.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 65] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.6 How we assess and refresh the Board and its Committees continued Succession planning The Board is ultimately responsible for succession planning for directorships and key management roles, to ensure that successors for key roles are identified, and provide development opportunities for talented individuals facilitating agreed career plans and incentivising performance and continued service.
During the year, the Board discussed succession planning and, at its instigation, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the current plan and provided detailed feedback to management, which was summarised to the Board.
All of the senior managers have now undertaken Career Path Appreciation interviews.
This tool aims, in conjunction with other psychometric tests, to establish current and projected executive capability and provide objective input into the succession planning process.
Re-election of Directors All Directors will retire from the Board at the Companys AGM in January 2013, and each wishes to seek re-election.
We believe that sufficient biographical and other information is provided in this Annual Report and the AGM Circular to enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
Following the year-end, the Nomination Committee has considered each of the Non-executive Directors seeking re-election and concluded that their collective backgrounds, skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company enables the Board and its Committees to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
1.7 Board meetings The Board met nine times during the year, of which six were scheduled meetings, including two trips to South Africa.
The other three meetings were called in response to specific events or to issue approvals, usually at short notice, and did not necessarily require full attendance.
In addition to their meeting commitments, the Non-executive Directors also make themselves available to management whenever required and there is regular contact outside the Board meeting schedule.
Attendance at Board meetings during each Directors period of service in FY2012 is set out in the table below.
Scheduled Extra Director meetings meetings Ian Farmer 5 of 6 1 of 3 1 Michael Hartnall 2 of 2 0 of 0 Len Konar 6 of 6 3 of 3 Jonathan Leslie 6 of 6 2 of 3 David Munro 6 of 6 3 of 3 Roger Phillimore 6 of 6 3 of 3 Cyril Ramaphosa 6 of 6 3 of 3 Mahomed Seedat 6 of 6 3 of 3 Karen fide Segundo 5 of 6 3 of 3 Simon Scott 6 of 6 3 of 3 Jim Sutcliffe 6 of 6 3 of 3 1 Mr Hartnall retired on 26 January 2012.
Whenever a Director is unable to participate in a meeting, either in person or remotely, the Chairman will speak to them ahead of time to solicit their views on key items of business, in order that these can be presented at the meeting and influence the debate.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 66] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.8 How the Committees support the Board in its work continued To fulfil its role in the time available, the Board must delegate some of its duties and powers to committees.
As well as the committees recommended in the Code, the Board has established two other Committees to deal with specific business needs, the Safety & Sustainability and Transformation Committees.
Each Committee and its members are provided with accurate, timely and clear information and sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Membership of the Committees during the year to 30 September 2012 is shown below, together with individual attendance at the Committee meetings held during each Directors period of service in FY2012.
Safety & Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration Sustainability Transformation Non-executive Directors 1 Michael Hartnall Member 1 of 1 Member 1 of 1 Member 1 of 1 Len Konar Chairman 4 of 4 Member 3 of 3 Member 4 of 4 Jonathan Leslie Member 3 of 3 Member 5 of 5 Chairman 5 of 5 David Munro Member 3 of 3 Member 5 of 5 Member 4 of 4 Roger Phillimore Chairman 2 of 3 Cyril Ramaphosa Chairman 4 of 4 Mahomed Seedat Member 5 of 5 Member 4 of 4 Karen fide Segundo Member 3 of 4 Member 3 of 3 Member 4 of 5 Member 4 of 5 4 Jim Sutcliffe Member 4 of 4 Member 3 of 3 Chairman 5 of 5 Member 4 of 4 Executive Director Ian Farmer Member 3 of 5 Member 3 of 4 2 2 Simon Scott Member 1 of 1 Member 1 of 1 1 Mr Hartnall retired on 26 January 2012.
2 Mr Scott assumed membership of these committees in his capacity as Acting CEO on 24 August 2012.
Each Committee has written terms of reference, approved by the Board, summarising its objectives, remit and powers, and available on the Companys website.
All Committee members are provided with an appropriate induction on joining their respective Committees, as well as ongoing access to training.
Minutes of all meetings of the Committees save for the private sessions of Committee members at the end of meetings are circulated to all Directors and presented by the Committee Chairmen at the next Board meeting.
The Committee Chairmen attend the AGM to answer any questions on the Committees activities.
The interaction between the Board, its Committees and the management of the Company can be summarised as follows: Board of Directors Safety & Chief Executive Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration Transformation Sustainability Officer Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee See Page 62 See Page 68 See Page 70 See Page 81 See Page 72 See Page 71 Key: Board Committees Management Committees Executive Operations Price & Risk Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors, Executive Committee Executive Directors, Chief Commercial Officer members, operational Chief Commercial Officer, and three Executive & functional VPs and Head of Tax, Treasury & Risk, Vice Presidents plus certain executives and Head of Accounting & Reporting, one nominee of senior managers Executive Manager, Marketing Shanduka Resources See Page 73 See Page 74 See Page 74 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 67] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.9 How the Board manages conflicts of interest Directors have a statutory duty to avoid actual or potential conflicts of interest.
In accordance with law, the Board is empowered to authorise such conflicts where appropriate and has a documented procedure in place to ensure best practice is followed.
This requires that when a Director becomes aware that he or she: is in a situation which does or could create a conflict of interest: or has an interest in an existing or proposed transaction in which the Company also has an interest: then they are required to notify the Board in writing of the situational or transactional conflict as soon as possible and in any event prior to any conflicted transaction being concluded.
Directors have a continuing duty to update the Board on any changes to their other appointments, which are in addition reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
The interests of new Directors are reviewed during the recruitment process and authorised if appropriate by the Board at the first meeting following their appointment.
An annual review of the Directors external business interests and other appointments was carried out in March 2012.
Other than the agreements relating to the investment by Shanduka Resources Proprietary Limited a company ultimately controlled by Cyril Ramaphosa in Incwala, the Companys BEE partner, and the loans made by the Company to facilitate this investment, further details of which are set out in section 11.4 below, no Director had a material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Companys business at any time during the year or to the date of this report.
The interests in the Companys shares of the Directors who held office during the year, and to the date of this report, are shown in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 97 to 99.
Save for Mr Ramaphosa, no Director held any beneficial interest in the share capital of any other Group company at any time during the year and to the date of this report.
1.10 How we support the Board The Board, and its committees, are supplied with regular, comprehensive and timely information in a form and of a quality that enables them to discharge their duties effectively.
All Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries of the Executive Directors or management whenever necessary, and have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent professional advice, if they judge this to be necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Board is provided with detailed insight into shareholders views including, where appropriate, the opportunity to meet major investors.
Copies of sell-side analysts notes on the Company are circulated to all Directors, as are summaries of their views collected anonymously by the Companys financial PR advisors and summaries of shareholders views collated by the Companys joint brokers.
1.11 Directors remuneration A report on Directors remuneration is set out on pages 81 to 100.
1.12 Protection available to Directors In law, Directors are ultimately responsible for most aspects of the Companys business dealings.
As a consequence, they face potentially significant personal liability under criminal or civil law, or the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure & Transparency Rules, and face a range of penalties including private or public censure, fines and or imprisonment.
In line with normal market practice, the Company believes that it is in the Companys best interests to protect the individuals prepared to serve on its Board from the consequences of innocent error or omission, since this enables us to attract prudent individuals to act as Directors.
The Company maintains, at its expense, a Directors & Officers liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain circumstances for the benefit of Group personnel including, as recommended by the Code, the Directors.
This insurance policy does not provide cover where the Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
In addition, Deeds of Indemnity have been issued by the Company which, in general terms, protect all past, present and future Directors and officers of the Company to the extent permissible by law from all costs and expenses incurred in the defence of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour or the proceedings are otherwise disposed of without a finding of fault or where there is a successful application to court for relief from liability.
Under the terms of these indemnities, the Company may advance money to fund a Directors defence costs which, should the Director not be exonerated, would be repayable to the Company.
Each indemnity operates only to the extent that the applicable Director is not able to recover the relevant amounts under the Directors and Officers liability insurance policy.
All these indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and to the date of this report, and are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 68] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 2 The Audit & Risk Committee 2.1 Role of the Audit & Risk Committee The Audit & Risk Committee is delegated certain powers and responsibilities by the Board in accordance with its written terms of reference, available on the Companys website, which were last reviewed by the Board in March 2012.
The primary purposes of the Audit & Risk Committee are: to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and regulatory announcements relating to its financial performance and review significant financial reporting judgements: to keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls, including financial controls and risk management systems: to provide the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups accounting affairs and financial position: to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review its material findings: and to oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement, monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness, ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to provide non-audit services is appropriately applied, and making recommendations to the Board on their appointment, reappointment or removal, for it to put to the shareholders in general meeting.
2.2 Composition of the Audit & Risk Committee The members of the Committee are set out in section 1.8 of this report.
Len Konar, who chairs the Committee, is a Chartered Accountant with extensive financial and accounting experience, and is a member of the King Committee on Corporate Governance and the Institute of Directors.
Jim Sutcliffe is an actuary by training, a director of the Financial Reporting Council Biographical and chairs the Codes and Standards Committee.
Mrs fide Segundo is a graduate in law with a wealth of sectoral experience, details having been CEO of Shells global gas & power business, and spent five years leading Shells renewable energy business, and has been on the Board since 2005.
All three members of the Committee are independent.
The Committees collective skills, experience and knowledge of the Company allows it to provide rigorous, independent and informed oversight of the Companys corporate reporting, risk management and internal control principles and to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the Companys auditors.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the CEO, CFO, Head of Accounting & Reporting, Head of Treasury, Risk & Tax, Head of Internal Audit and the Assistant Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee, none of whom do so as of right.
The internal and external auditors attend Committee meetings and a private meeting is routinely held with each of them to afford the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management.
2.3 Number of Audit & Risk Committee meetings and attendance The Committee met four times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings is shown in section 1.8 of this report.
See p 58 for more information 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 69] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 2.
The Audit & Risk Committee continued 2.4 Activities of the Audit and Risk Committee during the year The Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms of reference, with standing items that the Committee considers at each meeting in addition to specific matters arising and items on which the Committee has chosen to focus.
The work of the Audit Committee in FY2012 is summarised below.
Internal controls and risk External auditors Financial reporting Received reports from the external Reviewed reports on audit findings Reviewed the half year and annual auditors and internal auditors on their financial statements and the Considered the independence of audits and assessment of the control significant financial reporting the auditors and their effectiveness, environment judgements taking into account: Reviewed feedback from the Reviewed the Quarter four and a non-audit work undertaken assurance letters submitted by Quarter two production reports by the external auditors and around 80 senior managers across compliance with the policy: Reviewed the liquidity risk and the the Group basis for preparing the Group Reviewed output from the risk b feedback from a survey accounts on a going concern basis reviews which required managers, targeted at various and reviewed the related the Exco and the Board to identify stakeholders: and disclosures in the annual report risks and evaluate them before and c the Committees own after mitigating controls were agreed Considered and, where assessment and implemented appropriate, approved classification of certain costs relating to the Agreed the audit approach and Agreed the internal audit programme Events at Marikana as special costs scope of the audit work to be and considered the effectiveness of undertaken by the external auditors the internal auditors Reviewed disclosures in the annual and the fees for the same Considered the level of alignment report in relation to internal controls, between the Companys key risks Considered key focus areas for risk management, principal risks and internal audit programme and uncertainties and the work of FY2012 audit, including goingconcern position, stress-testing, the Committee Considered and approved the disclosure, impairment and structure, scope of cover and Reviewed managements proposals inventory renewal terms of the Groups on impairment insurance programme Assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control environment Reviewed matters reported to the external whistleblowing hotline and a report from the investigations department Considered progress of roll-out of CURA integrated risk management software across the business 2.5 Internal audit The Head of Internal Audit reports jointly to the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and to the CFO.
He heads an internal audit department comprising 4 in-house auditors, supported by  LLP PwC who provide specialist services in connection with matters such as IT security and treasury, which it would be inefficient to resource internally.
A total of 59 assignments were undertaken during the year across a broad cross-section of activities identified by both management and the Committee, and which align with the principal risks faced by the Company.
Internal audit reports are reviewed with operational management and then delivered to the Exco.
Audit findings and the related management actions are tracked and verified periodically by Internal Audit after being reported by management as complete.
Material findings and recommendations are summarised to the Committee, who receive regular updates on progress in addressing the matters raised by internal audits.
All action points are recorded on a database to facilitate monitoring and accountability.
The Head of Internal Audit is also responsible for the Companys whistle-blowing programme and heads up the investigations unit comprising 10 investigators.
The primary focus of this team is on the theft of PGMs, but they also have a significant workload in helping counter copper cable theft, white collar crime and other criminal and unauthorised activities impacting the business.
A review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit was carried out during the year by way of a questionnaire completed by those in the business who had been audited and the external auditors.
Having considered the results of this survey and a number of other factors, including the quality of reporting to the Committee and impartiality of the internal auditors, the Committee concluded that Internal Audit was in all respects effective.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 70] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 2 The Audit & Risk Committee continued 2.6 External audit The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for oversight of the external auditors including approving the annual work plan and, on behalf of the Board, the audit fee.
The Committee believes that in certain limited areas it is in the Companys and its shareholders interests to engage the external audit firm to deliver certain services, given their detailed understanding of the Group.
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, the Company adopted an Audit Engagement Policy in 2010, a copy of which is available on the Companys website.
Under this policy, the external auditors are not permitted to perform any work that they may subsequently need to audit or which might otherwise either create a conflict of interest or affect the auditors objectivity and independence.
The Committee monitors the balance between audit, audit-related and non-audit spend to ensure that auditor independence is maintained.
The policy provides for the following annual authorisation limits: Audit-related services Non-audit services Chief Financial Officer $200,000 $100,000 Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee $500,000 $250,000 Audit & Risk Committee $500,000 $250,000 Fees for non-audit services incurred during the year amounted to $0.08 million 2011 $0.1 million representing 5% of the audit and audit-related fees.
Details of the fees paid for audit services, audited-related services and non-audit services can be found in note 4 to the financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit-related and non-audit fees are not material relative to the income of the external audit offices and firm as a whole, and that the nature of the services provided are appropriate and in line with the Companys policy in this area.
The Audit & Risk Committee has evaluated the performance, independence and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed their effectiveness as external auditors.
As part of this process, the Committee considered feedback on the years audit gathered through a survey facilitated by the Secretary to the Committee.
Respondents to the survey included the financial management team at corporate and business levels, the safety and sustainability, tax and stock-taking teams and the internal auditors.
The following factors were also considered: the external auditors compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional guidance on the rotation of partners: the external auditors qualifications, expertise and resources and their own assessment of their internal quality procedures: and the stability and continuity that would be provided by continuing to use KPMG.
After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee concluded that the external auditors were effective and has recommended to the Board that their re-election at the 2013 AGM should be proposed to shareholders.
The Committee also approved the auditors remuneration having first compared the proposed fees to the prior years fees and also relative to other companies of similar size and nature.
The Remuneration Committee See the Remuneration Report at page 81 for a full discussion of the role, structure and composition of the Remuneration Committee.
The Nomination Committee 4.1 Role of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is delegated certain powers and responsibilities by the Board in accordance with its written terms of reference, last reviewed by the Board in November 2006 and available on the Companys website.
The primary purposes of the Committee are: to ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board is undertaken: to recommend any proposed changes to the composition of the Board and to instigate and manage the recruitment process: to ensure the Companys adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the above: and to oversee compliance with the Code and other applicable corporate governance regulations.
The Committee reports its material findings and recommendations at the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes of its meetings are circulated to all Directors.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 71] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 4.
The Nomination Committee continued 4.2 Composition of the Nomination Committee Biographical All of the Non-executive Directors are members of the Committee save for Cyril Ramaphosa and Mahomed Seedat, both of details whose counsel is sought if appropriate.
This ensures that every member of the Committee is independent.
The Chairman of the Board chairs the Committee, except when the matters under consideration relate to him or succession to his role.
Similarly, should a matter under discussion relate to a particular Non-executive Director, the relevant individual will leave the meeting.
The Committee is supported by the services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and it has full access to the CEO.
It is also empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisors as it sees fit to assist with its work.
4.3 Activities of the Nomination Committee during the year The Committee met three times during the year.
During the year the Committee: reviewed the Committees report within the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts and recommended approval of this to the Board: recommended to the Board that a new three-year term of office be offered to Roger Phillimore, subject to his re-election to the Board by shareholders at the 2012 AGM: and considered each of the Non-executive Directors seeking re-election at the 2012 AGM and concluded that their collective backgrounds, skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company enables the Board and its Committees to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
4.4 Our policy on appointments to the Board As noted in section 1.3 above, all recommendations for Board appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria and take into account the benefits of diversity in all its forms.
A job specification is drawn up which includes, in the case of non-executive appointments, an estimate of the time commitment required.
Generally, the Committee will engage executive search consultants, or consider open advertising, to assist in ensuring a comprehensive listing of potential candidates from a range of backgrounds for the Committees consideration.
No Directors were appointed during FY2012.
The Safety & Sustainability Committee 5.1 Role of the Safety & Sustainability Committee The Safety & Sustainability Committee is delegated certain powers and responsibilities by the Board in accordance with its written terms of reference, last reviewed by the Board in March 2012 and available on the Companys website.
The primary purposes of the Committee are: to assist the Board to meet its commitments under the Groups Safety and Sustainable Development Policy: to have oversight of and provide advice to the Board in the areas of safety, health, environment, community to the extent not covered by the Transformation Committee, external affairs and human rights, including the risks in each of these areas: to have oversight of and provide advice to the Board on the Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements associated with safety and sustainability: to report to the Board developments, trends and or forthcoming significant legislation in relation to safety and sustainability which may be relevant to the Groups operations, its assets or employees: and to review the Groups external reporting and regulatory disclosures in relation to safety and sustainability.
More detailed information concerning the Groups sustainability related activities is set out on pages 49 to 56, and in the Sustainable Development Report, which can be downloaded from the Companys website.
5.2 Composition of the Safety & Sustainability Committee Biographical The members of the Committee are Jonathan Leslie Chairman, Karen fide Segundo, David Munro, Mahomed Seedat, Ian details Farmer and Simon Scott, giving the Committee a broad and balanced blend of skills, experience and independence, and detailed knowledge of the Company and its operations.
At the request of the Committees Chairman, the EVP Processing who is responsible for sustainability issues for the Group, the EVP Mining and the Assistant Company Secretary who acts as Secretary to the Committee attend all meetings of the Committee.
The Head of Tax, Treasury and Risk also attends certain meetings.
Other managers attend as necessary when their specialist expertise is required, or incidents have occurred in operations under their control.
5.3 Number of Safety & Sustainability Committee meetings and attendance The Committee met five times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings is shown in section 1.8 of this document.
com See p 58 for more information See p 58 for more information Governance Lonmin Plc [ 72] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 5.
The Safety & Sustainability Committee continued 5.4 Activities of the Safety & Sustainability Committee during the year The Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms of reference, with standing items that the Committee considers at each meeting in addition to matters of topical relevance or on which the Committee has otherwise chosen to focus.
The work of the Committee in FY2012 is summarised below.
Safety Sustainability Governance, regulatory and reporting Received reports from accountable Received reports from accountable Reviewed changes to local and managers on fatalities and all serious managers on all serious international safety, health and safety incidents including a detailed environmental incidents including a environmental regulations analysis of factors contributing to an detailed analysis of factors Considered feedback from external incident and the corrective and contributing to an incident and the auditors following their assurance preventative measures taken to corrective and preventative review of selected data in the prevent recurrence measures taken to prevent annual report and Sustainable recurrence Reviewed reports on key safety Development Report indicators and trends Reviewed reports on key indicators Reviewed key sustainability related and trends Reviewed progress and risks and associated mitigation implementation of strategic plan Reviewed reports on health and plans to improve safety community indicators and trends Reviewed disclosures in the Reviewed effectiveness of disaster Considered the potential impact of annual report and sustainable contingency plan in providing emerging climate change regulation development report medical aid following the Events at in South Africa and reviewed the Marikana and approved measures to Companys strategy to manage the assure recovery of patients and implications of the same provide counselling and support to Reviewed progress report on affected employees and their family implementation of the Groups members integrated water management strategy 6.
The Transformation Committee 6.1 Role of the Transformation Committee The Transformation Committee was created by the Board in January 2011 and has powers summarised in its terms of reference, which were last reviewed in March 2012 and are available on the Companys website.
The primary purpose of the Transformation Committee is to ensure that the Company meets or exceeds its commitments and obligations in the areas of transformation and empowerment, and that the interests of all stakeholders including shareholders are properly recognised when doing so.
The primary purposes of the Committee are: to develop strategies, policies and processes and set goals and targets for transformation and empowerment, and assess the means by which such strategies are proposed to be implemented and goals achieved, with the goal of ensuring that there is a disciplined, co-ordinated and sustainable approach to transformation: to monitor, review and evaluate progress made by management in meeting the Companys obligations in respect of transformation and empowerment, including the Companys adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements and external commitments made in relation to the same: to ensure effective communication on transformation issues between management, the Board and various stakeholders: and to guide and otherwise provide encouragement and counsel to management in relation to transformation and empowerment.
6.2 Composition of the Transformation Committee The members of the Committee include all of the Directors resident in South Africa, together with those with the greatest Biographical details experience of doing business there, and are disclosed in section 1.8 of this report.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the EVP Human Capital & External Affairs and the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee, neither of whom do so as of right.
Other senior managers and board members attend as needed when specialist input is required.
6.3 Number of Transformation Committee meetings and attendance The Committee met four times during the year.
See p 58 for more information 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 73] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 6.
The Transformation Committee continued 6.4 Activities of the Transformation Committee during the year The Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms of reference with standing items that the Committee considers at each meeting in addition to matters of topical relevance or on which the Committee has otherwise chosen to focus.
The work of the Transformation Committee in FY2012 is summarised below.
Implementation Strategy Governance, regulatory and reporting Consider design of 2012 BSC Consider design of long-term valueReview the Committees annual metrics to incentivise transformation distribution targets for the equitable work plan application of revenues to Review progress against 2012 Develop strategies for effective stakeholders including employees objectives and 2014 targets in communication of BEE and community groups relation to the SLP, and achievements to local community transformation generally Consider strategies to improve and wider audiences employee living conditions including Consider strategic options in relation Reviewed trends and developments effective advocacy by Lonmin to to meeting the Mining Charter target in the interpretation of the Mining enhance government policy, of 26% Historically Disadvantaged Charter and consensus on best community focussed recruitment South African HDSA equity practice in relation to the same and improved working practices participation by 2014 Develop strategies for development Consider results of transformation Reviewed key performance and retention of high-potential risk review and appropriateness of indicators and trends HDSAs geared to achieving a depth mitigation policies Review hostel conversion, medical of talent at all levels of management and community investment projects Develop strategies for procurement Consider bursary and graduate of HDSA contractors initiatives, artisan college and mining portable skills programmes to enhance community education and employment 7.
Executive Committee The members of the Exco are the Executive Directors and senior executives as set out on page 60.
The members include one Biographical member nominated by Shanduka Resources, the Companys principal BEE investor who has no executive responsibilities, but details who participates fully in the Committees activities.
The CEO chairs the Committee, which meets monthly.
In addition, Roger Phillimore and Mahomed Seedat joined the Committee in late August 2012 in the light of Mr Farmers absence and the Events at Marikana.
Its responsibilities include the following key areas: to develop strategy for submission to the Board: to develop, implement and monitor operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets: to review financial performance, forecasts and targets: to prioritise initiatives and allocate resources: to identify and drive efficiencies across the Group: to approve capital expenditure proposals within the authority levels delegated by the Board and otherwise recommend to Board: to develop and monitor the Groups policies and practices in respect of health, safety and environmental matters taking into account legal requirements, regulations and best practice: to review ICAM findings for all serious incidents: to oversee risk management including identifying risks and developing and implementing risk mitigation plans: to develop and monitor the internal control environment: and to develop and implement Group-wide evaluation, training, reward and remuneration practices and manage wage negotiations benefits with unions.
com See p 60 for more information Governance Lonmin Plc [ 74] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 8.
Operations Committee The members of the Operations Committee are the members of the Exco and a wider group of around 25 operational and functional executives and senior managers across the Group.
The CEO is Chairman of the Operations Committee.
The Committee meets as and when required and its primary responsibilities are: to assess operational and financial performance across the business including mining, processing, technical services, human capital, safety, environment and health: to monitor progress of various initiatives: and to provide a forum to debate business issues between various parts of the business value chain.
In February 2012 the Committee met for a two-day workshop to consider and debate the Companys strategy and business plan.
Price & Risk Committee The Price & Risk Committee is chaired by the CEO and the members are the CFO, Chief Commercial Officer, Head of Treasury, Tax & Risk, Head of Financial Planning and Analysis and the Executive Manager, Marketing.
The primary purpose of this Committee is to review and agree proposals in relation to the forward sale of by-products, principally nickel and copper.
The Committee meets as and when required.
The Committees terms of reference were last reviewed in March 2012.
Relations with shareholders 10.1Owners of the Company Lonmin Plc has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and our UK share register has circa 12,000 registered shareholders.
We also have a secondary listing on the JSE Securities Exchange, South Africa.
Our South African branch register has approximately 2,000 beneficial owners of our shares, including those who hold their shares in dematerialised form in STRATE, representing approximately 45% of the Companys shares in issue.
We also have a sponsored Level I American Depositary Receipts programme, with around 700 participants.
Like most listed companies, ownership of the Companys shares is concentrated in a number of institutional and other corporate shareholders.
The Company had been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests in 3% or more of the Companys total voting rights up to 7 November 2012: Percentage of the Companys total shares and voting rights Number of shares and At date of At date of Nature of voting rights notification this report Holding Xstrata Plc 49,826,225 24.67 24.54 Direct Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa Ltd 17,894,832 8.83 8.81 Direct Prudential plc group companies 16,558,975 8.17 8.15 Direct Norges Bank 6,268,918 3.09 3.09 Direct All ordinary shares of the Company carry the same rights, and no shareholder enjoys any preferential rights, regardless of the size of their holding.
10.2 How we communicate with our institutional shareholders The Code encourages a dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Executive Directors have regular discussions with institutional shareholders where they believe this to be in the Companys best interests, but no information is shared which is not available to shareholders generally.
Detailed feedback from these visits is shared with the Board and investors views in relation to governance and remuneration obtained ahead of the AGM are also collated for the Board.
The Chairman periodically offers key shareholders the opportunity of meetings with either himself or the Senior Independent Director to discuss governance, strategy or any other matters shareholders wish to raise.
In addition, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee has given a standing invitation to key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies to discuss the Companys remuneration policy and practice whenever necessary.
The Senior Independent Director, Jim Sutcliffe, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
After the end of the financial year, management undertook an extensive round of meetings with existing and potential institutional shareholders in the UK and South Africa to exchange views on the Companys operating and financial strategy ahead of the Proposed Rights Issue.
In addition, Jim Sutcliffe, the chairman of the Remuneration Committee, intends to meet with key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies later in the year to discuss a range of pay matters as part of the normal engagement process in relation to executive remuneration prior to the 2013 AGM.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 75] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 10.
Relations with shareholders continued 10.3 How we communicate with our private shareholders The Code urges boards to use the AGM to communicate with private investors and to encourage their participation, and the Board has followed these principles for many years.
A business presentation is given to shareholders at the AGM by the CEO, and all Directors are available to answer questions both formally at the meeting and informally afterwards.
Shareholders vote on separate resolutions on substantially different issues, and we use electronic poll voting, with the results being announced to the markets and displayed on our website at the conclusion of the AGM.
Recognising Lonmins geographical diversity, this enables the votes of all shareholders to be taken into account whether they are able to attend the meeting or not and also provides a highly democratic voting method.
In line with best practice, our default means of communication with shareholders is online.
This saves the expense, paper and other resources that would be entailed in printing and distributing large numbers of documents without knowing whether they are wanted.
Shareholders can opt to receive paper documents at any time, should they so wish.
In recognition of the needs of private shareholders, the Companys website contains a range of investor relations materials, including up-to-date information on the Groups activities including our public reporting documents and copies of all presentation materials given to institutional investors.
10.4The AGM The 2013 AGM will be held at 9.00 a. m. on 31 January 2013 at The Assembly Hall, Church House Conference Centre, Deans Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ.
A separate circular containing the Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the items of special business has been sent to all shareholders and is available on the Companys website.
Among the resolutions to be proposed are those seeking shareholders authority for the Directors to be authorised to allot equity securities, a limited dis-application of the statutory pre-emption rights and an authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
Full details are set out in the AGM circular.
In addition a resolution is proposed in relation to the mechanics of the BSC Bonus Plan.
See the Circular published alongside this annual report for a full discussion of the proposed changes.
10.5 Dividend As noted in the Chairmans Letter on page 8, the Board will not be recommending a final dividend for FY2012.
Under our dividend policy, the Board no longer declares interim dividends, and so no dividends will have been recommended or declared for FY2012.
PART C: BUSINESS REVIEW AND STATUTORY DISCLOSURES 11.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures 11.1 What Lonmin does The principal activities of the Group during the year continued to be mining, refining and marketing of PGMs.
Details of revenue, operating profit, principal activities and segmental analysis appear in note 2 to the accounts and a list of the principal subsidiary undertakings, indicating their main activities, appears in note 31.
Detailed information on the Groups activities can be found in the Business Review.
In addition to the business conducted by its subsidiary undertakings, Lonmin Plc operates in South Africa through a branch which is registered in that country as an external company.
11.2 Business Review The Companies Act 2006, section 417 requires that the Directors present a Business Review in this report to inform shareholders and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
The information that fulfils this requirement can be found in the sections set out below and is incorporated by reference into this report.
8R, the management report is the Business Review consisting of all the sections referred to below: the Chairmans Letter on pages 6 and 8: the Chief Executive Officers Review on pages 9 to 14: the discussion of the Companys Business Model and Strategy on pages 16 to 21: the Market Review on pages 22 and 23: the Key Performance Indicators KPIs on pages 24 and 25: the Transformation and Sustainability Overview section on pages 26 to 29: the Operational Review on pages 32 to 38: the Financial Review on pages 39 to 44: the discussion of Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 45 to 48: the Sustainability Review on pages 49 to 56: the discussion of essential contractual arrangements on page 78: the Operational Statistics on pages 153 to 156: and this Directors Report.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 76] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 11.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 11.2 Business Review continued which collectively contain a discussion of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business.
We have been mindful of the best practice guidance published by DEFRA and other bodies in relation to environmental, community and social KPIs, and the recommendations of the Association of British Insurers in those areas, when drafting this Business Review.
The Business Review has been prepared to provide the Companys shareholders with a fair review of the business of the Company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
It may not be relied upon by anyone, including the Companys shareholders, for any other purpose.
The Business Review is designed to provide shareholders with an understanding of the Companys business and the environment in which it operates, and, of necessity, only focuses on material issues and facts.
The omission of reporting on any specific topic should not be taken as implying that it is not being addressed.
The Business Review and other sections of this report contain forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and future assumptions because they relate to events and or depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
No assurance can be given that the forward-looking statements in the Business Review will be realised.
Statements about the Directors expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans, intentions and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on expectations and assumptions as to future events, circumstances and other factors which are in some cases outside the Companys control.
The information contained in the Business Review has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to Directors at the date of its preparation and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise the Business Review during the financial year ahead other than as required by law or regulation.
It is believed that the expectations set out in these forwardlooking statements are reasonable, but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results or trends to differ materially.
The forward-looking statements should be read in particular in the context of the specific risk factors for the Company identified in the Business Review.
The Companys shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Shareholders should note that the Business Review has not been audited or otherwise independently verified.
11.3 Principal events of the year The principal events of the year are covered in the Business Review.
Following the year end, on 30 October 2012 the Company announced a number of measures that the Directors believe will strengthen the Companys financial position and significantly reduce its net indebtedness.
These measures included the entry by the Company into amended facilities with the Groups existing lenders, which amongst other things significantly reduce the Groups risk in relation to its financial covenants, and a proposal to undertake a fully underwritten rights issue the Proposed Rights Issue.
It also announced the adoption of a new business plan to stabilise production at its mining operations and target capital expenditure to grow production over the medium term.
On 2 November 2012 a Circular was posted to shareholders convening a General Meeting, to be held on 19 November 2012, to facilitate the Proposed Rights Issue by conferring on the Board the authority to allot up to 835 million new ordinary shares.
This authority will be, if adopted, in substitution for the authorities granted in this regard at the 2012 AGM.
The Company also confirmed in the Circular its intention to publish a Prospectus, detailing the terms of the Rights Issue, on 9 November 2012.
There were no other material events from 30 September 2012 to the date of this report.
11.4 Transactions with Related Parties There was one transaction with a related party during the year, other than those of a revenue nature in the ordinary course of business.
This involved the loan of R120 million to Incwala Platinum Pty Limited, the Companys BEE partner, on 28 September 2012, as more fully disclosed in note 27 to the financial statements.
11.5 Employees The Group employed 28, 230 people in South Africa and eight people in the United Kingdom at the end of the year.
Information on the Groups policies on employee recruitment and engagement can be found in the Transformation and Sustainability Overview on pages 26 to 29 and the Sustainability Review on pages 49 to 56.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 77] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 11.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 11.6 Research and development Group companies continue to focus on research and development in the areas of mineral extraction, processing and refining to unlock new technology opportunities and to extract optimal value from our assets.
Good progress has been made on these projects across the business, including: ongoing work on the characterisation of ores, leading to improved specifications for processing equipment and reagents aimed at improving PGM recovery at our concentrators: improved stability and availability of the smelting furnaces through new sensor technologies, better mineralogical understanding and design improvements which has been evident in the performance of our smelting operations in 2012: ongoing work on a new process aimed at significantly upgrading the PGM concentrates from the BMR leading to an overall reduction in waste, reduction in residue tolling costs and improved PMR efficiencies: and significant progress has been made on the development of a new process for the production of finished metals at the PMR following extensive and successful pilot plant trials.
Our research efforts remain pragmatic and cost-effective and are conducted in collaboration with the Universities of Stellenbosch, Cape Town and Pretoria under the leadership of Lonmin management.
This has the added benefit of generating a pool of highly competent and industry-focused graduates for the future.
11.7 Policy on the payment of creditors The Company complies with, and has registered its support of, the Better Payment Practice Code, available from the Better Payment Practice Group website, www.
The Company pays its bills in accordance with contractual terms, being either the suppliers standard terms of payment or alternative terms proposed by the Company.
Trade creditors of the Company at 30 September 2012 represented less than one day 2011 four days of its annual purchases.
11.8 Charitable and political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Lonmin has an established policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
Charitable donations made by the Group during the year in the United Kingdom amounted to 10,250 $16,025 2011 2,734 $4,367.
All of these donations were made to further advance the reputation and interests of the Company.
During the year, Group companies undertook a number of long-term community development projects in South Africa at a cost of R5.05 million $0.63 million 2011 R8.32 million $1.13 million.
These amounts are in addition to amounts expensed by the Group as the normal costs of implementing its Social & Labour Plans.
A fuller explanation of this expenditure is contained in the Sustainable Development Report for the year which can be downloaded from the Companys website.
11.9 Share capital and reserves The total share capital and reserves attributable to the Group amounted to $2,488 million at 30 September 2012.
The issued share capital of the Company at 30 September 2012 is set out in note 25 to the accounts.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to: receive all shareholder documents, including notice of any general meeting: attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either in person or by proxy: and participate in any distribution of income or capital: subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association.
In general there are no restrictions on the holders ability to transfer their shares or exercise their voting rights, save in situations where the Company is legally entitled to impose such restrictions usually where amounts remain unpaid on the shares after request, or the holder is otherwise in default of an obligation to the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between its shareholders that may restrict the transfer of their shares or the exercise of the voting rights attaching to them, save in relation to the employee benefit trust established by the Company, the Lonmin Employee Share Trust, to facilitate various employee share schemes.
The trustee, who is independent of the Company, does not seek to exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares held in trust, and a dividend waiver is in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of the trust.
For details of the Companys employee share schemes, see the Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 100.
In addition to the ordinary shares of $1 each, the Companys share capital also comprises 50,000 Sterling deferred shares of 1 each, which were issued in 2002 and allotted to a nominee company to comply with the requirement that a public limited company must have a minimum share capital of 50,000.
These shares do not rank equally with the ordinary shares of the Company, and have minimal rights.
The holders consent is not required for changes to the Companys share capital, and they are not entitled to receive notice of, or attend, speak or vote at, any general meeting.
The holders are not entitled to participate in any distribution of income or capital save that, following the distribution of 100,000,000,000 plus the paid-up nominal value of every other share in the capital of the Company, they are entitled to receive an amount equal to the nominal value of their Sterling deferred shares.
Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company including the power to authorise the issue and or market purchase of the Companys shares subject to an appropriate authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting and any conditions attaching to such authority.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 78] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 11.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 11.10 Use of authorities granted at the 2012 Annual General Meeting At the AGM held on 26 January 2012, shareholders approved three authorities for the Directors in connection with the Companys share capital: Amount of authority outstanding Authority Utilisation during the year at the end of the year Power to allot equity securities with a The only shares issued during the Authority remains outstanding in full nominal value of up to $67.4m and, if year were in connection with employee until the next AGM or, if earlier, by way of a fully pre-emptive rights share schemes, and do not count 25 April 2013 issue, a further $67.4m against this authority Power to allot equity securities for cash The only shares issued during the Authority remains outstanding in full other than by way of a pro-rata issue year were in connection with employee until the next AGM or, if earlier, with a nominal value of up to $10.1m share schemes, and do not count 25 April 2013 against this authority Power to make market purchases of its The Company made no purchases Authority remains outstanding in full own shares, up to a maximum of of its own shares during the year until the next AGM or, if earlier, 20,200,000 shares being 25 April 2013 approximately 10% of the issued share capital at prices not less than the nominal value of each share being $1 and not exceeding 105% of the average mid-market price for the preceding five business days No shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
During the year, the Company allotted 400,000 ordinary shares of $1 each for cash, solely to satisfy the exercise of options or the vesting of awards granted under the Companys employee share schemes see note 25 to the accounts.
In addition, on 19 November 2012 approval will be sought from the shareholders to issue and allot, and to grant rights to subscribe for, shares pursuant to the Rights Issue as discussed more fully on page 76.
11.11 Amendment of the Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
11.12 Essential contractual arrangements Group companies are party to contracts and other arrangements which the Board judges are essential to the business of the Company: Mineral rights for any mining company, its mineral titles are of crucial importance.
For Lonmin, these include the New Order Prospecting Rights and New Order Mining Licences granted by the South African Department of Mineral Resources in respect of our operations in that country and the various Old Order prospecting and mining rights currently held pending conversion into New Order rights.
Contracts for the purchase of materials and services while most of the inputs needed by the Groups mines and refining facilities are secured through competitive tendering in the open market, the Group is heavily dependent on two State-owned near-monopolies, Eskom for the supply of electricity, and Rand Water in respect of the supply of water.
Long term contracts are in place with both vendors and there is extensive engagement, both at industry and Lonmin levels, with these critical suppliers.
Financing arrangements the Company and Group have a number of loan and other funding facilities with South African and international banks.
It has been agreed with the lenders under these facility agreements that the facilities The Amended will be restructured subject to receipt of the proceeds of the Proposed Rights Issue to create a more robust and flexible Facilities capital structure, reducing the overall level of available debt and removing regularly tested maintenance covenants linked to profitability, which in the Boards view do not reflect the significant asset backing that underpins the longer term credit quality of the Group, and are inappropriate for a single commodity business.
Contracts Relating to Labour we have formal recognition and collective agreements with trade unions representing the vast majority of the Groups employees in South Africa, most notably the NUM, but also CEPPWAWU, Solidarity and UASA.
These govern the relationships between the parties and the basis on which wages and other allowances paid to our employees will be determined.
Contracts for the Sale of Goods the majority of the Groups production of PGMs in the year was sold to either BASF or Mitsubishi.
The Group has highly valued long-term relationships and contracts with both companies.
See p 108 for more information 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc [ 79] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 11.
The Companys business and statutory disclosures continued 11.13 Significant Agreements change of control A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as debt facilities and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant except for the Companys bank debt facilities in the amount of approximately $945 million spread across three separate bilateral ZAR facilities and a syndicated USD facility, which includes seven banks.
These facilities contain provisions under which, in the event that new terms to continue the facility are not agreed within ten days of a change of control in respect of the ZAR facilities and 30 days in respect of the USD facility, the lender is entitled to give notice cancelling the facility and declaring all outstanding loans together with accrued interest to become payable within fifteen days of such notice.
The change of control clauses will remain the same under the Amended Facilities which will become effective on the successful completion of the Proposed Rights Issue.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a change of control, except that certain provisions in some of the Companys long-term incentive schemes may be triggered.
For details of the exceptional one-off cash retention award made to Simon Scott, see page 95.
Awards made under the Stay & Prosper Plan crystallise immediately following a change of control, although they only vest and become payable on their normal maturity date three years from the date of grant and are subject generally to the continued employment of the participant.
Directors of the Company are not permitted to hold awards under this Plan.
Awards under the Companys other share plans will vest on a change of control, save to the extent specified by the Remuneration Committee, who will generally take into account the extent to which the performance targets have been met and such other factors as they believe to be appropriate in line with the rules of the relevant plans.
Further information on these plans and other long-term incentives is in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 81 to 100.
11.14 Rules on Appointment and Removal of Directors Subject to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution following his nomination by the Board, his retirement at a general meeting, or his nomination by a member entitled to vote at such a meeting.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the next AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Company as provided for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of Association for example bankruptcy, or resignation, or by a special resolution of the Company.
All Directors stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations of the Code.
For a full description of the Companys policies in relation to the appointment and removal of directors see the Remuneration Report at page 91.
For details of the Directors contracts and letters of appointment, see page 99.
Accountability and Audit 12.1 Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulation, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with applicable law and regulation.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors Responsibility Statement can be found on page 103. www.
com Governance Lonmin Plc [ 80] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Governance 12.
Accountability and Audit continued 12.2 How the Directors discharged their responsibilities in this area The Lonmin Group financial statements are presented in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, using the US Dollar as its reporting currency.
Details of the Groups financial risk management are described in the Financial Review on pages 39 to 44 and in the Statement on Internal Controls and Risk Management on pages 45 to 48.
The Directors believe that, subject to receipt of the proceeds of the Proposed Rights Issue and to the other conditions to the Amended Facilities having been satisfied such that the Amended Facilities come into effect, the Company has sufficient working capital for its present purposes, that is for at least 12 months from the date of this document, and that it is, therefore, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Please refer to the going concern disclosure in the Financial Review on pages 39 to 44, and the basis of preparation disclosure in the accounts on page 108.
12.3 Relationships with the external auditors The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide an opinion on the financial statements and certain other disclosures prepared by the Directors.
Following their re-election at the 2012 AGM, KPMG Audit plc acted as the external auditors to the Lonmin Group throughout the year.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is based in London and supported by an audit partner based in Johannesburg.
So far as each current Director is aware, there is no information relevant to the audit of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any such information and to ensure that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
For details of how the Audit and Risk Committee monitors and safeguards the objectivity of the Auditors, and disclosure of non-audit services provided by the Auditors, see page 70.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the AGM, see page 75 for further details.
For and on behalf of the Board Rob Bellhouse Company Secretary 8 November 2012
