GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Other safeguards Conclusions of the Audit AUDIT The external auditors are required Committee for 2012 COMMITTEE to adhere to a rotation policy based The Audit Committee has satis ed on best practice and professional itself that the UK professional and REPORT standards in the United Kingdom.
regulatory requirements for audit The standard period for rotation of partner rotation and employment ENSURING INDEPENDENCE OF the audit engagement partner is five of former employees of the external THE EXTERNAL AUDITORS years and, for any key audit partner, auditors have been complied with.
The audit engagement Anglo Americans policy on auditors The Audit Committee considered partner was appointed in 2010 in independence is consistent with the information pertaining to the balance accordance with this requirement.
ethical standards published by the between fees for audit and non-audit Any partner designated as a key audit Audit Practices Board.
work for the Group in 2012 and partner of Anglo American shall not concluded that the nature and extent A key factor that may impair auditors be employed by Anglo American in of the non-audit fees do not present independence is a lack of control over a key management position unless a threat to the external auditors non-audit services provided by the a period of at least two years has independence.
Details of fees paid external auditors.
In essence, the elapsed since the conclusion of the are provided on page 152. external auditors independence is last relevant audit.
Furthermore, after reviewing a report deemed to be impaired if the auditors The external auditors are required from the external auditors on all their provide a service that: to assess periodically, whether in their relationships with Anglo American Results in the auditors acting as a professional judgement, they are that might reasonably have a manager or employee of the Group independent of the Group.
bearing on the external auditors Puts the auditors in the role of independence and a review conducted The Audit Committee ensures that advocate for the Group or by management, the Committee has the scope of the auditors work is concluded that the external auditors suf cient and that the auditors are Creates a mutuality of interest independence was not impaired.
between the auditors and the Group.
The Audit Committee held meetings The Audit Committee has primary Anglo American addresses this with the external auditors without the responsibility for making issue through three primary presence of management on two recommendations to the Board on measures, namely: occasions and the chairman of the appointment, re-appointment Disclosure of the extent and nature the Audit Committee held regular and removal of the external auditors.
of non-audit services meetings with the audit engagement The Audit Committee has the partner during the year.
The prohibition of selected services authority to engage independent this includes the undertaking of counsel and other advisers as internal audit services they determine necessary in order to resolve issues on auditors Prior approval by the Audit Committee independence.
chairman of non-audit services where the cost of the proposed assignment An annual assessment is undertaken is likely to exceed $50,000.
of the auditors effectiveness, independence and objectivity.
The Anglo Americans policy on the effectiveness assessment involves provision of non-audit services is a review, with the senior finance regularly reviewed and was updated managers in each of the business during 2012.
The fide nition of units and relevant corporate functions, prohibited non-audit services of the audit process, including the corresponds with the European planning, execution and reporting Commissions recommendations on activities along with an assessment auditors independence and with the of the quality, quantity and leadership Ethical Standards issued by the Audit of each of the external audit teams Practices Board in the UK.
Any improvement opportunities identi ed are discussed with the external auditors.
The independence and objectivity assessment is conducted by a review of compliance with the policies in place in the Group and within the external auditors to maintain independence and objectivity.
The results of the review are shared with the Audit Committee.
104 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Audit Committee actions The role of internal audit Assessment of the effectiveness in 2013 The Group has an internal audit of internal control and risk During 2013 the Audit Committee department that reports centrally management will continue its role in monitoring the with responsibility for reviewing and The GMC, as mandated by the Board, integrity of the financial statements providing assurance on the adequacy maintains a Group-wide system of and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control environment internal control to manage signi cant of the Companys internal control across all of Anglo Americans Group risks.
This system, which has been operating An item of key interest to the Audit The head of internal audit is throughout the year and to the date Committee will be to satisfy itself responsible for reporting and following of this report, supports the Board in that the risk and audit processes within up on the findings of this internal audit discharging its responsibility for fide Beers are fully integrated into work with local management and the ensuring that the wide range of risks Anglo American as appropriate.
Audit Committee on a regular basis.
associated with the Groups diverse Consideration given to Internal audit teams operated in all the international operations is effectively the appointment of the Groups principal divisions in the period managed in support of the creation external auditors under review, reporting findings to and preservation of shareholder The appointment of Deloitte LLP local senior management.
Please see pages 4853 for as the Groups external auditors audit functions mandate and annual further information on the key risk incumbents since the listing of audit coverage plans have been factors Anglo American is exposed to.
Anglo American in 1999 is kept under approved by the Audit Committee.
Where appropriate, necessary action annual review and, if satisfactory, has been or is being taken to remedy The internal audit activities are the Committee will recommend the any failings or weakness identi ed as a performed by teams of appropriate, re-appointment of the audit rm.
result of the review of the effectiveness quali ed and experienced employees, The appointment of Deloitte LLP of the internal control system.
supplemented if necessary through followed a detailed evaluation, the engagement of external at the time of the listing, of the practitioners upon speci ed and predecessor audit rms and, rather agreed terms.
A summary of audit than adopting a policy on tendering results and risk management frequency, an annual review of the information was presented to the effectiveness of the external audit Committee and Group senior is supplemented by a periodic, management at regular intervals comprehensive reassessment by throughout the year.
The Committees head of internal audit reports to the assessment of the external auditors Audit Committee on the internal performance and independence audit functions performance against underpins its recommendation to the the agreed internal audit plan.
Board to propose to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP During 2012, 440 audit projects were as auditors until the conclusion of the completed covering a variety AGM in 2014.
Resolutions to authorise of financial, operational, strategic the Board to re-appoint and determine and compliance-related business the remuneration of Deloitte LLP processes across all business units will be proposed at the AGM on and functions.
In addition, the internal 19 April 2013. audit department responded to a number of management requests to investigate alleged breaches of our business principles.
During 2013 the internal audit resources in DeBeers will be integrated into the Anglo American team and will adopt a consistent approach to internal audit work.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 105 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Obtaining assurance on the Whistle-blowing programme During 2012, 332 reports were internal control environment The Group has had a whistle-blowing received via the global Speakup The system of internal control, which programme in place for a number of facility, covering a broad spectrum is embedded in all key operations, years in all its managed operations.
ofconcerns, including: provides reasonable rather than This facility operates in addition to a Ethical absolute assurance that the Groups standardised Group-wide stakeholder Criminal business objectives will be achieved complaints and grievance procedure within the risk tolerance levels fide ned that is operated at all managed Supplier relationships by the Board.
Regular management operations see the 2012 Sustainable Health and safety reporting, which provides a balanced Development Report for more details.
assessment of key risks and controls, The whistle-blowing programme, HR issues.
is an important component of board which is monitored by the Audit Reports received were kept strictly assurance.
In addition, certain Board Committee, is designed to enable con dential and were referred to committees focus on speci c risks employees, customers, suppliers, appropriate line managers within such as safety and capital investment managers or other stakeholders on a the Group for resolution.
Where and provide assurance to the Board.
con dential basis to raise concerns in appropriate, action was taken to The chief financial of cers of the cases where conduct is deemed to be address the issues raised.
The Groups business units provide contrary to our values.
It may include: reports are analysed and monitored con rmation, on a six-monthly to ensure the process is effective.
Actions that may result in danger to basis, that financial and accounting the health and or safety of people control frameworks have operated or damage to the environment satisfactorily.
The Board also receives assurance from the Audit Committee, Unethical practice in accounting, which derives its information, in part, internal accounting controls, financial from regular internal audit reports on reporting and auditing matters risk and internal control throughout the Criminal offences, including Group and external audit reporting.
money laundering, fraud, bribery The Groups internal audit function has and corruption a formal collaboration process in place Failure to comply with any with the external auditors to ensure legal obligation ef cient coverage of internal controls.
The Anglo American internal audit Miscarriage of justice function is responsible for providing Any conduct contrary to the ethical independent assurance to executive principles embraced in our business management and the Board on the principles or any similar policy effectiveness of the risk-management Any other legal or ethical concern process throughout the Group.
Concealment of any of the above.
Anglo American seeks to have a sound system of internal control, based on The programme makes available the Groups policies and guidelines, a selection of telephonic, email, in all material associates and joint web-based and surface mail ventures.
In those companies that are communication channels to any independently managed, as well as person in the world who has joint ventures, the directors who are information about unethical practice represented on these organisations in Anglo American and its managed boards seek assurance that signi cant operations.
The multilingual risks are being managed.
communication facilities are operated by independent service providers who Assurance regarding the accuracy remove all indications from information and reliability of Mineral Resources received as to the identity of the callers and Ore Reserves disclosure is before submission to designated provided through a combination of persons in the Group.
internal technically pro cient staff and independent third parties.
106 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Risk management at exception reporting to business Accountability and audit Anglo American management, ExCo, the Audit The Board is required to present The Boards policy on risk Committee and the Board.
a balanced and understandable management encompasses all assessment of Anglo Americans Some of the headline risk areas, signi cant business risks to the financial position and prospects.
which have been elaborated upon in Group, including: Such assessment is provided in the the financial review set out on pages chairmans and CEOs statements and Financial risk 4853, are: the operating and financial review of Operational, including safety, Commodity price risk this Annual Report.
The respective technical, fraud and corruption risk responsibilities of the directors and Political risk external auditors are set out on Compliance risk Counterparty risk pages 134, 136 and 137.
As referred to that could undermine the in the directors report, the directors Infrastructure and achievement of business objectives.
have expressed their view that operational performance risks.
This system of risk management is Anglo Americans business is a The risk assessment and reporting designed so that the different going concern.
criteria are designed to provide the businesses are able to tailor and adapt Business integrity their risk-management processes to Board with a consistent, Group-wide During 2012 we continued to suit their speci c circumstances.
This perspective of the key risks.
The implement the necessary procedures exible approach has the commitment reports to the Audit Committee, to ensure that our Business Integrity of the Groups senior management.
which are submitted at least every policy operates effectively across There is clear accountability for six months, include an assessment of the likelihood and impact of risks the Group and minimises the risk of risk management, which is a key materialising, as well as risk-mitigation bribery as far as possible.
We have performance area of line managers initiatives and their effectiveness.
now trained more than 3,500 through the Group.
The requisite managers through workshops in risk and control capability is assured In conducting its annual review of the business units and developed through Board challenge and the effectiveness of risk management, supplementary online training.
During appropriate management selection the Board considers the key findings the year we developed enhanced and skills development.
Managers from the ongoing monitoring and guidelines regarding acceptance and are supported in giving effect to their reporting processes, management provision of gifts and entertainment risk responsibilities through policies assertions and independent and provided speci c guidance on due and guidelines on risk and control assurance reports.
The Board also diligence procedures for transactions management.
Support through takes account of material changes where risks are considered higher.
We facilitated risk assessments is and trends in the risk pro le and updated our assessment of the risks provided by a central team responsible considers whether the control system, of bribery and corruption in each of for ensuring a robust process is including reporting, adequately our businesses, taking into implemented for risk-management.
supports the Board in achieving its risk consideration external and internal During 2012, more than 135 separate management objectives.
factors and identi ed action plans for risk assessment workshops were implementation based on those risk During the course of the year the conducted reviewing: assessments.
We applied a due Board considered the Groups Risk in business unit strategies diligence process in individual responsiveness to changes within transactions to identify necessary Risks to achieving mine or its business environment.
The actions that mitigate risk of bribery business plans Board is satis ed that there is an in those transactions.
ongoing process, which has been Risks in capital projects operational during the year, and up During 2013 we will continue to Risks to key change programmes, to the date of approval of the Annual develop our procedures and obtain including the integration of fide Beers.
Report, for identifying, evaluating assurance that they are being and managing the signi cant risks The results of these risk assessments implemented as we expect across faced by the Group.
This includes were reported to senior management the Group.
social, environmental and ethical and the Audit Committee.
The process risks as highlighted in the Disclosure of risk management is designed to Guidelines on Socially Responsible identify internal and external threats Investment issued by the Association to the business and to assist of British Insurers.
A detailed report management in prioritising their on social, environmental and response to those risks.
Continuous ethical issues is included in the monitoring of risk and control Companys Sustainable Development processes, across headline risk areas Report 2012. and other business-speci c risk areas, provides the basis for regular and Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 107
