Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 49 Engagement Robert Swannell, Chairman at the meeting.
Many are responded to directly.
Shareholders can also email the Chairman with their comments, write to us Understanding differing opinions is a key part of driving our or telephone our helpline.
We are very interested in understanding We continue to encourage shareholders to become more the views of our investors, and continue to engage with many informed investors.
A wealth of information is available on our of them.
Marc Bolland, Alan Stewart and our Investor website throughout the year and our trading statements and Relations team met with representatives from over 300 financial results are emailed to those shareholders that have investment institutions during the year to answer their provided us with email addresses and requested to receive questions and keep them updated on our performance and electronic communication.
This year we have added quick plans.
These ranged from one-on-one meetings to group response QR code links in some areas of this report, in the presentations and investor conference calls following our Notice of Meeting and on our voting forms.
These allow fast results announcements.
Any presentations provided in these access, via a smartphone, to information which the reader meetings are uploaded to our website and comments are fed may nd useful.
Also released during the year is our investor back to the Board and its Committees.
relations app for the iPad, more information on this is provided During the year I also met with a number of investors and on the next page.
We recognise that not all of our shareholders industry representatives to answer their questions and better are online or have these devices, so we suggest they receive understand their policies on governance and voting.
I also look our smaller M&S At-a-Glance booklet, published with the to stakeholder websites for information on their voting and private investor in mind, rather than the full report or review.
positions on stewardship at AGMs.
We welcome further We remain committed to our lost shareholder programme and engagement from institutions as they make progress in our search agent, ProSearch, continues to seek out those that adopting the Financial Reporting Councils Stewardship Code.
have failed to keep their details up to date.
Despite all our In June 2011 we held our first governance event.
Our largest efforts there are some instances where we are unable to nd investors, industry governance specialists and voting advisory the shareholder.
For this reason we introduced our share companies were invited to our ofce to meet me, the Deputy forfeiture programme: an industry first established to utilise Chairman, Sir David Michels, the Chairman of our funds from these dormant accounts.
The first funds were Remuneration Committee, Steven Holliday and our Director of forfeited in April 2011 and have supported the M&S Company Plan A to discuss key governance matters.
The relocation of the Archive this year to M&Ss well attended, received positive feedback and will be birthplace in Leeds has provided a unique opportunity to repeated again in 2012. celebrate both the rich history of Marks & Spencer and the enormous benets achieved by opening up the collection for For an independent view, Makinson Cowell, the capital the Company, academics and the wider community.
Further markets advisory rm, continues to provide the Board with an funds were forfeited in April 2012, which will also be used for annual presentation of major investors views on Company good causes.
This is based on the results of extensive surveys and interviews.
This report is presented What happens at our AGM?
each year ahead of the AGM.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions being Amanda Mellor, Group Secretary proposed at the Annual General Meeting 10 July 2012 at 11am.
Last year all resolutions were passed with votes During the year we continued our active engagement with ranging from 84.8% to 99.9%.
investors, representative bodies and governance organisations.
In addition to the investor meetings and In 2011 our AGM attracted close to 2,000 people with more discussions on governance related matters I also gave a joining via our live webcast.
This year our Notice of Meeting number of presentations and lectures on the way M&S advises some changes we are making to the format of the approaches governance and stewardship to industry meeting.
We have moved the meeting by one day to avoid contacts and other company secretariat teams.
a clash with two other high prole companies with large private shareholder bases.
The meeting has also been Several government and regulatory consultation documents moved from 2pm to 11am.
Once again, the meeting will were released during 2011 12.
The Company has responded be webcast live and a recording of the meeting added to to a number of these, keen to ensure that we help shape our website for later viewing.
Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged to vote in Private shareholders continue to represent 95% of the advance of the meeting, online at sharevote.
co. uk or by shareholders on our share register and we value their opinions using the proxy card which we mail to them.
Last year, like and continue to actively engage with them throughout the year.
other FTSE 100 companies, we were disappointed to see We circulate shareholder topics cards with our Notice of a marked reduction in voting from private shareholders.
Meeting to ensure that the views of those shareholders Although the documents were already considered easy to unable to attend our AGM are heard.
Those returned are complete, we have redesigned our voting stationery to try summarised, presented to the Board and senior to make them clearer.
Over 95% of our shareholders are management, the Chairman address the top three topics private investors, we value their opinions and would like to see more voting cards returned from them.
