Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 42 Leadership A good example of this was a discussion held in December Our Board 2011, following a substantial ne from the Health and Safety Board Meetings Executive after we were found to have breached the Health Name of Director A B and Safety at Work etc Act.
The Board received a detailed Chairman presentation from our health and safety, property and legal Robert Swannell 10 10 teams, and discussed the lessons learnt from this case and Deputy Chairman 1 the actions put in place by the business to avoid such Sir David Michels retired 29 February 2012 9 8 incidents in future.
Chief Executive Marc Bolland 10 10 Driving strategy Executive directors The Board approved a number of significant strategic Kate Bostock 10 10 developments and investments during the year.
These included John Dixon 10 10 the new platform for our online business, European websites in 2 Steven Sharp 10 9 France and Ireland, a number of new stores, investment and Alan Stewart 10 10 review of our new store format programme as well as reviewing Laura Wade-Gery appointed 4 July 2011 7 7 the progress of associated customer-facing initiatives.
Non-executive directors Vindi Banga appointed 1 September 2011 7 7 We have found that early stage engagement on strategic Miranda Curtis appointed 1 February 2012 2 2 initiatives is essential to ensuring robust debate.
Given our ambition to grow our business and become an international Jeremy Darroch 10 10 multi-channel retailer by 2015 we have continued to hold two Martha Lane Fox 10 10 strategy-focused meetings in the year.
Our October meeting Steven Holliday 10 10 was held in our newly opened store in Stratford, East London, Louise Patten retired 13 July 2011 3 3 3 giving the Board the opportunity to walk the store and be in Jan du Plessis 10 9 touch with the latest customer and store developments prior A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended to the roll-out across the estate discussed earlier in this B Number of meetings the director actually attended 1 Sir David Michels was unable to attend the Board meeting on 7 December 2011 report.
In February 2012, the Board came together again to due to overseas business commitments.
review the three-year plan and progress with the strategic 2 Steven Sharp was unable to attend the Board meeting on 6 January 2012 initiatives, particularly around the development of our due to personal commitments.
3 Jan du Plessis was unable to attend the Board meeting on 4 May 2011 multi-channel and international businesses.
due to overseas business commitments with Rio Tinto.
Monitoring risk The Board agenda focuses on our themes of driving our A greater level of strategic discussion has also enabled strategy, developing strong leadership and succession, the Board to develop its debate on risk, risk appetite monitoring execution, protecting our trusted brand and and tolerance, testing how best we can maximise the our strong relationships with customers, employees and opportunities for us to grow the business.
Protecting the business from operational or reputational While we recognise the importance of compliance, we damage is an essential part of the Boards role.
In line with our try to avoid spending time on box-ticking and gold-plating action plan, and supported by the Audit Committee, we have legislation, choosing instead to focus on the long-term assessed the effectiveness of our reporting controls and plans for our business and its execution.
ensured our Group Risk Prole reects the businesss strategic Following our external Board evaluation last year, we further objectives.
We have carried out a full review of internal controls, reviewed all information sent to Board members.
We also updated our Code of Ethics and Behaviours, introduced an moved to electronic distribution of our Board papers by Anti-Bribery Policy and supported this with a communications iPad a contribution, albeit small, towards supporting our and training programme to ensure awareness.
Plan A objective to reduce the use of printed paper across We have also reviewed previously approved investment our business, but one which clearly demonstrates the decisions, reviewed the progress of the Plan A External Boards willingness to embrace new technology and more Advisory Board and reviewed our health and safety and efficient methods of communication.
Our Board agendas today allow more time for debate and Nurturing talent long-term strategic discussion, with two Board away-days held during the year.
Our forward planner gives Board Developing leadership, future talent and securing succession members visibility of what is on future agendas for their plans for the business have continued to be key themes for consideration.
We also schedule time during every meeting the Board, building on discussion from the previous year.
As for ad hoc feedback as well as giving the non-executive we did last year, we also spent time on the induction of three directors an opportunity for private discussion.
new Board members and the programmes designed were all thoroughly comprehensive an overview of these inductions Following last years action plan we have sought to ensure can be found in the Corporate Governance section of our that we reect on decisions taken by the Board and learn Corporate website marksandspencer.
from those decisions or situations where things go wrong.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Y L J. U V L ] W L : Y Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 43 Building on the development of our leadership, this year We have also ensured our reward framework is t for our non-executive directors held a number of small informal purpose, reecting our resolve to recognise the skills and lunch meetings with senior managers.
These meetings have talents represented across our teams as well as setting been well received, giving our non-executive directors the stretching goals and objectives that feed into our wider opportunity get to know our top talent and give our managers ambitions for the business.
Our Remuneration Committee a forum for free-owing informal debate with Board members.
continues to lead and ensure they challenge on this important piece of work: for more details see page 57.
Training and development of our senior managers has continued to be a key focus and the majority of them have Feedback is encouraged both within the boardroom and now been through our Lead to Succeed programme.
All employees have a chance to share year the Board supported the introduction of two additional their views and insights via a host of engagement initiatives modules to this initiative to challenge our managers as to how including our annual Your Say survey, Business Involvement they might lead an international, multi-cultural, multi-channel Groups, director presentations, the Annual Business business.
We believe that these initiatives position us well to Conference for store and senior management and informal develop a source of talented leaders for the future and director roundtable discussions.
Employee feedback from feedback has been extremely positive.
such events is discussed by the Board giving useful insight into employee morale and their reactions.
Board discussion Driving continuous improvement in 2011 12 Customers Strategy Received regular presentations from the M&S Leadership and employees Customer Insight Unit, to better understand Approved the decision to build a new Focused on succession within the business, the key customer concerns, market and multi-channel platform to support our consumer trends and sentiment in the current multi-channel ambitions, including agreeing reviewing and identifying the top talent, developing a pipeline of high-quality individuals tough economic environment.
the key suppliers for the project.
Approved the launch of the new store format Held two Board away-days to support and and reviewed the progress of the customer Developed our Board Diversity policy.
challenge all areas of the Group strategy and facing initiatives.
These newly refreshed store the three-year plan.
Continued to focus on the composition, environments now showcase the distinct balance and effectiveness of the Board.
Regularly reviewed the supply chain clothing brands and the newness and The appointment of two new non-executive modernisation project and challenged the innovation of the food offering.
directors and a new Senior Independent distribution model to ensure value and efficiency.
Director brings new perspectives, experience Received customer feedback in store and at Debated the new International strategy and skills to the table, further strengthening the the AGM.
and reviewed the case for restructuring the Board debate.
Reviewed the key operational hires and Debated and approved the Groups identied gaps in experience needed to deliver dividend policy.
Reviewed the Groups capital structure Continued to enhance employee engagement and funding requirements.
through, the annual Your Say survey, our Agreed the launch of the French and Irish Business Involvement Groups, the BIG Idea, websites, to support our international ambitions.
Doing director presentations, the Annual Business Conference and informal director roundtable the right thing discussions.
the right way Checks and balances Assessed the effectiveness of the Group Risk Relations with shareholders Prole by identifying where the businesss key Annual independent investor audit undertaken risks lie, aligning them with the businesss risk by Makinson Cowell.
appetite and highlighting how to effectively target those risks.
Held our first governance event in June 2011, providing an opportunity for the Board and Trusted brand Undertook a Year 2 Booster approach our top 20 investors and investor bodies to to the 2012 evaluation of the Board and Launched the M&S Company Archive to engage face-to-face on key areas of concern.
its committees to continue our focus of the public.
Ensuring our rich history and becoming the best Board we can be.
Engaged with our retail shareholders at heritage is preserved and accessible by the AGM.
Reviewed the health and safety lessons the Company, the academic community and the wider public.
learned, ensuring the safety of our Reached out to our lost shareholders employees and customers is protected.
by engaging a full lost shareholder search Established the Plan A External Advisory programme, now embedded into the Scrutinised and debated key investment Board, to provide independent advice and annual calendar.
guidance to shape our ambition of becoming proposals: re-evaluated two significant property and logistics investment decisions the worlds most sustainable retailer.
Actively engaged with institutional to ensure best value for the business.
shareholders, investor and regulatory Supported the strengthening of bodies throughout the year.
governance structures throughout our Reviewed the Governance Framework and launched a comprehensive anti-bribery, international operations to better protect training and awareness campaign.
our brand, following issues highlighted by our internal processes.
