Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 50 Engagement continued Experience online Free Investor Relations app for the iPad Whether its through marksandspencer.
com thecompany As new media evolves we try to tailor our communication or our Investor Relations app for the iPad, available free of platforms accordingly.
With our new Investor Relations app charge, online shareholders can be much more informed you can view our results and trading statements, regulated throughout the year.
News announcements, interviews with directors, share price information and our TV marketing campaigns all in one place.
Website The M&S website contains a wealth of information, such as: To download the app, go to the Investor section of Latest M&S news, Stock Exchange announcements and marksandspencer.
com press release alerts: thecompany and follow the link.
Annual Report and Investor presentations: Those with a QR reader app can use the link below.
Detailed account of how we have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010: Our full Governance Framework, including Committee Terms of Reference and director accountabilities: Our Code of Ethics and Behaviours: Our Auditor Engagement Policy for our external auditors: and Our Articles of Association.
Pensions governance The Group operates a pension scheme the Scheme Each Trustee Board Director has an individual training which has a dened benefit DB section for employees plan, which is based on the Pension Regulators Trustee with an appointment date prior to 1 April 2002 and a dened Knowledge and Understanding requirements and tailored contribution DC section open to those joining the Company to address any skill gaps and specic committee roles.
The on or after 1 April 2002 and before 1 November 2012 when majority of the Trustee Board members hold the Pensions a new Master Trust arrangement will be introduced.
Management Institute Award in Trusteeship.
The Board of the Pension Trust Trustee Board manages the All advisers, investment managers and suppliers are DB and DC assets of the pension scheme, which are held under appointed through a rigorous tender process.
They are trust separately from those of the Group.
The Board has four monitored via quarterly reports and periodic meetings and main committees: DB, DC, Investment and Actuarial Valuation.
there is also a rolling programme of both informal and formal The 31 March 2012 Actuarial Valuation will benefit from the adviser reviews.
During 2011 12 the appointment of the enhanced monitoring of key metrics which has been established covenant monitoring service was reviewed and Ernst & Young in conjunction with the Group since the 2009 valuation.
The Trustee Board of 12 members is chaired by The Scheme is a signatory to the UN Principles for Graham Oakley, who commenced a five-year term in April Responsible Investment and the Trustee has partnered with 2011, having been a member of the Board since 2000.
The a specialist engagement service, Hermes Equity Ownership Trustee Board includes two independent directors plus five Services EOS, to exercise its global equity voting rights in member representatives who are appointed through a accordance with a detailed Trustee policy, which addresses selection process which embeds efficient succession rotation a range of governance, social and environmental issues.
During the year the Board has been recognised has also enhanced the Trustees stewardship and governance through external awards for its excellence in governance, oversight of investee companies by engaging with training and investment risk reduction strategies.
The DC companies, on a global basis, where management is section is a holder of the National Association of Pensions considered not to be acting in the best long-term interests Funds Pensions Quality Mark Plus.
The results of these voting and engagement activities are published quarterly on the M&S website.
During The Trustee Board has a business plan against which the year the Scheme also became a signatory to the UK progress is measured on an ongoing basis in a similar Stewardship Code which was published by the Financial approach to the Group Board.
The Trustee Board also Reporting Council in July 2010. maintains a risk register and an associated action plan, a conicts of interest policy, plus a register and a code of ethics, all of which are reviewed at least annually.
