Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 51 Nomination Committee Chairmans overview Robert Swannell We have had another active year, making very good progress we believe to be two excellent appointments to the Board.
against all the actions in our 2011 12 action plan.
Both directors have undertaken extensive induction programmes to ensure a rounded understanding of the First, we secured the appointment of two new non-executive business and its ambitions.
Further information on these directors, Vindi Banga and Miranda Curtis, to succeed Louise induction programmes can found at marksandspencer.
com Patten and Deputy Chairman Sir David Michels on their thecompany.
In conjunction with these appointments, we reviewed our For each position we spent time reviewing the existing skill-set Committee composition and made a number of changes.
on the Board, discussing our diversity in line with our new We also recommended the appointment of Jan du Plessis policy details of our Board diversity policy objectives can as Senior Independent Director.
be found below, specically in terms of background and experiences, nationality and gender, and balancing this against Again, in line with our action plan from last year, we have what the business will need to become an international focused on ensuring that succession is a key agenda item.
We spent considerable time with our We have spent time looking at succession planning for the external consultants managing a formal, thorough and orderly Executive Director team as well the Board over the medium search, reviewing all those potential candidates that might t to long term.
We have also discussed talent and succession our criteria.
We interviewed rigorously and have secured what for the top managers in the business.
Effectiveness of the Nomination Committee Conducted a thorough review and debated Board skills Who is on our Committee?
and diversity to ensure the Board has the right balance Nomination From Committee of skills and experience to support the future development Name of Director A B of the business: Robert Swannell Reviewed the Board and Committee composition following Committee Chairman 4 Oct 2010 5 5 the new non-executive director appointments and Marc Bolland 1 May 2010 5 5 retirement of existing directors: Sir David Michels Retired 29 Feb 2012 4 4 Recommended the appointment of Jan du Plessis as 1 Senior Independent Director to replace Sir David Michels Vindi Banga 3 Sept 2011 3 2 on his retirement from the Board: Miranda Curtis 3 Feb 2012 1 1 Created a clear framework to review succession planning Jeremy Darroch 1 Feb 2006 5 5 and development for the executive director team and the Martha Lane Fox 1 June 2007 5 5 Board for the medium term: and Steven Holliday 15 July 2004 5 5 Supported greater engagement with key managers with Louise Patten Retired 13 July 2011 2 2 non-executive director-only meetings.
Jan du Plessis 1 Nov 2008 5 5 A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended What is the action plan for 2012 13?
B Number of meetings the director actually attended Continue to support succession plans and development 1 Vindi Banga was unable to attend the Committee meeting on 18 January 2012 due to business commitments in the US.
of the executive director team: Continue to drive the understanding of talent across the What has the Committee done during the year?
organisation and support our development programme for key managers: Conducted a thorough and transparent appointment process for the recommendation of two new non-executive Continue to review ongoing knowledge and training for all directors: and directors to ensure the Board is appropriately supported Continue to ensure that we plan for the evolution of and strengthened for the future: non-executive directors over the medium term to maintain the appropriate mix of skills.
Board Diversity Policy directors from a wider pool including those with little or no listed company board experience: Our Board diversity policy introduced this year seeks to ensure non-executive directors long lists include 50% ensure that diversity in its broadest sense continues to remain women candidates: a significant feature of the M&S Board.
We will report against only engage executive search rms who have signed up the objectives below in 2012 13: to the voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and maintain a level of at least 30% female directors on the best practice: Board over the short to medium term: report annually against these objectives and other initiatives assist the development of a pipeline of high-calibre taking place within the Company which promote gender candidates by encouraging a broad range of senior and other forms of diversity: and individuals within the business to take on additional roles to report annually on the outcome of the Board evaluation, gain valuable board experience: the composition and structure of the Board as well as any consider candidates for appointment as non-executive issues and challenges the Board is facing when considering the diverse make up of the Company.
