Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 52 Audit Committee Chairmans overview Jeremy Darroch Last year I advised that we would work with the Board to Business Development and Data Security.
Further information review any changes to the risk prole and support the Board on the presentations is provided on the next page.
debate on risk tolerance and appetite.
The Committee The presentations facilitate real engagement between remains satisfied that the Board maintains sound risk Committee members and the business unit directors.
Feedback from the business continues to be positive with As a committee we are also keen to ensure key recognition of the value this channel provides and the representatives of the business have fully considered the risks experience the Committee shares.
their business areas face, that these risks are being managed External auditor and do not exceed the Boards appetite or tolerance levels.
Key to giving us confidence in the Groups approach to We focus on the risk proles for each business unit and controls and risk is the effectiveness of our external auditors, review what actions they are taking or processes they have in  LLP.
Their effectiveness enables place to manage or mitigate their risk.
Assurance is provided us to recommend their reappointment for 2012 13.
We judge through executive update presentations at each Audit them on the quality of their audit findings, managements Committee meeting.
During 2011 12 the Committee received response and stakeholder feedback.
Their independence presentations from the directors of Business Continuity, is displayed through their challenge to management.
Their Plan A, General Merchandise Ethical Sourcing, International audit and non-audit fees are set and reviewed each year Effectiveness of the Audit Committee The Board is satisfied that Jeremy Darroch and Jan du Plessis implemented following the Bribery Act coming into force.
have recent and relevant financial experience.
Its introduction was supported by a training programme containing a short video and online training module.
Gift Who is on our Committee?
registers have been introduced to ensure transparency.
Audit These will be managed by each department and reviewed From Committee annually by Internal Audit, with any notable items Name of Director A B highlighted to the Committee: Jeremy Darroch The Committee reviewed Data Security and Data Committee Chairman 1 Sept 2006 6 6 1 Management.
The Code of Ethics is being updated to Sir David Michels retired 29 Feb 2012 4 3 reect any changes to the policy or law, including the Martha Lane Fox 1 June 2007 6 6 Bribery Act: Steven Holliday 15 July 2004 6 6 The Committee reviewed the Companys ongoing 2 Louise Patten retired 13 July 2011 1 0 discussions with the FRPP.
3 Jan du Plessis 1 Nov 2008 6 5 Personnel changes within the Audit team has led to the A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended deferral of our review of Internal Audit effectiveness in line B Number of meetings the director actually attended with the Chartered Institute of Internal Audit requirements.
1 Sir David Michels was unable to attend the Committee meeting on 7 September 2011 due to personal commitments.
However, we intend to complete this during 2012 13.
2 Louise Patten was unable to attend the Committee meeting on 16 May 2011 As a Committee we have continued to enhance our due to personal commitments.
3 Jan du Plessis was unable to attend the Committee meeting on 2 November 2011 understanding of key business areas receiving due to overseas business commitments with Rio Tinto.
presentations on key risks from a broad spectrum of the business activities: and What has the Committee done during the year?
The Committees were independently reviewed by Fon The Committee made progress on their action points during Hague of Independent Board Evaluation.
the 2011 12 financial year, with the exception of a review of internal audit effectiveness, which was impacted by several What is the action plan for 2012 13?
changes within the internal audit team: Looking ahead the Committee believes it is important to remain focused on the audit, assurance and risk process The Committee composition was reviewed along with within the business.
The actions for 2012 13 are: Board and other Committee composition.
Following the retirement of Sir David Michels, the Committee comprises strategic review of our internal audit and assurance plan to four members.
The Audit Committee is fully independent ensure alignment and support of the Companys plan: and contains what we believe to be the right balance of review internal audit effectiveness in line with the Chartered knowledge, skill and experience to support the business in Institute of Internal Audit requirements: achieving its plan: continue to improve understanding of key business areas: The Company has made good progress on risk during the continue to broaden the debate around risk tolerance and year, resulting in better process, understanding and appetite: and awareness combined with a greater engagement right review ongoing learning requirements and potential across the business.
The debate on risk, risk tolerance and up-skilling.
risk appetite will continue to be a focus for the Board and for the Committee during the next year: An anti-bribery policy has been developed and Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 53 see note 4.
We ensure that our auditor engagement policy, Overview of discussions with UNICEF outside the UK on which is reviewed annually and disclosed on our website social development programmes linked to the garment marksandspencer.
com thecompany, is adhered to when industry: and non-audit work is commissioned.
Audit partner rotation is Overview of what we believe will be benchmarked as also important to retain the objectivity of the process industry leading positions across a number of key areas.
Stuart Watson was appointed lead audit engagement General Merchandise ethical sourcing partner in 2008 09.
Reviewed how we manage the ethical risks across our Committee updates supply chain outlining our ethical trading approach across 1.7 million workers, spread over 1,448 sites in over 77 In addition to the regular renew of audit compliance and countries with 55 different languages: process controls, the Committee received a number of detailed Considered the key ethical issues including: excessive reviews from a number of business areas.
Updates received by working hours, poor health and safety, terms and conditions the Committee provided detail on the progress made over the of employment, migrant labour, and low wages: year and the ongoing objectives.
A brief overview of the detail Discussed the team and the independent ethical trading covered in these updates is provided below.
division based in our regional ofces in China, India, Business Continuity Vietnam, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Turkey and the UK.
Reviewed the tools and processes established to ensure M&S was the first UK retailer to establish a clear set of labour we have the capability to protect our people, the brand, standards in 1998 known as our Global Sourcing Principles.
property and profit at all times: Each supplier must agree to and sign our terms and Received plans for all locations both nationally and conditions, which include these Principles.
M&S has been a internationally: founding member of the Ethical Trading Initiative since 1998 Discussed plans for the Olympics and the Queens and we have established ethical policies on key issues.
We Diamond Jubilee: have a clear factory approval process which is independent Full medical and security package introduced for all from our buying departments.
business travellers: Travel tracker system introduced both nationally and International business development internationally: Focused on the risks to our international growth each risk Group training awareness programme launched: and was highlighted and discussed, alongside the relevant Evacuation pack and welfare response.
mitigating action which was either recently taken or in progress: Plan A Discussed the team and its integration the presentation also External International Advisory Board established, covered the performance of our partly-owned businesses, comprising academics and advisors, extending our reach to franchise operations, ethical reputation and the importance reect the countries we operate in and source from: of having an aligned approach across the business.
Discussed progress in reducing carbon emissions, improvements in fuel and energy efficiency, reduction in Data security waste and packaging, improvements in recycling and the Updates relating to our investment in IT security, building of M&S Oxfam clothes exchange: the new retail website platform and the move from the current Update on work with suppliers to set up 12 Ethical Model platform supported by Amazon.
International activities, user factories in Bangladesh and three in India: access and the controls around the protection of personal Review of commitments against plan: data.
Policies were reviewed as was the recruitment of resource and the skill sets these individuals bring to M&S.
Assurance in accordance with the requirements of the revised Turnbull On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Groups: Guidance on Internal Control, published by the FRC.
It confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses were systems of internal control, covering all material controls, identied in the review for 2011 12.
Where areas for including financial, operational and compliance controls improvement were identied, processes are in place to and risk management systems, primarily through approving ensure that the necessary action is taken and that progress the internal audit plan and reviewing its findings, reviews is monitored.
of the annual and half year financial statements and a review of the nature, scope and reports of external audit: The key features of the Groups internal control and risk management of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment management systems that ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting include: clearly dened lines activity and an internal audit report on the process: and action taken or to be taken to manage critical risks or of accountability and delegation of authority, policies and to remedy any control failings or weaknesses identied.
procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, preparing consolidated accounts, capital expenditure, The Audit Committee has completed its review of the project governance and information security, and the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control Companys Code of Ethics and Behaviours.
during the year and up to the date of this Annual Report,
