Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 40 Board of directors Appointed Chairman in January 2011.
Robert Joined Marks & Spencer in 1986 and was joined Marks & Spencer as a non-executive appointed to the Board in September 2009.
He brings a wealth brings a unique experience of M&S to the Board of knowledge of the City, acquired over 33 years as a result of his long history with the Company.
in investment banking at Schroders and Citigroup, He joined as a store management trainee and and extensive government and regulatory has worked in a variety of senior roles across the experience from previous roles with BIS and the business, including  retail FSA.
Robert has significant board-level experience roles, Executive Assistant to the Chief Executive in the retail, private equity and real estate and Director of Multi-channel E-commerce and industries.
His leadership in the area of Home.
John was appointed Director of Food in Robert Swannell governance has enhanced board debate July 2008 and has been instrumental in driving John Dixon Chairman and helped drive a culture of openness and and improving the Food business.
Robert stepped down from the Food Board of HMV Group plc on 23 June 2011, recognising the increased commitment of this role.
Joined Marks & Spencer in May 2004 and was He was previously Senior Independent Director of appointed to the Board in November 2005.
Steven The British Land Company plc and 3i Group plc.
brings extensive retail marketing experience and is the architect of our marketing strategy.
He Chairman of the Nomination Committee started his career as a Marketing Manager with Independent Bejam in 1978, progressing to the Argyll Group and becoming Marketing Director of Asda in 1987.
Marc joined Marks & He has also been Marketing Director of the Burton Spencer from Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc Group, Booker plc and Arcadia Group plc.
He is a where, as Chief Executive, he led the successful non-executive director of Adnams plc, a Fellow of development and implementation of its long-term Steven Sharp the Chartered Institute of Marketing, The Marketing strategy.
Prior to this, Marc was Chief Operating Executive Director, Society, The Royal Society of Arts and a visiting officer at Heineken NV, where he was globally Marketing professor of Glasgow Caledonian University.
responsible for the Heineken business.
Since joining M&S, Marc has worked with the Board in developing our strategy to become an international Appointed on 4 July 2011.
Marc is a non-executive considerable retail and consumer experience to director of Manpower Inc. Marc Bolland the Marks & Spencer Board, including significant Chief Executive Member of the Nomination Committee e-commerce knowledge from her previous role as Chief Executive officer of Tesco.
com and Tesco Appointed in October 2010.
Laura is leading significant change to our financial experience in industries as varied as retail, e-commerce capabilities.
She was appointed a travel and banking.
He joined Marks & Spencer director of Royal Opera House Covent Garden from aircraft leasing company AWAS, where he Limited on 2 March 2012 and stepped down as was Chief Financial officer.
Alan worked for HSBC a non-executive director of Trinity Mirror plc on 10 Investment Bank before joining Thomas Cook in May 2012.
Prior to joining Tesco, Laura held various Laura Wade-Gery 1996, where he held a number of roles including Executive Director, roles at Gemini Consulting and Kleinwort Benson.
Chief Executive of Thomas Cook UK.
He became Multi-channel Group Finance Director of WH Smith plc in 2005, E-commerce playing a central role in the improvement of the Groups financial performance.
Alan was Alan Stewart Appointed in February 2006.
Jeremy provides previously a non-executive director of Games Chief Finance officer considerable insight into the consumer retail Workshop Group plc.
environment acquired through a successful career at some of the UKs most high prole organisations.
He has been Chief Executive of Joined Marks & Spencer in October 2004 and was British Sky Broadcasting Group plc since 2007, appointed to the Board in March 2008.
Kate has a having previously been the Chief Financial officer wealth of brand and retail experience after holding from 2004.
Prior to that Jeremy was Group numerous senior positions across all areas of Finance Director and Retail Finance Director clothing and footwear during her career.
Kate at Dixons Retail plc, formerly Dixons Group plc.
joined M&S from Asda where, as Product Director Jeremy Darroch of the George brand, she was responsible for the Chairman of the Audit Committee Non-executive launch of the standalone George concept and Member of the Nomination Committee director brand globally.
Prior to Asda, Kate was Product Independent Director for Childrenswear at Next.
She is an Appointed in July 2004.
Steve has a wealth of honorary Doctor of Arts at fide Montfort University Kate Bostock experience on the Board of Marks & Spencer, and Business Administration at Manchester Executive Director, bringing extensive knowledge of corporate Metropolitan University.
Kate has played a major General Merchandise business.
He has also held senior executive and role in our renewed brand focus and store boardroom level roles within the challenging utility improvement programme.
and oil and gas industries.
Steve is Group Chief Executive officer of National Grid plc, having previously been Group Director, UK and Europe and responsible for the UK Electricity and Gas businesses.
Prior to joining National Grid, Steve was an Executive Director of British Borneo Oil and Gas.
Steven Holliday He has also held numerous senior positions with Non-executive the Exxon Group.
Steve is Chairman of Crisis.
director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees Independent Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 41 Board diversity Appointed in June 2007.
Marthas considerable expertise in e-commerce and experience in the successful operation of online and consumer-facing Board experience businesses is helping to develop and challenge our multi-channel strategy.
Martha is the UKs Retail Digital Champion and Chair of Go ON UK.
She chairs the Governments Digital Advisory Board 92% and is a non-executive director of MyDeco.
She was a non-executive director of Channel 4 Television until January 2012.
Martha is well-known Consumer Martha Lane Fox as one of the co-founders of lastminute.
com, which Non-executive she took public in 2000.
She is the founder and 100% director Chair of LuckyVoice.
com and of her own grant-giving foundation, Antigone.
Finance Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees Independent 31% Appointed as a non-executive director in November 2008 and Senior Independent Director E-commerce on 1 March 2012.
Jan has considerable business and brand experience, having sat on the boards 23% of a number of leading companies across a variety of industries.
Jan is Chairman of Rio Tinto plc.
International He was formerly Chairman of British American Tobacco plc and RHM plc and a non-executive director of Lloyds Banking Group.
He was also Group Finance Director of the Swiss luxury goods group Richemont until 2004.
Jan du Plessis Senior Independent Member of the Audit, Nomination and Board composition Director Remuneration Committees Independent Executive Appointed on 1 February 2012.
Miranda has considerable experience within the international 46% consumer and technology sectors and extensive experience of the global broadband cable industry.
Non-executive In her 20-year career with Liberty, Miranda led the companys investments in digital distribution and 54% content operations across Continental Europe and Asia-Pacic, most notably in Japan.
Miranda Male is Chairman of Waterstones, a non-executive director of Liberty Global Inc and was a nonexecutive director of National Express Group plc Miranda Curtis 69% until 11 May 2012.
Non-executive director Female Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees Independent 31% Appointed on 1 September 2011.
Vindi has extensive consumer brand knowledge and global business experience, acquired over 30 years in Board tenure a number of senior roles within the consumer goods industry at Unilever plc, including President 0-1 years of the Global Foods, Home and Personal Care businesses, and as a member of the Unilever 23% Executive Board.
Vindi is a partner at private equity investment rm Clayton Dubilier & Rice 2-3 years and a non-executive director of Thomson Reuters and Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. Vindi Banga Non-executive 31% Member of the Nomination and Remuneration director Committees 4-5 years Independent Amanda Mellor 23% Group Secretary and Head of Corporate Governance 6-10 years Appointed in July 2009.
Amanda was appointed a non-executive director of Kier Group on 23% 1 December 2011.
