Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 44 Effectiveness How do we make sure our Board is effective?
the opportunity for a more focused review of strategy with two meetings specically dedicated to this, one in the Stratford In 2010 11 we commissioned our first ever independentlystore in October and the other more recently in February 2012: facilitated Board review, conducted by Fon Hague of further progress on developing the Group Risk Prole and Independent Board Evaluation.
Our aim was to capture open aligning the risks and actions to the strategy outlined in and constructive feedback from Board members that would: November, which was a key focus for the Audit Committee.
However, there is opportunity for us to broaden the debate provide insight into our effectiveness: and explore our understanding of risk, tolerance and point to actions for improving our performance: and appetite in 2012 13: and establish a benchmark for measuring future progress.
we held our first governance event in June 2011 which was While it is considered best practice for boards to conduct well attended by major shareholders and representative bodies.
an external review every three years, based on the positive They clearly welcomed the opportunity to discuss succession feedback from the Board and the fact that we had a number and the Board, remuneration and Plan A.
We agreed to make of new joiners during the year, we decided to adopt a Year 2 this an annual event and the next one is scheduled for June Booster approach for our 2012 review.
We have also been actively engaged in the debate on diversity, remuneration and integrated reporting.
The aim of this approach was to: When we look at the more detailed table of responsibilities by check progress against the issues identied in last area, which we put together last year, along with the years report: feedback from the 2011 12 Board assessment, it is clear that check feedback from new members of the Board and bring there are opportunities for us to: them up to speed with the process the Board has undergone: identify any new issues that have arisen during the past year.
improve papers and presentations, including context, content and timeliness: Once again, and in order to ensure consistency, Fon Hague create a better framework to facilitate constructive debate, assisted with this review.
The review was conducted according especially in relation to strategy: to the guidance in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010. ensure a more strategic review of the forward agenda: What was the focus of the Board review?
continue our engagement with senior management below Board level: and Our approach involved a Board observation: one-to-one following intensive induction on joining, review ongoing interviews with the Chairman and new joiners and structured knowledge and training for all directors.
telephone interviews with those directors who participated in last years evaluation.
Each participant was asked to evaluate Action Plan 2012 13 the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and individual Board members.
The process took place between January The insights gathered from the Board review has resulted in and March 2012. a clear action plan for the year ahead.
The actions address the key areas of succession, development and people, Subjects covered included a general overview as to the nature and scope of the Board debate, risk management, state of the Board, its operation and how this had changed and shareholder engagement.
Directors were asked for their views on our shareholder engagement and relationships and how these During the year, the Board plans to: relationships might be improved.
continue to drive the agenda on succession planning and development of key managers: Views were sought on the Boards input into strategy continue to improve engagement with shareholders and discussions, governance and compliance, risk management representative bodies, and transparency and disclosure: and succession planning.
continue to review ongoing knowledge and training for Views were also sought on the Board culture and the all directors: relationships with senior management as well as how new continue to drive better understanding of risk, members are selected and inducted.
risk tolerance and appetite: and continue to review long-term forward agenda and papers What did we learn?
and framework for Board discussion.
From the review, and subjects covered, it is clear that the Board has made progress on most of the points on last years Director induction action plan, as evidenced by: On joining, M&S directors receive a comprehensive, formal the dedicated session on succession and talent and the and tailored induction programme.
This includes time with the introduction of non-executive lunches to improve Group Secretary, each of the executive directors, members of engagement with senior management: the Management Committee and a wide range of senior the appointment of Vindi Banga and Miranda Curtis management from across the business.
following the retirement of Sir David Michels and Louise During the year we supported induction programmes Patten: the subsequent appointment of Jan du Plessis as for Laura Wade-Gery, Executive Director Multi-channel Senior Independent Director: the review and changes to the E-commerce and Vindi Banga and Miranda Curtis: our two Remuneration and Audit Committees: new non-executive directors.
