Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information CHANGING NEW Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 45 Accountability We believe that effective risk management is critical Gross risk assessed Net risk assessed 1 Risk identication G N before mitigation after mitigation to the achievement of our strategic objectives and Risks highlighted the long-term sustainable growth of our business.
and documented in a centrally managed G G Risk Register What is our approach to risk management?
G The Board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is N 2 Risk assessment G G effectively managed across the Group and, on behalf of the Risks assessed in Board, the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the terms of likelihood of occurrence and Group Risk Process.
potential impact on N N N the Group Risks are reviewed by all business areas on a half-yearly basis and measured against a dened set of likelihood and 3 Risk mitigation impact criteria.
This is captured in consistent reporting N Required actions are formats, enabling Internal Audit & Risk to consolidate the risk agreed and assigned, with target deadlines information and summarise the key risks in the form of the Minor Moderate Major Critical and quarterly status Group Risk Prole.
Our Executive Board discusses the Group updates IMPACT Risk Prole ahead of it being submitted to Group Board for final approval.
Our principal risks and uncertainties To ensure our risk process drives improvement across the As with any business, we face risk and uncertainties on business, the Executive Board monitors ongoing status and a daily basis.
It is the effective management of these that progress of key action plans against each risk on a quarterly places us in a better position to be able to achieve our strategic basis.
Whilst we continue to broaden the debate around objectives and to embrace opportunities as they arise.
tolerance and appetite, risk is now a key consideration in To achieve a holistic view of the risks facing our business, all strategic decision-making at a Board level.
both now and in the future, we consider those that are: Key areas of focus external to our business: core to our day-to-day operation: We continue to drive improvements to our risk related to business change activity: and management process and the quality of risk those that could emerge in the future.
information generated, while at the same time The risk radar below maps our principal risks against these maintaining a simple and practical approach.
This tool is also used to facilitate wider Executive Our process continues to be focused on the following and Board-level discussions on risk.
Alignment with the Group plan Each business area has clear objectives aligned to the plan.
Risk champions have refreshed their business area risk Economic Financial registers against the context of these objectives, ensuring outlook position that the risks upon which we are focusing are of strategic Business Key supplier importance to the Group and that key risks to delivery are continuity failure highlighted.
As a result, we have added two new risks this year: Distribution centre restructure and Business continuity.
Focused risk descriptions IT security Corporate As our understanding of the Groups risks develops, we reputation GM stock Programme and management are rening how these are dened.
For example, we have workstream management Food safety widened last years Economic outlook risk to encompass Our people New IT change achievement of the Group plan rather than focusing on our Our store format customers International sales forecast.
Action plans for key risks We have also improved our distinction between business Overleaf are details of our principal risks, the mitigating as usual mitigating controls incorporated in our net risk activities in place to address them and additional actions scoring, and additional mitigating actions taken to further implemented to further reduce net risk to the Group.
It is reduce net risk over time.
recognised that the Group is exposed to a number of risks, wider than those listed.
However, a conscious effort has been made to disclose those of most concern to the business at this moment in time and those that have been the subject of debate at recent Board or Audit Committee meetings.
STABLE KNOWN LIKELIHOOD Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 46 Accountability continued Description Mitigating activities Finance We continue to focus on maintaining a strong financial position that supports improvements to our business.
Economic outlook Worsening economic conditions impact consumer We regularly review and monitor the effectiveness of our pricing and promotional confidence and our ability to achieve the plan strategies across our General Merchandise GM and Food businesses, tailoring As consumers disposable incomes come under pressure our consumer offering where appropriate.
from price ination and government austerity measures, trading The business continues to actively manage and minimise costs where appropriate conditions continue to remain a challenge for our business.
and regularly reviews customer feedback and our positioning in the market place to ensure we meet customer expectations.
Financial position Deterioration in our financial position limits our Group Treasury regularly carries out forecasting of our debt capacity, exibility and ability to fund and grow the business financial covenants and other rating metrics within current rating bands.
In the event that the Groups financial performance does not The funding level of our pension scheme is monitored in collaboration with meet market expectations, our ability to borrow from lenders on the Trustees on a regular basis, with clear parameters in place that would trigger our existing terms may be impacted, resulting in increases to the an intra-valuation debate between the Trustees and the Company.
cost of borrowing and insufficient funding to meet our capital We have regular communication with rating agencies and brokers.
Group Treasury proactively monitor the potential for a Eurozone break up and where possible assess the impact this could have on the Groups nancing and derivatives.
Brand and reputation Our founding principles of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust continue to inuence how we do business and our reputation for being one of the UKs most trusted brands.
Corporate reputation External expectations relating to our financial performance, The business follows a clear plan to effectively communicate key information Plan A commitments or corporate governance are not to internal and external stakeholders and other external parties.
adequately managed Group KPIs and benets tracking for all strategic initiatives enable regular Our brand continues to be trusted in the marketplace, with Plan A monitoring of business and key programme performance.
and robust governance being integral components.
A strong Our commitment to Plan A and becoming the worlds most sustainable retailer brand brings high expectations and the need to consistently by 2015 remains a priority for the Group with one of our key objectives being for deliver quality, value and trust to our wide stakeholder base.
The all M&S products to have at least one Plan A quality by 2020. business must also manage significant external expectation Policies and procedures are in place to meet the requirements of the Bribery Act, regarding our plan.
Our customers Loss of engagement with our core 55 customer GM and Marketing have prioritised focus on our core customer and will continue As we seek to enhance the M&S brand and make our sub brands to respond to sales and customer reaction to product in-store experience through more distinctive, it is important that we continue to address our focus groups, online reviews and our in-house Customer Insight Unit.
core customers specic needs in an increasingly competitive and We are in the process of delivering improvements to our stores to strengthen and economically uncertain market.
clarify our brand in response to customer research.
Food safety A food safety incident occurs or is not effectively managed We have a dedicated team in place to ensure that all M&S food products are safe As a leading retailer of ne quality fresh food in the UK, it is for consumption through rigorous controls and processes, with a continuous focus paramount that the food products we sell to our customers are on quality.
We apply this approach to all new initiatives and locations.
safe, especially as we introduce more operational complexity We maintain robust governance of the supply base through our supplier audit such as delis and bakeries as part of our new store format.
Depot auditing is now also well established.
People and change Our people are fundamental to the long-term success and growth of this business.
Our people Reduced engagement and retention of key employees impacts A monthly brieng is cascaded to our top managers, a quarterly results broadcast is our ability to deliver business plans held for all employees and Directors regularly hold employee engagement sessions As we go through a period of economic uncertainty as well as a to communicate the growth ambitions and underlying plans for the business.
number of internal change initiatives, it is ever more important to Development of future talent remains a key priority.
Managers attend our Lead to ensure that M&S remains a great place to work.
Succeed programme, helping them to realise their full potential, whilst succession planning is a key area of focus for the Board.
We plan to roll out an improved performance and talent management process to ensure robust career development discussions take place across the business.
Programme and workstream management Benets from our major business programmes Our Strategic Programme Ofce centrally governs the strategic initiatives across and workstreams are not realised the Group, performs regular reviews and updates the Executive Board on their We continue to undertake a number of major strategic status, tracking of costs and realisation of benets.
programmes to underpin the achievement of our plan: the delivery All major programmes possess their own governance structures, supported by of forecasted benets is critical to this.
Distribution centre restructure NEW We fail to effectively deliver our new national e-commerce We are taking a phased approach to implementation for our new distribution centre, distribution centre and robust governance structures exist to engage all areas of the business.
We are opening a new national distribution centre which will also Simulation models are being used to test the robustness of the facility in different service all customer orders placed through Shop Your Way.
The scenarios and a programme is in place to ensure open dialogue with key partners.
implementation of this distribution centre relies on a number of We will continue to implement measures to test and manage facility performance.
new facilities, business processes and systems.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 47 Description Mitigating activities Selling channels We have ambitious plans for our UK, International and Multi-channel businesses as part of our commitment to becoming a leading international multi-channel retailer by 2015.
New store format Failure to deliver improvements across our store estate Our new store format initiative, designed to improve the customer shopping to time, to budget or to the desired quality experience and our brand positioning, is well underway and we continue to We are delivering improvements to our stores to strengthen and implement a phased roll out across our store estate.
As we move Close monitoring of costs and of progress against plan is in place, with direct into the second phase of the roll-out, adherence to programme reporting lines into the Executive Board.
This will continue as we move into the schedules, budget and quality standards will be key to second phase of roll-out.
We are closely managing the impact on our stores and have developed innovative training programmes to minimise time off the shop oor.
Multi-channel A new online platform with exibility to support future growth Our multi-channel growth strategy is underpinned by a clear plan for is not delivered by the time our contract with Amazon expires implementation of the new platform both in the UK and overseas.
To achieve our target to become a leading multi-channel retailer We are working closely with our partner Amazon to ensure the quality of our and to make our brand more accessible, we are investing in a new existing online offering is not compromised whilst we build the new platform.
online platform that will provide both an enhanced shopping A phased approach for implementation of the new platform is planned.
experience and help to accelerate our growth.
International Failure to leverage our systems, processes and controls The appointment of Heads of Region for Europe, Middle East and Asia limits growth of our International business will facilitate the implementation of our international growth plans.
To increase our international presence and build a leadership The focus on enhancing international systems and processes has continued position in priority markets, we must adopt an organisation throughout the year in alignment with the development of our international structure that is supported by robust systems and supply strategy and will remain a priority for the year ahead.
Day-to-day operation We are a customer-centric business and strive to deliver an efficient and effective operation.
GM stock management Ineffective stock management control impacts either General Merchandise GM continue to closely monitor stock levels, targeting areas gross margin delivery or product availability with more or less than required.
Promotions are tightly controlled, and we are focusing Effective stock management is integral to ensuring that we on our ability to respond in-season to current trends and sales performance.
provide good availability to our customers, whilst minimising A Stock, Sales & Intake tool is now being used across GM and we have implemented markdowns which can impact profitability.
a new stock ledger in parallel run with legacy systems, prior to full business adoption.
Key supplier failure Failure of a key supplier or third party provider We have strengthened our monitoring of top suppliers, with a quarterly risk assessment process in place for key merchandise and non-merchandise suppliers.
Economic or geo-political conditions, or changes to the way Alternative supply routes are continually monitored and, where appropriate, the we source our goods and services, cause a key supplier to fail, supply base has been consolidated.
or disrupt the supply of key product lines or services.
We continue to offer payment terms that are sufciently exible to assist suppliers as required.
IT security We experience a major breach in IT security Extensive security controls are in place in accordance with International Standards, The business is subject to external threats from hackers or along with a number of policies and technologies designed to enhance security.
viruses, or sensitive data is accessed without authorisation.
Sensitive data is tightly controlled through limited and monitored access, and the roll-out of systems incorporating enhanced security.
IT change Unforeseen impact of IT changes to new and existing We continue to proactively manage cross programme dependencies and have systems disrupts business operations introduced release management to group system changes together.
As we undertake a number of significant change programmes, We have a clear decision-making process for system changes, including the the rate and scale of IT change is increasing, with potential to adoption of change freezes during critical trading periods.
signicantly impact our complex and interdependent systems.
Disaster Recovery plans for critical business applications have been tested.
Business continuity NEW We fail to adequately manage or respond to a Group-wide Group continuity plans, incident reporting and management procedures are well disaster established.
We monitor these through an annual crisis management exercise and The business faces a heightened level of risk as a result of the quarterly committee meetings.
Summer 2012 events taking place in the UK.
We have a number of policies and procedures in place to manage the safety of our employees when abroad, and have links with the Home Ofce and government agencies to receive information on known threats.
We have removed a number of risks from our Group Risk Prole since the prior year, including Food competition, Product costs and Supply chain management.
The Group has undertaken significant mitigating activity in response to these risks and as such their inclusion in the Group Risk Prole is not deemed necessary at this moment in time.
The risks listed do not comprise all those associated with Marks & Spencer and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
Further information on the financial risks we face and how they are managed is provided on pages 97 to 102.
Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 48 Accountability continued Risk interconnectivity Over time, globalisation, changing business models Key: and technological advances have resulted in a Top risk Corporate reputation business environment increasingly interconnected Downgraded risk through systems and processes.
Whilst this can Highlighted risk be beneficial, it also increases the interdependency IT of risk.
As a Group, we recognise this and International security continually strive to rene our risk management processes in response.
Financial position The diagram depicts our current Group Risk MultiProle, plus three risks removed since last year.
It is IT channel designed to highlight how changes to one risk could change impact on those connected to it, and on the prole Business as a whole.
continuity 1 Programme Economic 1 Deterioration in the Economic outlook workstream Our outlook could impact our sales performance.
management people 2 This requires greater control over General Supply chain Merchandise GM stock management.
4 management Product 3 Reduced order volumes could increase the costs risk of Key supplier failure if they experience New store 3 Distribution format pressure from other economic factors.
Key supplier centre failure restructure 4 Competition over retail selling prices may require 2 us to reduce Product costs, increasing pressure GM stock on suppliers.
management Food Following significant mitigating activity, Product safety Our costs is not considered a top risk to the Group at customers Food this time.
It still features in our detailed risk registers competition and by understanding risk interconnectivity, we can monitor factors such as the economy to ensure we can appropriately manage any likely impact on our supply base.
Risk and the role of Internal Audit Internal Audit & Risk comprises both the Group Risk function and Internal Audit.
Whilst Group Risk facilitates and manages the risk process that is ultimately owned by the Group Board, Internal Audit is accountable to the Audit Committee.
Audit projects are often closely aligned to the Group Risk Prole GRP due to the risk-based approach used to prioritise audit work.
The following examples illustrate how Internal Audit work supports Group Risk whilst driving improvements to our control environment and adding value in core business areas.
Risk: International Risk: New store format Risk: IT security Risk: Food safety M&S Czech Republic operates Internal Audit scheduled a We engage a number of thirdFood innovation and quality help 48 stores across six countries review of our new store format party service providers who to differentiate M&S and we are selling primarily General initiative due to the pace of host or process sensitive or committed to ongoing new Merchandise GM goods.
The delivery and level of investment condential data on our behalf.
product development NPD, audit assessed the adequacy in the programme.
The scope Internal Audit reviewed the whilst maintaining food safety and effectiveness of internal focused specically on Property processes and controls in place standards.
Internal Audit controls over core operations, and included processes relating to mitigate the risk of conducted an audit review to including stores and support to project planning, cost control, unauthorised release or assess the adequacy and functions.
The report highlighted supplier selection and re, exposure of such data.
The effectiveness of internal controls areas for control improvement health & safety.
The audit report report confirmed that the over NPD.
The audit report in strategic decision-making at provided assurance to security assessment provided assurance that a local level, GM stock management and the Audit methodology is robust, and that effective controls exist over this management and retail Committee that there were significant external data hosting core process and also identied operations.
A pilot of a centrally robust programme management or processing activities adhere opportunities to enhance managed stock allocation and controls in place and, although without exception, enforced by monitoring of product range planning system has been some minor areas for our IT Change process.
development costs and the use implemented.
improvement were identied, Opportunities existed to improve of success criteria.
the overall control environment process compliance and was strong.
business area awareness for smaller initiatives.
Management actions from all of our audits are tracked to completion and the status of these actions is reported to the Audit Committee to ensure that the risks identied are appropriately addressed.
This will, in turn, further mitigate the risks included in our Group Risk Prole.
