02 MEGGITT AT A GLANCE AEROSPACE SYSTEMS KEY CUSTOMERS Agusta Westland 90 per cent of the worlds aircraft carry our engine vibration monitoring systems.
In 2002 we AIDC achieved a quantum leap in engine condition diagnostics, commercialising the worlds first, Airbus comprehensive, on-engine condition monitoring unit for the A380 Airbus.
With our Antonov Arianespace electronics, this unit adds parameters of temperature, pressure and speed from digital engine BAE SYSTEMS control systems to our oil debris and vibration analysis tools, sharpening maintenance Bell Helicopter scheduling and enhancing the readiness of mission-critical aerospace applications.
Boeing Cessna CIAM The divisions electronic cockpit displays are compact, information-rich yet optically-clear, Commander Aircraft and function in extreme conditions.
With 2002's acquisition of best-in-class air data Dassault Aviation computers, specialised avionics sensors and data acquisition units, discrete flight EADS Embraer instrumentation is now being integrated into comprehensive, higher value systems.
Eurocopter General Electric Gulfstream Ilyushin Lockheed Martin Pilatus TURNOVER MILLIONS Pratt & Whitney Raytheon Rockwell Collins 2002 102.0 Rolls-Royce Saab 2001 107.7 102.0M Siemens Sikorsky 2000 89.5 Tupolev 26% 1999 77.5 The New Piper Aircraft, Inc. UK Ministry of Defence 1998 51.2 US Department of Defense % GROUP TURNOVER AEROSPACE EQUIPMENT KEY CUSTOMERS The flight time of our fire detection systems, which have never missed a true fire warning, Agusta Airbus exceeds one billion hours.
Our high speed fuel control and shut-off valves operate in less than Alenia 50 milliseconds at extreme temperatures.
Our unique Bleed Air Leak Detection system is now Arianespace BAE SYSTEMS on the C5 jet and Aermacchi M346 jet trainer and our tank pressurisation ducts on the Space Boeing Shuttle.
Our fluid transfer products disconnect without leakage, spillage or air inclusion.
Bombardier DASA When you consider that our products transmit signals, are used to control engine clearance, Dornier regulate fide-icing, cool avionics, select landing gear, manage fuel and control cabin pressure Embraer General Electric and temperature, you can see why our products and systemsalso repaired and replaced by GKN Westland us over the average 30-year life of an aircraftare on virtually every aircraft flying today.
We Lockheed Martin Northrop Grumman work on the ground, too: on transfer cooling solutions involving proprietary printed heat Pratt & Whitney exchange technology, and fire and gas detection systems for industrial applications.
Rolls-Royce Saga Shell Sikorsky Statoil MILLIONS TURNOVER UK Ministry of Defence US Department of Defense 2002 169.2 2001 173.5 169.2M 2000 155.5 44% 1999 95.2 1998 71.2 % GROUP TURNOVER Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2002 03 DEFENCE SYSTEMS KEY CUSTOMERS AIDC - Taiwan Our aerial targets, electronic scoring systems and unmanned air vehicles are favoured by 43 Lockheed Martin countries to support the development and evaluation of anti-aircraft weapon systems and Raytheon personnel.
Turnkey systems and services add value to these products.
Our aero-mechanical UK Ministry of Defence US Department of Defense launch and recovery systemsdeploying targets or towed decoys to foil missile threatsare installed on numerous military aircraft the world over.
Governments of The divisions innovative proprietary technology is protected and developed through total Denmark Egypt systems control.
We design and manufacture everything from the airframe to the avionics, France guaranteeing a high degree of customisation for each client.
Long standing relationships Germany Holland enable us to respond swiftly to developments in weapon systems technology and sustain Malaysia market dominance.
Japan Spain Thailand TURNOVER MILLIONS 2002 38.9 2001 37.2 38.9M 2000 29.7 10% 1999 26.6 1998 24.8 % GROUP TURNOVER ELECTRONICS KEY CUSTOMERS We design and manufacture high-value, active sensors.
Like many Meggitt businesses, we BAE SYSTEMS Boeing specialise in niche applications within long term growth markets with intellectual property DaimlerChrysler owned and developed by us.
EADS ELA Our sensors monitor everything from a heart beat to the likely impact of a car crash on the General Electric General Motors human body.
They sense the sound of silence or lack of it on a submarine and guide or Guidant Corporation detonate missiles at specific depths or distances.
Their applications are many but they have Hamilton Sundstrand one thing in common: if they fail, the mission fails.
Thats why they are engineered to the Honeywell Lockheed Martin highest standards and to exacting specifications that require them to function for decades or Medtronic for a few hundredths of a second, in benign, or hazardous conditions.
