11 Social performance summary Premiers focus on corporate social responsibility CSR intensied Development of the Premier Oil Social Performance Management in 1997 when it became a significant operator of production and System SPMS was initiated to drive responsibility and competencies development projects in South East Asia.
From that point, Premier for dealing with all aspects of CSR internal and external down into was determined that its activities should not just be a contractual every Business Unit.
This was accomplished by training appropriate obligation but must also take into account local sensitivities.
people throughout the Group in SPMS implementation.
More recently, Premiers Business Units as well as functions in Operations, To succeed in this, Premier sought to leverage the benets of its CSR Health Safety & Environment HSE, Exploration and New Business programmes by working with credible partners.
The goal was to agreed to streamline the SPMS.
This was achieved by aligning SPMS achieve sustainability while avoiding interventions that could become with the existing HSE Management System.
By making the SPMS burdensome for local communities.
consistent with its familiar HSE counterpart, Premiers cross-functional team facilitated SPMS implementation.
Since then, Premier has helped to initiate and implement community based education programmes in partnerships with Save the Children As a result of all of these activities, Premier is now widely recognised USA in Myanmar and Social Concern Indonesia in Matak Island, as a CSR leader in innovation as well as operational achievement.
In Premiers Pakistan Business Unit, one-off initiatives have included bringing water to rural communities and enabling provision Premiers CSR strategy post-restructuring for long-term healthcare in the Sindh area in collaboration with the Not surprisingly, much of Premiers CSR behaviours and Edhi Foundation.
achievements had centred around the production and development of operated assets.
Now, following the restructuring of Premier, the Premier also began a meaningful dialogue with a number of key challenge is to maintain and build on the Groups leadership stakeholders, principally focusing on Myanmar activities.
included Amnesty Internationals Business Group and Save the Children USA.
This process grew to include a number of other This strategy is straightforward: Premier should remain an industry parties: individuals, NGOs, governments and organisations.
These front-runner in the CSR arena.
The Group will achieve this by interactions highlighted the need for Premier to articulate CSR and continuing to plan, create and deliver up front a net positive human rights principles.
This should be done collaboratively, in partnerships with specialist organisations whenever appropriate and Premier then set out the Groups CSR aspirations and human rights feasible, in order to multiply the benets of CSR programmes and policy in a publication entitled The Future is Responsible Business.
In addition to developmental activities, areas of particular This made clear that having outlined the boundaries within which focus should include the use of renewables with emphasis on solar Premier would operate, the Group was indeed going to follow its power as possible sustainable energy solutions in Premiers areas own rules.
To ensure that this was happening, Premier carried out of operation.
and published the Premier Oil Social Performance Report 2001.
This document benchmarked management of the Premier social To record and assess present and future activities, Premier will footprint and identied areas for continuous improvement wherever continue to produce regular social and environmental reports as possible in line with stakeholder expectations.
Warwick Universitys akey communication tool, including an integrated environmental Corporate Citizenship Unit veried this report.
and social report that will be available in May 2003.
To broaden the Groups CSR outlook and scope, Premier supports the United A multi-functional CSR committee was also established to provide Nations Global Compact.
This is an international voluntary input at various levels throughout Premier.
This saw the start of corporate citizenship initiative aimed at bringing companies several human rights programmes, including some related to human together with United Nations agencies, labour and civil society to security issues.
These encompassed training in human rights and support nine principles in the areas of human rights, labour and humanitarian law.
12 Social performance summary continued The Global Compact was first proposed by UN Secretary General Ko Annan in an address to The World Economic Forum on 31 January 1999.
Its operational phase was launched at UN Headquarters in New York on 26 July 2000.
Premier recognises that development issues particularly those involving sustainability and specialised expertise are not naturally part of an exploration and production companys core skill set.
This was highlighted at the 2002 World Summit on Sustainability in Johannesburg, where it was stressed that the establishment of partnerships between business and civil society will be key to addressing the needs of developing countries in a sustainable manner.
To that end, as part of its new CSR strategy, the Group will continue the types of partnerships that have been so beneficial in Myanmar.
This will involve activity at every level of Premiers group structure.
Looking ahead, Premier has already embarked on a number of global partnerships.
Building on past successes in Myanmar, the Group has joined forces with Save the Children USA to cover community development.
Premier has also embarked on a five-year commitment with the Proteus Project under the auspices of United Nations Environmental Programme UNEP.
At Monash Universitys Castan Centre for Human Rights, the Group is involved in a three-year collaboration to explore the boundaries of corporations human rights responsibilities and determine how best to respond to these challenges.
Implementation of the new CSR strategy will ensure that Premier will continue to be an acknowledged global leader in ethical and sustainable business operations.
