The Group at a glance I Insulation Providing the best insul specific applicationwithe As the construction industry increases its demands for the efficient use of energy, for better control of noise and for high quality solutions to hazards, SIG continues to respond with the supply of thermal, acoustic and fire protection products.
Specialist contractors and other customers know that it is essential to have sound technical knowledge of these specific applications to ensure that legal and safety standards are met in building and industry, and that the products supplied match the exacting requirements in each case.
The Groups distribution network and the size and strength of its operations ensures that major product lines are available to meet every application.
Specialist transport technology meets customers increasing needs for just in time deliveries to increase productivity and reduce contractor down time.
Professional, efficient scheduling of deliveries, making sure that the right product is in the right place at the right time, helps minimise material and labour costs.
As well as breaking bulk and supplying the whole range of Specialist Regulatory insulating materials, the one-stop-shop service offers a huge variety of building products and accessories.
Trade counter knowledge change facilities also provide an efficient collection service.
The Groups businesses are The tightening of regulations adept at responding quickly within the UK and the Republic The use and choice of insulation is driven by three key with technical advice on the of Ireland, together with new factors: legislation, safety and cost control.
SIG is at the best products for a particular European CE marking application.
Impartial advice regulation requirements, has forefront of providing solutions to meet those exacting across a range of manufacturers created an increasingly requirements.
products is highly valued by complex and challenging architects, contractors and marketplace where diverse end-users alike.
Responding to demands for a diverse range of industrial and structural insulation products is key to the Groups success.
This ability to supply the right products across a range of areas is demonstrated by the involvement of SlGs German business in the Kln Turm in Colognes Media Park.
This new building houses a mix of broadcasters, music production companies and other tenants with a diverse range of needs.
Working closely with French architects and local contractors, SIG supplied both standard structural and industrial insulation products, as well as custom designed products for the office interiors.
The ability to respond flexibly to each customers requirements is a significant differentiator for SIG.
4 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 c Copyright.
ADP For further information visit: www.
co. uk insulation : ation product for each xpert technical support.
Terminal 2E Roissy-Charles fide Gaulle Airport, Paris, France SIGs French Insulation business has worked closely with Aroports fide Paris ADP in the development of the new 2E terminal building at Roissy-Charles fide Gaulle airport near Paris.
The work has involved SIG supplying highly specialist industrial insulation materials to ADP and its contractors, for use in insulating many kilometres of heating and cooling pipes in the building.
SIG has advised on the appropriate performance specifications and worked with architects and specifiers to ensure that the installation of the insulation has met ADPs tight timescales.
SIGs French businesses provide industrial Insulation and related products as well as Ceilings and Partitioning for use in Commercial Interiors across the whole of France.
The business emphasises high levels of customer service with exact specification of the product to the application, including design work to provide bespoke solutions to their specialist contracting base.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 5
