The Group at a glance I Commercial Interiors Enhancing working enviro schools, industrial and retail The market for Commercial Interiors has become more demanding and more sophisticated in recent years.
The emphasis is very much on achieving the optimum balance between efficient utilisation of space and the quality and comfort provided for people who use that space as a working environment every day.
SIG provide a range of products and services into this market according to the requirements of the client.
The building may be an office complex, a PFI project, a factory or a retail outlet.
Refurbishment projects are equally as important as new construction.
The Company provides an integrated package beginning with a design and space utilisation service, based on intended occupancy levels, through to the manufacture of specific tailor made products and the eventual supply on a critical time basis.
In common with the Roofing and Insulation businesses, legislation and design performance requirements concerning acoustics and fire are vital elements in the Commercial Interiors sector.
The product range is very extensive, covering the spectrum Flexible Supporting of requirements from budget systems to top quality boardroom interiors.
Ceilings and wall systems, partitions, solutions customers office screens, furniture, lighting and wall storage systems, The flexible use of space in The Commercial Interiors together with a wide range of essential associated any environment is important.
businesses work closely with Many of the products can be products, are all supplied.
customers, all the way through relocated or reconfigured from the initial design stage when requirements change, The Group is the leading supplier in the UK and Republic of with the architect to the final fit which helps customers out by the contractor.
At every Ireland and has a substantial position in mainland Europe.
find the balance between stage the diverse range of efficiency and comfort.
products are backed by expert advice and support.
Providing the right working environment for health, education, industry and commerce.
SlGs Commercial Interior businesses dont only supply contractors working on office space.
Chaucer Community School, Sheffield, UK, is an example of how having the right products available at the right time, and with the right level of technical support, gives interior specialists the tools to satisfy architects and end-users alike.
SIG supplies interior solutions to a whole range of buildings, and is able to tailor products to meet the customers varying situations and priorities.
Understanding client needs and working closely with contractors to meet these, is a key strength of the Group.
8 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 For further information visit: www.
co. uk interiors : nments in offices, hospitals, space.
Warwickshire County Cricket Club Edgbaston, Birmingham, UK The design brief was to generate a welcoming, spacious and bright environment for visitors yet provide flexible workspace for both individual and group working.
An informal area for presentations was also important.
To meet the clients requirements, glazed partitions were used to allow natural daylight to flood through to the main corridor.
Sliding doors gave space savings.
Working wall islands, used to divide the offices and meeting rooms, were designed to accept flat screen monitors and desk accessories.
This efficient use of the vertical plane enhanced the working environment for staff.
Non-handed desking with mobile storage units gave additional flexibility allowing easy re-configuration as the clients future requirements change.
Storagewall, in the presentation zone, is used to conceal filing, house audio visual equipment and provide glass fronted display cabinets.
SIGs Commercial Interior businesses design, manufacture and supply products to meet the most challenging of aesthetic and practical specifications for a whole variety of environments.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 9
