The Group at a glance I Roofing Product range and qualit requirements of the specia The roof of any building is the most critical part: it provides protection from the forces of sun, wind, rain, snow and ice as well as adding to the overall aesthetic effect of the property.
Consequently, most roofs need maintenance and repair many times during their lifespan and, indeed, complete renewal of the roof of a building is commonplace.
These factors mean that the repair and maintenance of roofs is a major industry, in addition to the new build market, and extremely short time-scales for contractors create a demand for instant availability across an extremely diverse range of materials.
Meeting such demands is the classic role of a specialist supplier.
SIG is the largest supplier of roofing products in the UK and a leading specialist in Ireland, with a presence in other European markets.
Covering the pitched, flat, industrial and agricultural roofing markets, SIG deals with major manufacturers of roofing products and holds significant levels of stock.
The ability to competitively service the full range of the specialist contractors requirements is unrivalled.
Local Instant presence availability SIG operates its roofing SIG continues to develop business using multiple brand through the application of its names and from over 100 core business techniques to UK locations.
This ensures its existing businesses.
nationwide coverage whilst This combines with the not forgetting the traditional extensive range of stock, to values important to individual satisfy customer demands customers and local markets.
for instant availability across an extremely diverse product range.
Satisfying customer demand is increasingly important in a competitive environment.
The construction industry is continually faced with new challenges and as a specialist distributor SIG is constantly looking to add value and reduce costs for customers.
This approach is typified in the roofing branches, where extensive stock, knowledgeable staff and an increasingly specialist delivery service combine to meet these demands.
Dedication to customer service is shown through a continued expansion of the branch network, relocation of existing branches to increase the range of stock held and the introduction of new products to solve old problems.
Increased use of delivery vehicles fitted with mechanical offload is another response to satisfying customer needs.
6 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 For further information visit: www.
co. uk roofing : y of service are essential list distributor.
National Maritime Museum Falmouth, Cornwall, UK The National Maritime Museum, with its distinctive grey green natural slate roof makes a striking impression from its historical waterfront location in Falmouth.
The spectacular rhomboid shaped roof features a dramatic false perspective which made it a particularly complex design.
The Spanish producers technical team worked closely with our branch in Newquay to achieve the exacting demands set out by the unique design of this building.
In order to achieve this effect, each slate was individually positioned and sized, with even the position of the nail hole in the slate being specified.
This level of attention to detail and ability to work comfortably and closely with suppliers and customers alike is a key differentiator for the roofing business.
The requirements were for 50,000 high quality natural slates with: 14 different slate sizes, 9 hole positions, varying slate lengths, carefully tailored slate widths and a close control of the supply process to ensure the right product was on hand at the right time for installation.
SIG Roofing works with customers on many types of roofing projects ranging from the complex and high profile to the routine repair of storm damage.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 7
