Group at a Glance Hong Kong Singapore Malaysia Other Asia Pacic Hong Kong remains the Groups Standard Chartered has been Standard Chartered is the oldest The Group has more than largest market, generating one third doing business in Singapore bank in Malaysia, where there 80 branches and ofces of the Groups revenue.
We have for 144 years and has 20 branches is a network of 29 branches.
in 14 countries across the region.
Standard and ofces, the largest branch Malaysia is another of the Groups In China, Standard Chartered has Chartered has been transacting network among foreign banks.
core markets with broadly based one of the largest branch networks business in Hong Kong since 1858 The business in Singapore accounts business as a result of long of any foreign bank and is welland we issue bank notes there.
for approximately eleven per cent established franchises.
In 2002, Standard Chartered The Group continues to expand The Group is developing its became the first FTSE 100 company Standard Chartered has Qualifying its Shared Service Centre which Consumer Banking business and to launch a new dual primary listing Full Bank status, which has enabled was opened in 2001and carries has opened branches in Shanghai in Hong Kong.
This will make the expansion of the distribution out operations and processing and Shenzhen.
In Thailand, Group more accessible to Asian network.
The centre in Kuala Lumpur the integration of Nakornthon Bank investors and will enhance magazine named Standard has contributed signicantly was successfully completed the Groups regional prole.
Chartered the Best Retail Bank to improvements in the Groups in 2002. in Singapore.
The average number of employees The average number of employees in Hong Kong in 2002 was 4,677.
The average number of employees The average number of employees in Other Asia Pacic in 2002 in Singapore in 2002 was 2,451. in Malaysia in 2002 was 1,981. was 4,851.
Net Revenue Net Revenue Net Revenue Net Revenue $ million $ million $ million $ million 2 Standard Chartered India Region Middle East and other South Asia Africa United Kingdom Standard Chartered is the largest The MESA region performed Standard Chartered continues and the Americas international bank in India and, well in 2002.
The region accounts to be one of the leading banks Businesses in the United Kingdom following the successful completion for approximately eleven per cent in sub-Saharan Africa.
The Group and the Americas provide services of the integration of Grindlays, of the Groups revenues.
offers Consumer Banking and to leading multinationals and major has a combined customer The integration of Grindlays was Wholesale Banking services in financial institutions which trade base of 2.4 million in Consumer successfully completed and the 13 African countries with a network or invest in Asia, Africa, the Middle Banking and over 1,200 corporate Group is now one of the leading of 149 branches and ofces.
international banks in each of Standard Chartered recently In 2002, businesses in the its chosen markets in the region.
launched operations in the Ivory The Group launched its business Americas were extensively Coast and re-entered Nigeria.
in Mauritius in 2002 to provide The contribution of the Groups restructured to improve efficiency Wholesale Banking services business in the United Arab Businesses in East Africa have for future growth.
The Group to corporate clients.
The shared Emirates reects the significant performed well.
Despite difficulties also operates a growing Offshore service centre in Chennai continues growth of the businesses.
Standard in Zimbabwe, the Groups business banking business based in Jersey.
to develop rapidly as more services Chartered now holds leadership in Africa has delivered good results.
The average number of employees and processes are migrated from positions in most of its key product The average number of employees in the United Kingdom and other countries.
The average number of employees The average number of employees in the India region in 2002 was 5,251. in the Middle East and Other South Asia region in 2002 was 2,995.
Net Revenue Net Revenue Net Revenue Net Revenue $ million $ million $ million $ million 3
