Centrica at a glance Every day we touch the lives of millions of people.
Through our leading brands, Centrica provides warmth, comfort and peace of mind.
People know us through our brands but behind those brands lie the skill, knowledge and expertise of thousands of employees.
Centrica has unrivalled experience in providing essential services to people in their homes and on the road.
co. uk Gas: We supply gas to homes Telecommunications: British Gas throughout Britain, under the British Communications was launched Gas and Scottish Gas brands.
in September 2000, and offers Against the background of a highly customers fixed line, mobile competitive energy market, millions and internet services.
of customers continue to choose us as their gas supplier.
Home services: We continue to be the largest provider of gas Electricity: Since the residential central heating installation electricity market opened to and servicing in the country.
competition in 1998 weve We also offer our customers become one of the largest the reassurance of protection suppliers of electricity in Britain.
in other areas of the home, providing services for kitchen We are committed to providing our appliances, plumbing and customers with excellent service drains, electrical wiring and and great value for money.
co. uk During the year we created In addition to increasing our share Centrica Business Services.
of the energy market for small and medium sized enterprises, we We supply gas, electricity and are creating broader bundled telecoms to industrial and offers.
These build on emerging commercial customers across operational synergies, as well as Britain using the British Gas, our local and national presence.
Centrica energy management group CEMG www.
com Gas and electricity operations: wholesale UK energy market Our equity gas production and and is an active player in the electricity generation capabilities, emerging European markets.
along with third party supply and transportation contracts are managed to optimise value and assure reliable supply for customers.
Energy trading: Our trading and wholesaling business, Accord Energy, trades with all the major participants in the 02 Centrica plc report 2002 We aim to enhance the service we provide to our customers and the value we give to our shareholders by continually deepening our understanding of what our customers want.
We do this by training our people, enhancing our systems and developing our brands.
Centrica strives to ensure that all our experience and knowledge is shared across our businesses for the benefit of customers and shareholders alike.
com Roadside services: We provide are a growing provider of personal reassurance and services to loans and financial services.
motorists in the UK and Ireland through the AA.
The roadside Other AA services: AA Service assistance service remains at the Centres offer a range of maintenance core of our activities, with members and repair services to motorists choosing the level of cover that across Britain.
We are the only national driving Personal finance: We are the school exclusively using fully UKs number one independent qualified driving instructors.
insurance intermediary, and we One.
co. uk With a fresh and innovative Our mobile service offers one approach, we provide a range of the lowest monthly line rental of landline, mobile and internet charges in the country.
com Goldfish Bank Building on the success of the New products include a savings Goldfish card, we have launched account, personal loans and the Goldfish Bank in partnership a guaranteed savings bond.
with Lloyds TSB to develop a wide range of financial services products.
North America and Europe www.
com North America: Through Direct ventilation installation and www.
be Energy in Canada and Energy maintenance services.
America in the US we supply energy to homes and businesses Europe: Our joint venture energy in several provinces and states.
business, Luminus, is an active participant in the liberalising Our Direct Energy home services Belgian market.
division provides heating and Centrica plc report 2002 03
