OUR GROUP AT A GLANCE Kingston Communications HULL PLC Kingston inbusiness Kingston inmedia Broadband A significant UK Business content, storage communications solutions and distribution company provider division Description of business The Kingston Communications Kingston inbusiness is the Kingston inmedia is the Group offers a wide range national business to business Groups satellite division, of communications services division of the Group.
delivering enterprise, and solutions across the UK, It provides end to end broadcast and internet from voice, data, internet communications solutions solutions to business and mobile through to exclusively for businesses, customers.
With its global managed services, interactive offering a broad range of reach it provides tailored TV and satellite.
products and services business services to a including voice, data and number of major national The Kingston Communications IP, contact centre and and international companies.
Group comprises the hosting solutions.
following business units: Key achievements Turnover increased by Now delivering playout 55 per cent.
facilities for customers via the Groups data centre.
Successful Milgo integration into inbusiness strengthens Customer contract wins from our data offering, resulting corporate clients like Xerox in a breadth of portfolio few and major broadcasters such companies can match.
Awarded EMEA Best Innovator by Nortel Networks.
Public sector gains, resulting in the award of Government Telephone Contract GTC accreditation.
Priorities for next year To continue to move from a Add to and retain large products focus to a solutions enterprise customers.
focus, thereby better offering Increase revenue customers what they really per customer.
want, and developing customer-driven propositions Continue to focus on that add real value.
Continued focus on the public sector.
02 196,838 02 32,085 Year on year comparison 01 126,686 01 29,887 Revenue 000 Revenue 000 Share of Group revenues Includes -1.4 per cent for other see note 2.
Kingston inbusinessKingston 61.9% inmedia 10.1% Rest of Group Rest of Group 38.1% 89.9% 2 Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 Kingston Communications and Kingston incontact Kingston information Kingston interactive East Yorkshire Digital media Broadband network solutions interactive franchise provider services provider Kingston Communications This new media division Kingston interactive provides is our East Yorkshire network provides directory production an interactive television services division, which services for independent service to the Hull area provides high quality telecoms operators, Manx using ADSL technology.
communications services Telecom and Jersey and This technology enables to over 185,000 business Guernsey Telecoms, as television signals to be sent and residential customers well as producing the Hull via the telephone network in the region.
Kingston White Pages and classied to customers homes, incontact, based in Hull, directory, Hull Colour Pages.
eliminating the need for offers outsourced customer It offers a range of options, satellite dishes.
service facilities via phone, from traditional classied fax or internet-based advertising through to web communications, for design and the first ever organisations operating interactive TV-based directory.
Top of the OFTEL-approved Celebrating 10th year Built relationships with customer service award of producing the Manx national brands such as for 12th time.
Kit Kat and the Nationwide Building Society, who are Launched a range of high Multimedia studio created to using Kingston interactive speed internet services take advantage of increasing as a testbed for promotional for residential and demand for online and activities on interactive TV.
Turnover increased Kingston incontact: the UKs by 11 per cent.
fastest-growing telemarketing bureau Marketing magazine.
Kingston Communications: to Focus on widening Increase average revenue further strengthen customer the portfolio to include per user through higher service and satisfaction.
Kingston Communications: to Increase customer reach and Continue strategy of increase services with existing generate higher average attracting national brands.
customers, with an increased revenue per customer emphasis on delivering through the sale of higher higher value added services.
Kingston incontact: to target local and central government.
02 86,038 02 5,395 02 2,333 01 75,255 01 4,881 01 592 Revenue 000 Revenue 000 Revenue 000 Kingston  and Kingston informationKingston incontact 27.0% 1.7% interactive 0.7% Rest of GroupRest of Group Rest of Group 73.0% 98.3% 99.3% Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 3
