2 Computacenter plc Group at a glance Computacenter is Europes leading independent provider of IT infrastructure services.
To help our customers maximise the value of IT to their businesses, we offer services at every stage of infrastructure deployment.
Our corporate and government clients are served by a network of branch offices across the UK, Germany, France, Austria, Luxembourg and Belgium, and through our international partners, at locations throughout Europe, Asia Pacific and North America.
Coverage United Kingdom Computacenters European regions Number of employees: 4,629 Aberdeen, Belfast, Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Gatwick, Hatfield, Leeds, London, Maidenhead, Manchester, Milton Keynes, Newcastle upon Tyne, Reading, Swindon, Watford France Belgium and Luxembourg Number of employees: 1,300 Number of employees: 93 Paris, Bordeaux, Grenoble, Lille, Lyon, Marseille, Brussels, Luxembourg Nantes, Nice, Orlans, Pau, Rennes, Rouen, Strasbourg, Toulouse Austria Germany Number of employees: 224 Number of employees: 3,666 Gotzis, Graz, Innsbruck, Klagenfurt, Linz, Vienna Aachen, Berlin, Cologne, Essen, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Hannover, Kerpen, Kiel, Ludwigshafen, Munich, Nrnberg, Stuttgart 3 Computacenter plc 2002 2001 Highlights 2002 million million Group revenue 1,926.7 2,093.4 1 Group operating profit 56.2 55.1 2 Profit before tax 54.2 51.1 3 Diluted earnings per share 19.3p 17.9p Year-end Group employee numbers 6,022 5,894 1 Excluding results of associated undertakings and joint ventures.
2 Calculated as profit before tax excluding non-operating exceptional items.
Computacenter advises customers on projects include major technology roll-outs Business activity their IT strategy, implements appropriate across multiple locations, consolidating technologies and manages elements widely dispersed IT infrastructures, of their IT infrastructures on their behalf.
implementing local or remote hosted At every stage we aim to help customers environments and optimising our minimise the cost and maximise the customers security, application, network business value of their IT expenditure.
We advise We manage We offer our customers trusted advice We help our customers minimise the on such matters as the planning and technology management burden design of IT infrastructures, or the choice by managing elements of their of specific technologies.
We are able to infrastructures on their behalf.
Our assist in preparing a business justification, outsourcing services range from specifying and testing a solution, and managing on-site or centralised help providing ongoing advice on how to desks, through responsibility for all optimise availability and performance.
large-scale infrastructure moves and Our Solutions Centre has added changes, to the provision of ongoing significantly to our depth of service technology support, including remote in this area, enabling us to compare monitoring and intervention services.
different technology solutions for our Computacenter ensures high standards customers in an off-site test environment.
of service by committing to contracted service levels agreed with the customer.
We implement We procure, configure and deliver a wide range of IT products across multiple platforms, and with our consultancy and project management expertise we can ensure successful integration with the customers existing technology.
Typical 2002 revenue by country millions UK 1,597.3 France 316.8 BeLux 12.6 Austria 58.9 Germany 737.0 2002 Computacenter Group revenues 2002 revenues of GE CompuNet in Germany and GECITS Austria, acquired by Computacenter in January 2003
