Chairman and Chief Executives review Dear Fellow Shareholder to streamline our operating board resulting in 2.3million of marketing spend at our major events offset by a reduction in will prove to be an extremely worthwhile opportunity in a reorganisation costs which we have similarly treated as an client spending at smaller conferences.
market which is growing rapidly.
We are pleased to announce that Informas operating profit exceptional charge in the 2002 accounts.
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items but after We continue to review the performance and profitability of our We have also agreed a joint venture to produce Mining related interest in 2002 was 30.1million, equalling the level we The combined effect of these two charges will be to lower our full product portfolio on an ongoing basis.
We ran 6% 181 events with the McCloskey Group.
Already events have been achieved in 2001.
This was despite a fall in turnover of 12%, operating costs in 2003 by some 2million.
fewer conferences in 2002 than in 2001, with the reductions held in France and Australia and further events are planned for to 283million which reflected the economic slowdown seen falling mainly in the telecommunications and financial areas and Russia, South East Asia and China.
in a number of sectors, notably mobile telecommunications.
Turnover at 283million was 12% down on 2001 323million.
we also closed, merged or suspended some 20 publications.
This was an excellent result in what was a difficult year for Despite this fall in turnover, close management of costs helped The Group retains the ability to lower its variable costs by While our focus in 2003 remains on close cost monitoring we most media companies and especially those providing the operating margins improve to 13.1% from 11.8%.
Adjusted adjusting the product offering without undermining the key are developing a number of new products across the areas of business-to-business information.
basic earnings per share rose to 16.4pence 2001:16.1pence.
market-leading positions enjoyed across our six core sectors.
our operation to drive organic growth.
We will launch two new life sciences publications into the marketplace, Preclinica and Our focus in these weaker trading conditions has been to The Board recommends a final dividend of 4.94pence payable Our commitment to the portfolio approach of operating in Bioprocess International, at a cost of about 1.5million.
In a manage our costs, cash and product profitability particularly on 28 May 2003 to shareholders whose names are on the several different marketplaces with a range of different media climate of increased business focus on issues of risk we are closely.
We successfully converted 125% of our 2002 operating register of members on 25 April 2003.
When added to the revenue streams remains unaltered.
The growth of our launching a new publication on corporate risk assessment profit into cash compared with 108% in 2001.
This has enabled interim dividend of 2.66pence this gives a total for the year of subscription business is the bedrock of our strategy and the and management called Executive Risk.
Also, in the maritime us to pay down our debt at an accelerated rate.
At the end 7.6pence, unchanged from 2001.
The recommended dividend is focal point both for ongoing organic development and future sector, we have developed an electronic assessment tool of 2002, Informas net debt was 96million, a reduction of covered two times by earnings excluding goodwill amortisation acquisitions when greater stability returns to our markets.
We which will allow ports and other maritime interests to assess 23million in the year.
Our operating profits before amortisation and will be fully funded by cash flow from operations.
also remain fully committed to our advertising, sponsorship the risks associated with ships using their facilities.
of goodwill and exceptional items covered our interest and delegate revenue streams which will provide significant payments 5.2 times in 2002, compared to 4.8 times in 2001.
As a whole, 2002 showed a substantial recovery from the very upside in better times, with little additional cost.
With geopolitical and economic pressures still acute we poor trading conditions seen in the second half of 2001, a believe it is unlikely that trading conditions will improve during We also tailored our output of conferences and publications period affected by the after-effects of September 11.
However, During 2002 we cemented an agreement in China with the 2003.
Our goal this year therefore will again be to manage to the lower levels of demand now being experienced.
overall activity did not recapture the levels hit in the first half of Xinhua Financial Network to provide financial information to our profitability, maximise cash flow, reduce debt levels and A rationalisation of marginal and loss-making product enabled 2001 and in previous years.
their Chinese news service and jointly arrange conferences take advantage of opportunities to drive organic growth us to lower our headcount by 241 9% in the year at a cost of for the Chinese market.
With the Chinese economy enjoying through new product development and building further on the 2.5million.
This will reduce full-year payroll costs by 8million Our core subscription revenue which now accounts for good growth coupled with the stimulus of the W. T. O and the market leading positions we enjoy.
We believe this approach and follows manpower reductions of 13% in 2001. some 35% of total turnover, traded solidly with renewal rates 2008 Olympics we believe this will be a good market for us in is the correct stance to position the business well for a strong continuing to average 80% across the portfolio, but our other the medium term.
rebound and sustained profit growth when markets do improve.
As staffing levels have been brought down we have managed to revenue streams were affected by the economic downturn.
sublet some of our premises, but we have been left with some Total delegate revenue from our conferences in 2002 was Similarly towards the end of 2002 we signed an agreement Throughout this difficult year our staff have worked extremely unoccupied buildings.
We have taken an exceptional charge in 18% below 2001, although attendance at our non telecoms with Expomedia Group to run conferences and exhibitions hard to ensure our business has performed as well as 2002 of 4.2m to provide for future excess property costs.
Total advertising revenues in our in Moscow.
Expomedia has considerable experience of the possible.
We would like to thank and congratulate them for publications were 13% lower.
Sponsorship and exhibition Russian and Eastern European markets and we believe this their endeavours especially during such uncertain times.
Separately, the reduced level of activity has made it necessary income was 18% lower year on year with continuing strong In 2002 we maintained The business is well our profitability and positioned to achieve improved margins significant profit despite continuing improvement when difficult trading economic confidence conditions.
Peter Rigby Chairman David Gilbertson Chief Executive Informa Annual Report 2002 4 Informa Annual Report 2002 5
