Amersham Health Business at a glance Medical diagnostics 55% of total Amersham sales Pharmaceutical products used during medical scanning procedures to enhance images and provide information about the structure and functioning of organs, tissues and molecules in the body, for early, accurate diagnosis and management of heart disease, circulatory disorders, lung disease, brain disease and cancer.
Therapy products 4% of total Amersham sales Products using radioactive isotopes for the treatment of cancer.
Performance 2002 Sales Operating profit R&D expenditure Employees 948 million, 256 million, 95 million, 5,300 up 8% up 9% up 14% Key products Myoview Visipaque iodixanol Optison human albumin Research platform Imanet kit for preparation Sales 91 million, microspheres containing Imanet is an expanding 99m of Tc tetrafosmin up 18% perflutren network of imaging research Sales 133 million, An advanced non-ionic The leading ultrasound centres where Amersham up 26% X-ray CT computed product for the emerging Health works in collaboration Our fastest-growing medical tomography product for the market of contrast-enhanced with the worlds top diagnostic product, this diagnosis of coronary artery ultrasound, for visualising the pharmaceutical companies.
radiopharmaceutical imaging disease and to aid in stent borders of the heart muscle.
It uses innovative imaging agent is used for visualising placement, whose isotonic Patents to 2012-2013. solutions to accelerate drug blood flow to the heart, and formulation provides an discovery and development, may also be used in breast extra margin of safety and and to create new molecular tumour imaging.
Patents diagnostics that will enable to 2009-2010. to 2008-2011. physicians, in the future, to more accurately predict and diagnose disease and to tailor treatment accordingly.
123 Omniscan gadodiamide Omnipaque iohexol DaTSCAN ioflupane I Brachytherapy products Sales 96 million, Sales 222 million, A molecular diagnostic Our leading line of radioactive up 17% up 6% radiopharmaceutical, this is iodine and palladium seed Our leading product for MRI A non-ionic X-ray CT the first product that enables products OncoSeed, magnetic resonance imaging, diagnostic, launched 20 years an objective diagnosis of Rapid Strand, EchoSeed, primarily used for imaging ago and still the worlds bestParkinsons disease and related TheraSeed implanted in the central nervous system selling diagnostic imaging syndromes.
Marketed only in the prostate gland to treat brain tumours, stroke, spinal product for a wide range of Europe.
lesions : use being extended indications in cardiology, to cardiovascular disease.
12 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 It all makes sense Our products and markets Amersham Biosciences Business at a glance Protein separations 17% of total Amersham sales Chromatography purification systems, membrane products and media used in the manufacture of biopharmaceuticals any biologically-derived drug, eg.
insulin, vaccines, DNA-based medicines, monoclonal antibodies, interferon, and for the laboratory scale separation of proteins for research and drug development.
Discovery systems 24% of total Amersham sales High throughput systems instruments, reagents, software for genomics DNA sequencing, gene expression and gene variation, proteomics study of proteins and their role in biological function, and bioassays analysis of cellular processes in metabolism and disease, used for screening and testing of potential new drugs.
Performance 2002 Sales Operating profit R&D expenditure Employees 670 million, 75 million, 88 million, 4,650 up 6% flat up 3% Up 9% excluding the 8 million dilutive impact of the CodeLink and Cimarron acquisitions.
Protein separations key platforms Discovery systems key platforms Bioprocessing columns Bioprocessing separations Genomics Bioassays Our bioprocess systems media DNA sequencing: MegaBACE Instruments include instruments, media and Consumables used in DNA sequencer for decoding LEADseeker, which has software are used by leading bioprocessing.
Leading brands the genetic structure of human, the ability to screen up to pharmaceutical and biotech include Sepharose, animal and plant species.
1,000,000 new drug companies for the industrial MabSelect, and Source.
TempliPhi template compounds a day, and manufacture of over 90 per preparation kit for producing IN Cell Analyzer, which enables cent of the biopharmaceuticals DNA samples.
Gene expression: scientists to study the effects on the market or in developCodeLink pre-arrayed slides of a potential new drug on ment.
The wide range of and Lucidea custom slides living cells in real time.
chromatography columns platform, on which thousands Products also include a range includes Chromaflow and of DNA samples are scanned of custom-labelled reagents Streamline brands.
to identify differences in the for toxicology testing.
Bioprocessing membrane Laboratory separations Proteomics Informatics separation KTA platform the gold Ettan high throughput Scierra platform of software Hollow fibre filtration standard in chromatography protein analysis platform solutions for managing and membranes used in systems for laboratory utilising systems such as mass organising the vast amounts bioprocessing an essential purification of proteins before spectrometry and electroof data being generated in life step for removing impurities scale-up to manufacturing.
phoresis to identify and sciences research.
characterise proteins, and to compare protein expression in diseased and normal tissues, enabling drugs to be targeted to diseases.
Products also include the CyDye range of fluorescent dyes.
Amersham plc 13 Market report medical diagnostics radiotherapy Note: Market numbers within text represent internal company estimates unless stated otherwise.
Despite significant advances in the understanding of the underlying causes of disease in recent years, medicine still revolves primarily around the treatment of existing conditions following the appearance of symptoms.
To select the most appropriate course of treatment for each individual patient, the physician first needs to make a correct diagnosis but must also establish the location, extent and severity of disease and determine a prognosis.
Medical imaging is uniquely able to provide this information and is a key component of modern healthcare.
In 2002, approximately 800 million medical imaging procedures were performed worldwide.
Of these, approximately 120 million scans were enhanced or made possible with medical diagnostic products, generating revenues of over 2.8 billion.
Medical diagnostics markets are demonstrating strong year on year growth and this is expected to continue.
There are four main imaging modalities X-ray including computed tomography CT, magnetic resonance imaging MRI, radiopharmaceutical imaging and ultrasound.
Radiopharmaceutical imaging always requires the use of a diagnostic product, while the other modalities may or may not use a contrast medium to enhance the image, depending on the procedure.
The choice of technique depends upon a number of factors including the type of diagnostic information needed, instrument availability, physician preference, and cost benefit considerations.
For the management of heart disease, for example, the cardiologist might use radiopharmaceutical imaging to determine how well the heart muscle is being perfused with blood, contrast-enhanced ultrasound to improve endocardial border delineation, and X-ray to perform a coronary angiography of the blood vessels.
All of these examinations would normally use a medical diagnostic product.
Market developments in 2002 In the US, the rapid growth of the over-50 population where more diagnostic procedures are required, combined with the growing ability to do more procedures due to technological advances in the equipment sector, are expanding the need for medical diagnostics.
Pricing has been maintained at fairly stable levels.
In Europe, the tough reimbursement environment continues to affect pricing.
The markets are still dominated by state funding, 14 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 It all makes sense Our products and markets although the private market is increasing.
However, the Scanner technology is also making significant advances.
installed hardware base in Europe is expanding and this will The emphasis is on improving the speed and functionality allow further volume growth.
of instrumentation, allowing increased numbers of procedures per unit.
The Japanese diagnostic pharmaceutical market continues to show modest volume growth but the overall environment Looking further ahead, our rapidly increasing knowledge of remains challenging due to ongoing healthcare reform measures genomics raises the very real prospect of being able to be and government-mandated reimbursement price cuts.
truly proactive in predicting and preventing disease, and to determine which medication is best suited for each individual.
Amersham Health, Bracco, Tyco Healthcare Mallinckrodt Medical imaging technologies which can identify preImaging, Schering and Bristol-Myers Squibb BMS Medical symptomatic disease, increasingly through monitoring of the Imaging formerly Dupont, together with their respective expression of genes and the function of the proteins for which licensees, are the major players in the medical diagnostics they code within cells, will be key to delivering personalised market, with more than 90 per cent share between them.
medicine: finding the right therapy, for the right patient, at the right time, with the right outcome.
Company Global market share % X-ray CT medical diagnostics Amersham Health 38 Bracco 18 Total scans approx 630m Tyco Mallinckrodt 14 Enhanced scans approx 75m Schering 12 Market size approx 1.4bn BMS Dupont 12 Guerbet 2 X-ray is the most frequently performed imaging procedure Others 4 covering all body areas and is often the entry point for the Market drivers diagnostic work-up.
X-ray computed tomography, or CT scanning, Increasing demand for medical diagnostics is being driven by has had the greatest impact on the medical diagnostics market.
the ageing population and the rise in prevalence of age-related CT scanning allows cross-sectional imaging of the body with diseases such as cancer, Alzheimers disease, Parkinsons disease, exquisite depiction of anatomic detail, and is finding growing stroke and heart failure.
These diseases represent the highest use in coronary angiography and interventional procedures.
cost burden to healthcare systems in industrialised nations, and Approximately 40 per cent of CT scans currently involve the there is tremendous pressure to develop tests that can assist in use of medical diagnostic products.
earlier diagnosis and aid selection of the most appropriate treatments in order to reduce costs.
The development of multi-slice CT machines, which are capable of performing sub-second imaging of millimetre-thin slices of Prevalence and economic cost of major diseases in the US body tissues, has opened up a host of new applications such as Source: Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, 2000 blood vessel imaging and blood clot imaging, many of which  68.8 require large volumes of medical diagnostic contrast media.
$148 Cancer 8.0 MRI medical diagnostics $107 Neurological disease 25.6 Total scans approx 40m $196 Enhanced scans approx 10m Market size over 320m Alzheimers disease 4.0 $100 Number of MRI machines over 15,000 Depression 17.0 $44 Magnetic resonance imaging MRI is often the method of choice for imaging the central nervous system, particularly for Stroke 4.0 $43 detecting cancers in the brain and lesions in the spinal canal and spinal column.
More recently, MRI has found use in imaging Annual prevalence in US million persons the blood vessels and depicting brain regions affected by stroke.
Annual economic cost in US $ billion Roughly 25 per cent of the MRI scans use a medical diagnostic This has led Amersham Health to focus its product development product with every segment of contrast-enhanced MRI on disease states, rather than a modality-driven approach, and experiencing growth, and this trend is expected to continue.
to include cardiologists, neurologists, oncologists and internal medicine physicians in its customer base, in addition to New MRI contrast media are being developed for vascular radiologists, hospitals and purchasing organisations.
The aim is imaging, cardiac imaging, visualisation of air spaces in the lungs, to enable physicians and their patients who are becoming and for targeting specific tissues such as lymph nodes and blood better informed and expect to be included in decisions about clots.
The ability to identify high-risk patients in the foreseeable managing their disease to select the imaging procedure and future, along with the need for accurate anatomical and functional diagnostic product they feel is most appropriate in each case.
information, will drive the market for these new products.
Amersham plc 15 Radiopharmaceutical medical diagnostics Only a fraction of the ultrasound scans currently use a medical diagnostic product, the primary use being to improve the Scans enhanced approx 28m assessment of heart wall motion through endocardial border Market size over 1.1bn delineation, or visualisation of the surface of the heart muscle.
Number of gamma cameras over 15,000 The true utility of ultrasound in cardiology could be realised with the visualisation of myocardial perfusion.
This will require Radiopharmaceutical imaging provides metabolic and functional advances in instrumentation along with advanced ultrasound information about diseases such as stroke, dementia, coronary diagnostic products, in order to obtain a reliable and robust artery disease and cancer that complements anatomical imaging procedure.
In radiology, contrast-enhanced ultrasound imaging such as CT or MRI.
Radiopharmaceutical imaging has the potential to differentiate between benign and always requires the use of a radiolabelled medical diagnostic malignant tumours in various tissues.
Developments such as product, which binds to and accumulates in the cells or tissues these would expand the ultrasound medical diagnostics market.
being studied, and the image is obtained with the aid of a gamma camera.
Radiotherapy market The most significant therapeutic market for radioisotopes is Recent innovations in radiopharmaceutical imaging enable prostate brachytherapy, a minimally invasive outpatient the visualisation of precise cellular activities and subtle changes procedure in which radioactive iodine or palladium seeds are in organ function, such as changes in brain function due implanted within the prostate gland to irradiate the tumour.
The mounting clinical evidence supporting the efficacy of this treatment was further underpinned in 2002 through two The latest advance in radiopharmaceutical imaging is positronimportant studies, one relating to the treatment of high-risk 103 emission tomography PET.
PET, an advanced molecular patients with palladium seeds in combination with external imaging technique, can provide images of the entire body beam radiation, and the other demonstrating the benefits of 125 and visualises biochemical events at the cellular level.
It is an Amershams Rapid Strand iodine delivery system.
extremely sensitive technique for the early detection of tumours and metastases, and PET procedures are now reimbursed by In the United States, around 40,000 patients each year, or 25 Medicare in the US for seven types of cancer.
The clinical per cent of those presenting with early stage prostate cancer, application of PET technology is a rapidly growing emerging are treated with brachytherapy seed implants.
Slower market market, with around 300,000 procedures performed in the growth and increased competition, with the number of US in 2002.
Continued advances in instrumentation and competitors rising from two in 1998 to 14 today, have resulted improvements in PET chemistry could expand its use into in significant pricing and market share pressure.
In 2002, other significant markets, eg.
the management of neurological the US Medicare reimbursement system set a fixed cost for conditions such as Alzheimers disease.
brachytherapy procedures and further changes will take effect in 2003, further intensifying the price pressures.
Another significant development is the advent of compound modality instruments combining high-resolution CT images of Brachytherapy is gaining acceptance in Europe and while only the anatomy with low-resolution functional PET or SPECT a small percentage of early stage prostate cancer patients images during parts of the same imaging procedure.
These enable currently receive seed implants, the market has substantial more accurate localisation of disease and assist the planning of development potential.
Such developments in so-called fusion imaging are expected to fuel the growth of Radiolabelled monoclonal antibodies are being developed for both CT and PET imaging.
the treatment of several types of cancer.
The antibodies target specific tumour cells and then attach to them, allowing the Ultrasound medical diagnostics radioactive component to destroy tumour cells while sparing the surrounding healthy cells.
2002 saw the first of these Total scans approx 140m compounds licensed by the US FDA for the treatment of nonEnhanced scans approx 0.5m Hodgkins lymphoma patients who have failed to respond to Market size over 10m previous therapies.
Number of instruments over 150,000 89 Other radiotherapy products include strontium, which can Ultrasound is used extensively by both hospital and officetarget growing bone cancers and help to alleviate pain, and 131 based cardiologists to evaluate patients with known or iodine for the treatment of thyroid tumours.
The vast majority of cardiac patients are screened by ultrasound, and in 2001 over 25 million ultrasound scans of the heart were performed throughout the world.
However, results are often equivocal with patients frequently referred on to more reliable and expensive techniques eg.
