Chief Executives Statement Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Johnson Matthey delivered good results in 2001 02 despite more difficult market conditions.
Most of the growth was generated by Catalysts & Chemicals Division and the newly formed Pharmaceutical Materials Division.
The group has continued to invest significantly in new production facilities and R&D to support future growth.
In 2001 02 we have made significant progress on growing supplier and Membrane Electrode Assembly MEA development our businesses, both by increasing investment in new facilities partner in several of our key customer programmes in the past year.
and R&D and also by the successful completion of three bolt-on These are targeting nearer term commercial opportunities in stationary acquisitions.
Capital expenditure of 133.8 million has been carefully and portable power applications as well as longer term automotive targeted at the growth parts of the business, particularly Catalytic development.
While our customer relationships remain largely Systems, Chemicals, Fuel Cells and Pharmaceutical Materials.
Our confidential, the market is visibly developing.
Some early commercial investment in R&D has been increased, particularly for Fuel Cells.
fuel cell products have been launched aimed at niche markets where Despite these major steps the group still has a strong balance early adopters of this new technology are willing to pay a premium for sheet.
This will allow us to invest in organic growth and pursue some of the benefits of fuel cells.
These include back up power further bolt-on acquisitions.
systems for telecommunications and portable power applications.
Over the last two years in Catalytic Systems we have invested Johnson Matthey has maintained its position as the worlds largest heavily in new process technology for autocatalyst production around fabricator and distributor of platinum group metals pgms.
The majority of our products are now manufactured using to seek new markets for pgms and to invest in R&D to find new this new technology, which enables us to produce more advanced applications for the metals.
We are the sole marketing agent for Anglo catalysts to higher specifications at a minimum cost for our Platinum, which is the worlds leading primary producer of pgms.
In the coming year we will be completing the final phase Demand for pgms has increased significantly over the last ten of this investment programme.
Capital expenditure in 2002 03 will years.
Consumption of platinum has risen by more than 50% to be somewhat lower than in 2001 02.
6.2 million ounces per annum while palladium usage has grown New product development is the lifeblood of our autocatalyst even more strongly.
The outlook for platinum is good with increasing business.
In 2002 03 we will be putting additional investment into demand for autocatalysts, particularly for diesel powered vehicles, expanding our technology centres at Royston in the UK and and the continued growth of demand for platinum jewellery in China.
Gothenburg in Sweden with particular emphasis on developing new The primary producers are responding to this anticipated growth by diesel catalysts.
Additional investment is also planned at our testing increasing supply but demand is still expected to outstrip supply facilities in Detroit in the US and at Kitsuregawa in Japan.
Johnson Matthey is well positioned to In Chemicals, we are part way through a major project to benefit from this growth in the platinum market.
expand and upgrade our platinum group metal refineries at Royston Colours & Coatings experienced more difficult market conditions and Brimsdown in the UK and at West Deptford in the US.
In in 2001 02 but still managed to achieve margins of 10%.
Our recent collaboration with Chematur AB we have developed an innovative investment strategy has ensured that we are the worlds lowest cost technology for catalyst recovery using a unique, patented processing frit producer, enabling us to protect our margins.
New frit facilities in technique.
We will introduce this new technology in the second half Spain and Brazil are being commissioned and will be fully operational of 2002 03 under the trade name Aquacat.
Two novel polymer by the summer of 2002.
We are also continually introducing new high fibre technologies, resulting from our investment in Oy Smoptech AB, margin products, particularly in Glass, where over 35% of turnover were commercialised during the year and offer good prospects for comes from products launched in the last two years.
The year also saw the launch of Johnson Matthey Catalytic completed the current investment in our new facilities future Services, a new business providing a fee based contract investment is likely to be reduced, resulting in strong cash generation.
development and optimisation service for catalytic processes.
Pharmaceutical Materials became a stand alone division in 2001 Our Fuel Cells business has made very good progress during following the acquisitions of Pharm-Eco and Meconic.
The new the year in both product development and in emerging commercial division has performed very well in its first year.
The addition of relationships with key customers.
We have been selected as the lead Pharm-Eco has enabled the group to offer manufacturing services to
