9 4 7 2 4 4 operating review banking and securities However, we are confident that spending Divisional highlights 2002 2001 % will recover from the current low point for Revenues m 303 349 - 13 two key reasons.
Adjusted operating profit m 63 90 - 30 Firstly, the market for third-party software to financial institutions is distinctly cyclical.
Banking and Securities is the largest A very high proportion of banks spend is division within Misys.
Employing some devoted to maintaining their infrastructure 3,000 people around the world, it supplies and the easiest way for them to conserve over 1,000 financial institutions with cash in the short term is by delaying the treasury and capital markets, international start of new projects.
This was the pattern in Group contribution branch banking, securities and asset the recession of the early 1990s when there management, risk management and was a substantial decline in demand for Revenue % retail banking solutions.
The slump in demand lasted about 18 months and spending OVERVIEW recovered sharply thereafter.
Demand for software products and services from financial institutions started to weaken The second reason for believing that in the fourth quarter of the 2000 01 demand will recover is that the uncertain financial year and has remained poor economic environment has in no way Profit % throughout the current reporting period.
reduced the relentless pressure financial institutions face from regulators, customers Across the sector customers have sought and shareholders to improve returns, provide to find ways to conserve cash and have better services at lower cost, increase been cautious about starting new projects.
visibility and improve compliance and risk The consequence of this has been a management.
They cannot achieve these Employees % slowdown in order intake, both for strategic imperatives without increasing products and services.
The tragic events levels of investment in technology.
The pace of 11 September made worse what was of regulatory initiatives, which has been a in any case a period of weak demand.
consistent driver of demand in our market ZHAO HAI KUAN of the Bank of China speaking at the opening of the new Misys branch in Beijing.
Bank of China was one of the first Chinese institutions to sign a contract for the OPICS solution.
12 Misys Annual Report 2002 Banking and Securities global salesforce 5 2 15 14 4 3 1 13 7 6 20 12 11 9 24 19 8 10 30 16 25 17 21 29 23 22 26 27 28 18 31 32 is picking up and we believe Basel 2, antiAllied to the rebranding has been a EUROPE AFRICA 1 London 18 Johannesburg money laundering legislation, know your reorganisation of the Divisions product 2 Birmingham customer regulations, Continuous Linked portfolio into a number of market-focused AMERICAS 3 Dublin 19 New York Settlement, the various : Misys Asset Management 4 Utrecht 20 Seattle 5 Brussels Processing initiatives and changes to the Systems, Misys International Banking Systems, 21 Mexico City 6 Paris SWIFT interbank payment network will all Misys Securities Trading Systems and Summit.
7 Frankfurt ASIA PACIFIC serve to stimulate demand in the years ahead.
8 Zurich 22 Bangalore We have also created a retail banking 9 Madrid 23 Bangkok BUSINESS REVIEW business within Misys International Banking 10 Lisbon 24 Beijing Notwithstanding the poor market Systems which we have achieved by merging 11 Milan 25 Hong Kong 12 Luxembourg 26 Kuala Lumpur conditions, the management of the Division the Kindle and Equation businesses.
The 13 Warsaw 27 Singapore have been focused on driving forward combination of these two has created the 14 Moscow 28 Jakarta several strategic initiatives.
As a result of the largest specialist retail banking systems vendor 15 Riga 29 Manila rebranding of our operations, 85% of the outside the US with revenues of over 60m a 30 Tokyo MIDDLE EAST 31 Sydney Divisions revenues now trade under the year and some 550 people.
It also makes us 16 Bahrain 32 Melbourne Misys brand.
This has already had a very one of the only vendors in the world which is 17 Dubai positive effect on customer relations and is able to offer its customers a choice of retail enabling us to achieve much stronger levels banking solutions on both Unix and i-Series of brand recognition than was the case environments.
Reaction of customers to these when we were operating under five changes has been very encouraging.
It is also making Amongst the market sectors in which we it easier for us to establish ourselves in our operate there was a noticeable variation in customers eyes as a key strategic partner fortunes.
Demand for retail banking systems that can provide solutions across multiple was strong, and in our view is likely to areas of operation.
continue to be so for some time as small www.
com 13 operating review banking and securities continued Underlying market growth and medium-sized institutions change their pay recurring fees to use the software and bn core processing engines to deal with the access maintenance services.
Because our 1,533,906,047 explosion of transaction volumes created systems are mission-critical, customers through the multiple channels internet, continue to pay these fees even in times of mobile, ATM and call centre which they economic difficulty, and maintenance was are having to provide to their customers.
the only revenue line to increase in the year.
Initial Licence Fee revenues fell sharply in Corporate banking and international comparison with the previous year, partly branch banking was flat year-on-year but due to lower order intake, and partly there was a noticeable recovery in orders for because in the current year the order book our international branch banking solutions has increased markedly.
This resulted from the professional services, which is linked to sales Source: SWIFT April 2002 highly successful launch of our new webof new and upgrade licences, fell, due to a Misys systems have contributed enabled, 24 x 7, version of Midas which to a dramatic rise in the volume combination of lower volumes and softer uses Java technology.
of intra-bank trades carried rates: our capacity to deliver in the US was through the Swift messaging network.
Treasury and capital markets was only also impeded by 11 September.
slightly down on the previous year, which As soon as the weakness of demand was encouraging given the poor economic became apparent, we started to reduce conditions.
Orders for OPICS were well costs: by the end of the first quarter, the ahead of the previous year in the first half, run-rate had fallen significantly, and in the while orders for Summit in the second half second quarter we reduced headcount improved strongly over the first half.
The across the Division by a further 8%.
This performance of Summit was particularly resulted in an exceptional charge in H1 of praiseworthy, given the fact that they lost 10m, but yielded costs in H2 18m below their global development centre during the equivalent period in the previous year.
the tragic events of 11 September.
Luckily, This was achieved without any significant none of our staff was hurt, and thanks to impairment to our R&D programme.
incredible efforts by all of our staff in the Misys continues to be at the top of the New York area, customer service was Department of Trade and Industry rankings uninterrupted.
Our disaster recovery of UK-based companies for R&D investment.
procedures worked well, but it was not until April that Summit was able to return This year, we have launched a large number to its former premises.
of new and updated systems.
Amongst these were: a major new version of Midas: In terms of demand, by far the worst sector a new internet-banking toolset: a new was securities and asset management.
version of Risk Vision fully integrating into Orders in this sector were down 60% on a common database all of our enterprise-risk the previous year in the first half, and whilst management tools: a new real-time they recovered in the second half, they were architecture for Summit: extended frontstill down on the previous year.
This is a office functionality in the OPICS trader front market particularly sensitive to the general end: and the release of the integrated economic environment and with our strong Branch Automation Suite on our retail side.
position, and large exposure to the Asian market, Misys was affected rather badly.
FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES Whilst we have reduced costs in a sensible In terms of revenue mix, our recurring and appropriate way, our strategy has been revenues increased to account for to leave intact the Divisions capability to approximately 40% of our total revenues: take advantage of any improvement in this emphasises a very important feature of market conditions, which we are confident our business model, which is that customers 14 Misys Annual Report 2002 0.45 0.51 0.60 0.68 0.80 0.96 1.05 1.25 messages per year International Banking back office systems new names won Misys 38 Temenos 35 I-flex 29 Trema 11 Sungard 6 Source: IBS Magazine, March 2002 International Banking back office systems customer sites Misys 1,163 Temenos 450 I-flex 145 Trema 129 Sungard 45 Source: IBS Magazine, March 2002 Misys continues to have a leading position in the international banking software arena after winning more new name customers than any other vendor last year source: IBS Magazine, March 2002. will happen, and probably sooner in the adoption of these technologies, having banking IT market than in other sectors.
introduced XML-enabled banking Accordingly, we have protected our core applications over three years ago.
R&D and sales programmes and plan to Combined, these technologies will allow increase investments in these areas in institutions to achieve levels of application, the coming year.
We also feel that the integration and speed of deployment restructuring which has taken place has unimagined in the past, as well as making it left us better equipped to face the market.
possible to respond to the central challenge Furthermore, the Financial Services industry facing all institutions: how to process higher is facing a technology inflexion point, volumes of lower margin transactions, on as a result of which major parts of the IT which they need to make more money infrastructure are likely to be changed in whilst using less capital.
These inflexion points led changes, reinforced by the regulatory happen rarely in the last 15 years there pressures already referred to, will underpin have been perhaps three: the rise of middemand in the years ahead.
range computing, the advent of the PC, and the subsequent development of clientserver applications.
Kathy Perrotte of Summit We believe that the next inflexion point is outlining the disaster recovery not being driven by a single technology, but plans implemented after the 11 September terrorist attack.
by a number of them under the banner of Summits key US office was Web services, including Microsoft.
NET on destroyed in the attack.
A backup support service for customers the client side, J2EE on the server side, and was in place within hours and XML and SOAP for application integration.
Summit was in new offices We continue to lead the industry in within six weeks.
com 15 3 3 5 4 operating review healthcare Increasingly, however, physicians and Divisional highlights 2002 2001 % clinicians are more influential in selecting Revenues m 286 186 54 their IT solutions when aiming to deliver Adjusted operating profit m 50 37 37 better and more efficient care.
This is leading to strong demand for point of care clinical systems and solutions across the Misys Healthcare Systems employs 2,400 continuum of care such as the Electronic people, mostly in the US.
It supplies over Medical Record EMR in the physicians 1,200 hospitals, 85,000 physicians and office and the homecare environment, and 600 homecare providers with clinical the departmental clinical suite in the hospital.
departmental, practice management and Group contribution home health solutions.
The business also Importantly, these solutions have received processes transactions for physicians.
increased backing and promotion from Revenue % independent sources.
First, studies by the OVERVIEW Institute of Medicine, a US government The market for IT applications within institution, identified IT as a key tool in healthcare continues to grow, unaffected reducing the 98,000 patient deaths that it by the slowdown in the US economy.
The identified as being caused by medical errors.
factors driving the adoption of technology Second, the Leapfrog Group, a grouping of within healthcare are broadening to Profit % major employers formed to reduce costs and encompass clinical as well as financial and errors in US Healthcare, has identified point administrative solutions.
Providers of care of care clinical tools as the means to are still focusing on IT to reduce the improve the quality of care and thereby administrative inefficiencies which are reduce the cost.
Patient safety is quickly endemic in healthcare, leading to increased becoming the number one issue in US demand over the past 12 months for healthcare.
Finally, the evolving Health Employees % financial and administrative IT systems Information Portability and Accountability and solutions.
Act HIPAA legislation will place increased Misys unveiled the new look for its healthcare businesses at the HIMSS healthcare conference in Atlanta, Georgia in January.
16 Misys Annual Report 2002 2 8 Misys hosted one of its regular investor Key customers, including Patrick OSullivan Customers like Chris Jordan right of Physician relations events in Orlando, Florida in of Florida Hospital, explained the logic Associates of Florida demonstrated how Misys March.
Analysts were updated on the behind upgrading their IT infrastructure.
technology helps them to improve patient care.
demands upon physicians in terms of patient including the acquisition of Sunquest, privacy and confidentiality driving more and adjusted operating profits up 37%.
physicians to use clinical IT solutions as a Within Physician Systems, growth continues means to meet these security demands.
to be driven by strong demand for Misys Tiger, To a large extent the market for clinical IT the Windows-based practice management applications within US Healthcare remains system targeted at small to medium-sized an emerging market, and therefore offers physician practices.
This product, which was excellent growth prospects.
launched only two years ago, is already BUSINESS REVIEW installed at over 1,500 sites, as customers The past year has been an exciting one for continue to move from older, less functional Misys Healthcare Systems.
First, in August technologies, towards an IT infrastructure 2001, Sunquest Information Systems Inc. based on PCs and networks.
Misys Vision, Sunquest was acquired for $408m, the physician practice management system broadening the Misys footprint in US aimed at the larger practice market, is seeing healthcare into the acute hospital increased demand, benefiting from the recent environment.
Sunquests clinical systems improvements made to the product through are installed at over 1,200 hospitals across the recently released Vision Optimum, which the US, being particularly strong in clinical has increased functionality and workflow.
departmental laboratory, radiology and Transaction Services showed solid growth and pharmacy solutions.
Second, earlier this year, now generates in excess of 300m transactions the Healthcare Division was reorganised into per annum.
We are also making good progress four business units all trading under the on remittance processing.
Misys EMR, the Misys Healthcare Systems name: Physician Electronic Medical Record system focused on Systems formerly Medic : Hospital Systems the ambulatory physician, continues to show formerly Sunquest : Homecare Systems strong growth, with orders up substantially formerly HCIS : and Transaction Services.
over the same period last year.
Misys Misys Healthcare Systems showed good continues to dedicate significant resources Misys Healthcare Systems quickly to this product, as it is operating in a market organic and acquisition growth over the raised awareness with a highpast 12 months with revenues up 54%, with the possibility of strong future growth.
com 17 operating review healthcare continued US underlying healthcare The integration of Sunquest into Misys of care as they strive to improve the quality market $tr Healthcare Systems has proceeded as of care in the healthcare industry.
Demand for Hospital Systems Hospital Systems capped its first year within products and services remains encouraging, Misys by being awarded the ISO 9001:2000 as has been shown by recent large deals.
This is a recognition of the high The announcement of the contract with levels of customer satisfaction and continual LA County Hospitals was the largest ever improvements in our products and services.
contract for laboratory systems in the US, while the signing of the agreement with Misys Homecare showed continued progress the West London Pathology Clinic was the in 2002 as we deployed our next generation UKs largest ever laboratory deal.
Using NT SQL-Server as 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 its technology foundation, this integrated The year also saw the launch of Misys Source: Center for Medicare & Medicaid administrative and clinical system has been Services formerly HCFA, March 2001 Encompass, a clinical solution that will installed at over 600 sites, with Initial present clinicians with access to departmental US healthcare expenditure Licence Fee revenues growing significantly is forecast to experience clinical data from anywhere at any time.
In significant growth, according in the past year.
addition, the benefits from refocusing on the core markets of departmental clinical FUTURE DEVELOPMENT solutions continue to flow through in the Misys Healthcare is very well positioned in form of anticipated cost savings, ensuring markets that are becoming increasingly that the acquisition will be accretive in its clinical in their outlook.
of Hospital Systems, with its clinical focus and its significant presence in the acute Misys Insight, an alerting system that sends environment, is a significant step in vital clinical data to clinicians text pagers expanding the Groups ambitions within US and or email, also made excellent progress.
Consequently, we expect to Clinicians are increasingly mobile and need benefit from the continued strong growth patient information quickly and at the point offered by the market growth driven by Misys industry leader Misys Laboratory and Misys Radiology have been among the top-rated products assessed by KLAS Enterprises, an independent organisation that monitors software vendors service standards.
Misys software helps hospitals keep track of patient blood samples.
18 Misys Annual Report 2002 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.6 Some of the major US hospitals supplied by Misys Healthcare Systems increased demand in both administrative, to offer the critical stability and necessary and increasingly, clinical solutions.
Within expertise that so many hospitals, physicians Physician Systems, we expect this to be and homecare providers demand.
reflected by high growth in Misys EMR, We believe Misys will continue to benefit augmenting the strong growth in our from a market that is non-cyclical in nature practice management products, Misys Tiger and set for further significant change.
In addition we expect to see emerging demand in new clinical and administrative transactions, such as lab orders results, prescriptions and eligibility.
Homecare offers strong growth prospects, as demand for the new clinical module continues to increase.
The demand for Hospital Systems products is expected to continue to grow, enhanced by the launch of a clinical suite of products, encompassing Laboratory, Radiology and Pharmacy solutions.
Our focus throughout the next year will be on continuing to increase investment in product development based on the demands of our customers and the needs of the market.
The market continues to be highly fragmented in terms of the number of software providers and we will continue www.
com 19 operating review financial services We believe these regulatory changes Divisional highlights 2002 2001 % are positive overall for Misys in that they Revenues m 447 314 42 create significant opportunities to enhance Adjusted operating profit m 30 23 27 and or realise shareholder value over the medium term.
The Financial Services Division employs In the UK life, pensions and investment over 1,300 people across the UK.
market the IFA distribution channel continued Focusing on the Life and Pensions, and to increase its market share, representing General Insurance sectors, the Division 62% of the overall market in 2001 source: supplies over 7,000 Independent Association of British Insurers ABI.
Group contribution Financial Advisers IFAs and 2,000 General Insurance brokers with support The slowdown in the UK economy, and the Revenue % services and software.
It also provides continuing uncertainty especially in equity claims management services to large markets, did have a modest impact on insurance companies.
revenues during the financial year.
However, the long-term savings rate is predicted to OVERVIEW grow significantly source: ABI, driven by Planned and recommended changes to the the underlying demographic trends and the regulatory framework for the UK Financial governments increasing requirement for Profit % Services market are set to have a profound self-provision in retirement.
These factors, impact on both the General Insurance and combined with the increasing pressure on Life and Pensions sectors.
the industry for lower administration and distribution costs and improved service In the Life and Pensions market the Financial capabilities, continue to be the main drivers Services Authority FSA assumed regulatory for growth.
Employees % control in December 2001 and soon released a major consultation paper CP121 The FSA also announced their intention to recommending abolition of the existing regulate the General Insurance industry by polarisation arrangements for IFAs and the year 2004.
Although the exact proposals allowing product providers to invest in the are as yet unclear, it is anticipated that the IFA distribution channel.
In addition, the FSAs decision will have a significant impact Sandler Review of retail savings in the UK across the industry.
Again, Misys, with the has recommended further far reaching largest General Insurance intermediary changes in product manufacture, product network in Misys Insurance Management distribution and regulation.
MIM is well placed to offer an enhanced range of regulatory and business services Leading market position number of registered individuals Misys 7,324 Skandia 4,500 Inter-Alliance 1,305 Tenet 1,101 Bradford & Bingley 801 Source: Matrix, Money Marketing, Annual Reports Misys is the number one supplier of support and compliance services to independent financial advisers.
20 Misys Annual Report 2002 3 9 1 4 1 2 Misys IFA Services Marketing Director, Andrew Bedford, outlining regulatory changes ahead for IFAs demonstrating their knowledge of the independent financial advisers at one of the regular Misys roadshows for network members.
range of pensions and savings products.
Revenues in the IFA networks losses combined with declining investment business grew overall by 45%, assisted by returns saw general insurers facing increased a better than anticipated performance from pressure to reduce distribution and the newly acquired DBS network.
administration costs and to deliver The execution of our technology strategy underwriting profit.
The resultant hardening in our Life businesses has made significant of premiums, and the need for insurers to progress.
The integration of the two portal work with significant distribution partners, businesses, AssureWeb and m-link, was continues to benefit our business.
completed ahead of schedule and, as a BUSINESS REVIEW result, the losses associated with DBS In August 2001 we announced the acquisition development activities have been of DBS Management plc including the DBS dramatically reduced.
In January 2002 we IFA network DBS and the AssureWeb concluded an agreement with three product electronic trading platform for a providers Friends Provident, Norwich Union consideration of 77m.
The combination of and Scottish Widows which saw a phased DBS and Misys IFA networks means that 9.2m equity investment into the Misys now holds the leading position in the AssureWeb electronic trading platform.
IFA sector, providing services to over 7,000 A further agreement was concluded with registered individuals RIs representing Clerical Medical in July.
The four product about 27% of the IFA market by number.
providers are paying a further 16.8m for services related to usage of the portal over The gross revenue per RI fell during the year the next three and a half years.
With a 60% by only 6.5% despite the economic downturn shareholding, Misys will retain operational and the reduction in commission levels, control of AssureWeb, while the product particularly on pensions products.
The volume providers share a 40% stake.
of transactions actually increased during the year, demonstrating the increasing productivity AssureWeb has also concluded a number of and the resilience of the IFA channel of fixed-fee three year membership contracts www.
com 21 operating review financial services continued IFA share of long-term with many leading product providers.
The majority of Europes leading insurers.
MIMs savings market % investments should help, when combined membership now stands at around 1,000 and with the newly contracted recurring consequently holds a pivotal position in the revenues, to move the portal towards distribution of non-life insurance products.
profitability in the shorter term.
The intermediary solutions business, Misys Separately, the development of the mi-solution Financial Systems, saw the acceleration of desktop software for IFAs is nearing completion the roll-out of its new OASys application and will be deployed during the first half of suite contributing to a rise in order intake 2002 03.
This software, which is being levels year-on-year.
Transaction processing integrated within the AssureWeb trading volumes and revenue also increased over the 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 platform, will provide a major step forward period as insurers continued to deploy full Source: ABI January 2002 in the implementation of our end-to-end cycle EDI products on Misys systems.
As consumers have demanded electronic trading vision.
Over 1,000 advisers Combined, these developments enabled the greater choice and quality of advice, IFAs have become the have already contracted to use the mibusiness to achieve good profit growth.
leading sales channel for longsolution desktop ahead of its formal roll-out.
FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES The Groups General Insurance activities Both the life and non-life insurance markets continued to make good progress and are set to undergo fundamental change as successful new product launches have a result of the recommended regulatory further strengthened the leading position of changes.
Irrespective of these changes, the the business.
Profits in the General Insurance quality of advice and personal relationships will business were broadly in line with last year, remain of paramount importance although our despite the difficult trading conditions.
Our own research concludes that IFAs increasingly broker insurance management business, MIM, see technology as a key enabler in the continued to make progress through its improvement of productivity and service.
strategic partnership programme with the The IFAs business process mi-solution is a desktop software solution that integrates with IFAs advice processes, while enabling them to complete full cycle electronic sales and business processing.
It significantly enhances IFA productivity in areas such as client factfinds, product selection, quotations and new business applications.
needs product client fact find analysis research policy new suitability quotes servicing business 22 Misys Annual Report 2002 33 35 41 44 47 49 50 56 62 The new AssureWeb marketing campaign has kept over 14,000 registered users abreast of the portals advanced functionality, including on-line applications and commission tracking.
In March of this year we commenced a enhancement of our strategic partnership strategic review of our Life and Pensions programme at MIM.
business to understand how we could In General Insurance we have a number of extend our leading position in the market clearly defined strategic projects designed to as regulatory changes take effect.
The result drive growth in our business.
These include of this review is an expansion project that initiatives ranging from electronic trading in will enhance our distribution capabilities, commercial lines business through to offer a broader range of solutions to the network opportunities that will come about Life and Pensions industry and enable us to as a result of planned regulatory changes in participate in a greater share of the industry 2004.
These strategic initiatives will leverage value chain.
our position in the market, move the We expect this expansion project to lead business into new higher growth areas and to a flotation of our IFA related businesses complement our existing high quality within two years.
As part of the flotation recurring revenues.
plan, members of the Misys-owned Overall, the Division should make good networks Countrywide, DBS, Financial progress as the combination of our pivotal Options, IFA Network and Kestrel will position in the distribution of financial services receive benefits linked to their membership, products, and our technology excellence, including participation in the float.
provides us with significant leverage.
Further progress is expected in the execution We continue to contribute to the of our technology strategy in the IFA business.
consultation process established following The financial commitment by four leading the recent announcement by the FSA product providers and the broad industry relating to the regulatory regime for support should help position AssureWeb as financial advisers and General Insurance.
the portal of choice whilst placing the We regard the proposed changes as wholly business on a sound commercial footing.
compatible with, and anticipated by, our We expect steady progress in our General strategic business plan.
We are confident Insurance business with the continued that our position at the very heart of deployment of the OASys front and back financial services distribution will deliver office software and the further substantial shareholder value.
com 23 operating review technology COMMITMENT TO R&D the cost of ownership of their technology Our commitment to product development is too high.
The cost of maintaining servers has continued undiminished.
A key at the client end is increasing and there is greater appetite for a move to different strength of Misys has been our success in identifying and integrating acquisitions technologies with resulting lower cost.
In the banking sector particularly, the and then delivering the acquired products software industry is now providing a set into a broader market.
This has been of technologies, which emerged during the made possible by increased investment Internet boom and have come to maturity, in R&D to broaden the functional scope into mainstream products.
The key of acquired products and evolve them to John Johnston Chief Technology Officer technologies are thin client, Java,.
NET the latest technology platforms.
For example, in our Banking and Securities We regard thin client, where the application Division, when Summit was acquired by runs entirely on the server and is accessed Misys in 1996 it was positioned as a very through a web browser, as appropriate to successful niche product for front office a wide range of back office applications.
processing of interest rate derivatives: under Recent work on the Midas banking system the Misys banner it has developed into the using this thin client technology with Java middle and back office, and now covers a application server logic has been extremely broad range of instruments from treasury to well received.
At the time of acquisition, For environments where a more elaborate it ran on Unix workstations with a Sybase user interface is required, we regard database: now it supports Windows and Microsofts.
NET as the most appropriate Web access, a distributed application server technology, combining a rich user interface architecture, and Oracle as well as Sybase.
with automated deployment mechanisms In Misys Healthcare Systems, the focus is to eliminate the support costs of traditional on offering our customers major product PC software, and it is being widely adopted upgrades on a regular basis.
within Misys for new rich client developments such as the next generation DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS of Hospital Systems products.
We have continued to increase the proportion of development and customer Java is now established as the successor to support work done in offshore centres.
C, C and Cobol in server environments We have added a 90-person healthcare where portability and scalability are needed.
development centre in Bangalore to our We have deployed Java applications existing 270-person retail banking successfully in many of our products, for development centre there.
Our Summit example in the new Misys Insight alerting and OPICS product centres have started to system, and this trend will continue.
We subcontract development to Romania and have also used Web Services to link.
NET Mexico respectively, and we have continued rich client applications to Unix and Java to invest in our international banking servers, and we expect that this open XMLdevelopment centre in the Philippines.
based standard will be widely adopted.
We have also focused on improving the Overall, we believe that Misys is extremely quality and efficiency of the software well placed to capitalise on the development process.
opportunities presented by these new TECHNOLOGY TRANSITION technologies and we will continue to Customers across our Banking and Securities deliver the evolutionary technology and Healthcare divisions are realising that migration that our customers demand.
24 Misys Annual Report 2002 operating review people Our businesses can only be successful INTERNAL COMMUNICATION The Group regularly holds formal and with the continued support, commitment and enthusiasm of the individuals who informal briefings, as well as management and sales conferences, to update and obtain make up Misys.
We encourage our feedback from employees on all aspects of people to take on greater responsibility the business.
Company information is also and accountability in their respective sent by e-mail and posted on Intranet sites.
areas as well as offer opportunities to Employees are also frequently posted develop broader careers across the information about their key wealth creation Group.
While building a world-class benefits, such as pension and sharesave Group, we need to continuously improve Joe McCollum Group HR Director schemes.
the quality of our management teams at all levels.
During the year, we have EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES extended a programme of initiatives to Challenging short-term objectives work help all employees improve their skills within a longer-term context across the and involvement.
A large proportion of the top 100 executives compensation is at risk and is LEADERSHIP STRENGTHS determined by a combination of short-term A major priority on the Groups human operational objectives and longer-term resources agenda is to ensure management shareholder value creation objectives.
Leveraging hard industry We have extended this principle to the next knowledge and experience has been an 400 executives, tying a proportion of their important factor in our success in recent remuneration to longer-term results.
Stability at this level also creates and Through our global employee share plans renews long-term customer relationships.
we align our employees interests with shareholders, by giving them a direct stake We continually test that we have the in the Group through all-employee share relevant capabilities in-house or are able schemes.
This brings substantial motivational to develop the critical skills to compete benefits and, longer term, helps to improve worldwide in the future.
All managers will the performance of the Group.
have an informed view of employees two to three levels down the organisation, ensuring that we put our best people against the most challenging opportunities.
A key part of this process is the annual review in which managers can assess strengths, identify development opportunities, ensure smooth succession and address skills gaps.
CLEAR BUSINESS ACCOUNTABILITY Our organisational structure means that all of our businesses have clear responsibility for delivering return on investment.
We have placed greater emphasis on cross-learning, sharing best practice ideas and techniques.
Leveraging our expertise from elsewhere around the Group, especially in the areas of sales, technology and product development, ensures we can develop world-class skills The Misys annual management conference enabled senior employees to share ideas and capabilities.
