Operating Review 2002 was a year of good growth in pricing and, by the end of the year, a Also during the year, the Group has turnover, profit and cash during a time significant reduction in transaction costs been at the forefront of developing new of positive change in Nestors major in BNA.
The continued reduction in methods of healthcare delivery, most customer, the NHS marred by the loss transaction costs across the division notably by developing nurses to perform of one major government contract, the should deliver a further 0.5% roles traditionally carried out by doctors.
improvement in operating margin These included undertaking patient Our priorities in 2003 will be to grow our by the end of 2003. consultations, both over the telephone core business and to substantially make and in our primary care centres: police up for the loss of this contract, whilst Stephen Page, Managing Director of the and prison healthcare and the screening at the same time continuing the Healthcare Services Division, focused on of benets applicants in the community.
investment in the Healthcare Services simplifying the structure of companies and Personnel Divisions.
in the Division, launching a major Acquisitions rebranding exercise, whilst driving a From May, the Groups Healthcare During the year the Group has migrated major change programme in Primecare Personnel Division implemented an from a central to an  Primary Care, the UKs leading out-ofacquisition programme that has resulted divisional structure to help facilitate the hours GP deputising service.
Margins in the purchase of 11 small businesses, strong growth expected in both divisions have temporarily declined in this business targeted to deliver approximately 2m in 2003 04 and beyond.
as we have invested in improvements in operating profit in 2003.
These acquisitions quality, including the creation of two represent excellent value for the Group, Stephen Booty, Managing Director of the clinical response centres.
even allowing for 20% attrition to their Healthcare Personnel Division, joined the turnover on integration.
Moreover, our Group in January 2002.
In his first year, Disappointingly the extension of the discrete acquisition and implementation he has reviewed the Divisions branding Medical Assessment Programme contract teams have ensured that these businesses and transaction cost base and has was lost, effective 1st November 2002. are integrated with our existing operations successfully commenced our programme The competitive tender was lost on price, with minimal disruption.
These acquisitions of small acquisitions in the homecare although service delivery to 31st October are mainly in the homecare market sector, at the same time as managing 2002 exceeded our expectations and where there are 3,000 registered the impact on the business of NHS those of our customer, the Department domiciliary care providers to the 208 Professionals.
This contract Social Services Authorities.
benefited the Group during 2002 by Operating margins in the Healthcare 11.8m of operating profit after central Personnel Division increased by 0.9 costs and had been expected to generate percentage points to 7.4% 2001: 6.5% a further 5.5m contribution to operating due to improved gross margins through profit in 2003 after central costs.
Justin Jewitt Chief Executive The Group has migrated from a central to an operationallyfocused divisional structure to help facilitate the strong growth expected in both divisions in 2003 and beyond.
8 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3.1m in exceptional costs in creating Government Regulation and two clinical response centres to help Initiatives 2002 saw significant Government activity achieve these standards.
The NHS inhouse agency, NHS Professionals, has The Wanless report, published in March continued its expansion at the cost of 2002, and the subsequent budget have many of the Groups high volume, lowconfirmed the Governments total margin contracts.
This has reduced the commitment to increased investment number of hours of care delivered by 11% in the NHS and Social Services, creating but gross profit has improved due to the better services through a higher replacement of the low-margin contracts proportion of GDP invested.
The 2002 with spot business as the Group seeks budget confirmed that total spending on to work alongside NHS Professionals to health will reach 105.6bn by 2006.
Pay help deliver the NHSs goal of complete rates are likely to increase for consultants, coverage of England by 2003.
GPs and nurses as a direct result of more money owing into the NHS.
The The Care Standards Commission is now Government is now intending to create almost ready to regulate the standards Diagnostic and Treatment Centres to of care provided by domiciliary care and cut down patient waiting lists.
This raises the pluralism of provision, where either barrier to entry by demanding investment the public or private sector can deliver in training and systems, which has healthcare whilst the Government already caused many of the smaller remains the purchaser and protects the agency businesses to sell up or close.
concept of free at the point of delivery for the general public is a great The roll-out of the Carson Standards of opportunity for Nestor going forward regulation for out-of-hours providers to 2006 and beyond.
began in October 2002 for full implementation by the end of 2003.
All providers, public and private, as a condition of registration, will be subject to the achievement of the same high standards.
Nestor has committed to invest 9.0m capital expenditure and Nestor has been at the forefront of new healthcare delivery methods, most notably by developing nurses to perform roles traditionally undertaken by doctors from patient consultations to police and prison healthcare.
Our priority in 2003 will be to grow our core businesses whilst at the same time continuing to invest for the future.
9 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 The homecare market now accounts for 80.6m of turnover in the Healthcare Personnel Division with 12.7m hours of care delivered in 2002.
Homecare is a major area of focus for the Group.
Healthcare Personnel Division The Healthcare Personnel Division comprises the British Nursing Association, the Grosvenor Group and other businesses focused on providing exible stafng solutions and managed services to both the healthcare and social care markets.
Operating Review continued Healthcare Personnel Division The Healthcare Personnel Division showed The markets we serve have also nally become effective in April 2003, good progress in improving operating continued to change at a pace.
bringing with them a raft of new profits and margins despite at turnover.
In healthcare, NHS Professionals is standards, regulations and associated A number of small acquisitions were continuing its geographic spread and is administration for the industry.
The trend made in the latter part of the year, now actively supporting at least 50 NHS towards Local Authority outsourcing, expected to contribute approximately Trusts.
Additionally, the roll-out of the whether through spot work, block 2m to profits in 2003. national framework agreements, being contracts or full outsourcing has continued driven by the NHS Purchasing and and it is likely that the extra impetus A considerable change programme was Supplies Team, is progressing to plan.
behind Fairer Charging and Direct embarked upon in the year aimed at Whilst NHS Professionals has led to a Payments this year will further increase transforming the division over the next loss of some contracted volume and opportunities for the private sector.
associated turnover, the relative increase in our spot business has compensated Homecare turnover now accounts for First, the many names and brands in the for this in gross profit.
Also, despite these 80.6m 2001: 71.6m of business in Division have been rationalised and recircumstances BNA has renewed or rolled the Healthcare Personnel Division and is focused to give greater clarity of purpose over in excess of 27m worth of NHS a major area of focus going forward.
In and to differentiate between the choices contract business.
Grosvenor Group has BNA, having now fully integrated the they offer to their customers in the also maintained its current level of Goldsborough and Primrose acquisitions marketplace.
from 2001, management is focused on organic growth from the existing Second, a complete re-engineering of our All the Divisions businesses have nationwide network of branches.
business processes, focused on reducing been successful in gaining selection A good start has been made with the transaction costs is well under way.
Back as approved suppliers in the national commencement of the Harrow contract ofce functions are being removed from framework agreements that have been at the beginning of February this is the branches and centralised to support all finalised to date.
Of particular note, Medic worth 4m turnover in a full year.
This is designed to return Group has been successful in winning its significant cost efficiencies and, in freeing place on the National Framework for Our bolt-on acquisition plans are also the branches from their administrative hospital locum doctors following a threewell under way and the Medico brand, burden, will also improve sales efficiency year absence from the approved list.
part of the Grosvenor Group, has already and provide a much greater customerbeen expanded from its original focused culture.
However, the full benefit The Homecare market is also developing geographic base in the West Country of these changes will not be seen until 2004. rapidly.
The National Care Standards to develop its national presence.
A considerable change programme will transform the Division over the coming 18 months.
Clearer branding will give greater clarity of purpose, and centralised administration will make branches more sales and customer focused.
12 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Within the Division each of the operating professionals had a very successful businesses made good progress in the year.
Albeit from a small base, turnover increased by 81.9% to 15.1m 2001: At British Nursing Association the 8.3m, with signicantly enhanced largest company in the Group and the margins.
Winning its place on the UKs leading general nursing and care National Framework Agreement for agency turnover was slightly down at NHS hospital locum doctors should 206.0m 2001: 210.8m mainly due facilitate its continued growth.
In the to the impact of NHS Professionals on its last quarter of 2002 Medic was further top line and the transfer of some small strengthened by the acquisition of homecare businesses to the Grosvenor Cornelle a business that is focused Group.
However, operating margins and on GPs and providing doctors for the profit grew signicantly through improved Prison Service, complementing its gross margins and cost efficiencies.
Grosvenor Group had another successful Finally, Carewatch the franchise year.
Turnover was broadly at at 81.6m homecare provider had another 2001: 79.3m, despite the loss of impressive result, increasing turnover 11.4m of zero margin secondary agency by 22.6% to 6.5m 2001: 5.3m and turnover associated with large contracts increasing the volume of hours delivered with some London NHS Trusts, which through its network by over 40% from were transferred to NHS Professionals.
We shall continue to grow our network of Each of the key brands, Grosvenor franchisees and support them in building mental health, Mayfair specialist their businesses, and delivering homecare nurses and Medico general nursing throughout the UK.
and homecare, have been successfully expanded from their restricted southern Continued focus on credit control saw a base to offer a national service.
reduction of 15% in outstanding debtor days across the Division.
Medic Group specialising in hospital locum doctors and allied health Healthcare Personnel Division turnover by market sector m 176.4 NHS 80.6 Homecare 29.0 Nursing homes 23.7 Other Total 309.7m 22.9m Operating profit: Healthcare Personnel Division 13 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Our two high-tech clinical response centres are already providing excellent response times 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Healthcare Services Division The Healthcare Services Division comprises Primecare Primary Care, Primecare Forensic Medical, Nestor Disability Analysis and other businesses that deliver a range of managed healthcare services to the NHS, Government bodies, Local Authorities, private companies and individuals.
Operating Review continued Healthcare Services Division The Healthcare Services Division comprises begun.
At the same time, we have invested and subsequent contacts and communicate Primecare Primary Care, the UKs largest heavily in order to meet and exceed new with their GP and other health services.
provider of out-of-hours services ground-breaking performance standards In addition the centres will co-ordinate to GPs: Primecare Managed Health, required by the Government following the the appropriate clinical response, whether providing specialist healthcare in the Carson Report.
This involves an overall a clinician advising on the best course of home: Primecare Forensic Medical, capital investment of 9.0m, together action over the telephone, or a face-to-face delivering primary care in secure with an exceptional charge of 3.1m.
consultation which can take place at one of environments and Nestor Disability Primecares 130 local primary care centres Analysis, screening services for the Benets Throughout the year, we implemented our or at home.
Satellite technology will be Agency.
Until November, it also included decision to improve the quality of the service employed to manage our eet of vehicles to the MAP contract, the coal miners medical delivered, by employing more doctors, ensure urgent home visits are made within assessment programme for the DTI.
This, together with 60 minutes and patients advised when the the double running costs of providing the doctor will be with them.
The clinical All the businesses in the division provide service whilst the roll-in programme is response centres will be resourced by fully primary care delivered by doctors, nurses completed, has resulted in a temporary trained staff and a network of nurses and and allied health professionals.
It can use reduction in operating margin to 3.5%.
doctors operating in the centres, from local its partnerships with Primary Care Trusts However, once the project is completed by branches and from home.
The centres will and its capability to co-ordinate and deliver the end of 2003, we expect to see margins work closely with NHS Direct in handling local clinical services in all its businesses.
and profits materially increase as the patient calls for out-of-hours primary care.
benets of enhanced customer service and In November 2002, the Group launched cost efficiencies ow through into higher Primecare Primary Cares out of hours a new brand, Primecare, positioning the market share and increased revenues.
teams work together with the clinical Groups healthcare services as a partner response centres to provide an excellent to the NHS in primary care services.
Our priority is to focus on national clinical platform for the expansion of the Groups response centres whilst strengthening services to Primary Care Trusts that are Primecare Primary Care the largest local service.
anticipated to hold 75% of the NHS provider of out-of-hours services to GPs budget by 2004. in the UK achieved organic turnover Our clinical response centres, located in growth on a like-for-like basis of 12.2% to Birmingham and Shefeld, started taking For Primecare Forensic Medical the 64.6m 2001: 57.6m with the increase their first patient calls in November 2002 leading UK provider of healthcare and largely deriving from price increases to and are already providing excellent response forensic services to secure establishments meet increased doctors pay.
times and productivity to some 16% of and police authorities 2002 was the first Primecare Primary Cares customers.
During full year of integration of our business As highlighted in the Interim Statement, 2003 the remainder of our control rooms providing healthcare services in secure we made the decision in the first half of will be migrated to the clinical response establishments with the business previously the year to restructure the business by centres allowing the local branches to operated by Healthcall, providing forensic closing Healthcalls former head ofce focus on face-to-face patient contact services to police authorities.
building and consolidating its call-handling and local partnerships.
function from 29 locations down to two Primecare Forensic Medical grew its national clinical response centres.
I am By the end of 2003 the centres will be turnover by 74.4% to 13.6m 2001: pleased to report that both new centres answering calls from across the UK within 7.8m, and now provides a wide range were opened on time and on budget in a maximum time of 30 seconds.
Each person of healthcare services to 19 prisons and November and the process of rolling-in the calling will create an electronic record that secure units and to three police authorities.
remaining 27 control rooms has already can be used to provide excellent care in this The Division is an established and leading healthcare provider with significant growth potential, as the public sector increasingly looks to partner private suppliers to deliver the modernisation agenda.
16 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Nestor Disability Analysis NDA is the Consequently, it was a disappointment as essential to ensure GP and hospital provider of temporary personnel to to be unsuccessful in the re-tendering services work efficiently.
They also enable SchlumbergerSema Groups contract to process and the contract was transferred healthcare professionals to safely and more operate the Benets Agency Medical Services in November 2002. effectively manage a larger caseload, a for the Department of Work and Pensions.
factor that is increasingly important as the Primecare Managed Healthcare and shortage of suitably-qualied clinicians NDAs turnover in 2002 was up 3.6% to Primecare e-health provide complex becomes ever more acute.
the increased number of assessments Healthcall Optical is the leading provider required by the Department and increased With the success in creating the Primecare of domiciliary eyecare in the UK.
doctor pay from the fee per case brand and the clinical response centres It provides eyesight tests and spectacles approach adopted in the year.
Following Primecare Managed Healthcare and dispensing, primarily to people living in a two-year extension to the contract it Primecare e-health have been brought residential and nursing homes.
The process of together to enhance the Groups capability number of preferred provider contracts re-tendering is expected to start in late to develop innovative approaches to care with large nursing home groups, ensuring 2003 or early 2004. provision and use technology to improve that their residents receive high quality the patient experience, quality and optical screening and eye-care.
Its proThe Medical Assessment Process MAP efficiency of its services.
forma turnover in 2002 grew by 5% is the largest industrial compensation to 5.3m.
scheme in the world undertaken under Primecare Managed Healthcare and contract to the DTI.
Primecare e-health together achieved a 19% rise in turnover over 2001 to 3.2m.
In 2002, the operational performance on the MAP contract was outstanding, with This is a slower rate of growth than previously 55,000 claimants screened in the year experienced, particularly in the e-health part Justin Jewitt, Chief Executive bringing the total screened since the start of the business, and consequently action has 3rd March 2003 of the contract with Healthcall Nestor in been taken to change the business model November 1999 to 110,000.
In addition and reduce costs considerably.
quality was signicantly improved, with the business managing the process and Both businesses continue to focus on the clinicians involved to remove all helping the NHS to prevent patients delays and achieve the lowest ever level being unnecessarily admitted to of returned assessments.
ISO 9001 2000 hospital and to be safely discharged to was achieved in May 2002. independent living.
New services continue to be introduced such as intensive and The MAP contract delivered cash ow specialist nursing support to nursing and operating profits well above our and residential homes to increase their expectations, with turnover of 47.9m capacity to care for people, thus 2001: 17.6m and an operating profit preventing hospital admissions.
contribution of 11.8m 2001: 4.0m despite the contract nishing at the The packages of care provided by these end of October.
businesses are an excellent example of the new services that the Government, NHS and local authorities are increasingly recognising 14.4m Operating profit: Healthcare Services Division 17 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
