07 Operational review Production and reserves elds.
No reserves have been booked in Indonesia in respect of Working interest production for 2002 averaged 53,600 boepd, the second sale of gas to Malaysia pending future progress in the representing an annual increase of 12,700 boepd and 7 per cent commercial arrangements for development.
above the top end of the range of 45-50,000 boepd projected for the year in the 2001 results.
Post restructuring, Premier will have total reserves including as yet unbooked reserves in respect of the second sale of gas to Malaysia The major contributions to the rise were much higher volumes from of over 200 mmboe.
the West Natuna gas project in Indonesia and increases in gas production from the Yetagun eld in Myanmar.
Production levels Development in the UK and Pakistan were broadly similar to the preceding year.
During the year eld development activity was undertaken in Pakistan Production comprised 40 per cent oil and 60 per cent gas 2001: and Myanmar.
In the former the development of the Bhit eld was 53 per cent oil and 47 per cent gas reecting the higher gas volumes largely completed by December and commissioning is ongoing.
Work on the Zamzama full eld development continued on schedule for start up in 2003.
Additionally, further upgrading of the Qadirpur Proven and probable reserves, on a working interest basis, were 450 eld processing facilities continued.
In Myanmar the Yetagun phase II mmboe as at 31 December 2002, down from 469 mmboe reported a capacity upgrade was successfully completed by Premier as operator.
year earlier, mainly reecting annual production.
The movement over the year, which excludes the impact of the restructuring, was as follows: Exploration and appraisal Premier participated in five exploration and appraisal wells during mmboe 2002 two in Pakistan and one in each of the UK, Indonesia and Start of 2002 469 Guinea Bissau.
Whilst none of these wells resulted in a commercial Production 20 discovery, drilling activity continues in Pakistan on the Dumbar block Revisions 1 where one well is currently operating.
Acquisitions 2 End of 2002 450 The current exploration programme, which commenced in 2002, will continue into 2003, including possible further drilling in the Dumbar The acquisition represents the purchase of an additional interest in the block and the beginning of a West African campaign, in Guinea UK Kyle eld, while minor revisions were booked across several UK Bissau and Gabon.
Working interest production for 2002 averaged 53,600 boepd, representing an annual increase of 12,700 boepd and 7 per cent above the top end of the range projected for the year.
08 Operational review continued Europe Marjun-1 discovery in the adjacent Faroes block 6004 16.
The well Production in the UK for 2002 was 18,500 boepd, in line with the encountered hydrocarbons but not in sufficient quantities to justify previous year, and accounted for 35 per cent of Group production.
Premier now has access to new 3D seismic data acquired over This percentage is less than the previous year 45 per cent as gas the block and adjacent blocks which is currently being interpreted and volumes from South East Asia continue to build.
has options to farm-in to the adjacent blocks.
Premier is also evaluating other UKCS acreage as a source of new opportunities.
The Wytch Farm oil eld remains as Premiers main producing eld in the UK, contributing 6,900 boepd net 2001: 7,800 boepd.
Production Pakistan decline in this mature asset continued to be mitigated by successful Premier conducts its operations in Pakistan through its 50 per cent inll drilling of three multilateral side-tracks of existing wells with holding in a joint venture company, Premier Kufpec Pakistan BV development costs of less than $3 per barrel.
Inll drilling is set to PKP.
Production net to Premier averaged 5,600 boepd, broadly in continue at current levels for the foreseeable future.
line with the preceding year 2001: 5,700 boepd.
Production from the Kyle eld, which came on-stream in 2001, averaged Despite international concerns about the security environment in at 5,600 boepd net to Premier despite a three month interruption to Pakistan following events in Afghanistan and tensions with India, 2002 gas export which commenced during April, caused by a blockage in the was a successful year for Premier with further development activity on export line due to hydrate formation.
During the period oil production three gas elds Qadirpur, Bhit and Zamzama which are planned to was also curtailed.
Full oil and gas production was restored during July.
result in a more than doubling of the production rate by the end of 2003.
Development continued with a fourth horizontal well which was brought on-stream mid July, with production rates in line with expectations and The Qadirpur gas eld was the largest contributor to production costs under budget.
At the end of June, Premier acquired an additional from Pakistan amounting to 2,800 boepd.
Further development of 5 per cent equity from Roc Oil at a cost of 3.4 million taking our the Qadirpur gas eld is underway with an expansion of processing interest to 40 per cent effective from the beginning of 2002.
Facilities facilities from 235 to 400 mmscfd to be completed in mid 2003, with upgrades to enhance production are being considered for 2003. further expansion to 500 mmscfd of processed gas by early 2004.
The majority of the remainder of UK production came from the Fife area, Production from the Kadanwari gas eld declined to a net 1,500 boepd which contributed 3,700 boepd net.
This is up 32 per cent on last year 2001: 2,100 boepd, while Zamzama extended well test production due to a combination of successful inll drilling on the Fife eld and the exceeded contracted volumes at 1,300 boepd net to Premier 2001: first full year of Angus eld production which was redeveloped in 2001.
Gas Sales Agreements for Zamzama were signed with Sui Southern Gas Company Limited and Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited On the exploration side, Premier earned a 16 per cent equity share in for the sale of 320 mmscfd from mid 2003.
Work on eld development block 204 16 by carrying British Gas costs in a well to appraise the continued and commissioning of the new plant is on schedule.
Faroes CHINA Scott, Telford, Rob Roy, Premier interests Ivanhoe, Hamish Flotta NORWAY Gas fields & discoveries Chestnut St Fergus Cruden Bay AFGHANISTAN Islamabad Ettrick Kyle Angus SCOTLAND Flora Bolan Fergus Lahore Fife PAKISTAN Quetta Zarghun South Dadhar IRELAND UK Galahad, Qadirpur Mordred IRAN Sukkur WALES Bacton Kadanwari Kirthar Premier interests ENGLAND Zamzama NETHERLANDS Bhit Badhra Oil producing fields Dumbar Third party oil pipeline BELGIUM INDIA Karachi Gas producing fields Wytch Farm Third party gas pipeline Wareham FRANCE 09 The development of the Bhit eld was largely completed in December Whilst Anoa oil volumes continue to fall, the rate of decline is slow and initial gas sales were achieved that month.
Commissioning of the and volumes delivered in 2002 are slightly ahead of forecast.
full eld plant should be completed in the first quarter of 2003 leading Technical work is being undertaken to examine ways in which oil to full eld production of 240 mmscfd by mid 2003. recovery can be maintained as high as economically possible.
During the year engineering work on the development of additional Two exploration wells were drilled in the year.
Zarghun North-1 well in uncontracted gas reserves discovered on block A has continued.
the Bolan block failed to ow gas, however, gas commercialisation negotiations have commenced with Sui Southern Gas Company In December the first of two exploration wells on the eastern Area IV Limited for the neighbouring Zarghun South gas discovery.
segment of block A was spudded.
Both wells Kuda Nil and Binturong have since been plugged and abandoned with non-commercial oil shows.
In the Dumbar block the programme of 650km of 2D seismic Further work is underway to assess the remaining potential of Area IV.
acquisition in the Kirthar National Park area was concluded.
The Benir-2 exploration well was drilled and tested following which it has Myanmar been plugged and abandoned after a non-commercial gas ow to Gross gas production from the Premier operated Yetagun gas eld surface.
Drilling of Zirkani-1 has now commenced, in the same averaged 199 mmscfd in 2002 giving net gas production excluding concession area, and this well is due to reach the target zone in the condensate of 9,700 boepd 2001: 5,600 boepd.
In addition a total of second quarter of 2003. five condensate liftings were made during the year from the oating storage and offtake vessel with a gross volume of 2.1 million barrels.
Indonesia Our net share of this condensate production was 1,500 boepd giving Record levels of production were achieved in Indonesia in 2002 as Premier a combined net production from the eld of 11,200 boepd demand from gas buyers in Singapore grew steadily throughout the year 2001: 6,600 boepd.
with the completion of end user facilities.
In addition, extra revenues from gas production arose in May and June when Premier sold gas to The phase II capacity upgrade of the Yetagun eld development was make up for delivery shortfalls experienced by another partner in the successfully completed on time and on budget during the year.
The West Natuna gas project.
Accordingly net production amounted to facilities can now deliver 300 mmscfd, the quantity required under the 18,300 boepd, an increase of 78 per cent from the preceding year.
terms of the Gas Sales Agreement.
Front-end engineering work on the phase III capacity upgrade was also completed in the year and detailed The Anoa gas export and oil production facilities have been operated design engineering work is well advanced to enable the facilities to by Premier with an excellent health, safety and environmental record, deliver 400 mmscfd from April 2004.
Purchase of long lead items and no lost time incidents occurred during the year.
The facilities have required for a programme of inll drilling in 2003 to ensure the delivery performed well, with no significant downtime and Premier was able to of the increased production commenced at the end of the year.
meet all of its contractual sales requirements during the year.
Premier interests Premier interests INDIA Oil fields Gas fields CHINA VIETNAM Pipeline Gas fields PHILIPPINES Third party pipeline Oil & Gas fields BANGLADESH Pipeline Mandalay VIETNAM Anoa MYANMAR MALAYSIA BRUNEI Kakap LAOS Naga, Gajah Baru MALAYSIA Discoveries SINGAPORE Yangon INDONESIA THAILAND Yadana Wang Noi Bangkok Yetagun Dawei Jakarta Ratchaburi CAMBODIA Substitution area, M12, M13, M14 Surat Thani 10 Operational review continued No take-or-pay debtor arose in 2002 following the signing of a Side New venture areas Letter Agreement to the Gas Sales Agreement with gas buyer PTT Exploration new ventures have commenced in North East India and of Thailand.
This deferred the increase in contract quantity from Gabon in 2002, continuing the regeneration and replenishment of 1October 2002 until 1 January 2003, in return for settlement of the Premiers exploration portfolio, and signifying a trend away from long 2001 take or pay liability $22.7 million net to Premier together with plateau gas production and into short-eld life, higher annual cash conrmation of the increase in daily contract quantity to 400 mmscfd ow oil projects.
In the Jaipur block, Assam, Premier has begun to shoot seismic 2002 saw a significant drop in risk levels on the Yetagun facility, as part adjacent to the Digboi oil eld, in an area previously unexplored.
This of our ongoing commitment to reduce risks to meet international was due to the difficult terrain of the Naga thrust-belt which deterred standards wherever we operate.
With the construction of additional previous explorers: however, we are confident that our experience of blast walls, improvements to electrical equipment and re and gas working similar thrust-belts will enable us to acquire high quality detection systems the Yetagun facility is on track to achieve a world seismic in this area, with a view to first drilling in early 2004. class safety case at the end of Phase III.
In the Phenix concession, offshore Southern Gabon, we have used Albania new 3D seismic processing techniques to identify rm prospects for In Albania four of the twenty new development wells planned as part exploration.
The operator Sasol and Premier are currently negotiating of the extended production programme had been drilled by the year the final details of a production sharing contract with the government end.
These wells plus an additional five new wells were completed prior to planning for drilling later this year.
and began producing in February 2003.
The remainder of the programme is expected to be complete by end April 2003.
In addition, a reactivation programme on six wells had also been completed by year-end and the wells were producing satisfactorily.
Information from this programme will be analysed during the year with the aim of making a decision on the future development programme in the third quarter of 2003.
Premier interests YUGOSLAVIA Premier interests Oil fields Sett Cama PAKISTAN Shkodr CHINA GABON NEPAL Jaipur New Delhi BHUTAN MACEDONIA ATLANTIC Patna OCEAN Tirana BANGLADESH Calcutta Mayumba ALBANIA INDIA MYANMAR Patos Marinze Mumbai Fier ITALY GREECE Phenix Chennai Premier interests
