Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 8 Operating Review We have a clear strategy with a good mix of cash generative and growth businesses underpinned by a strong balance sheet.
April Arriva Vehicle Rentals on-line booking service goes live.
Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 9 UK Bus we have also expanded facilities elsewhere Leicestershire and parts of Cheshire.
At the Our UK Bus operations achieved an in the capital to accommodate the growth.
same time we improved customer feedback operating profit of 65.4 million, before procedures and made all of our timetables goodwill amortisation, 2001: 68.4 million We now employ over 3,000 drivers in our available on the web.
A successful pilot on a turnover of 559.8 million 2001: London operations, an increase of some exercise in September saw the campaign 400 since 2001.
The division is a consistent targeted on specific corridors in Derby, and substantial cash generator and in 2002 achieved against the background of a Luton and Maidstone, and this was buoyant employment market, reflects the achieved EBITDA of 103.1 million, around followed by a programme of 26 similar 50 per cent of the total for the Group.
success of a major recruitment programme projects across England and Scotland in combined with actions taken to reduce staff November.
In 2003, we have extended the As reported in our Interim Results, the turnover and enhance our training campaign with some 2.6 million decline in operating profit was a first half arrangements.
households, living within a ten minute walk year issue and largely reflected the sale, of 80 of our most heavily used routes and Clearly, over the past two years the growth required by the Office of Fair Trading networks, receiving information about following our acquisition of MTL, of the achieved in London has not been seen services and discounted travel vouchers Gilmoss bus depot in Liverpool, and the elsewhere in the country.
2002, often as a result of working in impact of increased insurance costs.
Encouragingly, trading in the second half partnership with local authorities and The recent evolution of congestion charging demographic changes, we have seen strong matched the performance in the may perhaps mark a turning point.
National comparable period in 2001. growth in some areas.
Our focus remains on and local governments can make a eliminating low margin and loss-making significant contribution to resolving the Our operations in London, where we are operations while retaining the ability to problems of traffic congestion and pollution.
the largest operator, represent over 25 per respond quickly to opportunities.
Steps have It is imperative that all parties build on cent of the divisions turnover.
In preparation also been taken to consolidate some of our recent developments and work together to for the congestion charging scheme, over operations and management structures deliver on their commitments.
the past two years Transport for London has have been streamlined.
These disciplines will driven a major investment programme to remain fundamental as increased National UK Trains increase the number and quality of bus Insurance and pension costs will continue to UK Trains achieved an operating profit of services in the capital.
As a result, we have put pressure on margins.
14.9 million 2001: 11.5 million on a seen significant volume growth in this part turnover of 419.0 million 2001: 425.5 of our business.
In 2001 we operated some We continue to work to increase patronage million.
A significant improvement in 1,200 buses, and by the end of 2003 this through improvements in service delivery, operational performance at Arriva Trains information and marketing.
During 2002 fleet will have grown to over 1,400 vehicles.
Merseyside, together with an improved In July, we re-opened our Stamford Hill our marketing campaign Going your way performance at Arriva Trains Northern, more continued in the North East and was depot to provide increased garaging, than offset the financial impact of industrial maintenance and engineering facilities and introduced across the North West, in action at the Northern franchise.
May Arriva develops the Bus of Tomorrow with a range of suppliers following extensive consumer research.
Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 10 Operating Review continued In July 2002 we completed the purchase of SAB, Italys largest private bus company, our first acquisition in that country.
May Arriva North East opened a new bus station in Peterlee bringing road safety and environmental improvements to more than 37,000 passengers each week.
Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 11 In February 2003 we reached agreement We have been shortlisted for the new Wales an option to purchase the remaining 49 per with the SRA on the level of funding for and Borders franchise and our bid is due to cent of TST at any time up to 31 December interim franchises for the two businesses.
The Northern franchise will operate to seeking to pre-qualify for a number of other September 2004 and Arriva Trains franchises.
We completed the acquisition of SAB, Italys Merseyside to July 2003. largest private bus company, in July.
The UK rail industry clearly has some Purchased from its parent company Both franchises achieved improvements in considerable challenges, both financial and Italmobiliare, SAB operates to the east of customer service during 2002.
We are an established operator Milan principally in the Lombardy Region.
Trains Merseyside the introduction of a new and will be seeking to develop our role in The company employs some 1,200 people timetable, together with better traincrew the future of the sector.
and operates a fleet of over 900 vehicles, management and fleet reliability, has managing a further 400 vehicles and 800 contributed to higher levels of performance International people in associated companies.
In a rapidly and the increase in employees, including Our International division achieved an evolving market the acquisition of SAB operating profit of 19.0 million, before drivers, at Arriva Trains Northern resulted in provides an excellent foundation to develop a more stable and reliable service.
Since we goodwill amortisation and exceptional and grow the business in northern Italy.
took over these franchises in 2000 we have items, 2001: 12.8 million on a turnover In January 2002 we acquired two small bus made considerable progress in improving of 303.5 million 2001: 256.0 million.
Our focus will be to The previously established businesses operators in Majorca, Autocares Mallorca SL improved operating profit from 12.8 and Donate Amenguel Ramis SL.
maintain the high level of performance achieved by the Merseyside franchise and million to 13.5 million whilst the first time continue to deliver further improvements in contribution from acquisitions in Portugal, The integration of the new businesses has gone according to plan and they will make punctuality and reliability at Arriva Trains Spain and Italy was 5.5 million.
Turnover a significant contribution to this years Northern.
from the acquisitions was 43.0 million.
In June we announced that we had Throughout 2002 we experienced industrial In Denmark, where Arriva is the major bus action at Arriva Trains Northern in respect of consolidated our position in Portugal with pay demands by conductors, station and the acquisition of a 51 per cent interest in operator, our move into the rail sector commenced in January 2003 when we took retail staff, and we regret the inconvenience TST from the Barraqueiro Group.
TST is the caused to our customers.
In February 2003, leading operator of scheduled bus and over the operation of two franchises serving coach services in the growing commuter Jutland.
We have experienced some issues both disputes were resolved and we will in relation to the availability of train drivers now be working with all of our employees region to the south of Lisbon.
TST, together and their representatives to deliver further with our operations in the north of the from the previous operator.
However we are working closely with the transport ministry improvements for our customers.
country, positions Arriva as one of Portugals leading bus companies with a fleet of nearly and others to overcome this short-term 1,000 vehicles.
Orders have been placed for 30 new Coradia Lint trains, which will be delivered transport market provides opportunities for further growth in both bus and rail sectors in 2004. and we have a sound base to take full advantage of those opportunities.
We have June Left: Order placed for 30 new trains to operate on Arrivas Danish rail franchises.
June Right: Arriva Trains Merseyside successfully introduced a new timetable designed to improve performance.
Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 12 Operating Review continued Arriva Vehicle Rental is performing strongly in the growing corporate and public sector markets.
June Arriva acquired a majority interest in Portugals Transportes Sul fide Tejo.
Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 13 Our business in the Netherlands has brands, however, each business is now Outlook developed a strong position in the north of migrating to the Arriva brand with an Despite the tough economic conditions, we the country.
During 2002 the focus was to increasing focus on expanding its range of have grown earnings per share, excluding build on that position and take advantage product and service offerings.
The Arriva goodwill amortisation and exceptional of opportunities elsewhere in the country.
freedom product, which was launched in items, by 32 per cent over the past two The business has made good progress 2001, has performed well in 2002 by years to a record 36.8 pence.
We have a winning two contracts in the Rotterdam attracting new corporate customers with its clear strategy with a good mix of cash region.
We have also won a number of bus flexibility to provide a range of new and generative and growth businesses tenders in Sweden and Denmark.
used vehicles to meet their changing underpinned by a strong balance sheet.
enables us to target acquisitions in our Mainland Europe continues to provide chosen markets and to undertake share profitable opportunities for growth and we The market is expected to grow strongly buy-backs whilst offering an attractive are increasing our involvement with the over the next five years and the dividend yield to shareholders.
European Union EU institutions and the Governments Best Value Initiative is governments of member states, in order to encouraging the public sector to outsource play a part in influencing the development vehicle fleets which provides the business of transport policies.
We are one of the with opportunities to build on its largest international operators in mainland relationships with local authorities and Europe with an annualised turnover other public bodies.
There remain Chief Executive significant opportunities as the market, Bus and Coach which the EU estimates to be worth 35 Arriva Bus and Coach achieved an operating billion for buses alone EU statistics: 1999, profit of 3.5 million, before goodwill increasingly opens to competitive tendering.
amortisation, 2001: 3.6 million on a reduced turnover of 23.1 million 2001: Vehicle Rental 25.2 million.
The business continues to Operating profit from Arriva Vehicle Rental be impacted by the weakness in the UK increased by 10 per cent to 11.6 million, tourism market.
Accordingly we have before goodwill amortisation 2001: 10.5 continued to reduce the size of the rental million.
Net profit, after financing costs, fleet and the capital employed to reflect increased by 25 per cent to 7.4 million.
It achieved a return on Headline turnover of 83.1 million 2001: capital of 18 per cent 2001: 13 per cent.
85.5 million was down slightly reflecting a lower level of vehicle disposals in the Discontinuing Operations period.
Underlying vehicle rental income Our Motor Retailing and Motor Finance was up 6 per cent to 48.7 million.
businesses achieved a combined operating profit of 10.7 million 2001: 11.2 million This business has grown profits organically on a turnover of 695.9 million 2001: by 70 per cent over the last four years and 657.6 million.
we continue to see significant opportunities for its further expansion.
With a fleet of We announced a formal process for the some 11,000 vehicles and 600 employees it disposal of the 35 Motor Retailing operates from 42 locations and continues to dealerships in October 2002.
To date we have realised 33 million from the disposal perform strongly in the growing corporate and public sector markets.
Arriva Vehicle of 14 dealerships and progress has been in Rental has been trading with six business line with our expectations.
June Arriva Trains Northern celebrated the 200th new driver trained.
Pictured from the left: Cllr Mick Lyons, chairman of Metro the West Yorkshire Passenger Transport Executive: Graham van Heeswyk the 200th driver, and Ray Price, managing director of Arriva Trains Northern.
