2001 02 has been a year of consolidation with United Kingdom efforts focused internally on delivering value from Trading profit for the year was 32.1m 2001: 30.7m the recent expansion in the scale and scope of on turnover of 272m 2001: 260m.
My thanks are extended to our team of some 4,600 employees whose efforts The poor performance of the hazardous waste and commitment are a credit to themselves and activities in Chemical Services necessitated action the organisation.
on high temperature incineration capacity.
Analysis showed that, post the expiry of the first 2.5m year The Group has been pursuing a programme to register revenue MBM processing contract in March 2002, large operating facilities to a recognised environmental volumes would be insufficient to sustain a cash management system.
Most major sites are now generating two-plant incineration operation.
qualied to the ISO 14001 environmental standard, Consequently the decision was taken to cease or equivalent.
As a result of this commitment to operations at Pontypool, which will result in annual superior environmental performance, a 91% score cost savings of 4m.
was achieved in the Business in the Environment Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement.
The commissioning of the new uidised bed plant at Fawley to satisfy the second MBM contract has 1.
Shanks now has a presence amongst the hills and lochs of Argyll and Bute in Scotland.
Sorting and recycling operations are growing to service the needs of local authorities.
The new Westor Hatton landll site near Aberdeen has sophisticated lining and anti-bird netting systems.
2002 One of the most sophisticated landlls in the country has opened for business near Aberdeen.
The plant is processing made towards the more sustainable management of material and generating electricity, but it is proving hazardous waste in the UK will be positive for the Group.
difficult to operate both reliably and at full capacity.
Currently our contractor is making modications to The non hazardous waste processing activities of the plant and its operating regime to enhance Waste Services have improved.
The power generated will benefit from materials, particularly pyre ash, from the Foot and the premium price available under the Renewables Mouth crisis provided a substantial contribution.
Order with effect from April 2002.
Some 50% of landll volumes are currently under contracts of various durations.
After a number of The hazardous waste market in the UK is currently lean years 2001 02 also saw resurgence in demand the subject of a House of Commons Select for the remediation of contaminated land, perhaps Committee enquiry to which the Group is submitting helped by the tax reliefs announced in the evidence.
It is expected that any recommendations 2001 Budget.
The Groups first Private Finance Initiative PFI contract, from Argyll and Bute, commenced in Summer 2001.
Highly attractive solutions, incorporating innovative new technologies, have resulted in our appointment as preferred bidder for both Dumfries & Galloway and the East London Waste Authority waste management contracts.
continued It is pleasing to report a return to growth in Scotland.
the first 12MW of capacity installed by the Group The Groups first Private Finance Initiative PFI contract qualies for a premium price under the Renewables from Argyll and Bute commenced in summer 2001 Order with effect from April 2002. and, in a full year, will provide revenue of 5m.
In the Falkirk area the Group benefited from an improved Belgium performance at the joint venture Avondale landll partly Trading profit for the year was 13.1m 2001: 14.7m due to the new local authority contract.
A new recycling on broadly static turnover of 88m.
and transfer station was opened in Blochairn, Glasgow whilst the Wester Hatton landll opened north of Aberdeen The supplementary volumes to landll arising as to follow on from the recently lled Tarbothill site.
an indirect consequence of various health scares associated with dioxins did not recur.
General Electricity generation from landll gas produced a landll inputs in the year also declined.
record performance with progress being made in installing capacity under the 20m plus investment At the half year, two non-recurring problems were programme to satisfy grants awarded under the Non highlighted at the fide Paepe business.
The first Fossil Fuels Obligation and Scottish Renewables related to a project to dismantle a chemical works Order.
This programme continues into the current year in Germany and the second to the costs associated and should be completed in 2003 04.
Additionally, with the treatment of contaminated spoil brought onto Electricity generation from landll gas produced a record performance.
Shanks is already one of the largest producers of this type of power in Europe and new engines at Brogborough right were a major contribution to the 15MW of additional generating capacity installed.
Another 20MW capacity increase is scheduled for 2002 03.
2002 The CETEM landll site in Belgium has received planning permission for additional capacity which will extend its life by circa 10 years.
the Gent site for remediation.
Adequate provisions improvement in the solid waste activities more than were made at the time and both projects are nearing offsetting shortfalls at ATM, caused by permitting completion.
Pleasingly, results for the second half difficulties.
Solid waste divisions not only grew, have markedly improved.
particularly as a result of last years small acquisitions, but also benefited from lower treatment Other operations in Belgium performed satisfactorily rates in Germany for certain waste streams.
and broadly in line with our plans.
The repermitting of the whole ATM site in Moerdijk The Netherlands is proving protracted.
The permit for the pyrolysis Trading profit for the year was 25.0m 2001: 24.1m process, one of the three principal activities on the on increased turnover of 168m 2001: 155m.
Despite exhaustive efforts This performance represents a significant this permit has still not been renewed although the 1.
Modern aring systems in use to burn off excess gas at the Brogborough landll site.
Part of the energy from landll gas plant at the CETEM site in Belgium.
Sorted recyclate from Blochairn being ofoaded at the Peterborough Materials Recycling Facility MRF.
continued pyrolysis plant is currently allowed to operate on long term partner, Ecodeco.
This process, executed internally generated waste.
An application for a at an Intelligent Transfer Station ITS, subjects new permit continues together with an appeal of shredded municipal waste to a biological drying the process.
process which greatly reduces its weight and, as a dry largely sterile product, is very much easier Despite these difficulties the Group remains to handle.
From this odourless output valuable pleased with the businesses acquired and with the recyclable materials are recovered leaving a fraction contribution made by this new part of the team.
In the longer term it is hoped that this fuel will be widely used to generate Prospects electricity which, under the right conditions, should As one of Europes leading independent waste qualify for a green premium price.
The whole process management companies Shanks continues to invest can be conducted in buildings with the same external in its future.
In particular an array of innovative visual impact as normal industrial premises.
The technologies has been assembled to bid for long system is already well proven at full scale and, term local authority waste disposal contracts usually critically, avoids the need for incineration which let under the Private Finance Initiative in the UK.
cornerstone of these technologies is a mechanical biological treatment system developed in Italy by our 1.
Specialist industrial cleaning operations conducted by Reym in the Netherlands.
Shanks is now a familiar name in collections in parts of Belgium.
Soil cleaning in action at fide Paepe in Belgium.
2002 Using these technologies the Group has already Increasingly the Group is involved in the production of been nominated as preferred bidder for Dumfries secondary materials, fuels and electricity from waste.
& Galloway and, more recently, East London Waste The implementation of European regulation and Authority ELWA waste management contracts.
increasing environmental taxes serve to further the Tendering costs are high but providing the bids are opportunities to recycle waste rather than dispose of properly targeted, the risk is considered manageable.
Accordingly the Group remains confident in its future.
Following financial close these contracts should generate revenue in excess of 30m in a full year.
Further such projects will be pursued in the medium term.
The Performance and Innovation Unit of the UK Government Cabinet Ofce is currently conducting a detailed study into how the nation will meet the terms of new European legislation, particularly the Landll Directive, and UK National Waste Strategies.
M C E Averill Their findings will be published this year in two Group Chief Executive phases including recommendations for the nations sustainable future.
The Group remains pleased with its operations in Belgium and the Netherlands.
Tuck-in acquisitions continue to expand the Benelux business base.
The ship cleaning facility pictured left at the ATM hazardous waste treatment facility in the Netherlands.
