Chief Executives Review of Operations Sales increased in all thre SIG continued to grow and develop during 2002, despite New products were added to the range, further enhancing our encountering very difficult trading conditions in a number of position as the leading specialist roofing supplier.
During the its core markets.
These challenges were countered by a course of the year, the number of roofing branches increased combination of actions based around three key areas: by 30, from 78 to 108, as a result of acquisitions.
lcontinued investment in existing businesses to generate In contrast with both the Insulation and Roofing sectors, market future growth: demand for Commercial Interiors products declined, especially in the higher quality product areas where margins have been lgaining market share through the ongoing acquisition historically the highest in the Group.
Taking into consideration programme: the annualised effect on 2002 of the Capco interiors business, lthe implementation of cost rationalisation measures.
which was acquired in August 2001, sales overall increased, though were down on a like for like basis.
Specialist partition Whilst sales were increased substantially and market position systems, wall storage and office screens are products that enhanced, operating profit before goodwill amortisation fell by depend upon tenants taking up either new or existing office 2%.
Prior to charging costs associated with the rationalisation space, and demand declined as office space remained programme, which were 2.3m, operating profits before unoccupied at a level not seen for many years.
Other sectors, such as health, education and retail, were more favourable and demand for commercial interiors products for Highlights both new build and refurbishment projects in these areas was UK and Republic of Ireland more resilient.
Sales in this region grew by 15% to 735m 2001: 639m, representing 64% of the Group total.
The three main business 2002 was a very difficult year for the commercial interiors streams of Insulation, Roofing and Commercial Interiors all market and, after years of consistent growth in sales and profits increased sales, including the benefit of recent acquisitions.
in this sector, our businesses saw like for like operating profits Operating profits were increased, although the operating margin decline by more than 19%.
Looking forward, investments were declined due to the fall in sales of higher margin products in made in 2002 to extend our product range in order to create the commercial interiors sector.
Like for like sales growth was 3% overall, with good progress in Our two development businesses in the UK, Safety Products Insulation and Roofing countering a decline in Commercial and Construction Specialities, had mixed performances in the Interiors and in the small safety products business.
Weak demand and falling prices caused a small loss to be incurred in the Safety business, whilst sales and operating profits Like for like sales growth in the Insulation division was increased within Construction Specialities, partly as a result of supplemented by the benefit of current and prior year an acquisition during the year.
acquisitions and operating profits were increased.
Demand from both the new and RM&I repairs, maintenance and Mainland Europe improvement sectors of the building market was robust, and Overall, sales in mainland Europe increased by 7% in sterling some additional benefit was gained from the increased with negligible impact from acquisitions.
Operating profits fell by minimum standards of thermal insulation resulting from the 26%, due to the impact of investment costs in Germany and revision to the Building Regulations in April 2002.
The changes France to support expansion in specific areas and the impact of will chiefly affect all new construction and some impact is also one-off costs in Germany due to branch closures, which was evident from certain parts of the refurbishment and renovation part of the rationalisation programme.
Whilst it is early days, and it will be some time before the full impact of the new Regulations is known, the initial signs In Germany, our largest single country of operation outside the are encouraging.
UK and still the largest market in Europe for the SIG product ranges, the further decline in construction activity caused The smaller industrial market for insulation materials declined, demand to fall.
Two competitors collapsed in 2002, and we with customers in the general manufacturing, power generation decided to invest in two new branches and increased our sales and petrochemical industries reducing demand.
Maintenance staff and delivery facilities in key geographic areas to take and renewal of insulation is essential on many plants for safety market share.
The full benefit of these expansion initiatives were and operational reasons, but the number of new industrial projnot gained in 2002, but we are confident that this further ects declined.
Overall, we benefited from our position as leader strengthening of our market position will create future growth.
in all areas of the insulation market.
Sales in Germany increased by 7% in sterling, which is a clear Like for like growth in sales and operating profits were achieved indication of the progress our businesses have made as a result by the UK Roofing division.
The addition of recent acquisitions of the investments, in a market which is estimated to have boosted the rate of growth substantially.
Within the core declined by around 10% by value.
Gross margins were held, but business, good progress was made in improving pricing increased costs reduced the operating profit in the year as a management and internal efficiencies, so benefiting the whole.
12 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 e main product sectors.
As we progressed into the second half of 2002, the benefits of Overall in the USA, sales increased marginally in US dollars, the investments made in the first half were evident and second gross margins were increased, but increased costs reduced half operating profits, prior to rationalisation costs, were ahead the operating profit for the year.
Acquisitions Sales in France increased by 7% in sterling, with growth During 2002, we made three acquisitions in the UK Roofing achieved in both Insulation and Commercial Interiors.
The division, which together added 30 branches to our network.
commercial interiors market in the main business centres in This reinforced our position as the leading supplier to the France, especially Paris, showed a similar decline to that roofing market.
which occurred in the UK, so our own growth is an excellent achievement.
A small, highly specialist insulation company was acquired to improve our coverage in the North West of England, and we During the year, we opened three new roofing products strengthened our position in the specialist construction and civil branches.
These achieved a satisfactory level of sales in their engineering markets by acquiring a highly focused distribution first year of operation, but did not contribute positively to profits.
business operating in this sector.
We now have 14 branches Operating profits fell in France, due to pricing pressures, an serving customers in this niche area.
adverse change in the sales mix and the start-up costs associated with the new branches.
Finally, we added a specialist insulation distribution business to our operations in the Netherlands in order to widen our market In the Netherlands sales in sterling increased overall by 24%, coverage.
due to the benefit of the acquisition in March of Coolag, a leading specialist insulation distributor in the Netherlands.
Prior Total consideration for the six acquisitions in 2002 was 23.8m to this acquisition, our business was almost entirely focused on with combined annualised sales amounting to 63m.
All the the commercial interiors market in Amsterdam and other acquired businesses have integrated well and are performing business centres throughout the country.
Market demand in this in line with expectations.
We have gained the services and sector fell, leading to a reduction in our operating profits.
The experience of some highly skilled staff as a result of these insulation business performed in line with expectations and acquisitions, and I thank them all for their hard work and made a positive contribution to the result.
dedication throughout the integration process.
Our Polish business, which represents less than 2% of total Summary Group turnover, achieved a small increase in sales in local 2002 was an extremely difficult year for many of the markets in currency and reduced its operating losses, compared to 2001. which we operate.
Our belief in the long term growth prospects for our business remains firmly in place.
During the year we USA continued to invest in the long term development of the Group, Demand from the petro-chem industries in the southern US whilst at the same time seeking efficiency improvements and states fell in 2002, with the level of investment in new plant and cost reductions.
It is my belief that these actions have chemical processing installations running well below that of strengthened the Group considerably for the future.
The branches on the Eastern Seaboard, from Washington and David Williams, Chief Executive Baltimore in the north down to the Carolinas, are more focused on commercial demand and serve a wider range of industries.
Market conditions were more stable and we opened three new branches to take advantage of the withdrawal of a competitor mid year, which boosted sales.
The sales growth is an excellent achievement in such difficult markets and clearly demonstrates our resilience.
David Williams, Chief Executive SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 13
