CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATING REVIEW DURING 2002 SMITHS MADE SOLID From a sales perspective we started to PROGRESS IN SPITE OF EXCEPTIONALLY see the anticipated rewards from our DIFFICULT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.
Within Aerospace, we are OF OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED TO now winning major contracts as a direct EXPAND, WHILE OTHERS WERE RESILIENT result of broadening the divisions activities.
IN THE FACE OF LOWER DEMAND.
THROUGHOUT THE GROUP, WE TOOK Exceptional items of 68m reflect the ACTION TO INCREASE EFFICIENCY AND cost of the restructuring programme and TO IMPROVE OUR FOCUS ON THE AREAS a loss on the book value of discontinued WITH GREATEST OPPORTUNITY FOR businesses.
2002 Our cash performance illustrated the CONTINUING ACTIVITIES m Change Big increases in the US defence budget groups underlying financial strength.
SALES 3,070 2% led to higher sales of military equipment While Smiths always generates a high OPERATING PROFIT 452 9% in Aerospace, our largest division.
However, level of cash, we significantly exceeded our PRE-TAX PROFIT 406 8% the beneficial effects of this were offset target of 80% profit-to-cash conversion, EPS 52.3p 7% by the serious downturn in civil aerospace.
with operating cash-flow after capital before exceptionals and goodwill charges Notably, the Medical divisions sales expenditure of 473m for the continuing continued to increase, benefiting from activities.
This robust cash-flow allows strong competitive positions in a number us to pay down debt and gives us the MARGINS of high-growth markets.
AND CASH The year called more than ever for our active As a matter of course, we continued to style of management.
We took decisive improve our strategic position through MARGINS OF 15% AND action to cut capacity in those areas affected disposing of non-core businesses and OPERATING CASH-FLOW OF by the poor business environment, at the making bolt-on acquisitions in growth same time establishing new manufacturing areas.
We sold the John Crane-Lips marine 473M DEMONSTRATE THE jobs in low-cost economies in Eastern seals business and most of the former EIS SUBSTANCE TO THE PROFIT.
We increased efficiency engineering businesses.
In total, we raised in many of our activities through the 247m from disposals.
We spent 66m on introduction of lean initiatives.
small but strategic acquisitions and remain keen to buy businesses that fulfil our The benefits of this will be in addition to acquisition criteria.
the synergy gains already being achieved from the TI merger restructuring.
As you Debt was reduced substantially.
Disposal will read later, the latter had a particularly proceeds were responsible for some of the positive impact on the profits of our reduction, but operating cash-flow played Sealing Solutions division.
Net debt stood at 725m at the year-end, 35% less than the debt of On a like-for-like basis Smiths headcount 1,120m at the end of 2001.
are recorded on our balance sheet.
Interest costs for the year amounted to 46m.
Smiths generated 3,070m of sales from continuing activities in the year to We also increased our spending on research 31 July 2002, a decline of just 2% from and development R&D, as new technology 2001s result.
Operating profits fell by 9% to is a driver of our growth.
The years 212m 452m and pre-tax profits by 8% to 406m, R&D spend compares with 188m in 2001. as the decline in sales was concentrated From an accounting perspective, 116m in higher-margin activities.
Earnings per of this was treated as an expense during share reduced by 7% to 52.3p.
Even in the year, while our customers paid for these challenging times, our margins the remainder.
remain first-class at 15%, broadly in line with Smiths historically high profitability.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 05 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATING REVIEW continued In summary, while we have not been able growth as governments particularly the GOING FORWARD WE CAN SEE to avoid the worlds economic difficulties, US increase the capabilities of their CONSIDERABLE OPPORTUNITIES, we have found protection in the strength national security systems.
ESPECIALLY IN AEROSPACE and diversity of our businesses.
careful review, we have concluded that our In civil aerospace, sales suffered principally greatest opportunities lie in the Aerospace because of a reduction in the number of and Medical divisions which are both in aircraft being built.
Our main customers, sectors with attractive long-term growth Boeing and Airbus, are building considerably prospects.
As a result, we are concentrating fewer planes today than when the cycle on building these divisions both by product peaked at the turn of the Millennium.
We are also Within the industry, it is generally expected continuing to improve our Sealing Solutions that aircraft production is likely to be some and Industrial divisions.
Production facilities have been consolidated AEROSPACE and there has been a reduction in overall AEROSPACE SMITHS AEROSPACE IS A FIRST TIER employment, but we have been able to retain SUPPLIER OF INTEGRATED SYSTEMS key skills in many areas by transferring TO AIRCRAFT PRIME MANUFACTURERS engineers to defence programmes where 2002 2001 AND ENGINE BUILDERS.
THE MAJORITY there is a growing demand.
m m OF OUR SALES ARE IN LONG-TERM SALES 1,346 1,301 GROWTH AREAS.
Systems integrator PROFIT 191 209 As mentioned earlier in this review, a EMPLOYEES: 11,400 In Aerospace there was strong demand for number of contracts validated our guiding military systems and detection equipment.
strategy of enlarging the Aerospace division Notably, both of these sectors are on strong in order to supply integrated systems to the SALES BY ACTIVITY growth trends that should underpin sales in prime manufacturers.
We are now firmly the years ahead.
However, civil aerospace established as a systems supplier, as shown AEROSPACE 3 experienced a marked downturn in demand, by our winning sizeable contracts for the 1 Civil aerospace 2 Defence which was exacerbated by the tragic events B767 Global Tanker Transport Aircraft 2 3 Detection and other of September 11th, 2001.
GTTA and the new A380 super jumbo.
1 Sales were a little higher for the year at In the case of GTTA, Boeing selected us 1,346m, 3% ahead of 2001.
Operating in March to supply the hose and drogue profit, however, fell by 9% to 191m.
This requires capabilities comparatively weaker operating profit chiefly in aerostructures, systems software reflects lower sales of retrofits and spares engineering and microprocessor-based 3,000 PLUS to the civil airlines.
We acquired Able Corp. a US engineering company, F-35s ARE PLANNED TO BE BUILT Sales to military aircraft programmes to supply the hose systems.
The GTTA AND THE PROGRAMME WILL MAKE grew significantly as the US government programme offers the opportunity to A MAJOR CONTRIBUTION TO THE stepped up defence procurement.
Defence generate more than $1bn in sales.
equipment now represents about half of the divisions sales and we are chosen suppliers The A380 contract to supply the integrated to most of the high-value military aircraft system that operates the planes landing programmes of the next decade, including gear was awarded by Airbus in April 2002. the Joint Strike Fighter F-35, which will This system combines electronic and be the highest volume fighter aircraft actuation components to control one of the in production.
biggest structures on the whole aircraft.
Contracts so far secured on the A380 are Smiths Detection, which makes devices expected to generate lifetime revenues to detect explosives, narcotics and approaching $1bn.
biological and chemical agents, doubled sales.
Although Detection is a relatively However, the biggest business win of the small business, accounting for roughly year was the F-35 fighter aircraft, where 10% of divisional turnover in 2002, it we have secured business worth around achieves good margins and is the fastest $1m per plane.
Lockheed Martin, which growing part of Smiths.
We anticipate rapid has selected us as a supplier, won the 06 Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 manufacturing programme in October 2001.
MEDICAL MEDICAL More than 3,000 F-35s are planned to be SMITHS MEDICAL IS A LEADING SUPPLIER built and the programme should make OF DEVICES USED DURING CRITICAL AND a major contribution to the divisions INTENSIVE CARE PROCEDURES AND FOR 2002 2001 long-term growth.
m m WE FOCUS ON AREAS WHERE WE HAVE A SALES 480 452 Our relationship with Lockheed has COMPETITIVE EDGE AND WHERE THERE PROFIT 97 93 evolved in just a few years from that of ARE EXCEPTIONAL OPPORTUNITIES.
EMPLOYEES: 4,800 sub-contractor to business partner.
We are now one of only seven members of The market for medical devices is expanding the companys Strategic Supplier Alliance steadily as the ageing of the developed SALES BY ACTIVITY Programme.
We have similar partnership worlds population creates continuously agreements with Boeing and BAE Systems.
We are MEDICAL 3 developing strategic positions within this 1 Infusion therapy 2 Respiratory and Smiths Detection market, concentrating on the therapy areas anaesthesia Smiths Detection experienced huge growth 1 where we excel and where there are the 3 Specialist care in demand as the US government and others greatest opportunities for growth.
came to terms with the need to increase 2 homeland security.
US government Medical delivered a 6% expansion in sales departments are making extensive use to 480m, and a 4% increase in operating of our trace detection technology as they profit to 97m.
Margins remained high at WE ARE DEVELOPING STRATEGIC upgrade counter terrorism detection 20%.
Sales and profits would have been a POSITIONS WITHIN THE MEDICAL systems for facilities such as airports and little higher but for the decline of the Yen, DEVICES MARKET, CONCENTRATING public buildings.
Our inclusion in a team which reduced the reported contribution to develop a complete bio-agent detection ON THE THERAPY AREAS WHERE from the important Japanese market.
system for the US Postal Service indicates WE EXCEL AND WHERE THERE ARE the strength of our competitive position.
Growth was achieved throughout Medicals THE GREATEST OPPORTUNITIES nine global business units.
We expect US spending on detection fastest growing was Needle Protection, equipment to more than treble from its which makes devices to protect clinicians 2001 level by 2003 and then to remain and nurses from needle-stick injuries.
at a high level for the rest of the decade.
Needle protection is compulsory across Over the past year, we have prepared for the US under the Needlestick Safety and this market expansion, increasing our R&D Prevention Act, which became effective in spend by a multiple of four, launching seven April 2001. new products and investing substantially in our business infrastructure.
We have a Within the Ambulatory Infusion business strong product range, including a recently unit, our market-leading Deltec infusion introduced walk-through portal system pumps enjoyed considerable success.
for explosive detection that is creating Our new Cozmo diabetes pump, which worldwide interest.
obtained US Food & Drug Administration approval shortly after our financial yearOutlook Aerospace end, has great potential.
There are one Aerospace is well positioned for longmillion insulin-dependent diabetics in term growth.
Actions taken to adjust the US who would benefit from receiving our manufacturing to reflect demand will insulin from an ambulatory pump rather help us to weather the civil downturn.
We than injecting themselves up to six times believe the strong prospects for defence and a day.
Cozmo is the first insulin pump that detection, which make up 60% of divisional individualises the dose.
It is attracting sales, mean the division as a whole has the considerable interest from diabetes prospect of a return to growth.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 07 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATING REVIEW continued Restructuring Two non-core businesses making urology SEALING SOLUTIONS and ostomy products were sold during Medical was restructured into global business units in August 2001.
aim was to divide the business into therapy 2002 2001 areas where we have competitive strength, Outlook Medical m m to develop global scale and focus in these While the medical devices market continues SALES 822 892 to expand, we are concentrating product areas and to reduce manufacturing costs.
PROFIT 100 104 Real benefits are already apparent and development on focused markets with EMPLOYEES: 12,200 will be increasingly so over the next two exciting opportunities such as needle to three years.
protection, diabetes pumps, airway management and medication delivery, SALES BY ACTIVITY especially in the oncology field.
Savings Most importantly, through concentrating on specific therapy areas we have naturally from the concentration of assembly work in SEALING SOLUTIONS 2 become far more focused on our customers Mexico should improve profitability.
Funds 1 Polymer seals 2 Mechanical seals requirements.
Being global, our business are also being released for investment in units are able to develop considerable product development.
Each business unit now has a dedicated 1 specialist sales force.
Sales should SEALING SOLUTIONS also be boosted by the establishment SEALING SOLUTIONS IS A WORLD of a single organisation to manage third LEADER IN THE DESIGN OF HIGHPERFORMANCE MECHANICAL AND party distributors.
PERFORMANCE POLYMER SEALS FOR A WIDE RANGE As part of the restructuring, some OF APPLICATIONS, INCLUDING OIL AND JOHN CRANES PROFITABILITY production lines have been transferred GAS, PETROCHEMICAL, PROCESSING IMPROVED SIGNIFICANTLY.
to our low-cost global assembly facility in PLANTS, MOBILE HYDRAULIC MACHINERY AND PULP AND PAPER.
By the end of 2003, Tijuana will employ 1,000 people and will make one third of our devices for customers For Sealing Solutions, 2002 was a year of throughout the world.
considerable achievement in the face of weakening demand in several key markets.
Strong management action achieved savings Innovative products Taking cost out of manufacturing is allowing which increased margins, so creating a us to increase our spending on product lasting improvement in profitability.
This should underpin our sales and margins because medical devices While sales fell 8% to 822m, operating profit declined by just 4% to 100m.
Once tend to sell best and to generate their highest margins when initially introduced.
again, cash generation was strong, with At present, we have a good new product a profit-to-cash conversion ratio of 100%.
pipeline more than 20% of our product range has been introduced within the past Within John Crane, the business unit that makes mechanical seals, sales held three years.
By contrast, Polymer We also pursue product development Sealing Solutions sales fell significantly, through acquisition.
Abbott Laboratories reflecting the downturn in the European epidural kits and trays business was market for capital goods and equipment.
acquired in December to strengthen our market position in anaesthesia kits for pain The division sold a number of non-core management.
We also acquired Bivona, Inc. businesses.
The biggest was John Cranea leading US supplier of silicone tubes used Lips, the marine seals specialist, which in anaesthesia and critical care, to extend Finlands Wrtsil Corporation bought for 235m.
John Crane-Lips is included in our product range of airway management single-use devices.
the discontinued line of our accounts.
We improved our range of needle protection Accelerated cost cutting devices through acquiring exclusive The post-TI restructuring programme was brought forward and expanded during distribution rights to Medisys Futura retractable safety syringe.
At the time of the merger, we 08 Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 anticipated achieving a 30m a year saving INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRIAL by 2003.
As a result of actions taken in 2002, INDUSTRIAL IS FOCUSED ON however, savings will amount to 33m.
INTERCONNECT SUPPLIES 2002 2001 In addition to the restructuring, a sharp ELECTRONIC CONNECTORS AND m m fall in activity in some parts of our Polymer COMPONENTS FOR DEFENCE, SALES 422 487 business unit caused us to adjust production TRANSPORT, TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROFIT 64 93 capacity, bringing employment worldwide AND OTHER INDUSTRIES, WHILE EMPLOYEES: 4,400 down to around 6,000.
AIR MOVEMENT PRODUCTS INCLUDE DUCTING AND VENTILATION SYSTEMS.
We have also made considerable SALES BY ACTIVITY performance gains through better supply With most exposure to the declining chain management and various lean sectors of the world economy, the Industrial INDUSTRIAL 2 initiatives.
We have reorganised our supply division experienced a marked drop 1 Air Movement 2 Interconnect chain, with significant financial benefits in sales and profits.
The greatest fall resulting from factors such as a reduction was in our Interconnect communications in inventory.
Furthermore, e-business components businesses, which suffered as solutions continued to be introduced to expansion of the mobile telecommunications 1 allow our customers to order on-line, infrastructure slowed.
Lower demand realising efficiency and financial gains.
for Interconnect products from the civil aerospace industry was offset by Business wins defence growth.
RESTRUCTURED There were some notable business wins.
John Crane forged a $20m five-year alliance In total, sales fell by 13% to 422m and WE HAVE RESTRUCTURED THE with Textron, the US conglomerate, to operating profits by 31% to 64m.
More TELECOM RELATED BUSINESS be its sole supplier of open specification positively, cash conversion was strong TO RETAIN GOOD PROFITABILITY sealing solutions.
Additionally, we agreed at well over 100% of operating profits.
to supply mechanical seals and power Importantly, even at this lower level of transmission couplings for the $4bn Nanhai activity the Interconnect communications petrochemical project in south-east China, businesses are making respectable profit which will be one of the worlds biggest margins.
The Air Movement businesses petrochemical plants.
Also, our polymer performed well, attaining good margins seals were used in the UKs prestigious on flat sales.
In reaction to the lower levels of business As with our other divisions, product activity, we reduced employee numbers by development is vital for Sealing Solutions.
The costs associated with restructuring The LaserFace mechanical seal was a major were charged directly against profits.
This new seal reduces interface Air Movement, Vent-Axias manufacturing friction, so allowing compressors to pump operations were consolidated to improve more while minimising leakage levels.
Outlook Sealing Solutions Specialised products During 2003, we plan to build on this years Strategically, the division continued moving achievements.
Improvements in sales and towards its goal of becoming a supplier marketing combined with the introduction of highly specialised products that solve of new technologies should generate higher its customers problems.
At the same time, cost reductions Sabritec business launched its Fibre and other efficiency gains should feed Channel high data-rate multi-pin connector through to profit as restructuring benefits during the year.
This meets the needs of are experienced over a full 12 months.
an aerospace and space industry looking Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 09 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATING REVIEW continued for higher density cabling.
We have already GROUP PROSPECTS received a large number of orders.
Among In the course of 2002, we have narrowed other applications, Fibre Channel is being our focus on chosen growth areas and installed as part of the cockpit upgrade reduced costs.
Smiths has performed well in NASAs fleet of seven space shuttles.
in difficult markets, mainly as a result of In another example of the success of our the cost savings which have limited the approach, the PolyPhaser business was reduction in operating profit.
The high contracted to supply lightning protection level of cash generation demonstrates equipment for E911 radio equipment used the substance to these profits.
by the emergency services in the US.
A number of actions will benefit future Within Air Movement, Vent-Axia continued performance.
We have reduced debt by to launch new products to build on its 1bn since the formation of Smiths Group market-leading brand, including a lowin December 2000, and the balance sheet energy version of its flagship T series fan.
The reshaping of the company We took action during the year to focus on to focus on growth opportunities continues specialist businesses within the Industrial to make good progress.
division where we have critical mass.
In particular, we want to concentrate The company is not counting on an management time on those business areas upturn in the general economic climate, offering the best long-term prospects for although we expect specific sectors, growth.
To this end, we sold a number including defence, healthcare and detection of small businesses, including Fans & equipment, to continue to grow.
With our Spares Group and our European flexible constant focus on operational improvement, hose business.
We are constantly looking we are confident that, even under these for bolt-on acquisitions that will add to the mixed conditions, the performance of Smiths capabilities of our chosen business areas, will remain robust in the period ahead.
but we will not overpay for such acquisitions.
Outlook Industrial Looking forward, the actions taken this year have left us well positioned for any recovery in our markets.
If demand does not deteriorate further, reduced costs should feed through to higher profits in 2003.
KEITH BUTLER-WHEELHOUSE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 10 Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
