ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 Breaking records in Germany Mittelplate Dieksand Worldwide Operations In Spring 2000, RWE-DEA began onshore production from the Mittelplate offshore field, Germanys most productive oil field.
From an onshore site at The financial strength of the Group has been substantially enhanced and we are now 1,000 m Friedrichskoog, extended reach ERD wells have been sunk into the eastern section of the oil field to make in a position to pursue the many opportunities for growth that we see in several of our 2,000 m commercial exploitation possible without polluting the sensitive tidal flatland environment of the main markets.
Alasdair J. D. Locke Executive Chairman, Abbot Group plc Wattenmeer National Park.
To reach the reservoir at 3,000 m depths of around 2,000 3,000 metres, the wells 8,000 m 7,000 m 6,000 m 5,000 m 4,000 m 3,000 m 2,000 m 1,000 m drilled from onshore Friedrichskoog had to be deviated to the west for more than 8,000 metres.
Land Drilling Operations The Group currently operates a land drilling fleet of 33 owned units and 5 managed units in Opening new frontiers offshore the following locations: Sakhalin Island Area Land Rigs KCA DEUTAGs operations offshore Netherlands 2 Sakhalin Island represent new challenges Germany 6 for the company and its clients in Spain 1 developing frontier areas in remote Russia 1 locations with extreme environmental Kazakhstan 1 conditions.
The company is already Oman 8 operating on Sakhalin Energys Molikpaq United Arab Emirates 1 platform pictured and is providing drilling Iran 4 facility design for ExxonMobils new Orlan Pakistan 3 platform.
Nigeria 4 Libya 5 Thailand 1 Market leaders in the North Sea Brunei 1 Successful partnerships in the Caspian As the largest platform drilling contractor in TOTAL 38 the North Sea, KCA DEUTAG is working with its As in other regions, KCA DEUTAGs client group to prolong the profitable life of projects in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan are existing fields by extending current boundaries based on long term, close cooperation Offshore Drilling Operations and reducing well costs with a combination of with our clients.
A fundamental aspect of The Group operates on a total of 34 North Sea new technology implementation, continuous all our operations is the employment and platforms for the following operations: operational performance improvement, and training of nationals for key roles within innovative approaches to resource utilisation.
An Azeri graduate sponsorship, Operator Platforms recruitment & training programme has Amerada Hess 1 been in place since 1999.
BP 12 Britannia Operator Ltd 1 Canada Natural Resources 4 Chevron Texaco 1 DNO 2 Knowledge transfer into Iran Staff development in Oman ExxonMobil 2 Shell 9 As KCA DEUTAG increases its presence in KCA DEUTAG will extend its presence in TotalFinaElf 2 Iran, it brings a wealth of experience and Oman during 2003 with the introduction knowledge of operating best practice from of two additional drilling units, increasing TOTAL 34 around the world to enable it to deliver the total fleet to eight rigs.
Key to the the improvements over historical Group's success in Oman is its performance and efficiency that are sought commitment to the training and Internationally platform operations are carried out offshore Azerbaijan on the Chirag field for BP, and offshore Sakhalin Island by clients and government bodies alike.
development of its national staff.
in the Russian Far East on the Molikpaq installation.
In addition the Group manages 2 jack up rigs offshore Iran for Pedec, a subsidiary of the National Iranian Company.
Page 8 Page 9 A platform in the North Sea ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 so that compliance with high safety standards remains the accepted safety culture may be very mature and these people may only Corporate Social Responsibility Report for the year ended 31 December 2002 norm of behaviour.
Feedback from client assessment and benchrequire minimal training in our health and safety management marking exercises has typically been that our technical and occupational system toolkit before they forge ahead.
In another location where approach to the protection of health and safety is best in class.
the level of safety culture maturity is lower we may need to spend The Abbot Group and its subsidiary companies are committed to conducting their KCA DEUTAG uses a variety of measures, both reactive and proactive, a lot of time coaching supervisors in their role and their accountto ensure ongoing improvement in safety performance.
Some of these abilities as agents for positive change, with subsequent time spent businesses in an environmentally responsible manner without harm to people and with measures are summarised below: monitoring and advising them on the progress made.
In essence, the way to exceed the HSE expectations that we place respect for employee and human rights.
This has been an implicit element of our business on ourselves is by firstly understanding the drivers to achieving these REACTIVE TOOLS PROACTIVE TOOLS expectations, and then by ensuring our safety culture is aligned to for many years.
Incident Reporting Toolbox Worksite Talks Work Guidelines Environment Incident Review Panels Pre-shift Briefs It must be recognised that every rig operation will have an environTask Risk Assessment In previous annual reports and accounts, Abbot has reported on Health Safety mental impact of some nature.
The crucial point is to understand Safety Inspections health, safety and environmental performance, and account is taken The protection of the Health and Safety of those who work for us the impact that the operation could make and then act to control Skills Training of the significance of social, environmental and ethical issues in and with us is a key value for KCA DEUTAG.
At a high level KCA this impact.
As a part of our effort to understand and control our assessing risks and opportunities in the Groups business.
DEUTAGs vision can be summarised as no harm to people.
environmental impacts we have implemented an environmental STOP While we will continue to focus attention on these important Our focus on improving health and safety performance is continually management system which was formally accredited to ISO 14001 responsibilities, we recognise that our expanding international business high and we always seek to find ways to refine what we do well and in September 2002.
This certification covers our base office in requires that we broaden our reporting to more explicitly address the improve those areas identified as areas for improvement.
This ongoing Aberdeen and our offshore operations for Shell Expro, and certification Safety Improvement Plan Task Risk Assessment wider issues of social performance and sustainability of the business.
focus delivered a reduction in injury rates in excess of 10% between is planned to be extended in 2003 to other operations.
and Programme Work Guidelines Accordingly Abbot will, in co-operation with our clients, strive at December 2001 and December 2002.
This continues an annual year As part of our ISO 14001 work we compiled aspects and impacts Audit all times to adhere to the principles of the United Nations Global on year improvement which, since 1997, has delivered an overall registers for our existing operations.
Much of KCA DEUTAGs activity Crew Safety Awaydays Safety Awaydays Compact on Business Behaviours.
improvement in safety performance of over 85%, from a figure of takes place on client owned and controlled installations where we Crew Well Planning Sessions The Compact is a voluntary corporate citizenship initiative 9.53 injuries per 200,000 man hours worked in March 1997 to 1.24 cannot fully control, for example, the hardware systems provided or Skills Training comprising nine principles which guide the behaviour of the Group injuries per 200,000 man hours in December 2002. the chemicals selected.
However, we have worked to ensure that Supervisor Training in the ongoing development of its business strategy and in our operations procedures fully address the potential environmental conducting its operations.
Total IADC KCA DEUTAG Comparison Safety Leadership Training impacts of operations by integrating environmental controls into Wherever possible Abbot Group will involve stakeholders in its pre-existing procedures.
In 2002 we provided environmental awareness IADC International Association of Drilling Contractors LTIF Lost Time Incident Frequency operational areas to create practical solutions in compliance with the training to all personnel at ISO 14001 sites both onshore and TRCF Total Recorded Case Frequency Compact principles.
The Compact provides a framework covering Application of these safety improvement programs led to the ongoing offshore, and the extension of this training programme is ongoing.
human rights, labour standards and environmental issues, and will improvements in safety performance shown in the chart of Total We have also worked to extend our environmental engineering explicitly encourage the highest possible standard of business ethics Recordable Injury Frequency i. e. the rate at which our personnel are capabilities.
KCA DEUTAG now has significant experience of the 3.66 4.0 for individuals at a given location.
injured at work above, and in early 2002 we again received the design and installation of mud and cuttings containment systems.
3.5 The Group, throughout its operations, has developed appropriate IADCs award for safety excellence for a platform drilling contractor.
For example, we have undertaken work in drill cuttings re-injection 3.0 procedures and policies which meet the requirements of the main KCA DEUTAGs approach to developing systems and procedures units, drill cuttings ship-to-shore disposal systems, and engineering 2.5 2.33 principles.
is to identify the people at risk and design the HSE management studies into the use of modular drilling facilities or the removal and 2.0 With respect to human rights the Group companies ensure that system tools to suit them.
re-use of permanent drilling facilities to reduce the implications of 1.56 1.5 existing national laws for the protection of human rights are observed From designing hardware and management systems to be userinstallation decommissioning.
1.0 1.24 and respected, through dialogue and co-operation with clients, with friendly the link to behavioural safety improvement is clear.
The main 0.99 0.5 governmental and non-governmental groups.
Our aim is to ensure element in implementing safety systems effectively is a cultural one 0 0.65 that relationships and contractual agreements throughout the supply i. e. ensuring that all our people are fully bought-in to using our safety IADC Total TRCF 0.35 chain respect the protection of human rights.
tools, and individuals have a common expectation and hold themselves KCA DEUTAG TRCF 0.26 With respect to labour standards, our businesses uphold the freedom responsible for ensuring that jobs will be completed safely.
IADC Total LTIF 2001 of association and recognise employees right to collective bargaining.
KCA DEUTAG has been working on behavioural safety issues for 2002 KCA DEUTAG LTIF In particular, Group companies are active in promoting elections some time, and is aware that significant improvements can still be for, and recognition of, union representation for all offshore staff in We have developed a number of high integrity management systems made.
Our first cross-KCA DEUTAG safety culture survey was commissEuropean operations.
All staff in Continental Europe are represented designed to ensure the health and safety of our personnel through ioned in late 1997 and resultant action plans closed out in late 1999. by union and or workers councils.
providing them with: In 2001 and 2002 we conducted Safety Culture Maturity Model, Our staff are recruited internationally with training and development SCMM, assessments on our operations with completion in February opportunities, offered across the broad diversity of national and inter- 1. work sites and work equipment that are fit for purpose, and 2003.
Taken from the UK Cross Industry Step Change in Safety, the national staff in each operating country.
2. suitable health and safety procedures.
SCMM measurement is a simple but reliable method of identifying Measurement of performance, audit for compliance and detailed the level of safety culture across crews and at a worksite.
It allows reporting of actions in support of the principles will be the focus of We continue to further develop and improve these systems by us to tailor our approach to suit the target audience, and we see this Maurice A.
White Executive Director Drilling Operations development in 2003 and beyond.
focusing on their relationship with the safety culture of our worksites as a key benefit as we expand internationally.
One locations crew 12 March 2003 Page 10 Page 11 Freq 200,000 man hours ADDRESSING LATENT FAILURES ADDRESSING ACTIVE FAILURES
