S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 R EVIEW OF O PERATIONS B OOKS Demand for books remained resilient throughout the year in a market in which overall capacity was signicantly reduced.
Clays was again successful in increasing both sales and market share, principally because of continuing improvement in the range and quality of the service which we offer.
Further investments were made in pre-press, printing, binding and information technology to facilitate the production of the increased volume and to build further upon our unequalled reputation for fast and exible service.
We have established a representative sales ofce in the USA in order to generate additional sales from the religious book market.
Clays reputation for quality and service once again ensured that we produced a significant number of the bestsellers, including: Artemis Fowl Eoin Colfer, Learning to Fly Victoria Beckham, About a Boy Nick Hornby, True History of the Kelly Gang Peter Carey, Billy Pamela Stephenson, The Lord of the Rings JRR Tolkien, One for my Baby Tony Parsons, 1st To Die James Patterson, White Teeth Zadie Smith, Dave Pelzers autobiographical trilogy, Dead Famous Ben Elton, Memoirs of an unfit Mother Anne Robinson, Isle of Dogs Patricia Cornwell and further printings of the four Harry Potter titles.
The trend towards smaller order quantities, faster service and increased order complexity, demands real-time information systems to optimise manufacturing efficiency and provide consistently excellent customer service, from receipt of order to delivery of books.
Accordingly we have continued our efforts to extend the scope of electronic trading with our customers, which now covers the full range of administrative activity.
D IRECT R ESPONSE Conditions in commercial markets in the UK have remained highly AND C OMMERCIAL competitive throughout the year.
Most of our businesses serving these UK markets have suffered from margin erosion, largely driven by a combination of reduced market demand and excess capacity.
During the year we continued to invest in and rationalise our business.
We reduced our exposure to commodity web offset markets by retiring three old and uneconomic 16pp presses in Leeds.
We had previously installed a specialist 6-colour 16pp web offset press in Edenbridge.
In May of this year we moved our direct mail operation in Yorkshire from Bradford to a signicantly larger facility at our Leeds site to accommodate additional laser printing and mailing lines, thus enabling the future growth of the business.
In October 2001 we completed the 6 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 relocation of our point of sale business, DisplayCraft, to a new 6,150 sq.
The investment included new computer-toscreen and nishing equipment, and in July of this year we took delivery of our first 1600 mm x 2600 mm large format 4 colour silk screen press.
Customers for whom we have produced work include John Lewis Partnership, Marks and Spencer, Harrods and House of Fraser on behalf of Cond Nast, Spar, Tesco, Vodafone and a number of leading financial institutions.
Market conditions in Germany continued to be poor.
Price pressure G ERMANY in the longer-run, less specialist area of the market intensied.
Consequently a web offset press was retired in December 2001 and the total workforce reduced by nearly 20 per cent.
Our investment in a new 6-unit web offset press, aimed at the more specialist requirements of the market, was completed during the last quarter of the financial year and an old 4-unit press sold.
The dramatic reduction in internet related activity and the events of USA September 11 resulted in a significant decline in print demand and a marked deterioration in pricing.
However, we have grown sales to retail customers such as Federated Department Stores, The May Corporation, Dillards and Protts McRaes.
We are doing more work for Avon and have won significant volumes of work from new customers, including AMC Inc and the US Postal Service.
Market conditions required us to implement cost reductions: we reduced capacity by selling our three least productive presses and the number of people employed in the business fell by approximately 12 per cent.
We are concentrating on the provision and sale of our full service capabilities, including creative both design and photography, binding and mailing including full demographic capability and distribution and logistics management in addition to web and sheetfed printing.
The integration of St Ives Inc Avanti in Miami and St Ives Inc Case-Hoyt in Rochester is largely complete.
Completion of the installation of a new MIS system which is in progress will establish a common platform for accounting, financial control, estimating, inventory control and production planning, and facilitate greater co-ordination of sales and production.
In south Florida, we have established a single, consolidated 7
