Sales of our water-based polymer products have grown by close to 21% over the past two years Yule Catto & Co plc The combined business Annual Report Polymer Chemicals is unrivalled in its range of water-based products, allowing closer partnerships to be developed with 06 07 customers through offering the most comprehensive package to meet their needs.
Sales including joint ventures m Over the past two years sales of our The combined business is unrivalled water-based polymer products have grown in its range of water-based products, by close to 20%.
This has obviously been allowing closer partnerships to be 217.2 00 influenced by the benefits of the acquisition developed with customers through 238.8 01 of 100% control of Harlow Chemical offering the most comprehensive Company Limited, but it is a more than package to meet their needs.
260.0 02 satisfactory result in the current economic environment.
Our Malaysian latex plant is now in regular operation and qualification of Profits increased by over 20% in 2002, production is well underway.
The nature and would have been higher had not the of the product range is, however, heavily impact of rising raw material prices been directed to technically demanding in evidence in the second half.
Overall, applications and this process must margins were recorded at the traditional therefore progress at the rate of our levels seen for our speciality products and customers approval procedures.
In the action is in hand with regard to pricing meantime, we continue to satisfy their and product mix in an endeavour to needs during the transfer phase by Divisional operating profit m sustain these levels.
exports from our European plants.
The major task undertaken in 2002 was 22.8 00 the consolidation and integration of our 31.1 01 polymer operations under the Synthomer 37.6 02 banner.
Announced early in January, it is pleasing to report that this has been successfully executed, much to the credit of the management teams involved.
We now have an organisation well positioned to operate globally to best advantage.
21% increase in profits during 2002 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report Polymer Chemicals continued 08 09 In support of our position as a major Not for the first time, the short-term In the important sector of nitrile latex, supplier of synthetic latex compounds future offers the prospect of uncertain raw used in the dipping of disposable gloves, to the carpet industry, we acquired two material costs.
However, we are completely 2002 was another year that saw more Dutch companies, Ditar Ridderkerk BV free from the constraints of joint ventures, announcements of glove production and Ditar Hasselt BV, on 3rd February we have new capacity on stream and with being abandoned in the USA in favour of 2003.
This makes Yule Catto the largest identified geographic market expansion the Far East.
This is already providing supplier of these compounds in Europe opportunities, we look forward to a period opportunities with customers as they and will provide additional volume to of sustained growth.
our synthetic latex polymer plants as production of nitrile latex transfers to Synthetic Latex Emulsions the Far East.
High capacity utilisation at our European All our emulsion businesses achieved manufacturing facilities remains a feature.
volume growth despite variable operating A number of major capital investments This is partly due to the slower than conditions within the markets they serve.
were successfully carried out in 2002 and anticipated transfer by customers to Phase 1 of our new polymerisation plant our new Malaysian facility but good Announced capacity increases in the UK in Mouscron, Belgium, is now complete.
demand for our speciality products is and Saudi Arabia were completed in 2002 The infrastructure installed will allow this to the major contributor.
and as referred to above, our Synthomer be rapidly expanded as capacity utilisation SA facility in Mouscron, Belgium will offer builds up, to serve the mainland European Strong growth was recorded in the commercial quantities in the first quarter market.
Commercial exploitation of the construction, technical textile and speciality of 2003.
In South Africa, strong progress facility will begin in early 2003. paper sectors.
In floor coverings, our has been achieved with capacity under largest volume sector, we saw a more severe strain.
Protracted delays in mixed picture with the UK, Germany and governmental approval will now result in Belgium carpet industries contracting and, the commissioning of our plant extension in contrast, a good performance being now taking place in Spring 2003. recorded in The Netherlands, Turkey and Saudi Arabia.
Russia is also developing as a new market as privately-owned mills gear up to supply the previously imported economy carpets.
01 01 Phase 1 of our new polymerisation plant in Mouscron, Belgium will serve the mainland European market.
Our polyvinyl acetate range has seen In lithene polybutadiene products, the 02 greater competitive activity.
Nevertheless, virtual completion of a withdrawal from new applications continue to be found for low cost intermediates for chlorinated these relatively mature products.
rubber production has freed capacity to concentrate on the higher margin Other Speciality Products automotive and sealant sector.
With its high market share, the Far East adhesive business is experiencing slower After a period of unprecedented price growth in its traditional markets.
Good collapse, natural rubber showed some progress is, however, being achieved in recovery in 2002, helping our position emerging territories, notably Vietnam in prevulcanised applications.
Overall, strong management with a new management focus resulting control and product innovation resulted in a rationalisation of the business, this in good progress.
In Malaysia, the alkyd and polyester business has experienced good demand, 03 We maintain our position as market in a market with problems of overcapacity.
leader in Malaysia against a background Initiatives are being pursued to position the of overcapacity.
Our well-established business towards more demanding presence in the market and long technical applications that will allow us tradition of product innovation served to use our strong technical presence to us well in protecting margins in a far maximum advantage.
Polyvinyl Acetate Alcohol Global PVC demand showed some growth in 2002, particularly in the Pacific region.
The alcotex range is used in more demanding applications and the extension of our product range has consolidated our position as a leading global player in this niche market.
Whilst production is 04 02 centred in the UK, exports predominate All our emulsion businesses achieved volume and our sales strategy focuses on growth.
Our tradition of product innovation, supported by further capacity increases, leave us consolidating our position in established well positioned for further success.
areas, whilst growing in emerging markets as higher quality PVC is demanded from 03 local production.
This is supported by the Compound latices make cost-effective backing materials and binders for carpets.
new PVC pilot plant installed at our Harlow Technical Centre.
04 Alcotex secondary suspending agent which is fully water dilutable and is designed to give increased efficiency for the highest quality PVC resins.
2002 saw capacity increased in the UK and Saudi Arabia
