Chief Executives Operating Review Overview I am delighted to report another good set of financial results for the Taylor & Francis Group.
These results confirm the strength of our business and the growth opportunities that are available in the STM publishing market.
The Group saw good organic growth in both its journals and books divisions despite the softening of the US academic market that we identied at the time of our interim results in September 2002.
During the year we acquired the business and assets of Fitzroy Dearborn Publishers LLC FDP, which complement our existing reference lists.
The journals division continued to perform strongly with turnover up 11.4% on the back of strong renewal rates in 2002 and new journal launches.
We remain committed to developing our journals portfolio and consistent with this, 24 new journals were published during 2002 and a further 27 titles have been commissioned or acquired for the 2003 subscription year.
Around 70% of our institutional subscribers took advantage of their on-line access rights, up from 50% the year before.
The books division had a good year with turnover up a pleasing 3.8% compared to 2001 despite a soft US market and a decline in the US dollar exchange rate.
At constant exchange rates, book sales increased 6.1%.
The books division published 2,193 new titles in 2002, compared to 1,788 in 2001.
Our book list, which included the latest edition of Molecular Biology of the Cell MBoC, performed solidly.
The Pacic Rim region showed good progress, in particular in sales from Malaysia, Korea and China.
A strategic review of our publishing assets was initiated during the year.
This process has already resulted in a realignment of some of our publishing programmes and the identication of related areas of the STM market where there are opportunities for further growth.
Our strategy remains to combine well-planned organic growth with earnings enhancing acquisitions in our core markets.
Since the year end we have already acquired Bios scientific Publishers Limited Bios and have agreed to acquire the business and assets of the CRC Press group of companies CRC Press, both of which will strengthen our hard science offering.
Results Turnover increased 7.3%, from 137.3 million to 147.4 million.
This was primarily organic growth achieved in a challenging market.
At constant exchange rates, turnover grew 8.6%.
The Groups journals continued to perform well with turnover up 11.4%, from 63.7 million to 71.0 million.
Due to the timing of cash receipts exchange rate movements had little effect on the reported increase in journal revenue in 2002.
Book turnover increased by 3.8% 2.8 million, to 76.4 million.
At constant exchange rates, book sales grew by 6.1%, helped by the contribution from the highly successful 4th edition of MBoC, which was offset by a softer US books market.
Group operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased 16.9%, from 30.6 million to 35.7 million.
The operating margin before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 24.3% compared to 22.3% in 2001, reecting continuing efficiency gains.
The Group seeks to grow margins from acquired and existing businesses by achieving efficiencies at all levels.
In response to the softening US books market and a strategic review of our book publishing portfolios, we have reduced our US workforce and will continue to operate at this lower overhead base until we see the need to increase resources.
Exceptional costs of 2.6 million 2001: 1.0 million have been incurred and include 1.3 million for the successful centralisation of our UK journal publishing operations in Oxfordshire and the associated closure of redundant UK properties.
The experience gained in integrating previous acquisitions facilitated this smooth relocation and reorganisation of the journals division.
We also incurred net exceptional costs of 1.3 million in pursuit of our bid for Kluwer Academic Publishers, which was put up for sale in mid 2002.
Goodwill amortisation remained constant at 7.3 million.
After exceptional costs of 2.6 million and goodwill amortisation of 7.3 million, operating profit was up by 16.2%, to 25.9 million 2001: 22.3 million.
4 - Taylor & Francis Group plc Chief Executives Operating Review continued Normalised net interest cover increased to 12.7 times, compared to 8.0 times in 2001, illustrating the strength of the Groups cash ow and its increasing ability to finance further acquisitions using debt.
Pre-tax profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased by 23.1%, to 32.9 million 2001: 26.8 million.
The effective tax rate of 40.8% 2001: 41.0% is distorted mainly by goodwill amortisation for which tax relief is only partially available and certain costs for which tax relief may not be available.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 2.94p 2.67p in 2001 per ordinary share, making a total dividend for the year of 4.39p, an increase of 10% on 2001 3.99p.
The final dividend will be paid on 20 June 2003 to ordinary shareholders registered as of 4 April 2003.
Diluted earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased 22.6% to 26.97p per ordinary share, compared to 22.00p in 2001.
Like most international publishing businesses, the Group has an element of exchange translation exposure in terms of its profit and loss account, with around 60 per cent of its revenues and 40 per cent of its operating costs being incurred in US dollars.
The impact of exchange rates can increase or reduce turnover or costs and can therefore affect the reported sterling value of profits.
The acquisition of CRC Press will increase the amount of net income the Group receives in US dollars.
However the acquisition will be funded by a US dollar revolving credit loan facility which will be repaid from the surplus US dollars generated by operations, thereby effectively reducing the enlarged Groups cash ow based exchange exposure.
Balance Sheet After amortisation of 7.3 million and exchange effects, goodwill decreased by 9.8 million to 109.7 million.
A significant proportion of goodwill is denominated in US dollars.
Stocks increased by 2.3 million compared to 2001 due to acquisitions and normal working capital requirements, offset by exchange effects on US dollar denominated stock balances.
Net debt decreased by 13.8 million, to 24.9 million, despite spending 2.9 million on acquisitions, 2.8 million on xed assets and 2.6 million on exceptional items, reecting the Groups strong cash ow from operations.
Deferred income, which represents cash received in advance of the publication of journal issues, was signicantly affected by exchange rate movements due to the high proportion of subscriptions received in US dollars.
The balance of deferred income as at 31 December 2002 was 42.4 million, which was down 2.9% 1.3 million compared to 43.7 million at the end of 2001.
The US dollar exchange rate at 31 December 2002 was $1.61: 1 compared to $1.45: 1 at 31 December 2001, representing a decline of 11%.
Deferred income is recognised as turnover when journal issues are published.
Strategic Review of Publishing Activities During the course of 2002 we began a major strategic review of the Groups book and journal portfolios, a process that has involved staff from all ofces across the Group.
As a result of this review we have already realigned some of our portfolios and, in some cases, will cease to publish new book titles in peripheral publishing areas whilst expanding areas we see as having good growth prospects.
The CRC Press transaction ts well with this review and brings a greater subject balance to our lists.
The review also concluded that, despite the short term concerns over US library funding, we still believe that significant growth prospects remain in our chosen subject areas and we will continue to develop our existing book and journal portfolios.
Taylor & Francis Group plc - 5 Chief Executives Operating Review continued Acquisitions In September 2002 the Group acquired, for consideration of 2.9 million, the publishing business and assets of FDP, a US based reference book publisher.
This acquisition will enhance the Groups growing reference book offering.
On 31 January 2003 Bios, a well regarded book and journal publisher specialising in Bioscience publications, joined the Group for a maximum consideration of 2.7 million.
Bios publishes a number of textbooks which will complement the existing Group portfolio and it ts readily into the Group structure.
On 28 February 2003 the Group agreed to acquire the business and assets of CRC Press for 60.0 million $95.0 million, nanced through a new 130 million multi-currency revolving credit facility.
This acquisition will add a backlist of over 6,000 book titles, 350 new book titles per year, 32 journal titles and a growing subscription based electronic reference database, together with around 250 staff and ofce locations in the US and the UK.
CRC Press, with its strong brands, publishes in the traditional pure and applied science areas of chemistry, physics, mathematics, engineering and biology and will add balance to the Groups book portfolio.
The CRC Press acquisition includes the Parthenon Publishing Group Limited, a UK based medical publisher with many similarities to the Martin Dunitz list, giving us greater critical mass in certain subject areas.
Due to the applied nature of many of its products CRC Press derives a higher proportion of its revenues from the professional rather than the library markets.
CRC Press has similar distribution channels, customer bases and systems to those of Taylor & Francis.
Electronic Initiatives The Group has the ability to disseminate its content in various forms ranging from whole publications through to individual articles.
We continue to monitor the market and respond appropriately to demand and trends.
Our response to technological developments remains exible and cost effective and we continue to engage with technology partners where we see suitable opportunities.
Journals As indicated in the interim results, we have decided to change the technology partner which hosts our e-journals, with effect from January 2003.
We have been live testing our new technology partners service on a selection of journals and as a result of these successful tests have decided to move our entire journals portfolio to the new platform.
SARA, the Groups on-line content altering service, experienced 30% growth in the number of subscribers and 1.27 million alerts were delivered with links through to the on-line editions of those journals.
There was also a 75% increase in the number of journal articles downloaded.
Books Electronic book initiatives continued with the launch of new on-line products in the Europa reference division and the conversion to e-books of more of the Groups backlist.
Further investment is being made in the electronic delivery of our key reference data as this is seen to be important to our success in delivering choice and value to our customers.
Reference products represent a significant revenue stream and the planned investment of up to 0.6 million in the next two years will help to protect the existing reference book business as well as reap rewards in the years to come.
The revenue from digitised books is still relatively small, at around 0.4 million in 2002, but increasing, especially from the library market.
In addition, the digitisation of all new titles and the continued digital conversion of the backlist are reaping other rewards in terms of lower reprint quantities, printing of books on demand and the compilation of digital collections for potential future consortia sales.
6 - Taylor & Francis Group plc Chief Executives Operating Review continued Capital Investment As reported in the interim results we have increased our annual capital expenditure programme to enhance our back ofce and distribution systems to further develop the relationship with our customers and improve our overall services.
This increased expenditure level will continue for a further two years.
In February 2003 we have commissioned a more sophisticated customer and revenue reporting system which provides better intelligence about our customers and their requirements.
In addition we have upgraded our internal networks and equipment.
Capital expenditure in 2002 totalled 2.8 million, including 0.8 million for the new Oxfordshire premises, compared to 1.1 million in 2001.
Rowecom In December 2002 Rowecom, a large journals subscription agent owned by Divine Inc. announced that it was experiencing trading difficulties and since then has led for US Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
Rowecom, as part of its relationship with libraries, received significant advance subscription monies for the 2003 subscription year which were intended to be passed on to journal publishers, including Taylor & Francis.
Little of this money has been passed on to publishers and litigation incident to the bankruptcy of Rowecom is ongoing in the US.
The subscription agent Ebsco Industries Inc. announced in January 2003 that it would be acquiring the European operations of Rowecom and also announced on 5 March 2003 that it had signed a denitive agreement to acquire the US operations of Rowecom, subject to US bankruptcy court approval, successful completion of the acquisition of the Rowecom European operations and support of at least 50% of the creditors of Rowecom.
It is too early to identify the extent of any loss of revenue for the Group, but for 2003 we do not expect any loss of journal revenue to exceed 1.5 million.
The Group has signed a prepaid order agreement whereby it will continue to supply the libraries 2003 subscriptions in return for a claim in the Rowecom bankruptcy proceeding and in the expectation that they will renew again for 2004.
Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments The Groups financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, long-term loans, cash and liquid resources and various items, such as trade debtors and trade creditors, that arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group also enters from time to time into appropriate derivatives transactions, principally interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts.
The purpose of such transactions is to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and these are summarised below.
Liquidity and interest rate risk The Groups policy is to finance its operations by a mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings and long-term loans.
As at 31 December 2002 the Group had in place bank syndicated loan facilities consisting of a 15.6 million term loan, repayable in instalments over five years to 31 December 2003, and a 40 million multi-currency revolving credit facility.
Both facilities can be drawn in either sterling or US dollars or a combination thereof.
In addition, the Group has available a 3 million multi-currency overdraft facility.
Taylor & Francis Group plc - 7 Chief Executives Operating Review continued In connection with the proposed acquisition of CRC Press the Group has arranged a new three-year 130 million multi-currency revolving credit facility.
Upon closing of the CRC Press acquisition this new bank loan facility will replace the existing bank syndicated loan facility.
As at 31 December 2002 the Groups net debt was 24.9 million compared to 38.7 million at 31 December 2001.
The decrease of 13.8 million resulted mainly from the net cash generated from operations.
As regards liquidity, the directors continually review the maturity prole of the Groups borrowings in the light of acquisitions and other known events.
Short term exibility is achieved by revolving credit and overdraft facilities.
In respect of interest rate risk, the Groups policy is to minimise exposure to uctuations in interest rates and to that end it has entered into interest rate swaps.
Foreign currency risk The Group has significant long-term investments in overseas subsidiaries which operate primarily in the USA.
Their revenues and expenses are denominated substantially in US dollars.
In order to protect the Groups sterling balance sheet from movements in these currencies principally US dollars and the sterling exchange rate, the Group nances its net investment in these subsidiaries primarily by means of borrowings in their respective functional currencies.
Around 75 per cent of the Groups UK business sales of annual journal subscriptions are to customers outside of the UK.
These sales are priced and invoiced in US dollars.
Substantially all other sales of the UK business, including book sales, are denominated in sterling.
The UK business, apart from servicing US dollar denominated loans and the funding of US subsidiaries, has no material US dollar requirements.
The Groups policy is to minimise the effect of uctuations caused by currency movements with reference to pre-determined exchange rates and to reduce substantially the currency exposure on the projected net surplus of US dollar income over US dollar expenditure through the use of forward currency contracts.
This exposure is determined after reviewing operational requirements for the period in which the exposure arises and is adjusted for acquisitions and other known events.
Current Trading and Prospects While the softer nature of the US market, identied at the time of the interim results, has continued into the current year, Taylor & Francis has a solid platform from which to drive further organic growth.
The Group has a global market and strong products, which enable it to balance the effect of localised market conditions and we have seen good growth during the year from our other markets, particularly China.
The acquisitions of Bios and CRC Press are good examples of the opportunities within the fragmented STM and academic publishing market segments and the Group is well positioned to participate, where appropriate, in the consolidation of the market.
The addition of the newly acquired titles during 2003, combined with organic growth and the benets of continued overhead control and the realignment of our publishing programmes, make us confident that 2003 will be another successful year for the Group.
It has been a busy and very enjoyable first year.
This truly is an exciting time for the Group, which I believe is poised for the next step in its development as a public company.
There are still many opportunities for further profitable development.
I would like to end my report by thanking the Groups employees for their continued support and hard work, making 2002 another successful year.
David J Smith Chief Executive 19 March 2003 8 - Taylor & Francis Group plc
