8 Review of Operations Northwest Europe Review of Operations Tullows focus in 2002 was dominated by appraisal and development activity in two of its core assets, the CMS III project in the UK and the Espoir field development offshore Cte dIvoire.
The Group also continued to strengthen its asset base through a number of new licence awards in the UK, West Africa and South Asia.
UNITED KINGDOM OFFSHORE The Southern Gas Basin of the UK North Sea is Tullows main area of production.
Tullow has maintained a clear strategy based on consolidation in and growth from its three main production areas of Thames, Hewett and the Caister Murdoch System CMS.
In addition the Company has been, and remains, very active in seeking to establish new production in the North Sea through acquisition or exploration.
Over the last year this strategy has had considerable success, notably production start-up from the first two of the five satellite fields in CMS that make up the CMS III development, and the addition of twelve new exploration blocks or part blocks, including Tullows first acreage in the Central North Sea.
Three of these new blocks, close to the CMS infrastructure, contain existing discoveries, and a fourth, to the northwest of the Hewett field, encountered gas in the Islay exploration well drilled at the end of 2002, and is currently undergoing commercial and technical review.
In addition, the portfolio contains a number of exploration licences, which, aside from the exploration potential, also contain six undeveloped discoveries, with GIIP estimate of 165 bcf net to Tullow.
Tullow is operator for several of these assets and is actively evaluating development options.
Tullow currently holds equity interests in 17 producing offshore fields in the Southern Gas Basin and is operator of the Orwell field, which consists of three sub-sea wells tied back to the Thames production platforms.
Net production from these three areas averaged approximately 102 mmscfd in 2002, and the remaining net proven and probable reserves are independently estimated at 151 bcf at 31st December 2002.
Tullow also has an interest in infrastructure including export pipelines for all three areas and the ConocoPhillips operated onshore gas terminal at Bacton, Norfolk.
TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 9 CMS Area Tullows production in CMS from the established Murdoch and Boulton fields was significantly enhanced in September when Hawksley, the first of the five CMS III satellite fields, commenced production at a rate in excess of 150 mmscfd.
This was followed in December by the Murdoch K field, which produced at more than 170 mmscfd, both exceptionally good rates for the North Sea.
The third field, McAdam, tested at a rate of 50 mmscfd, and production commenced in late April 2003.
Drilling will continue during 2003 on the other two fields, Boulton H and Watt.
Tullow has a 14.1% unitised equity interest in CMS III.
Elsewhere, the Boulton F field was brought on stream in early 2002, at a rate of approximately 55 mmscfd, while a workover on Boulton B also enhanced productivity.
Both the Boulton and Murdoch fields have performed well with some increases expected in ultimate gas recovery.
In December, Tullow exercised its right to terminate the Murdoch Gas Sales Agreement.
This strategy, which is expected to enhance ultimate field recovery, permits the Company to sell gas in the open market, and commercially aligns it with the other partners, allowing gas to be produced throughout the year.
Tullow aims to continue this strategy in other fields with similar agreements, and has recently terminated the Boulton Gas Sales Agreement.
Tullow was awarded interests in six blocks or part blocks situated close to CMS in the 20th Offshore Licensing Round in July.
Three blocks contain gas discoveries made prior to the installation of the CMS export infrastructure and seismic programmes in 2003 will assess their potential, and that of the exploration prospects identified in the blocks.
In October 2002 Tullow farmed into another block situated to the north of the Murdoch field, containing part of the Monroe prospect.
Tullow has a 15% unitised equity in this prospect, where a well is planned for early 2004.
Any development at Monroe would be tied back to the nearby CMS export infrastructure.
Thames Area The seven Thames fields performed close to expectation in 2002, although a compressor problem at the end of the year reduced production levels for a short while.
A major study of the exploration and appraisal potential of the whole area was completed in 2002.
This has confirmed the Companys view that the Horne and Wren fields offer the best potential for early development.
Tullow will work closely with its partners with the aim of initiating developments on these fields during 2003, and appraising the exploration potential of the surrounding acreage.
An exploration well, on the Gawain South East prospect, will be drilled in mid-2003 and has been designed to facilitate immediate completion of any discovery.
Such a discovery could be tied back via the Gawain field to the Thames complex.
10 Review of Operations Northwest Europe continued Cental North Sea Moray Firth Hewett Area The Hewett production complex performed above Aberdeen expectations in 2002.
Initiatives to cut costs and extend the life of the facilities are under way and could benefit other fields using the Bacton terminal, notably those in the Thames area in which Tullow also has major interests.
Tullow is also pursuing development options for the Blythe discovery, which it operates with an 80% equity interest.
Negotiations on a number of cost and risk sharing initiatives are progressing.
To the northwest of Hewett, Tullow farmed in to five Edinburgh blocks which have seen little exploration in the past, but in which several prospects have been identified.
Results from the recently announced Islay gas discovery Tullow 20%, are being analysed prior to a decision on further activity.
Murdoch Area UNITED KINGDOM North Yorkshire DL 3 Hewett Area East Midlands Thames Area Bacton TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 11 Other Areas Tullow is expanding into the oil-prone Central North Sea and Moray Firth areas.
In the 20th Offshore Licensing Round Tullow was awarded an interest in its first block in the area, close to established oil production, and will pursue additional acreage in the 21st Round.
In March 2003 Tullow agreed to acquire an interest in a block in the Inner Moray Firth in a licence exchange.
A well was recently drilled on this licence close to the giant Buzzard field which, while encountering a viable reservoir, failed to find hydrocarbons.
UNITED KINGDOM ONSHORE Tullow operates and has a 60% interest in gas fields in North Yorkshire.
Gas from a number of fields is piped to a processing plant and a 40 MW power station near Knapton, operated by Tullow on behalf of ScottishPower.
The gas turbine underwent a major overhaul during the year returning to service in early 2003.
Tullow has a 53.3% interest in and operates the West Firsby oil field in Lincolnshire.
Re-entry into a suspended reservoir interval in 2002 enhanced field production, all of which is sold to ConocoPhillips at their nearby refinery.
12 Review of Operations West Africa CTE DIVOIRE The offshore Espoir field in Cte dIvoire is a core international asset and February 2002 saw first oil production from the field after four years of evaluation and investment by Tullow and its partners.
A major exploration programme is also under way in the area.
Production The first two East Espoir wells were completed and process facilities commissioned in January following delivery of the FPSO in late 2001.
First production from Espoir was achieved on 4th February 2002.
The field produced continuously with almost four million barrels of high quality 33 API crude sold in eight tanker liftings by year end.
Field revenues benefited from the high oil prices that prevailed in the second half of 2002.
In addition, gas production is piped ashore and sold for power generation under a gas sales agreement.
Development drilling has continued, with production reaching 16,000 bopd from the lower reservoir.
When all drilling activity is complete and all oil-bearing zones of the reservoir are brought on stream in May 2003, East Espoir production rates in excess of 25,000 bopd are anticipated.
Development The Espoir field, located 60 km from Abidjan, is on the edge of the West African continental shelf, 20 km from the shoreline and landfall for the gas pipeline.
The field has been redeveloped using a wellhead tower in 400 ft of water, modern drilling techniques and water injection to optimise reserve recovery rates.
Advances in technology including 3D seismic, the drilling of highly deviated wells and secondary recovery techniques, combined with improved PSC terms have made the Espoir field a highly attractive development.
The licence area also has significant exploration potential and has revitalised the oil production industry in Cte dIvoire.
The first part of the phased development of the Espoir field will be completed by mid-2003 with full production from the oil-rich East Espoir area.
The next phase of the project will concentrate on West Espoir, where interpretation of 3D seismic and new mapping work over the West Espoir accumulation has confirmed a significant oil reserve.
Although this was previously seen more as a gas-rich area, the initial focus for West Espoir development planning is now on optimising production from the oil rim.
TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 13 SIERRA BENIN LEONE GHANA NIGERIA TOGO CTE D'IVOIRE LIBERIA Abidjan BLOCK CI-26 Atlantic Ocean ESPOIR Gulf of Guinea Exploration Tullow has a 24% interest in the CI-26 Exploration Area, where a number of interesting prospects have been identified.
In late 2002 the Emien exploration well was drilled from the East Espoir platform to a target across the northern boundary fault of Espoir.
Although the well was not a success in adding new reserves, it was subsequently sidetracked for use as an Espoir injection well.
Another prospect, Acajou, was mapped to the southeast of the East Espoir oilfield and in the same fault trend.
Seismic interpretation work and well design activities for this deepwater prospect were completed during early 2002 and the Acajou-1 exploration well reached total depth on 19th April 2003.
Good quality Albian sandstone reservoirs were encountered and log analysis indicated these to be oil bearing.
A testing programme was carried out and sustained flow rates of 3,500 bopd of good quality oil were achieved.
These results are very positive for the Acajou area and any subsequent development will benefit from the favourable deep water terms and the proximity of the extensive Espoir field infrastructure.
An appraisal programme should allow an early understanding of the overall field size and the most appropriate development scheme.
14 Review of Operations West Africa continued GABON Tullow began negotiations for the Kiarsseny Marin permit in the highly prospective Northern Gabon offshore basin in late 2002 and was awarded the licence as operator with 100% interest on 11th March 2003.
This is Tullows first licence in Gabon and is in line with Tullows strategy to add high quality acreage to its West African core area.
The licence area is located in the northern sector of the Gabonese offshore, close to the border with Equatorial Guinea and within 25 km of Elf Gabons production facilities at Konzi.
Kiarsseny Marin covers 5,442 sq km with water depths ranging from 0 to 900 m, facilitating cost effective drilling and field development.
More than 18,000 km of 2D seismic data, and 2,300 sq km of 3D seismic data are available for the licence area.
A total of twenty-four wells have been drilled in the licence area to date, many of which encountered oil and gas.
Both shallow post-salt Tertiary and Cretaceous targets and deeper pre-salt plays are present on the acreage.
Three undeveloped discoveries, totalling in excess of 30 mmbo, are located in shallow water in the block.
These discoveries, known as Equata, GLK, and Iguega, were considered marginal by previous operators under earlier, less favourable PSC terms.
These accumulations are currently being reassessed and development options are under review.
Tullow has started to evaluate the large body of data that exists for the licence and expects to bring any successful discoveries into production promptly.
TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 15 CAMEROON In December, Tullow and partner Addax signed a concession contract with the Cameroon Government for the Ngosso permit in the prolific Rio del Rey basin.
Addax operates the concession with a 60% interest and Tullow holds the remaining 40%.
The 474 sq km Ngosso permit lies in shallow water and contains three existing oil discoveries, with estimated oil in place of over 100 mmbo - Narendi, Odiong and Oongue - and numerous exploration opportunities.
The initial programme will appraise the existing discoveries with a view to establishing their commerciality and putting them on production as soon as possible.
The concession lies close to the border with Nigeria in the northcentral part of the Rio del Rey basin.
Current production from the basin is approximately 100,000 bopd.
The shallow water depths within the Ngosso block facilitate cost-effective drilling and accelerated field development.
Both shallow deltaic Miocene targets and deeper Eocene turbidite plays are present: the Miocene reservoirs are part of a well-established play which has been exploited in Cameroon since the 1970s, while the Eocene is an exciting new high potential oil play, analogous to the recent oil discoveries on trend to the south along the coast.
A 200 sq km 3D seismic survey is planned as the first stage of a work programme to establish the extent of various discoveries and prospects on the block.
This data will provide information for selecting optimal well locations and finalising development plans.
Two wells will be drilled in the first period.
16 Review of Operations South Asia PAKISTAN Tullow has a strong and long-term presence in Pakistan, holding three exploration licences and four development leases.
The portfolio has been enhanced by two licence awards made in October 2002 and March 2003 respectively.
These are the Nawabshah exploration licence and the New Block B licence, which surrounds three of Tullows development leases and existing gas production.
Most of Tullows acreage is in the Middle Indus basin, where two fields have been supplying gas to the Guddu power station for three years.
A third field, Chachar, has a gas sales agreement in place and development approval is pending.
Development The Sara and Suri fields have produced over 38 bcf of gas since December 1999 and recent reservoir data gathered during the course of production has allowed an upgrade of proven and probable reserves.
An increase in deliverability beyond the current facilities limit of 40 mmscfd is the subject of current project performance studies with a view to satisfying higher customer demand.
A successful development well was put on production in the Suri field and work on Sara-1 BLOCK 28 resulted in improvement in the production capability of the complex.
Plans have been prepared for enhanced pipeline and processing facilities to allow for up to a doubling of the throughput.
In early 2002 Tullow signed a gas sales agreement with WAPDA to produce up to 30 mmscfd from the Chachar Chachar field for the Guddu power station.
Chachar NEW BLOCK B is adjacent to the Kandhkot and Qadirpur gas fields.
Planning for the development to supply Guddu is SARA well advanced.
Discussions with the authorities and Sara West SURI other parties on the most appropriate development options are in progress.
Tullow is still reviewing development options for the NAWABSHAH Sara West field, which tested low btu gas in 1996.
A 20-year D&PL was granted over the field in 2001.
The addition of sweet gas reserves and capacity in the nearby Sara Suri complex increases the development options.
Karachi RIVER INDUS TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 17 Lahore Quetta AFGHANISTAN BLOCK 28 IRAN Exploration CHACHAR The Nawabshah licence was awarded PAKISTAN in October.
Tullow operates the block NEW BLOCK B with a 70% interest and partner OMV holds 30%.
The work programme has SARA SARA WEST SURI commenced and includes geological INDIA and geophysical studies, a 300 km NAWABSHAH seismic survey and one exploration CB-ON 1 well over three years.
Karachi The exploration focus is the stratigraphic play potential of the Lower Cretaceous.
This has been successful in the GK-ON-90 2 nearby multi-tcf Sawan and Miano fields.
In 2002 multiple discoveries were made on structural prospects immediately adjacent to the eastern boundary of the GK-OSJ 1 block in neighbouring acreage.
Similar prospects are mapped in the Nawabshah block.
GK-OS 5 Existing geological, geophysical and production data are being reviewed to identify reserves at deeper levels in the Sara and Suri ARABIAN SEA area and at shallow levels within the Sara D&PL.
A 3D seismic Mumbai survey is planned in 2003 to firm up several deeper prospects.
Accessing additional reserves in the area would increase daily gas sales and extend the life of the field and production facilities.
Tullow was awarded the New Block B exploration licence on 3rd March 2003 with 48.18% equity.
This 771 sq km licence covers the acreage surrounding the Sara, Suri and Sara West fields.
It is planned to acquire 3D and 2D data at the same time as the Sara Suri 3D seismic programme, with a view to firming up drilling locations.
Force Majeure has been in place over Block 28 for several years.
This large Block contains anticlinal features similar to those in nearby producing gas fields.
Tullow continues to monitor the progress towards resolving the situation in the area and supports the authorities efforts to develop the area.
INDIAN OCEAN NEPAL INDIA INDIA 18 Review of Operations South Asia continued BANGLADESH Tullow holds interests in the onshore Block 9 30% and the mainly offshore Blocks 17&18 80% subject to licence extension in Bangladesh.
Tullow operates Block 9 on behalf of its partners ChevronTexaco 60% and Bapex 10%.
Technical work in 2002 included the acquisition and interpretation of both 2D and 3D seismic programmes.
Integration of the results of the BANGLADESH seismic surveys into Tullows technical database confirmed two drilling locations on the Kashimpur and Bangora anticlinal trends.
Dhaka Preparatory work for a three well, back-toMYANMAR Calcutta back drilling programme is well advanced.
Two new seismic programmes, to acquire the remaining committed 2D data, were completed early in the second quarter of 2003.
The third drilling location will be finalised on interpretation of the survey results.
Discoveries in Block 9 will benefit from the existing demand in the vicinity, the transmission infrastructure and prioritisation of Block 9 gas Bay of Bengal for markets in the local area.
In Blocks 17&18 Tullow carried out a number of studies of an onshore and nearshore oil play and undertook a full review of all existing seismic and well data.
An extension of this licence is being processed by the authorities.
The Company is seeking partners prior to proceeding with a work programme to test the validity of the oil play and enter the next licence phase.
BLOCK 9 BLOCK 17 BLOCK 18 TIBET BHUTAN NEPAL TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 19 Quetta CHACHAR IRAN New Delhi PAKISTAN NEW BLOCK B SARA SARA WEST SURI NAWABSHAH CB-ON-1 Karachi BANGLADESH Arabian Sea GK-ON-90 2 Calcutta GK-OSJ-1 INDIA GK-OS-5 Mumbai Bay of Bengal Indian Ocean KG-ON 1 INDIA India is a significant importer of hydrocarbons.
This provides opportunities for exploration and development with good market conditions.
Tullows interests in India are spread over two areas.
Four licences are held in the onshore and offshore Gulf SRI LANKA of Kutch Cambay area of northwest India and one block on the southeast coast in the Krishna Godavari basin.
Tullow received Indian Government approval to assign interests in three blocks GK-OSJ-1, GK-OS-5 and KG-ON-1 to Reliance Industries, a leading Indian energy group, in early 2002.
Tullow retains between 25% and 60% in the blocks.
Under the terms of the agreement, Reliance is responsible for all of Tullows costs on GK-OSJ-1 and KG-ON-1 for the current licence period.
Following completion of a 3D seismic survey in Block GK-OSJ-1, the GK-22C-3 well was spudded in December 2002.
The well was drilled and evaluated in early 2003 and, despite encountering a thick hydrocarbon column, was plugged and abandoned.
The information and results will be integrated in the database leading to a thorough review of the prospectivity of the block.
A 2D seismic survey on Block KG-ON-1 was completed in March 2003.
Data is being processed and interpreted with a view to establishing prospectivity and defining an exploration well location.
This block is located in the Krishna-Godavari basin, which became the focus of international attention with the discovery of significant offshore gas reserves in September 2002.
BLOCK 9 BLOCK 17 BLOCK 18 BHUTAN MYANMAR 20 Review of Operations Central Europe & North Africa UKRAINE HUNGARY MOLDOVA EPI-3 ROMANIA EPI-8 ROMANIA YUGOTullow operates two licences in Romania, Bucharest SLAVIA EPI-3 Brates and EPI-8 Valeni fide Munte.
Black Sea Extensive exploration activity was undertaken during the year.
BULGARIA In late 2002 Tullow acquired a 102 km 2D seismic survey in the eastern portion of EPI-3, exceeding the work commitment in the Block.
Early indications are encouraging and Tullow expects that the data will highlight several significant prospects in the Moldavian Platform area.
A thorough technical evaluation of the new and reprocessed geophysical, geological and geochemical data is nearing completion, with a view to defining drilling locations in both EPI-3 and EPI-8.
TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 21 ALGERIA Tullow holds a 30% interest in Eni-operated exploration Block 222b.
Geological and geophysical studies were completed and a high risk, high reward prospect selected.
The exploration well was spudded in February 2003.
Initial interpretation of well data did not indicate commercial quantities of hydrocarbons and the well was plugged and abandoned.
A reappraisal of the prospectivity of the block will be carried out incorporating all the data.
EGYPT Tullow and partner PetroSA concluded the exploration of the North Abu Rudeis Block on the Gulf of Suez coast of Sinai in 2002.
Results have not indicated commercial hydrocarbons, and the block was relinquished at the end of the licence period.
Mediterranean Sea TUNISIA MOROCCO Ghadamis EGYPT BLOCK 222B LIBYA ALGERIA Illizi
