Operating Review The Group has delivered strong results in difficult trading conditions and has made good progress during the year in integrating Hanson Waste Management, the acquisition of which was completed in January 2001.
The Chairmans statement has referred to 2002 as being a Contract Activity year of consolidation.
My primary goal since joining nearly Our commitment to the two years ago was to re-organise the Group to position municipal sector remains as it to benefit from the expanding and broader needs of strong as ever and progress the waste industry.
Not every industry can claim that has also been made on the legislation is driving up value, and demographic behaviour Allington energy from waste is driving up volume, but ours is one.
project with two new contracts awarded.
In June 2002 Kent County Council awarded a twenty five year, We have now achieved a re-organisation of the business 140,000 tonne disposal contract for the Allington which has provided the integration required after a period Incinerator project.
We now have 340,000 tonnes, in of growth, and the bringing together of diverse companies total, secured under long-term contracts with Kent.
The number of waste operating divisions has In November 2002 the London Borough of Bexley been slimmed down from seven to five, and four granted the Group preferred bidder status for a long administrative centres have been consolidated into a term, 110,000 tonne contract, single Financial Shared Service Centre, based in Doncaster.
of which 80,000 tonnes is In addition to a staffing reduction, it will deliver earmarked for the Allington efficiencies in terms of processing financial data and Incinerator.
In June 2002 the Bradford Regulatory Environment Metropolitan Borough Council Of primary concern to our Group are the introduction awarded us a five year, of the Landfill Directive and the Integrated Pollution, 160,000 tonne disposal Prevention and Control regime, which set out how landfills contract, which will be are to be regulated in future.
For example, waste will be earmarked for our Welbeck categorised into hazardous, non-hazardous and inert, with site in Yorkshire.
sites being designed, operated and permitted accordingly, and the diversion of liquid wastes from landfill should see During 2002, our commitment our liquid treatment business benefit from an expanding to green waste composting market.
We are intending to have a greater share of the was rewarded by being hazardous waste market than any of our competitors awarded contracts with Kent by promoting a series of strategically placed regional and Warwickshire County facilities.
It is important to remember that the term Councils for nearly hazardous is only a legal definition and does not 30,000 tonnes per annum of represent a move into anything different to what green waste over five years.
Around 375 million tonnes of waste we handle now.
is produced every year in England.
The total value of contract 25 million tonnes comes from Legislation will progressively reinforce the polluter wins and extensions added householders, 47 million tonnes from pays principle, with specific directives for electrical goods 308 million to our order industry and a further 24 million in 2005 Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment portfolio, of this 90% is linked WEEE and disposal of vehicles in 2004 End of Life tonnes from commercial businesses.
to the Allington Incinerator Vehicles Directive.
We recognise the need for specific starting at the beginning of Construction and demolition waste skills in these areas and, as we did for the disposal of 2006.
The only significant represents around 89 million tonnes fridges, we believe the way forward is to establish alliances contract disappointment of the remaining 190 million tonnes, with specialists in each area respectively.
The benefit of in 2002 was the loss of a with materials such as agricultural this strategy is the ability to offer our municipal clients Cambridgeshire disposal wastes, mining and quarry wastes, a complete service.
contract, which was worth sewage sludge and dredged spoils 2.9 million on an annual making up the balance.
Government Strategy Unit study, Waste Not, Want Not, 2002 8 Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 The Group invested 4.0 million to support the increasing which will provide a highly profitable revenue stream.
requirements for municipal waste treatment facilities, Currently this business is the subject of a strategic review enhancing our ability to provide a wider range of services.
to identify the best route for funding future expansion.
Waste to Energy Liquid Waste Treatment The Governments recent energy white paper which I have already referred to the liquid waste treatment contained a strong emphasis on the role of renewable business and how it will be affected by changes in energy sources once again highlighted the importance legislation.
The real benefit will be from increased business of our Waste to Energy business.
This business, where that will bring the current sector capacity into line with we capture and convert landfill gas into electricity, has demand.
We also see the opportunity for this business as continued to grow throughout 2002 maintaining our a vehicle for increasing our market share of redefined position as the UKs and, we believe, Europes largest hazardous wastes.
The business continues to go from strength to strength with a further 9.8 million invested during the Quarries year to add 14MW of new generating capacity, taking The Quarries division had mixed fortunes during us up to a total of 92MW.
It started well, but the introduction of the continue to work towards a Aggregates Tax slowed demand down mid-year, programme of achieving 140MW indicating that major contracts had been brought within the next four years.
At the end forward to avoid the tax.
However, towards the end of of 2002 we started the first of our the year a more normal demand pattern emerged with schemes dedicated to income from the divisional management optimistic of securing some the Renewable Obligation Certificates, major contracts in the future.
LAND RECLAMATION Sensitive restoration of completed landfill sites can substantially improve the natural amenity and biodiversity of former worked-out mineral sites.
Clr Charles Shouler pictured above, seated right, Chairman of Oxfordshire County Council, and Chris Ellis seated left, Operations Director for Waste Recycling South, are pictured with community representatives at the formal handover by the Company to the County Council of Dean Common a former sand and gravel quarry in the summer of 2002.
Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 9 Operating Review continued is that landfill has a key role to play for the long-term Composting and Recycling disposal needs of this country.
Our Group is well The Group continues to expand its green waste positioned controlling an estimated 23% of the UKs composting operations and new contracts were secured planned landfill capacity.
for composting 18,000 tonnes per year in Warwickshire and a further 8,000 tonnes per year for Tonbridge and The Group is continuing to develop its strategy to Malling in Kent.
Early in the year our Gowy composting meet the new and emerging requirements for waste facility was awarded best practice status by the Waste management.
There is an increasing trend towards and Resources Action Programme, and in November Waste integrated waste management contracts for local Recycling became the first national waste management authorities where we are well placed to take advantage company in the UK to be awarded Composting of the opportunities created by our recycling knowledge Association accreditation for its green waste composting and capability.
However, we also recognise that this may partnership with Cheshire County Council.
This continues require a limited move into municipal collection, which to reinforce our Group as the UKs leading recycler of the Group has to be prepared to provide, either directly green waste, currently handling 200,000 tonnes of green or with strategic partners.
This activity is just one part of our recycling initiatives, which also include a significant There are challenging times ahead for us in the shortpresence in glass and paper recycling.
term, not through lack of business and opportunity, but more to prepare ourselves for the wider requirements of Employees waste management and the underlying ethos of the The Group continues to invest in staff development, European Directives that the polluter pays.
We are particularly in the area of leadership and empowerment.
confident that with our assets, staff and the alliances During 2002 we saw three tranches of senior employees that we can form, the Group will be soundly positioned go through our leadership programme, which will continue to meet this expanding market.
One of the main benefits of this programme has been the opportunity to identify the managers and staff we need for tomorrow.
I am pleased to acknowledge the work that our staff have done over the Nigel Sandy past year.
Chief Executive 28 March 2003 Environment Panel and WREN A major contribution to our social responsibilities is achieved through the work of our Environment Panel and Waste Recycling Environmental Limited WREN.
The latter is an independent organisation managing Landfill Tax Credits that have facilitated grants to numerous projects across the Country for sustainability, conservation and community benefits.
Our Environment Panel of four external specialists has been an excellent forum to work with during the past year and provides an independent review on the checks and balances within our business for environmental compliance.
WREN has distributed 25 million in grants over the past year.
However, the Landfill Tax Credits Scheme is currently under threat from changes in Government legislation and the amount of funding made available to landfill operators will be severely curtailed from 1 April 2003.
The Government, having recognised the value of the Landfill Tax income, is now seeking to retain the majority of it within the public sector in order to support local authority recycling and recovery programmes.
The Future The Chairmans statement has highlighted the Governments Waste Not, Want Not report and some of In the summer of 2002 Waste Recycling the implications for the future of our industry.
What is opened a new, centralised finance and clear, despite various comments at the time to the contrary, accounting centre at its Doncaster Head Office.
The centre will provide efficiency benefits and improved service for customers.
10 Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002
