Balfour Beatty plc Operating review Annual report and accounts 2002 10 01 Building, Building Management and Services 2002 performance Profits in the Building, Building Management and Services sector improved by 5% to 46m in 2002.
All the constituent operating companies performed satisfactorily.
In the UK, Balfour Beattys strong, multidisciplinary capability, ranging from design and construction management through to whole-life asset management and maintenance, is particularly well suited to serving the growing public sector, major project market.
This market is fuelled by UK Government spending in PFI, prime contracting and other procurement initiatives which match the Groups capabilities and provides opportunities for all the Group operating companies in this sector.
Performance in flat, UK, commercial markets was satisfactory.
In the US, profits in both Heery and Andover Controls were maintained despite some market weakness.
Highlights Acquisition of 49% of Romec 220m Edinburgh Royal Infirmary handed over to time and budget US security systems business acquired Results 1,123m Turnover 2001: 1,074m 46m Profit 2001: 44m 03 Before goodwill amortisation Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 11 02 Sevenyear management and maintenance contract secured for Royal Mail 04 05 01 Hereford County Hospital 04 Dare County Haden Young is undertaking a 23m contract for Heery International provided design and construction mechanical and electrical services for the new 340 management services for Dare County Justice Facility bed acute NHS hospital.
02 The Cabinet Office 05 Commonwealth Stadium, Manchester Balfour Beatty Construction has completed the Haden Young installed all electrical and mechanical complex upgrade and refurbishment of the Cabinet services for the Commonwealth Stadium in Manchester Office buildings in Whitehall to time and budget.
and for the associated Aquatic Centre complex.
03 Royal Mail Haden Building Management has acquired 49% of Romec, the company responsible for maintaining the entire Royal Mail stock of over 3,000 buildings.
Operating review continued Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 12 In Balfour Kilpatrick, the electrical engineering and mechanical services contractor, performance was in line with 2001.
Once again a substantial proportion of the companys work derived from PFI projects, including the Stoke Schools project and other Review of operations major project work including Heron Quays in Heery, the US-based architectural, engineering Canary Wharf and design for Terminal 5 at and programme management business, Heathrow Airport.
Retrofit and upgrading work performed satisfactorily despite a weakening for trading floors, including for Goldman Sachs of commercial markets.
This was achieved and Nomura, and substantial smaller-scale, In Haden Building Management, the building through both increased cost-efficiencies and local repeat business with relationship and facilities management company, growth successful growth of public sector business, customers also continued to be a significant was maintained as opportunities in the particularly educational, medical, correctional feature of the companys work.
market for outsourced services continued care and justice facilities in the US.
Haden Young, the Groups building to develop.
Additional sales volumes have Amongst notable project wins were services company had an excellent year.
been accompanied by the completion of a five-year contract for Atlanta Hartsfield The company is one of the UKs top three the companys transformation from a Airport, work for the US Government General building service contractors and was Mechanical branch-based organisation to a structure fully Services Agency and a major programme for and Electrical Contractor of the Year in 2001 appropriate for the selection of key customers Seattle public schools.
It specialises in high-value work and management of major accounts.
appointed project manager for a major building on major projects.
During 2002 these included In September, Balfour Beatty acquired programme for the National Blood Service.
PFI projects for Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, 49% of Romec, the company responsible for In Balfour Beatty Construction, profits Kings College Hospital, London and Hereford the maintenance and management of the improved in a competitive market where Hospital.
It also carried out the M&E work for the entire Royal Mail stock of some 3,000 buildings.
innovation, integrated design and build Commonwealth Games Stadium in Manchester.
As a result, Haden is now responsible for solutions and value for money are increasingly Major mechanical and electrical works 49% of a seven-year contract, likely to be important criteria.
The company is increasingly for BAE Systems at Chester, UCLH Hospital worth approximately 1.3bn, to provide involved from the very inception of projects in London and the Meteorological Office in the full range of facilities management and where it can best add value and in Exeter progressed well.
Major new contracts business support services.
This contract has long-term relationships with key customers.
were secured for, amongst others, the Royal commenced satisfactorily.
These include the UK Government where, Bank of Scotland in Manchester.
The company has ongoing responsibility for example, the highly complex upgrade and Andover Controls, a US leader in for long-term service provision for PFI refurbishment of the Cabinet Office buildings in computer-based security and building concessions, the Department for Work and Whitehall was concluded to time and budget: management systems, maintained its profit Pensions, and commercial customers such PFI customers in education and healthcare: performance in 2002.
The performance of as BT, Royal Bank of Scotland, AWE, Land the Metropolitan Police: major developers, Integral Technologies, the specialist security Securities, Merrill Lynch, Shell, Sainsburys most notably Hammersons: and retailers such systems business acquired in 2001, was and the Heathrow Express.
as B&Q for whom we have completed a series satisfactory.
During the year Andover acquired of technically demanding fast-track projects.
Security International, a US access control Outlook In the major new build sector, systems provider which, in combination with With low levels of underlying economic and the company was central to the on-time Integral Technologies, has formed a new market growth anticipated in the UK and the and to-budget completion of the 220m security systems division.
US, progress in 2003 is likely to be modest.
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary and made good Recent notable installations include We believe that our positioning as an progress on a number of other projects campus-wide systems at Boston University, integrated supplier and our market leading including University College London Hospital, the Georgia Institute of Technology and the positions in each of our individual disciplines Waterloo Place in Edinburgh for Castlemore, University of New Hampshire, further work should continue to help secure attractive and on the new school build programme from long-term customer Merck & Co and a projects arising from PFI, prime contracting in Stoke-on-Trent.
number of installations in the healthcare sector.
06 01 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 13 07 08 06 University College London Hospital 08 Manchester Airport Balfour Beatty Construction is the main contractor Andover Controls has designed and installed a new for the new 225m, 669 bed hospital due for phase building management control system for the airport, 1 completion in 2005. integrating numerous other systems around the site.
07 St Andrews Square, Edinburgh 09 Heron Quays Balfour Beatty Construction has completed this Balfour Kilpatrick is designing and installing all the 32m retail centre and bus station, including a electrical services at the new 37-storey Lehman Brothers five-level Harvey Nichols store.
building at Heron Quays in Londons Docklands.
09 Operating review continued Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 14 01 Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services 2002 Performance Profits in Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services fell by 5m to 17m in 2002.
Profit improvement in the UK operating companies and a first time contribution from Kentons, acquired in March 2002, were more than offset by further write-downs in some civil engineering projects on the East Coast of the US.
Highlights Major UK road construction and maintenance contracts secured Balfour Beatty Utilities created from integration of John Kennedy and Kentons $1.3bn State Highway130 joint venture contract secured in Texas Results 1,347m Turnover 2001: 1,150m 17m Profit 2001: 22m 04 Before goodwill amortisation.
01 Jebel Ali Port, Dubai Dutco Balfour Beatty is carrying out quay construction and related improvements for the expansion of the container area.
02 Norweb Power Lines Balfour Beatty Power Networks is constructing 29 kilometres of 132 kV power lines in Lancashire, including the manufacture and installation of towers.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 15 02 03 300m Nam Cheong Station in Hong Kong nearing completion 03 A120, Stansted Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering is constructing 24 kilometres of carriageway and 32 structures on the new road to connect Stansted Airport and the M11 in a 75m contract.
04 Nam Cheong Station, Hong Kong Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering is nearing the completion of the 300m Nam Cheong Station for the KowloonCanton Railway Corporation.
Operating review continued Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 16 05 06 07 01 08 05 North Yorkshire Roads 07 The Forth Bridge RCS is responsible for the maintenance of almost 8,000 Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering has begun the kilometres of roads for North Yorkshire County Council seven-year contract for the refurbishment of the under a 160m, six-year contract.
famous bridge to include painting, repairs and walkway replacement.
06 San-Mateo, San Francisco Balfour Beatty Construction Inc has successfully 08 Yorkshire Water completed the construction of the causeway and the Kentons and Kennedys, now being integrated widening of the $113m San-Mateo Bridge in California.
as Balfour Beatty Utilities, are responsible for the upgrade and rehabilitation of Yorkshire Waters clean water network under two Area contracts.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 17 In the US, Balfour Beatty Construction Incs regional businesses in California and Texas continued to perform well.
Results, however, were affected by further cost escalation on some East Coast civil engineering contracts on which further write-downs were made.
The projects involve complex engineering and logistics challenges.
Future recoveries on these projects have not yet been taken to account.
Until these projects are successfully Balvac, the repair specialist, Testal, the testing Review of operations completed, the Eastern Division business will contractor, and Rail First, which provides civil During the year, the UK Major Projects bid no more work.
engineering solutions to the rail sector, also organisation was combined with Balfour Notable project wins in joint venture performed satisfactorily.
Beatty Constructions regional Civil Engineering included the $1.3bn SH130 toll road, the Profits in RCS, the Groups road business to form Balfour Beatty Civil Greenbush Commuter Line project in Boston management and maintenance specialist, Engineering.
Profits from this organisation and a waste water tunnel at Narragansett, improved on significantly increased volumes.
improved significantly on the previous year.
The San Mateo Bridge in In January 2002, long-term contracts were Good progress was made on a number of California has been successfully completed secured for Hampshire and North Yorkshire projects, including civil works for the Channel and is in full operation.
road maintenance with a combined potential Tunnel Rail Link, complex tunnelling works In Balfour Beatty Power Networks, profits value of some 470m.
Early in 2003 we in Switzerland, major road schemes in Essex, recovered following the depressive impact of secured a MAC Managing Agent Contractor Buckinghamshire and the West Midlands the foot-and-mouth epidemic in 2001.
The UK contract for Highways Agency Area 4 with and the 300m Nam Cheong Station in was declared free of the disease in the early part a potential value of 175m.
During the year, notable contract of 2002.
All UK projects reverted to normal book, is now well in excess of 500m.
wins included the maintenance and upgrade operation during the year and progress across Profits from the Groups interest in of the Forth Bridge, a 106m railway station the board was good.
In October, the Group Devonport Management Limited, which complex at Loc Ma Chow on the acquired Walgrave Contracting Services, a UK is responsible for the management and Hong Kong China border, the expansion distribution cable service provider, in order to development of the Royal Dockyard and its of the East Hall at Hong Kong Airport and broaden its geographic resource in the growing other associated naval facilities, remained a long-term construction and maintenance utility services market.
alliance with Durham County Council.
In October 2001, Balfour Beatty acquired During 2002, a new business, Balfour The Group secured the first two Early John Kennedy Holdings, the gas and water Beatty Management, was formed to provide Contractor Involvement projects from the utility services group.
In March 2002, a company project and programme management Highways Agency for the A303 at Stonehenge providing a similar range of services, Kentons, and other professional services to the UK and the A3 at Hindhead.
Together, these two was acquired for a total consideration of infrastructure market.
projects are valued at approximately 270m.
In November, it was announced that The Groups permanent International these businesses were to be integrated to Outlook businesses in Indonesia, the Philippines and form a new company, Balfour Beatty Utilities, In the UK, there is a strong commitment the Middle East continued to produce steady to provide a complete asset management to increased capital expenditure on, and profits with particularly good results from facility to customers in the gas, clean water upgrading and maintenance of, the transport the newly-merged operations in Dubai.
We also In Indonesia, good progress was made on a The specialist UK engineering businesses expect that the US transportation market will 50m overhead power line project, while in again performed well overall.
We anticipate good progress in the Philippines the market remains depressed.
leader in complex foundations work, had a 2003 as performance improves in the US and In Turkey, our joint venture with the KOC Group very good year and has been selected for two our very substantial existing project workload continues to be active in both its domestic of the largest piling jobs in the UK for Kings in the UK, Hong Kong and elsewhere is and selected export markets.
Cross Station and the new Wembley Stadium.
Operating review continued Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 18 Rail Engineering and Services 2002 Performance Profits in Rail Engineering and Services were up by more than 50% at 37m in 2002.
This reflected a better underlying performance in UK maintenance, augmented by the settlement of some outstanding issues from previous years.
Returns from the majority of other operations also improved with Balfour Beatty Rail Power Systems benefiting in particular from a full-years profits from the Italy-based business acquired at the end of 2001.
Substantial progress was made in bringing the operations in the rail sector, in which our interests have grown substantially in the last two years, into a coherent organisation with a common approach and common values.
Acquisitions in the US and Germany further strengthened our strategic position and a number of major new contracts were secured.
Highlights Profits advance by more than 50% Acquisitions in Germany and the US strengthen business mix Major new contracts secured in UK, US and Italy Results 838m Turnover 2001: 698m 37m Profit 2001: 24m 04 Before goodwill amortisation.
01 Bay Area Rapid Transit, San Francisco Metroplex has undertaken the entire trackwork contract for the new airport extension to the BART system in San Francisco.
02 Leeds Station Balfour Beatty Rail Projects has completed the 165m contract to upgrade the infrastructure at Leeds Station, including new track and new overhead line structures.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 19 01 02 03 First stage of the Porto Metro System opened on schedule 03 Kirow Crane Balfour Beatty Rail Plant owns and operates the 30 tonne Kirow Crane, the largest and most versatile heavy lifting equipment available on the UK network.
04 Metro do Porto Balfour Beatty Rail Power Systems recently completed the first stage of the 140m turnkey project for the new Metropolitan subway system for the city of Porto.
Operating review continued Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 20 Rail Power Systems, the German-based electrification and power supply business, also performed well with the performance of its Italian subsidiary, acquired at the end of 2001, a particular feature.
In August we secured in joint venture the E300m Milan-Turin electrification contract to add to a substantial existing workload.
Further major segments of the Italian national electrification programme will come to the market in due course.
The first stage of the turnkey contract for the new Metro system in Porto was completed to Review of operations time and budget, and we successfully completed In Infrastructure Services, the first full year the Harbin-Dalian project in China.
of operation of the IMC 2000 maintenance In Asia, work on the Rawang-Ipoh contracts produced improved profits and electrification project in Malaysia is still in its increased activity levels.
A number of issues early stages.
outstanding from previous years were settled In Track Systems, profits improved further and contributed to the years profits.
as demand continued to grow for switches, We are working very closely with Network crossings and other track system components Rail on their proposed new arrangements from both the UK and export markets.
The for the management and execution of asset manufacturing facility at Sandiacre was expanded maintenance across the network.
We anticipate and upgraded during the year and work that we will be in a position to introduce new commenced on new products required for arrangements, on a pilot basis, in the Anglia installation on the London Underground system.
We believe that the new In Balfour Beatty Plant, profits improved concepts will benefit the network and will as utilisation levels further increased and further improve the operational and financial new equipment became fully operational.
stability of our maintenance business a process The contract to manage the national fleet of In March, Knox Kershaw, a market leader already advanced by the introduction of the Stoneblowers on behalf of Network Rail was in specialist rail maintenance services to the IMC 2000 contracts in 2001. renewed for a further year.
This followed The increased certainty brought about In the Technologies division, which the award to Balfour Beatty of the first by the creation of Network Rail is a welcome researches and develops new systems and ever outsourced heavy freight maintenance development and its remit to achieve value techniques, largely related to safety, there contract for the Alameda Rail Corridor rail for money is well understood.
We believe were two significant developments.
It secured link in Los Angeles.
that this can be achieved without prejudicing a contract to introduce a pilot system In Balfour Beatty Rail Systems Inc, acceptable returns.
for remote condition monitoring on the progress continued on the $50m SEPTA Work in the renewals business continued West Coast Main Line.
Slabtrack, the Groups project in Pittsburgh.
at the levels achieved in late 2001 following revolutionary embedded track system, went on Safety the disruptive effects of the National Recovery practical test in Spain.
The Group continued to work on improving Programme in the early part of that year.
In Balfour Beatty Rail Inc in the US, profits operational and occupational safety performance.
In the Projects business, 2002 was a year in Marta Track Constructors and Metroplex A major industry safety award was won in of good profit growth.
Work continued on Corporation were lower than last year, largely the US and, in the UK, the Group fully supported the electrification of the West Coast Main Line due to the timing of settlements on major the introduction, in December, of a new and the associated upgrade works.
The full projects in Texas and California.
In January network-wide safe working system.
mobilisation of the latest comprehensive 2002, the Group was awarded the $200m infrastructure upgrade project between Greenbush Line Rail Corridor contract by the Outlook Watford and Bletchley was achieved in Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority.
This design The worlds rail markets remain generally the year.
The new rail link to Terminal 5 at and build contract utilises the Groups signalling buoyant although individual national network Heathrow Airport was awarded to Balfour and civil engineering skills as well as having a very expenditure is prone to fluctuation.
One-off Beatty and some early design work was substantial trackwork element.
Balfour Beatty settlements in UK maintenance will not recur.
undertaken in our role as preferred bidder Rail Inc was also awarded the trackwork 2003 should see substantial work for major parts of Thameslink 2000, although contract for the new rail system at the site underway on upgrading trackwork and other this project continues to be subject to delays.
of the New York World Trade Center.
infrastructure for the London Underground.
01 05 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 21 06 07 05 Ledburn Junction, West Coast Main Line Balfour Beatty Rail Projects and other Group operating companies are working on a complex infrastructure upgrade at the site of the Great Train Robbery.
06 Switches and Crossings Manufacture In 2002, a second gantry milling machine was installed at Balfour Beatty Track Systems to meet growing demand from UK and export markets.
07 Infrastructure Maintenance Balfour Beatty Rail Infrastructure Services is responsible for the maintenance of the Kent, Wessex and Anglia Zones under the IMC target cost contracts introduced in 2001.
Operating review continued Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 22 03 Investments and Developments 2002 Performance Profits improved by 9% to 49m in 2002.
Continued growth in concession income from both improving performance in already operational concessions and concessions entering their operational phase, more than offset lower profits from Barking Power.
Preferred bidder status was achieved for three new concessions.
Highlights Existing concessions continue to perform well New Edinburgh Royal Infirmary handed over to time and budget Metronet concessions near financial close Results 133m Turnover 2001: 135m 49m Profit 2001: 45m 04 Before goodwill amortisation.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 23 01 02 220m Edinburgh Royal Infirmary handed over on time and to budget 01 London Underground Public Private Partnership 03 London Underground Power System Balfour Beatty is a 20% shareholder in Metronet, Lounsdale Electric in joint venture is responsible for the which will shortly take responsibility for the BCV maintenance, operation and development of London and SSL concessions on the London Underground.
Undergrounds high-voltage power distribution system.
02 Edinburgh Royal Infirmary 04 Edinburgh Royal Infirmary Haden Building Management is responsible for the Consort Healthcare is responsible for the concession delivery of all non-clinical hospital services, including to operate the new 869 bed Edinburgh Royal Infirmary catering, in a 25-year facilities management contract.
and the associated Medical School.
Operating review continued Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 24 A number of large new schemes are now in the process of coming to the market.
Balfour Beatty is down to one of two bidding for the 400m new university hospital in Birmingham.
It has prequalified for the 140m St Helens project, the 200m Pinderfield Barking Power Limited project and the 130m Chelmsford Hospital Barking Power Station underwent significant and plans to bid several other new large maintenance activity in the first half of the hospital schemes.
year and profits were lower than in 2002 as Review of operations In education, the Transform Schools a result of its decreased availability.
Late in Balfour Beatty Capital Projects project had a second successful year of the year, TXU Europe, whose subsidiaries are, In highways, the performance of Balfour financial and operational progress.
A number respectively, a shareholder and a customer of Beattys three existing road concessions in of new schools were delivered and have Barking Power Station, went into administration.
Derbyshire, Yorkshire and the West Country been very well received by the local authority, As a result, some 28% of the plants output, continued to improve overall, with traffic the teaching staff and the pupils.
Work previously under long-term contract at fixed income exceeding expectations.
The funding continues on the new build, upgrade and prices has now to be sold on the general arrangements for Connect Roads, responsible maintenance programmes.
Barking Power Ltd has for two of the concessions, were reorganised In October, Transform Schools was lodged an appropriate claim against TXU during the year.
appointed preferred bidder for the Metropolitan Europes administrators and is confident In December, through Connect Roads, Borough of Rotherham project, likely to be of recovering a very substantial proportion Balfour Beatty was appointed preferred worth 90m.
The concession involves the of the monies due under the contract.
bidder for the 130m M77 and Glasgow construction of at least six new schools, the Profitability going forward will reflect Southern Orbital DBFO contract by the substantial upgrade and refurbishment work the plants new circumstances.
Scottish Executive and East Renfrewshire of a further nine and the maintenance of the London Underground and South Lanarkshire Councils.
We are bidding Public Private Partnership A Balfour Beatty consortium was also for major schemes in Crawley where we are It is now anticipated that Metronets Bakerloo, appointed by the City of Sunderland Council on a short-list of two.
Further large schools Central and Victoria Line and Sub-Surface Line as preferred bidder for its 100m Street projects in England and Scotland will come concessions for the LUL PPP, in which Balfour Lighting and Highway Signs PFI maintenance to the market in 2003.
Beatty has a 20% interest, will reach financial contract.
In the process sector, all four of the close in Spring 2003.
In addition to revenues In the healthcare sector, significant progress Aberdeen Waste Water plants were handed generated through the operation of the was achieved.
There was a first full-years over in the first quarter and subsequent concessions, Metronet projects will bring operating income from North Durham Hospital.
1.2bn of downstream contracting work The first phase of the new 220m Edinburgh The waste-to-energy plant in Dundee has 1 to the Group over the next 7 2 years.
Royal Infirmary operated successfully following continued to experience operating difficulties handover to the Trust and mobilisation in and financial performance continues to be Outlook the early part of the year.
A new management team We expect to make further profit progress the remaining facilities were also completed is in place and plans to enhance the plants in 2003, with increasing income from PFI PPP and accepted by the Trust in preparation for operating performance are in preparation.
concessions more than offsetting somewhat full patient intake, to time and to budget.
The Seeboard Powerlink concession, lower profits from Barking Power.
Good progress was made on the construction which has operational responsibility for the Our focus on markets where we have of the new 225m hospital for University London Underground high voltage power strong competitive advantage namely large College London and the operation of the system, had a good year.
The new emergency healthcare, education, road and rail existing hospital was effectively maintained.
supply plan was completed, together with will continue and a number of large projects We continue to work towards converting the first phase of the power quality upgrade whose requirements closely match Balfour preferred bidder status for Blackburn Hospital and, as scheduled, Lots Road power station Beattys capabilities are expected to come to contract.
01 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 25 05 06 07 05 Stoke Schools Haden Building Management maintains and manages energy usage in the Stoke school stock with the objective of a 20% efficiency improvement over the first five years.
06 DBFO Road Portfolio Balfour Beatty has three concessions in current operation the A1 M1, the A50 and the A30 A35 and is preferred bidder for the M77 motorway in Scotland.
07 Stoke Schools Transform Schools is responsible for the concession for the new construction, upgrade and maintenance for the entire stock of 122 schools within Stoke-on-Trent for 25 years.
