12 OPERATING REVIEW 2002 HIGHLIGHTS FEBRUARY Results from a second successful Phase II trial reinforce the belief that ChimeriVax JE has potential as - a single dose vaccine for travellers - to JE endemic areas.
The trial also - demonstrates that the vaccine is strongly immunogenic, with better than expected results at even the lowest dose levels Smallpox vaccine update MAY US Government contracts Other government contracts the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity HRH Prince Andrew, the Duke of We have two contracts with the US Centers We have the worlds most advanced secondof ACAM2000 in adult subjects who had not York tours Acambis US for Disease Control and Prevention CDC.
Marketing of previously been inoculated against smallpox.
manufacturing facility and sees Contract 1 dates from September 2000 ACAM2000 to governments around the All 100 subjects in the open-label trial were where smallpox vaccine is being and relates to the ACAM1000 smallpox world is being carried out in conjunction with vaccinated with ACAM2000.
manufactured by Acambis for the vaccine.
Contract 2 dates from November our strategic partner and major shareholder, US Government 2001 and relates to the ACAM2000 smallpox Baxter Healthcare Corporation Baxter.
The currently accepted indication of vaccine.
Under these contracts, we have We have seen considerable interest among protective immunogenicity in the case strict confidentiality obligations that limit governments, and have 10 contracts in place of smallpox vaccination is the development our ability to give details on the status, to date in addition to the US Government of a pock-mark on the skin, known as a take.
quantity or timing of delivery of smallpox contract.
Of these, six are with European This was the primary endpoint of the trial.
We are, however, delighted to be governments.
These are small in comparison A take was seen in 99% of the subjects.
Acambis confirms that the first able to report that we are well on course with the US contracts.
They are expected to A secondary endpoint was the development doses of final, filled and kitted to complete delivery of 155 million doses have a positive impact on earnings in 2003. of a neutralising antibody response, which smallpox vaccine have been of ACAM2000 smallpox vaccine to the CDC occurred in 96% of subjects.
No vaccineproduced for the US Government, in the first half of 2003.
In addition, the ACAM2000 trial results associated serious adverse events were just 10 months after winning ACAM1000 programme is proceeding in line On 11 March 2003, we published results from observed.
Under our fast-track development the contract with the CDCs expectations and requirements.
The trial tested programme, Phase II trials of ACAM2000 are Research and development update SEPTEMBER already well underway and we anticipate that Arilvax HolaVax Typhoid - Results from Phase I trials of the Phase III trials will begin later this year.
We are in the process of completing a Process development and manufacturing of ACAM1000 smallpox vaccine that paediatric trial in Peru on Arilvax, a yellow our oral typhoid vaccine by our partners, saw 100% of subjects develop MVA fever vaccine, with results expected to be Berna Biotech, is nearing completion and a protective immunity are presented As announced on 25 February 2003, we available in April.
A Biologics License clinical bridging trial will begin in the first by Chief Scientific Officer, Dr have been awarded a $9.2m contract by the Application will be submitted to the FDA half of 2003.
Thomas Monath, at a meeting of US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious around the middle of this year.
the G7 Global Health Security Diseases, to develop a Modified Vaccinia HolaVax ETEC - Action Group being held at the Ankara MVA vaccine.
MVA is a weakened ChimeriVax JE A proof of principle challenge study is - - -  in Germany form of the current generation of smallpox A second Phase II trial of our ChimeriVax JE underway to test the effectiveness of the first - vaccines and, as such, should allow the safe vaccine against Japanese encephalitis was of the five components of our HolaVax ETEC - inoculation of at risk people with weakened successfully completed during the year.
It vaccine against E. coli related travellers - immune systems, who would otherwise be showed that ChimeriVax JE was well tolerated diarrhoea in protecting vaccinated volunteer - SEPTEMBER unable to be vaccinated against smallpox.
at all the dose levels tested and that 98% subjects when exposed to wild type ETEC.
- of subjects developed JE neutralising The first of a series of Phase I trials to test - Acambis presents pre clinical data - For this contract, Acambis is acting as the antibodies within one month of vaccination.
the other four strains in our pentavalent on ChimeriVax West Nile at the - prime contractor and Baxter is our sub We have almost completed process vaccine began early in 2003.
- prestigious Interscience Conference contractor, enabling us to leverage each development and manufacturing scale up - on Antimicrobial Agents and others strengths and capabilities.
Under this of the vaccine and will be conducting bridging H. pylori Chemotherapy ICAAC, showing initial contract, we will develop the vaccine, trials with this new material during 2003 Additional trials completed towards the end the vaccine is safe, induces high manufacture several thousand doses and to confirm that it produces clinical results of 2002 put us in a position to identify the levels of neutralising antibodies conduct a Phase I clinical trial in healthy adults.
equivalent to those seen in trials using the optimal vaccine candidate to take into further and can protect against challenge original material.
We plan to begin Phase III clinical development.
with wild type West Nile virus - The US Government has also declared its trials in the first quarter of 2004. intention to issue a Request for Proposals C. difficile for a stockpile of 30 million doses of MVA ChimeriVax Dengue We are exploring two different products to - later this year.
Given our experience in We announced results from a successful initial prevent and or treat C. difficile associated - NOVEMBER delivering large quantities of vaccine to the Phase I trial of one of the four components diarrhoea.
The passive treatment and active Positive results from an initial US Government in a short period of time and ChimeriVax DEN2 that make up our prophylactic vaccine both make use of a - Phase I trial of one component having won one of the two initial contracts ChimeriVax Dengue vaccine against dengue toxoid vaccine comprising inactivated C. - of Acambis dengue vaccine prompt awarded, we are well placed to bid for this fever.
The 56 subject trial showed that difficile toxins.
In a trial for the passive - partner Aventis Pasteur to potentially valuable supply contract.
ChimeriVax DEN2 was well tolerated at both treatment, a lower level of antibody generation - - comment this illustrates the of the dose levels tested, 100% of subjects was seen than had been expected, resulting, attractiveness of the ChimeriVax VIG developed neutralising antibodies to the we discovered, from the toxoid vaccine having technology for vaccine We announced on 11 March 2003 that Acambis homologous Dengue 2 virus serotype within lost some of its potency.
We decided not to development and that it is has entered into an exclusive marketing one month of vaccination and 96% developed proceed further with the trial, but are now encouraged to press ahead with partnership with Cangene Corporation neutralising antibodies to a wild type Dengue aggressively pursuing manufacture of new - trials of the tetravalent ChimeriVax - Cangene to market its vaccinia immune 2 virus.
There were no serious adverse toxoid vaccine.
We expect to return to clinical Dengue globulin VIG product in markets outside events.
A Phase I trial of our tetravalent trials around the end of 2003.
We will work four component ChimeriVax Dengue vaccine - - together to make the product available to will be undertaken in 2003.
DR JOHN BROWN other countries.
Cangene is currently Chief Executive Officer NOVEMBER supplying VIG under contract to the CDC.
ChimeriVax West Nile - Data from pre clinical trials of ChimeriVax - - Chief Scientific Officer, Dr Thomas VIG is used in treating severe reactions that West Nile, our vaccine against West Nile virus, Monath, is presented with the may be brought on by the administration of showed that the vaccine was safe and induced Walter Reed Medal for distinguished smallpox vaccine.
VIG is an antibody product high levels of neutralising antibodies and accomplishment in the field of manufactured from human plasma collected demonstrated the ability of ChimeriVax West - tropical medicine at the 51st annual from individuals who have been vaccinated Nile to protect against challenge with wild - meeting of the American Society with a smallpox vaccine.
Cangene is type West Nile virus.
A Phase I trial of our of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene conducting clinical trials in order to obtain vaccine candidate will start in the first half of US Food and Drug Administration FDA 2003, with results expected to be available in licensure of the product.
the second half of the year.
