Operating review With the largest Retail parks portfolio in the UK, retail parks continue to be our main focus 04 05 Pillar Property PLC Outlook and activity During the year Pillar maintained its pre-eminent position as the largest manager of out-of-town retail parks with nearly 25% more space under management than the next largest.
The growth in consumer spending in out-of-town locations is expected to continue with an increasing number of high street tenants looking at out-of-town as an affordable location for expansion.
This trend is being fed by consumers wanting more choice and better quality in a comparison shopping environment which means more stores of the same type.
Retailers at this end of the market, in a strong rental growth environment, want more for their money from landlords: better facilities, good neighbours, signage, security and the potential for extension upwards with mezzanines and outwards at ground level, or in some cases both.
These are considered to be an important part of any new development, 01 particularly the ability to provide future flexibility in unit size.
Consequently there has been a very significant amount of activity in the portfolio during the year.
There have been some 150 transactions concluded or placed in solicitors hands during the period, involving rents totalling nearly 37 million.
New rental highs have been achieved in over two-thirds of the schemes and where surrenders of space have been concluded and the space re-let, the rents have risen by an average of 65.2%.
01 Birstall Shopping Park, Leeds 02,03 Fort Kinnaird, Edinburgh 04 Newport Retail Park Annual report and accounts 2002 The demand for retail warehousing as an asset class, combined with limited new space being developed, as the Government planning regime bites further, has led to limited investment activity during the year.
However, we have been involved in investment transactions totalling nearly 700 million including the transfer into Hercules of Preston, Chester, Edinburgh and Fosse Park Leicester.
We expect the growing trend of retail park assets being held by a smaller number of asset managers to continue with certain institutions being prepared to transfer a share of their assets into the hands of specialist managers, such as Pillar.
The quality, size and number of Pillars investments in retail park assets is unique within the marketplace.
There is also the prospect of further comparable schemes being acquired by Hercules from Pillar at Beckton in East London and Glasgow Fort, in Auchinlea.
The occupational market There are many sectors seeing consolidation as a small number of dominant players emerge.
This is particularly true of the bulky goods end of the market.
The number of players in the traditional out-of-town market is dwindling because of the long term trend towards mergers and acquisitions coupled with a dearth of new entrants.
02 03 Carpetright and Tapis St Maclou dominate floor covering.
Focus Wickes Great Mills and Homebase trail B&Q in the DIY market.
Following the demise of Tempo, the electrical sector is almost entirely shared between Comet and Dixons although the biggest electrical operator in the USA, Best Buy are threatening to impose their critical mass and buying power onto the market.
04 Operating review continued Creating an environment Retail parks for high street retailers 06 07 Pillar Property PLC Aggressive expansion plans are proposed by a number of high street occupiers who are already firmly established in both markets and know that their presence in the high street and out-of-town can be complementary to each other.
These include WH Smith, Argos, Borders, Arcadia, Sports Soccer, HMV, Birthdays, JD Sports, JJB and Next.
05 New entrants to the market during the year have included Warner Bros. Stead & Simpson, Early Learning Centre, Uniqlo and Clintons.
The majority of these retailers operate out of units of 10,000 sq ft or less where the fastest rental growth is being experienced.
We expect future rents in this size range to continue to outpace the rents achieved in larger units.
The schemes with the benefit of an open A1 consent are proving to be the most popular with the high street retailers 06 given that these can accommodate all the high street occupiers.
The Portfolio is made up of more than 80% of open A1 planning consents which can still be achieved in selected locations where local authorities have been willing to grant unrestricted planning consents to achieve wider social goals such as the regeneration of an area like Beckton in East London and Glasgow Fort in Auchinlea, our joint venture with Capital & Regional.
These retailers also need critical 07 mass for comparison-shopping and with the average floor area in the Portfolio of 160,000 sq ft, these needs are capable of being met.
05,06,07 Castle Centre and Castle Quay, Banbury 08 Glasgow Fort 09 Currys, Croydon Annual report and accounts 2002 Planning and future supply The opening of new retail park floorspace in the UK in 2001 fell to its lowest level for ten years with just 12 new parks opening and a total area of just under 1.65 million sq ft.
This is down 25% on the previous year.
It is about one-third of the space that opened in the recent peak year of 1997.
Since then there has been a steady downward trend.
The average size of a new park in 2001 jumped to over 137,000 sq ft, reversing a trend of decreasing size over the previous four years.
Eight years after the Government introduced planning restrictions in out-of-town development, the effects are now beginning to show.
Over half of all retail parks are over ten years old, indicating that the sector is maturing, both in terms of building stock and as an investment medium.
Planning policy remains the biggest constraint to further out-of-town developments.
It is likely that developers in the future will have to offer significant benefits to the local community, in line with Government policy, to secure further 08 consents.
This may include contributions to improve the local road networks, green transport plans and free bus services.
For example, both Asda and B&Q in South East Edinburgh have had to make financial contributions to the new Crossrail network to secure their consents for additional floor areas.
