l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATING REVIEW ALL FOURTEEN HOUSEBUILDING DIVISIONS TRADED SUCCESSFULLY WITH THE RESULT THAT WE HAVE INCREASED THE NUMBER OF HOMES SOLD AND TURNOVER TO RECORD LEVELS.
BY ACHIEVING HIGHER OPERATING MARGINS, NOW UP TO 17.2%, WE HAVE ALSO RAISED OUR OPERATING PROFIT TO 133.1m, THE HIGHEST IN OUR HISTORY.
Increasing our market share Despite the total home production in the UK falling to its lowest level in 54 years, Bellway has, since 1992, trebled the number of homes sold and quadrupled its market share with all of this growth having been achieved organically.
During the period under review we reached yet another milestone by selling more than 6,000 homes.
A wide geographical spread ensures an even coverage across the country and the diversity of our house type portfolio enables us to serve most sectors of the market.
We were one of the first to embrace the trend towards inner city living and this has resulted in apartment schemes being developed in every division representing 35% of the total homes sold.
Approximately 10% of new homes are sold to housing associations and other agencies and we expect to see this figure increase in the future as planning authorities impose their needs for more affordable homes within each new development.
Achieving the best mix and maximising returns As predicted, the average selling price of our homes increased slightly to 120,800.
Whilst the most expensive sale last year was in excess of 1m we will continue to trade predominantly in the middle market focusing on brownfield redevelopment in areas of high population.
The northern divisions have not only increased average selling price by 12% to 100,600 but they have also increased the number of completions by almost 10% to 3,533 homes.
A large contribution to this growth comes from the two north west divisions which have, during the year, increased annual output to almost 1,200 homes a 57% increase.
The East Midlands, West Lancashire and Yorkshire divisions, where in previous years a high percentage of output was grant aided, still have low average selling prices compared to their regional averages.
In recent times we have been changing the development profile of these divisions by acquiring higher priced developments in cities such as Leeds, Chester and Nottingham and this will help to increase the average selling price in the future.
Top: Detail of bathroom fitting.
8 Main: Citygate development, Newcastle upon Tyne.
9 10 Achieving the best mix and maximising returns continued Output from the two midlands divisions has risen to 850 homes, an increase of over 50% in three years, and a new site for around 300 homes has been acquired in the Birmingham suburbs complementing the existing inner city developments.
Further north the North East division continues to perform consistently well and the Scotland division has acquired new sites in the east of Scotland and northwards as far as Perth.
With regard to the southern divisions, we decided some time ago to change policy and moved away from higher value London apartments to focus on family orientated housing.
This planned change in mix manifested itself in lower average selling prices this year compared to the previous year in the three south eastern divisions.
We continue to target the south east of England and have now acquired six new large schemes in and around London which total some 1,800 homes.
The product mix of these schemes will serve a much wider cross section of the home buying public and will result in improved average selling prices in these divisions in years to come.
Four of our southern divisions sold a record number of homes.
In particular, the Wessex division has expanded its presence in Devon and Somerset with the acquisition of a large site near Exeter and are now set to open up new sites in and around Bristol where planning permissions have been received for over 550 homes.
Northern Home Counties achieved 139 completions in its second year of trading and further growth is expected as new sites come on stream in this government designated growth area.
Thames Gateway has seen a 38% increase in average selling price to 121,000 as it moves away from grant aided projects and Wales has now commenced work on our large investment in Cardiff Bay, whilst at the same time, submitting plans which will lead to a 100% increase in the original density.
It is worth highlighting that the overhead structure of our divisions means that they are each capable of selling a minimum of 500 homes per annum.
Only three of the divisions have achieved this figure during the year so further growth can be accommodated, market permitting.
In addition, we continue to evaluate the possibility of opening new divisions in certain parts of the country to augment our plans for growth.
The operating margin of 17.2% has increased significantly from the previous years 15.4%.
This increase in margin is a reflection of increasing turnover and also reflects the types of homes we build, the specification and the well balanced land bank together with the skill and commitment of our employees.
Taking advantage of the land market Land acquisition is an opportunistic process and our ability to move quickly allows us to take full advantage of these opportunities.
We believe the level of activity in the land market has slowed in the last two years as a result of other housebuilders consolidating their holdings.
In this period our land holdings have improved.
11 Main: Wynyard development, Billingham, Cleveland.
l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 Taking advantage of the land market continued Following the acquisition of several large sites recently, we decided to sell on a small proportion from eight developments.
This was done to maintain our return on average capital employed, which at 27.9%, remains one of the highest in the industry.
Consequently, land disposals were higher than usual at 34.7m.
Notwithstanding this, our land bank has increased by 700 plots to 17,400 plots with planning permission.
In addition we own, or are contracted to own, around 12,500 plots where planning permission is likely to be granted shortly.
Both figures exclude strategic long term land holdings.
Geographically the plots are evenly dispersed throughout the country and this provides an excellent defence against the regional variances of the UK housing market.
We have been, for some time now, one of the industry leaders in brownfield development with well over 75% of the land having had a former use.
Building quality We remain committed to training and employing more apprentices and also encouraging site based employees to train for NVQ level qualifications.
This training is planned and carried out in conjunction with local colleges and the Construction Industry Training Board.
I am delighted to report that in 2002 we received more NHBC Pride in the Job Awards than in any other year, with Bellways site management teams throughout the country receiving eighteen Quality Awards.
Many of these managers began their careers with the Company as apprentices, having advanced through training programmes to their present positions.
Our training programmes assist in reducing pressure on labour costs in certain trades, especially in and around city centres.
Whilst there is no doubt that the advent of new and more rigorous building regulations will increase the cost base within the industry, the last twelve months have seen cost increases contained at around 5%.
We continue to investigate methods of reducing our cost base by streamlining construction systems and employing alternative building techniques.
Timber, steel and concrete frames have been used in the construction of over 1,500 homes sold during the year, more than ever before.
The use of prefabricated components is an increasing feature of the building process and these techniques and methods reduce construction time and benefit cash flow.
Top: Kevin Cubby, 20, is one of 28 apprentices training on sites throughout the North East division.
He has already completed his NVQ Level III and has now requested, and been granted, a two year extension to his apprenticeship.
Above: Five of Bellway North East divisions site managers who have qualifed 12 for the second stage of the prestigious NHBC Pride in the job competition, the first time this has ever been achieved by the company.
Main: Westlands Heath development, Congleton, Cheshire.
13 14 Environmental management The Groups divisions seek to minimise the adverse effects of the construction process on the environment.
Last year we published our environmental policy and we are now in the course of preparing an environmental management system which will identify the key criteria against which we will have to be measured in future years.
Further details are contained in the Annual Report and on our website, www.
co. uk The future The Group has proved, with these record results, its ability to grow all aspects of the business and the Board remains confident that this can be continued in the future.
J K Watson Chief Executive 14 October 2002 Main: Wynyard development, Billingham, Cleveland.
