3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 07 Operating review This review describes the progress made by our businesses in Europe, the United States and Asia Pacific in implementing Group strategy during the year, and the market conditions and operating performance in each region.
The Financial review provides information on the financial performance of the Group, including information on the performance of each region and also the performance of our main product groups.
We make investments in a wide range of sectors, enabling businesses, often owner managed, to grow significantly.
08 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Operating review We have strengthened Introduction There are four core elements of strategy which apply across our business: our processes for To build strong businesses in each of the major venture identifying investment capital markets.
To achieve a balanced business by product, by industry sector opportunities, making and by geographic region.
To invest in companies that have the potential to grow their investments and revenues and profits.
To use our international network to provide real competitive advantage for 3i and our investee companies.
In order to implement our strategy, and particularly to use the network to add value, our business is organised by region and also by product.
The geographic regions are the UK, continental Europe, the United States and Asia Pacific.
Overlaying this, our business is also organised by product: buy-outs, early stage technology and growth capital.
During the year, we made some significant organisational and investment process changes to the way our investment products are managed.
Early Learning Centre A total of 43.8 million was raised for the buy-out of Early Learning Centre, 3i invested 8.5 million.
ELC has grown to become one of the leading UK-based branded toy retailers.
Specialising in learning through play toys for pre-school age children, the company now has 216 stores in the UK.
When the opportunity to mount a buy-out of ELC arose in 2001, 3i was ideally placed to provide equity backing.
Having developed a long standing relationship with the management team through the regional network, 3i won the mandate to be Stiell managements preferred partner.
We were The 85 million sale of Stiell to Alfred attracted by the management teams vision McAlpine in March 2002 saw 3i realise a and ELCs unique position in its market as a 10 million profit on its 9 million investment niche branded designer and retailer of in two years.
Stiell is a UK facilities educational toys.
management provider, with clients such as The business has traded strongly since the Abbey National, Bank of Scotland, Nationwide deal was completed in October 2001.
Building Society, BAA and Motorola.
3i had provided funding to restructure Stiells shareholder base and provide a platform for accelerated growth after marketing to the business for 10 years.
The management team successfully delivered on their plans and, as a result, the company was courted by interested acquirers throughout 2001.
The Stiell team utilised 3is considerable experience to help evaluate the strategic options open to them and then to manage the tactics of the sale.
This profitable outcome was an endorsement of 3is strategy of focusing on growth sectors and their best companies and management teams.
We view this success as a springboard for further European support services investments.
Featured: Bill Allan, Managing Director, Stiell Facilities.
Operating review: Introduction 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 09 Our buy-out business is led by Jonathan Russell who heads a Our growth capital business is led by the directors responsible for team of directors and investment executives operating in our each geographic region.
We make investments in a wide range of network across Europe.
Our objective is to access and have the sectors, enabling businesses, often owner managed, to grow opportunity to invest in more than 70% of European buy-outs with significantly.
Typically, such investments are originated through a funding requirement between 5 million and 500 million and to our office network and the investment decision is made largely on complete the best deals on a pan European basis.
During the year, our knowledge of local business conditions.
The resources of the we have strengthened our processes for identifying investment international network are used where value can be added.
A good opportunities, making investments and managing the portfolio.
example of a thriving growth capital sector is our oil and gas business, managed by our Aberdeen office.
Our technology business is now led by Rod Perry and is organised to focus on four sectors: Software Communications Healthcare Electronics, semiconductors and advanced technologies ESAT Each sector operates on an international basis, with a sector head and team of experienced directors and executives, drawing on our in-house industry advisers as well as our extensive external contacts.
Investment decisions are made using the resources available to the Group in an efficient and effective manner.
eDevice 3i has been instrumental in completing eDevices second round financing $11.5 million and is now supporting the companys international growth.
eDevice is a young Franco-American company that has developed a highly innovative technology bringing internet connectivity to any device, on any infrastructure, anywhere.
eDevices software allows a low cost solution on a single industry standard chip and has applications in various fields, from connecting utility meters or vending machines, to home automation.
3i teams based in Asia, the US and Europe have made high-level introductions to business partners, as well as introducing ERM several potential customers within its 3i completed this mid-market buy-out in non-technology portfolio to the eDevice team.
UK based ERM is one of the Featured from left to right: worlds largest environmental consultancies, Stephane Schinazi, Marc Berrebi, providing services in five primary segments: Yves Abitbol and Alex Guillot.
site remediation, facility operations, business value services, site development and strategic value services.
3i was introduced to this opportunity exclusively, as a result of 3is initiative with advisers working in the support services sector.
3i built up an excellent relationship with ERMs management and became closely involved in the production of the business plan.
3is international network has already led to benefits for ERM as they have been appointed as 3is preferred environmental due diligence supplier.
The active marketing of ERMs services within 3i has already led to a number of introductions for them.
ERM is a world leader in a market forecast to achieve double-digit growth and projected to rise to over US$80 billion in 2003.
