It takes time, commitment and consistent delivery to build a strong brand.
Norwich Union UK, Hibernian Ireland, Delta Lloyd Netherlands and Commercial Union Poland are valuable assets that we have retained.
Protecting the value in our strongest brands Making our marketing activity work harder We are concentrating our efforts on promoting fewer brands to help achieve greater consistency and value for money from our marketing and advertising activity worldwide.
With 59,000 people working for Aviva around the world, a strong group brand with shared values of integrity, performance, progressiveness and teamwork helps unite us as a single team.
Creating a stronger sense of belonging Aviva making the most out of life Highlights of the year, 1798m operating profit before tax 1 4.6bn worldwide long-term savings new business sales 23p full year dividend 9.7bn Worldwide business mix 1 by sector shareholders funds 1 General insurance 28% # 2 Long-term savings 72% 2 959m operating profit before tax from general insurance Worldwide business mix 1 by geography 2 1 Rest of world 10% 2 Europe 90% From continuing and discontinued operations, including life achieved operating profit and stated before amortisation of goodwill and With reference to premium income exceptional items.
From continuing and discontinued 01 Aviva plc # Including health premium income.
Annual report accounts 2002 Group strategy 1 To grow our long-term savings business aggressively and profitably.
2 To build a world-class fund management business.
3 To take a focused approach to general insurance, with disciplined underwriting and efficient claims handling.
4 To build top-five positions in key markets.
5 To withdraw from lines of business or markets which do not offer the potential for market-leading positions or superior returns.
Chairmans statement The year 2002 was a difficult one for investors.
Returns were mostly negative, and often dramatically so.
Aviva shareholders have also seen our share price decline.
Our policyholders have experienced both a shrinking investment and reduced bonuses.
There is nothing we can do about world equity markets.
What we can do, however, is try to be better than the market and perform above the level of our competitors.
It seems to me that we have succeeded in that ambition.
In life and pensions, we have grown to be the number one provider to Europe, having been a medium-sized company only four years ago.
In general insurance, we have outperformed the market and few of our competitors in the world have been more profitable.
We have further streamlined and focused our business during In life and pensions, the year.
The biggest sale was of our Australian and New Zealand general insurance operations, following an unsolicited offer at a price the board felt compelled to accept.
We also exited markets we have grown to where we were sub-scale.
In contrast, we are expanding where we see opportunities to be be the number one leaders.
We signed a further bancassurance partnership agreement in Spain and are now the third-biggest life and savings operation in that country.
We have come from virtually nowhere a few years provider to Europe, back.
In France we signed a bancassurance agreement with Crdit du Nord to further consolidate our position.
In the Netherlands we agreed to be the exclusive life and general insurer for ABN AMRO, having been a one of the countrys three leading banks, and in Italy we agreed our fourth major bancassurance partnership with Banca Popolare Commercia e Industria.
medium-sized Our capital position has suffered as a result of the decline in equity markets.
However, we remain strong and our rating is healthy.
company only four years ago.
02 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002 Aviva relative to FTSE Eurotop 300 Life Assurance and FTSE Eurotop 300 Aviva rebased FTSE Eurotop 300 Life rebased to 100 100 FTSE Eurotop 300 rebased to 100 80 60 40 20 0 We are looking forward to an open, transparent and competitive European Market becoming a reality.
The European Financial Services Round Table EFR a group of top people from Europes largest banks and insurance companies is working to achieve that goal.
I am the EFRs chairman and we are proposing ways to build the missing links in the creation of such a market, ahead of the enlargement of the European Union in 2004 when 10 new members will join.
A level playing field will benefit competition and the consumer.
We obviously upset many of our shareholders and the market when we announced our proposal last year to reduce our dividend.
The world of business has been plagued by many scandals and The decision was the correct course of action necessary to retain unacceptable behaviour during the year.
We operate to high capital to take advantage of profitable growth opportunities.
standards of ethics and corporate governance and also have a The subsequent fall in the equity markets has created a strain on demanding programme of corporate social responsibility, for which our capital position and increased the importance of striking the we have attracted flattering attention.
right balance between retention of funds to grow our long-term savings business and dividend payments.
Our regulators have on several occasions criticised our industry in an aggressive fashion.
I think that should in future be done in a We propose a final dividend for 2002 of 14.25 pence net per more discriminating way, as there are examples of good behaviour.
share, which brings the total for the year to 23 pence.
This is The buying public should not be made to mistrust a whole industry consistent with the dividend policy announced in February 2002 when that is unjustified.
and will be payable on 16 May 2003 to shareholders on the register on 28 March 2003.
We have announced that Sir Michael Partridge, a non-executive director and member of the audit committee, will retire on 7 May 2003, at the close of our annual general meeting.
Sir Michael originally joined the board of Norwich Union in 1996.
I thank him for his invaluable contribution during this period.
We aspire to be the low-cost producer, top service provider and insurer of choice.
I readily admit that we have a distance to go, but we will get there.
Our management is committed and our loyal staff continue to train and equip themselves to face the challenge.
I thank them for their unstinting efforts in the past year.
It is in difficult times that we see excellent opportunities to improve further our leadership position.
Pehr G Gyllenhammar 03 Aviva plc Chairman Annual report accounts 2002 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Geographical breakdown of worldwide business mix # Long-term savings 1 UK 35% 6 1 2 Continental Europe 32% 5 3 Rest of world 5% General insurance 4 4 UK 17% 5 Continental Europe 6% 3 2 6 Rest of world 5% With reference to premium income from continuing operations.
Group at a glance Key market positions for Aviva Long-term savings No 2 market positions: UK, Poland Top-five market positions: Ireland, Netherlands, Spain, Singapore, Turkey Top-10 market positions: Australia, France, Italy Other significant operations: United States Fund management 3rd largest UK-based fund manager Top-five market positions: Ireland, Netherlands, Navigator Australia One of the top 10 in Europe Other significant operations: France General insurance No 1 market positions: UK, Ireland Top-five market positions: Canada, Netherlands, Singapore Other significant operations: France 04 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002 Developments in 2002 Performance in 2002 Continental European business now accounts for 43% of worldwide life and pension sales and 49% of life achieved operating profit.
1 3 61 8m Worldwide total bancassurance sales up 50% at New life and pension sales 3.0 billion.
New partnerships in Europe and South East Asia extend bancassurance reach to some 35 million potential customers.
1 9100m New life insurance joint ventures launched in India and Net premiums written including China, both markets with huge long-term growth potential.
share of associates premiums Introduced new savings products offering capital or income protection to meet continuing investor preference for non-equity related products.
1524m Life achieved operating profit before tax Including health premiums of 928 million.
Introduced new socially responsible investment products in UK and Ireland.
Morley launched first US mutual funds, building 208bn capability in the North American market.
Assets under management Around 70% of French funds in top quartile for returns over three years.
Investment sales in the Netherlands up 38%.
1028m Launched Navigator Asia in Singapore, extension of Investment sales highly successful Australian online fund administration platform.
5bn New external mandates in the UK Better-than-target COR of 101.4% resulting from disciplined underwriting and efficient claims handling.
Sold general insurance businesses in Australia, 8497m New Zealand and Spain and broker distribution business Net premiums written in France.
UK expense ratio of 10.4% one of the lowest among major UK insurers.
Improving customer service in Canada, including 101.
4 % introduction of Total Incident Management concept Combined operating ratio COR from UK.
Ongoing investment in market-leading initiatives including our pioneering Pay As You Drive motor insurance project.
959m Operating profit before tax From continuing and discontinued operations.
05 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002
