Directors remuneration report continued deferred and this is matched on a one for one basis with a The relative value of the elements of executive further award of shares.
directors remuneration 000 400 If a participant leaves service during the vesting period for reasons of ill-health, retirement or redundancy, the matching shares are 350 released in full at the end of the vesting period.
In all other cases, the matching shares lapse.
The shares granted under the plan are 300 held in trust and vest automatically after three years.
250 The Committee has considered carefully the suggestion of certain institutional investors that the vesting of the matching awards 200 should be subject to the attainment of performance conditions.
The award of matching shares can only be made in relation to 150 LTIP bonuses actually earned, i. e. the performance conditions attaching 100 to the annual bonus plan must have been met.
The plan makes it Cash deferred bonus compulsory for participants to defer 50% of their bonus into Basic pay 50 shares and encourages participants to invest the whole of their bonus into shares, thereby strengthening further the alignment of 0 Target Stretch their interests with those of shareholders.
It is felt that the imposition of additional performance conditions would be For the purposes of this diagram, the following assumptions have been made: detrimental to achieving this.
As a result of benchmarking the At Target performance the annual bonus is 35% of basic pay and the Companys remuneration package, the Committee is aware that executive director chooses to defer the whole of his bonus, which is matched.
the maximum amount which a participant can earn under the The ROCE performance condition on the long-term incentive plan is met in full and the Companys TSR position is median, resulting in the vesting of 50% Companys annual bonus plan, and hence defer being 50% of of the shares awarded.
The share price growth during the three-year basic salary, is at the lower end of the market range.
The performance deferral period averages 5% per year.
Committee believes that the deferred bonus plan is not excessive.
At Stretch performance the annual bonus is 50% of basic salary and the executive director chooses to defer the whole of his bonus, which is matched.
Long-term incentives The ROCE performance condition on the long-term incentive plan is met in full The Aviva Long Term Incentive Plan is a discretionary share plan and that the Companys TSR position is upper decile, resulting in the vesting of and it is the Committees policy to make an annual award of 100% of the shares awarded.
The share price growth during the three-year shares to executive directors with a value of 100% of their basic performance deferral period averages 10% per year.
salary at the time the award is granted.
All awards are made Basic salaries subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions In determining the level of basic salaries, the Committee gathers 70% of the award relating to Total Shareholder Return TSR data from a number of independent sources concerning the level of performance against a comparator group and 30% of the award salaries paid to senior executives performing comparable functions relating to Return on Capital Employed ROCE performance.
within the largest 50 listed companies in the United Kingdom, with The awards vest after three years, but only to the extent that an additional focus on leading United Kingdom and European the performance conditions are satisfied.
The performance conditions compare the TSR produced by the When reviewing basic salaries, the Committee takes into Company over the performance period against the TSR of account market data and the senior executives performance.
The companies in a chosen comparator group, and on the ROCE within Companys policy is to set basic salaries for competent performance the Company.
The Committee believes that this combination is the at the median level.
Salaries are targeted towards the upper quartile most appropriate way of incentivising executives since it takes into for those executives who display sustained superior performance.
account both the total returns to shareholders and the Companys underlying performance.
Achievement of median TSR performance Cash bonuses within this group triggers the vesting of 20% of the shares, which Senior executives participate in a discretionary annual cash bonus rises to 70% if the Companys performance is in the upper decile plan that provides for the payment of cash bonuses.
For executive of the comparator group.
Recognising the Companys position as directors, the bonus for Target performance is 35% of basic the largest provider of life and pension products to Europe, the salary and for achieving Stretch performance a payment of up to comparator group for the TSR part of the plan comprises 19 50% can be made.
70% of the potential payment under the European financial services companies, namely Abbey National, plan is dependent upon financial targets.
The remaining 30% AEGON, Allianz, AXA, Barclays, CNP Assurances, Ergo, Fortis, of the bonus is based upon the directors attainment of personal HBOS, HSBC, ING, Legal & General, Lloyds TSB, Prudential, Royal objectives.
Bank of Scotland, Royal & Sun Alliance, Skandia, Swiss Life and For the executive directors, shared Group-wide objectives are based Zurich.
The Committee believes that this is the group of on financial measures relevant to the business, including new competitors against which Avivas relative performance is most business contribution, combined operating ratio and operating appropriately measured.
For the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance The other 30% of the award vests if the Company achieves a Director, Group-wide targets are the relevant performance given return, in excess of inflation, on ROCE over the three year measures for annual bonus purposes.
For the other executive performance period.
Awards under this performance condition will directors, Group-wide targets represent about 40% of their overall begin to vest if the cumulative ROCE over the performance period financial target, with the remainder represented by targets is 24% in excess of the rate of inflation, with the full 30% vesting pertaining to the business unit s for which they are responsible.
The Committee considers it important that senior executives hold If the performance targets have not been met at all at the end of shares in the Company and a fundamental part of the annual the performance period, they will be retested at the end of five bonus plan is the requirement that a stated proportion of any cash years, the ROCE performance condition being adjusted accordingly, bonus awarded under the plan be taken in the form of shares i. e. the cumulative ROCE would need to be at least 40% in excess through the Deferred Bonus Plan.
Executive directors are required of the rate of inflation over the extended performance period for to defer 50%, and may elect to defer up to 100%, of their cash any awards under that part of the plan to vest.
In respect of bonuses deferred, participants are granted an aware that certain institutions are not in favour of performance award of shares of equal value to the amount of cash bonus 36 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002
