OPERATING REVIEW UNDERWRITING MANY INSURANCE COMPANIES HAVE MADE THE MISTAKE OF BUYING VOLUMES OF BUSINESS WITH PRICES THAT ARE TOO LOW.
COX UNDERWRITERS CHARGE PREMIUMS THAT GENUINELY REFLECT THE RISKS INVOLVED.
WE ARE NOT DEPENDENT ON INVESTMENT INCOME TO BALANCE THE BOOKS.
BERNARD WATKINS RAY WHITE FORMER UNDERWRITER UNDERWRITER OF EQUITY RED STAR EQUITY RED STAR DISCIPLINE: THE KEY TO UNDERWRITING SUCCESS UNDERWRITING FOR PROFIT, NOT MARKET SHARE Equity Red Star is one of the most profitable motor insurers Many insurance companies have made the mistake of buying in the market and the primary underwriter within Cox retail large volumes of business with prices that are, by any technical operations.
This means that Cox benefits from the expertise analysis, too low.
The belief is that a large book of business will of Lloyds largest motor syndicate and the eighth largest motor generate sufficient income over the longer-term to offset any insurer in the UK.
In 2002 we once again demonstrated our weakness in underwriting technique.
This approach has been ability to actively manage the cycle, delivering record profits exposed as deeply flawed and Cox will have no part in it.
to Cox of 39.7m and increasing gross premium by 13% to Instead, the Companys underwriters ruthless attention to detail 527m for the syndicate as a whole.
means that we charge premiums that genuinely reflect the risks involved in each case.
Thus the Company will pursue underwriting Underwriting has a cyclical nature, caused by a range of profit and not be dependent on investment income to balance external factors.
The history of the insurance industry over its books.
the past few years shows how vulnerable the market is to unforeseeable and largely uncontrollable events.
Allied to a RESERVING STRATEGY complex, competitive and fast-moving commercial environment, In addition to the strong underwriting disciplines already outlined, this makes it extremely difficult for individual companies to Cox adheres to a rigorous reserving strategy, whereby we quickly escape the cycle.
However, it is important for ambitious determine adequate reserves at prudent levels.
We believe this organisations to continue to strive to release themselves upfront approach is demonstrably worthwhile in the longer-term.
from the negative drag that the cycle imposes.
Equity Red Stars strategic objective is to produce a consistently healthy return on capital over the underwriting cycle.
We will continue to achieve this by maintaining the philosophies set out below.
Cox Insurance Holdings Plc 06 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 Underwriting business mix Retail Underwriting 7 8 Gross written premium m Operating profit before tax 6 1 Class 5 1 Private car Broker 121 2 Private car Direct 88 3 Fleet 100 4 Special risks 101 5 Motorcycles 50 2 4 6 Household 44 7 Road rescue 12 8 Other 11 Total 527 3 m 11 26 40 Year 00 01 02 IDENTIFYING THE CORRECT MARKET SEGMENTS An excellent performance in 2002 saw a reduction in IN WHICH TO DEVELOP BUSINESS administrative expenses, including claims handling costs, In order to reinforce corporate standing some insurers believe to 8.6% 2001 8.9%.
This combined with an excellent it is important to have a presence in every sector.
Cox prefers underwriting result produced a motor combined ratio of 89% to strengthen its position by participating in profitable business 2001 93%, which we believe will be amongst the best in the and eschewing areas that are likely to prove problematic.
We have seen strong performances from each of our major underwriting classes.
GROWING THE BUSINESS AT THE RIGHT TIME IN THE UNDERWRITING CYCLE In 2002 Equity Red Star focussed heavily on identifying ways The spread of underwriting interests across all major sectors of of streamlining processes, improving management information the motor market means that Cox is able to apply underwriting and reducing costs.
With this in mind we commenced a resource and expertise to those sectors that are able to produce re-engineering programme and introduced new IT systems, the best returns.
including RTM Win and full-cycle EDI.
The re-engineering and IT development programmes are set to continue in 2003 when Cox has the flexibility and financial resource to take advantage we will start to reap the benefits both operationally and financially.
of the cyclical nature of individual sectors of the market and the underwriting expertise to seize and make the most of In the current and expected market conditions, an insurance opportunities when they arise.
company will survive or fail on the basis of its underwriting capability and success.
Cox boasts remarkable underwriting MANAGING AND REDUCING EXPENSES expertise and a well-balanced business.
We will make sure Cost remains one of the most significant elements in any insurers that expertise is given full rein and will exploit to the full the technical account.
If a company carries a large expense ratio current market opportunities.
expense relative to overall income and claims payments, then its underwriting team are inevitably limited in how they can apply their skills.
They are, in effect, loading their premiums to reflect high running costs within the operation.
Cox aims to reduce costs at every opportunity through careful management of claims and by constantly reviewing business processes.
Cox Insurance Holdings Plc ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 07 OPERATING REVIEW BROKING AND INSURANCE SERVICES COX MAINTAINS A BROAD SPREAD OF INTERESTS ACROSS BOTH THE DIRECT AND WHOLESALE DIVISIONS.
THE AIM IS TO MINIMISE RELIANCE ON ANY GIVEN AREA WHILE, AT THE SAME TIME, MAXIMISING INVOLVEMENT IN PROFITABLE OPERATIONS.
Broking and Insurance Services Operating profit before tax m 10 11 19 Year 00 01 02 NICK POTTS PAUL DODDS COLIN CHARLES MANAGING DIRECTOR JOINT MANAGING DIRECTOR JOINT MANAGING DIRECTOR DIRECT DIVISION WHOLESALE DIVISION WHOLESALE DIVISION and received the Royal British Legion Affinity Partner of the DIRECT DIVISION Year Award.
SATISFYING DIVERSE DEMAND Underpinning all activity is the core Boncaster philosophy Cox has a unique distribution capability that can service the needs of sourcing high-quality, competitive products from leading of customers, however they choose to purchase their insurance.
underwriters and delivering these to customers with marketbeating levels of customer service.
Day-to-day management The Direct Division, comprising Boncaster and insure-shop, forms of each scheme is handled internally to ensure the highest the cornerstone of the distribution strategy.
The Division is an standards are maintained.
established player in the UK personal lines market, and it will play a key role in maintaining profitability regardless of cyclical insure-shop changes in the underwriting environment.
insure-shop aims to be one of Britains leading high-street intermediaries selling both personal lines and small Boncaster Limited commercial business.
insure-shop profits grew 100% to 0.6m Boncaster sells products from a panel of leading insurers, 2001 0.3m.
This has been achieved through a 20% dealing direct with customers over the telephone and on the increase in premium throughput to 19.1m 2001 15.9m.
Internet under the insure brand, and serving schemes and The expense ratio improved significantly to 85% 2001 96%.
affinity groups via a dedicated operation.
Future growth will be achieved through planned and opportunistic 2002 has been a challenging year for Boncaster.
Nevertheless, acquisitions of established brokerages.
though income remained flat compared to 2001, profits increased, by 64%, to 3.6m 2001 2.2m through close Once again, commitment to customer service is unswerving.
This is of particular importance given the immediacy of contact between customers and insure-shop staff.
Relationships with As with Equity Red Star there has been a focus on reducing customers who come to the Company via the acquisition of costs and improving service and efficiency through re-engineering another business are also handled with maximum sensitivity and IT development.
A re-engineering programme and the and care.
This ensures a smooth transfer of business and introduction of the RTM Win system are having an immediate the development, from the outset, of strong bonds with impact on customer service and efficiency savings and this is all policyholders.
Boncaster has secured a number of new affinity schemes including Fiat Alfa Romeo, Argos, and Sequence UK Limited Cox Insurance Holdings Plc 08 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 Broking and Insurance Services Operating profit m 1 2 Direct Division Wholesale Division Boncaster 2 1 Cox Claims Management 4.6 4.2 insure-shop 3 Managing Agency 7.4 4 HML 4 can do finance 3.1 AKA brokersure.
co. uk Others 3 insurance markets, providing sales and marketing, credit WHOLESALE DIVISION management and premium-guaranteeing services.
Although profit SOLUTIONS FOR THE MARKET remained static at 2.0m, HML achieved a 10% increase in The Wholesale Division delivers products, services and solutions income and succeeded in securing a number of new clients.
to insurance brokers and offers claims management services.
HML Connect offers a ready-made market for a wide range of In 2002 the division produced an excellent set of results: premium standard and non-standard risks.
Brokers can take advantage throughput increased by 11% to 519m 2001 468m and of specially negotiated competitive rates, simple processes and profits increased to 15.1m 2001 8.7m, the divisions most quality services.
can do finance limited Wholesale comprises brokersure.
co. uk, HML Marketing, can do can do finance provides premium finance products to Cox finance and Anthony Kidd Agencies, which focus on generating businesses and the wider insurance market.
can do has revenue by working in partnership with the cream of the broker established itself as a credible alternative to traditional premiummarket: and Cox Claims Management, which manages claims financing companies and will provide finance for all brokersure for Cox on behalf of other organisations.
Total loans increased in 2002 by 20% to 101m and profits increased substantially to 2.1m 1.7m.
The division also includes agency management, which comprises the fees and profit-sharing commission arising from the thirdAnthony Kidd Agencies Limited party component of Syndicate 218.
Profits from agency Working through independent intermediaries, Anthony Kidd management increased to 7.4m 2001 3.8m.
This growth Agencies specialises in the provision of personal accident, reflects an increase in Syndicate 218s capacity and profitability illness and business travel insurance.
The company has been resulting from the underwriting performance.
a major player in its markets for over 50 years.
co. uk limited Cox Claims Management Limited Brokersure is an on-line trading system used by brokers to The majority of Cox Claims Managements business is generated manage their own businesses and deliver a superior service to from contracts with Equity Red Star and Crowe Syndicate their customers.
The acquisition of the assets of New Millennium Management where we are continuing to manage its run-off.
Technologies Limited and Brokersoft has enabled us to enhance The results for 2002 show a pleasing 228% increase in profit the brokersure product and has provided access to new customers.
Brokersure was re-launched in 2003 on a robust platform with In addition to handling motor, travel and household claims enhanced functionality and a competitive panel and products.
on behalf of Equity Red Stars policyholders, Cox Claims HML Marketing Limited Management has been appointed to handle claims for other HML Marketing acts as an intermediary between the UKs insurers clear evidence of our recognised capability in this area.
5,000-plus provincial brokers and both the Lloyds and company Cox Insurance Holdings Plc ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 09
