14 The formation of the Employee Benefits group at the beginning of 2002 underscored the scale of our activities after the acquisition of Burke Ford and Abbey National Benefit Consultants.
It continues the JLT strategy of building a first class business complementing the Groups Risk & Insurance activities.
Key characteristics of the business include long-term contracts which give sustainability of future revenue and business activities which are not impacted by insurance market cycles.
This business group provides substantial potential in the longer term in what is a very dynamic market place.
employee benefits operational review Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 15 Report & Accounts 2002 2002 revenue for this business group was flat at 74.5m, although We have some 700 staff operating from 10 locations across the the results do mask a strong underlying performance in the UK and UK and Ireland offering a broad range of skills and services.
the work done in 2002 in both the UK and USA to ensure that this These include complex actuarial consulting, the design and business delivers the results we expect and believe are achievable.
administration of corporate benefit programmes for large to midEmployee Benefits has substantial potential in the longer term in sized companies, and services to the insurance company sector.
what is a very dynamic market place.
The activities of the Employee Benefits group in the UK include: In 2002, we secured a number of large new contracts including the Employee Benefits Consulting which covers pensions, rewards, two largest employee benefits contracts won since the creation of benefits, actuarial, healthcare and investment consulting activities.
JLT in 1997 - one in the UK and the other in the USA.
The nature This business is more advice-based and fees are charged based of these long-term contracts is such that revenue does not begin on time spent and seniority of personnel on the account.
to flow until some months following the appointment and the full Our Healthcare division is now a major UK player with leading benefit from these contracts will be seen in 2003 and beyond.
positions in the education, corporate and international sectors.
We have invested considerable resources into business development Corporate Benefit Administration providing services to companies during 2002 and, as a result, new business opportunities are very in the UK who wish to outsource the administration of pension encouraging as we enter 2003. schemes or other insurance-related benefits.
Many of these UK Ireland accounts are large-value long-term contracts requiring robust and In 2002 the Employee Benefit business showed only marginal up-to-date technology.
growth of 2% achieving revenues of 47.5m.
The key reason for UK Life & Pensions Administration focusing upon services to this was the rapid decline in the second half of the year of our UK life companies, where we support customer service management pension review business.
Income from pension review business and administration of corporate pension portfolios with a particular reduced by 3.9m in 2002 compared to 2001.
We always knew the emphasis on the more complex group schemes.
This is a particular opportunity to generate income from the pension review business area of future growth for us.
There are increasing opportunities to would be short term, but its decline was more rapid than expected.
provide solutions for insurers who are keen to outsource functions Importantly, however, this decline was offset by the growing strength in a drive to achieve efficiency and focus on their core competencies.
of the rest of our Employee Benefits business in the UK which grew 12% compared with 2001.
16 USA Revenue growth in the USA was flat compared to 2001, impacted by our decision to exit a major account which was not making a contribution to profit.
This revenue has now been replaced by new business.
In September, a senior executive from the UK moved to the USA as chief operating officer.
The business has been reorganised and strategy is now being developed with emphasis on higher margin business.
In the US we provide a tailored affinity and administration services to the corporate and insurance company sectors.
We operate from 3 locations in North America employing some 400 staff.
Within the USA our Employee Benefits activities include: Product Marketing third party products through corporate and affinity group benefit programmes.
Our principal revenue is from commissions on the products and in some cases, we assume significant administration responsibilities to take an enhanced share.
Medical Dental Administration handling the administration of medical and dental programmes, including claims.
Throughout 2002 we built our pipeline of new business opportunities and activity levels are very promising coming into 2003. employee benefits operational review Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 17 Report & Accounts 2002 Employee Benefits market overview The USA is also seeing further changes to the funding and cover There is considerable change within the Employee Benefit markets for healthcare as a direct response to spiralling costs and we are currently analysing the opportunities to support the emerging which we are well positioned to benefit from.
Within the UK, the provision of pensions and related services will be affected by the Governments proposed pension reforms We are already well positioned for these opportunities but are increasing our focus and investment in these key sectors.
in the Green Paper which was published in December 2002.
It will provide considerable consulting opportunities, and the ability to differentiate through innovative advice will be paramount after the consultation phase.
Employers need to address a number of employment issues, from the cost and design of pension benefits through to the introduction of more flexible benefits, and this will drive a demand for more creative human resources advice and services.
The UK life insurance industry faces significant challenges and will undoubtedly respond with new operating structures, partnerships and outsourcing relationships as well as responding to the Green Paper with new products.
In the USA, medical and dental benefit cost inflation continue to place huge pressure on employers and on the insurers that underwrite these benefits.
Our ability to deliver cost efficient claims administration, claims management and mitigation services will be valued more than ever and will provide increased opportunities.
18 The common feature of all aspects of our business is that we operate in areas where we are or can become market leaders.
These are challenging but exciting times, in spite of difficult economic times we are confident of making significant progress by providing quality advice and services to clients.
highlights Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 19 Report & Accounts 2002
