Building Market conditions last year, especially in the pursuing for almost a decade, is designed 6 Group Chief Executives Review second half, were the toughest our industry for conditions both good and bad.
Previous has seen for over a decade.
They were, years have shown how effective our strategy however, conditions in which Legal & Generals has been in growth markets.
2002 has operational and financial strengths were able demonstrated how, even in adverse to come to the fore.
As a result, the Group conditions, our brand and our commitment made important progress towards our to distributing good value products through strategic and market share goals.
multiple channels have enabled us to perform ahead of the market.
Market Overview Global economic conditions remained Volume and Market Share Growth One of the many challenges we set ourselves unfavourable in 2002.
With the US economy when we launched our strategy in the UK was growing by 2.4% and Eurolands performance to deliver each year individual new life and being considerably weaker, investor sentiment pensions business growth, measured on an around the world was negative for most of APE basis, of ten percentage points higher the year.
confidence was further damaged than the market.
I am pleased to say that we during the year by a series of high prole achieved this objective again in 2002, and corporate collapses.
David Prosser, Group Chief Executive it has now been achieved every year since In the UK, where the economy grew by 1.7%, 1997.
In fact, in 2002, we outperformed this hopes for market recovery were set back when market by 14%, well ahead of our target.
some traditional equity investors, such as Distribution Support pension funds, began to rebalance their Critical to our success in achieving this growth portfolios towards bonds and away from has been the powerful network of distribution equities.
By the end of 2002, the FTSE 100 support we have built up.
Of particular Index had fallen by just under 25% to stand at signicance recently has been the 3,940, a level first seen in September 1996. development of our partnerships with many At this level, the Index was 43% below its peak, banks, such as Alliance & Leicester, Barclays reached in December 1999. and Northern Rock: building societies and The scale and duration of the decline in equity other financial institutions.
2002 saw us values has confounded both individual and achieve further strong growth in the levels of professional investors alike.
Although lower new business delivered through these asset prices should, in theory, stimulate partnerships.
However, we have by no means investor demand, the evidence in the UK exhausted the possibilities available to us.
last year was that investor demand declined.
We believe that the prospects for further In the retail investment market, total demand growth from this channel, both from our existing for equity ISAs was down almost 40% on partners and from new ones, are excellent.
It is clear that consumer confidence in Support for Legal & General products from equity-linked products has been damaged and Independent Financial Advisers IFAs is also it may take some time before the favourable strong.
Our proposition to this important sector DESPITE THE DIFFICULT conditions which prevailed in the second half includes quality technical assistance, efficient, of the 1990s return.
CONDITIONS, 2002 WAS leading edge technology, reliable administration A combination of weak equity markets and at YET ANOTHER YEAR OF and good value product offerings.
We have industry volume growth created very demanding achieved particular success with fee-based SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENT operating conditions throughout 2002. intermediaries, who represent a growing FOR LEGAL & GENERAL.
However, the strategy, which we have been share of the IFA marketplace.
LEGAL & GENERAL ANNUAL REPORT 2002 alevel of service that PROVIDING A SUPERIOR SERVICE Differentiated customer service and good value products are key to our strategy and both need quality systems.
MARGARET SMITH, DIRECTOR, BUSINESS INFORMATION SYSTEMS Efficient Management of IT of the quality we aspire to offer can The need for a leading-edge technology only be delivered by people who are platform does not override the need well trained and either possess or for rigorous cost management in our can quickly access the information they need.
Three old IT systems were decommissioned in 2002 with a further Experience shows that many customer five due to be decommissioned in 2003. enquiries turn out to be much more Our IT budget has been cut by almost complicated than they initially appear 25% since 2001 and productivity in our to be.
A programme has therefore IT development activities has been begun in our Cardiff office to provide improved by 20% in the last 18 Financial Planning Certificate training months.
In 2002, we were ranked to staff who handle customer queries.
against an international benchmark in the top 20% of mainframe users for both We have also recently commenced quality and low systems processing costs.
a programme to provide General Management skills training to all our Staff Training and Development supervisors and managers.
These Legal & General is committed to programmes help to ensure that all providing our customers with a high our employees are properly equipped quality and efficient service.
Service to undertake their roles.
Sue Bentley Margaret Smith Customer Services Director, Business Information Systems people can trust John Pollock Director, UK Operations Tim James Director Director, Business Technology Services AReputation I recommend Legal & General to my family and friends because I know that it is a company which can be trusted to deliver on its promises.
JASWANT KAUR, ISA CUSTOMER, WITH ROSHNI, LONDON
