Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 16 Operating Review Brokerage MAN FINANCIAL IS ONE OF THE WORLDS LEADING FUTURES AND OPTIONS BROKERS.
IT IS WELL PLACED TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE OPPORTUNITIES THAT WILL ARISE FROM BEING AT THE FOREFRONT OF RAPIDLY CHANGING TRADING TECHNOLOGIES.
Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 17 Brokerage is an agency business providing Man Financial has enjoyed good growth in the execution and clearing services across a range year in its core institutional franchise.
Whilst these predominantly include financial futures and its related new product areas futures, options, foreign exchange and metals they had another excellent year.
The firm has increased also cover, to a lesser extent, equity and equity its execution volumes and has managed to derivatives.
These products are delivered to two enhance that element of its financial futures separate customer bases, institutional wholesale activities where it was able to add value through and private client.
Man Financial is today the providing liquidity via its extensive and global client largest executing futures broker in the world, base.
The product base continues to widen with ranking first on LIFFE, the Chicago Mercantile regard to equities, equity options, equity index and Exchange, the New York Mercantile Exchange and equity index options all of which share similar the International Petroleum Exchange.
The firm liquidity pooling characteristics to the financial also holds one of the top three rankings on many futures business.
In its metals business, declining other major exchanges such as the London Metal LME volumes were more than off-set by a Exchange, the Chicago Board of Trade grains, doubling of its market share.
Despite the Eurex interest rate options, the Singapore contraction of the overall foreign exchange market Exchange and the Sydney Futures Exchange.
largely as a consequence of the introduction of the Euro, the foreign exchange profit contribution Financial futures remains the biggest single market has increased.
This is principally as a result of an for Man Financial and is principally an execution increase in referrals from the institutional, private business.
Most significantly, we are now the client and general brokerage businesses.
largest executing broker on the worlds principal Energy maintained the profit levels achieved short term interest rate futures contracts, last year despite the disruption to its market EuroDollars and Euribor.
In energy products Man caused by the 11 September attacks and the Financial is the worlds largest exchange traded demise of Enron.
The firms market share on broker.
Our Securities activities consist of fast both the IPE and NYMEX grew as a direct growing equity options execution businesses in consequence of its successful sales executive North America, London and Continental Europe.
We also execute both equity and equity options business for private clients.
The retail business recorded a lower profit contribution than the previous year mainly as a Brokerage had a record year with profits, before result of the large declines in US and UK interest goodwill amortisation, of 38.3m up 27% on last rates and weaker global retail activity, partially year.
In Group terms, it accounted for about 20% off-set by the implementation of technology of Group pre-tax profits.
It continued to enjoy a solutions and cost reductions.
Private clients broadly based contribution from its product lines account for about 30% of Man Financials during the year as can be seen in the chart below.
business and includes the broking of futures, options, equities and equity derivatives.
The firm has about 60,000 active accounts throughout the US, Europe and Australasia, the bulk being based Net commissions split by product line year to March 2002 in the US.
Clients can access either a discount service, where orders are routed electronically, Financial futures 45% or a premium full-service supported by a broker.
Energy 17% Foreign exchange 12% Agricultural products 10% Metals 10% Securities 6% 17 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002
