ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 16 Operating Review: Overview of major strategies UK EMEA Americas Asia Pacific We are undertaking an Europe, Middle East & Africa The Americas Region is We announced in November aggressive change programme EMEA is committed to pursuing a strategy built around 2002 our intention to conduct to improve the profitability, achieving the ROC target our core operations, investing an IPO of businesses in efficiency and focus of the through strong controls in in those businesses where we Australia and New Zealand business.
This programme is the deployment and use believe we can achieve strong during the first half of 2003. well underway following the of capital and rigorous market differentiation and Australia continues to appointment of Duncan Boyle implementation of our core exiting businesses not aligned develop and refine the core as UK Chief Executive.
skills in claims, underwriting with our long term focus.
underwriting, claims and and expense management.
Our strategic focus is on Commercial is performing customer service competencies.
strengthening performance in exceptionally well and we will Its strategy is to be a specialist, We will continue to respond targeted specialty products and continue to build this business.
multi brand, multi niche insurer.
to the needs of commercial market segments, enhancing Premium growth will continue and personal customers and operational excellence and New Zealand has built its to be driven by rate increases.
seek to deliver a profitable providing outstanding customer strategy around similar principles result to the Group through service.
Strategic execution and In personal lines, we are a to Australia including, in businesses operating in our discipline are key for the Region.
leading direct, broker and particular, strong relationships chosen markets.
In the USA, following the We will continue to invest in We have reorganised local appointment of Steve Asia will focus on markets the MORE TH N brand to businesses to enable us to Mulready as President and and segments where we ensure we have a sizeable direct exploit synergies from our CEO the change programme have the scale or sufficient business that competes on both regional business hubs in is gathering pace.
competitive advantage to price and service.
Intermediated the Nordic and Middle produce the necessary financial personal lines will become Eastern areas.
Across the region we believe returns.
We also aim to grow in smaller but more robust, using that our restructuring key development markets such our relationship management, programme will result in a as India and China.
underwriting and claims skills leaner, better managed general to generate a competitive insurance business emphasising advantage, while making greater specialisation, improved significant cost savings.
customer service and increased efficiency.
We aim to run off the closed Life company in a cost effective way while producing a consistent profit stream and maximising the release of capital.
UK EMEA Americas Asia Pacic Restated Restated Restated Restated m 2002 2001 m 2002 2001 m 2002 2001 m 2002 2001 General business General business General business General business Net premiums written 3,421 3,487 Net premiums written 1,671 1,601 Net premiums written 2,654 2,983 Net premiums written 884 739 Underwriting result 180 468 Underwriting result 191 118 Underwriting result 535 609 Underwriting result 13 8 General business result 216 19 General business result 10 100 General business result 202 141 General business result 86 75 Return on capital employed 11% 1 % Return on capital employed 8% Return on capital employed 16 % 10 % Return on capital employed 14% 14% Life business Life business Life business Life business Net premiums written 955 1,764 Net premiums written 589 737 Net premiums written 129 195 Net premiums written 209 203 Life business result 110 118 Life business result 62 15 Life business result 20 16 Life business result 35 37 Shareholders interest 1,105 1,670 Shareholders interest 328 405 Shareholders interest 168 174 Shareholders interest 273 254 Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 17 Operating Review: Business progress against strategies UK Continuing to be a successful and leading in the UK, continuing to improve We are now a leading player in the player in the UK general insurance market performance through a disciplined growing pet insurance market.
During is key to the overall Group strategy.
Through 2002, new investment, life assurance and segmentation, we are developing credit card products have been brought to A new UK Executive team was announced differentiated propositions for our key market in order to widen our consumer in September including four external customer and specialist segments.
Customer product holdings have appointments and two new UK Director increased focus is enabling us to respond increased signicantly to an average of roles responsible for Underwriting and to the changing demands of our over two products per customer, with over Claims, emphasising the importance we customers.
In all segments we continue 35% of sales now coming from existing are placing on these critical areas to to drive a programme of improvements customers.
MORE TH N is currently one deliver performance.
This team has taken to operational effectiveness.
of the fastest growing financial services full operational responsibility for the entire brands, having established a significant UK business.
Prioritisation of capital will allow us to position in the direct insurance market.
pursue all opportunities where we can The UK Executive team is taking tough write good quality business at the right Personal intermediated decisions, using focus, discipline and price.
Underwriting discipline and focus Our intermediated business is being control to make real changes to the will be enforced.
reshaped and a segmented approach has business that we expect to improve already been adopted.
We are focussing on Personal Lines our efficiency and profitability.
We developing mutually profitable relationships Our multi distribution network gives us a are committed to delivering on target, to create a smaller but more robust strong position and competitive advantage using our claims and underwriting skills, business.
We will continue to withdraw in the personal lines marketplace.
We coupled with leveraging the excellent from unprofitable deals with corporate are taking action to improve the under customer relationships we already have, partners and brokers.
We recognise that performing areas of the business so that to create a platform for strong and we need to improve overall profitability we can take full advantage of the benets consistent returns in the future.
in this area and are working with our that this network gives us.
corporate partners and intermediaries to Commercial improve returns.
We will work to reshape Personal direct The market for commercial insurance TM relationships where necessary, using our MORE TH N is delivering well against its remains favourable with a return on capital rened business model approach.
ambitious launch targets and has already in excess of 10% net of tax and ination.
achieved over 30% prompted brand Premium growth is primarily driven by rate We will only be active in specifically recognition in the 18 months since launch.
increases, which are expected to continue selected business segments.
This focus at least until the end of 2003.
The business is focussed on the core will allow us to devote more time motor and home products, where we and resources to developing profitable During 2002, we reinforced our reputation have a significant market presence.
elements of our corporate partnership and as one of the leading commercial insurers UK UK Personal intermediated insures nearly 1 million cars m 1 UK Commercial insures UK Personal handles MORE TH N insures over nearly half a million 750,000 claims a year, half a million homes businesses thats 85 an hour Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 18 Operating Review: Business progress against strategies continued UK continued EMEA intermediated businesses, particularly Accounts sites in Halifax, Leeds and EMEAs five year programme of restructuring in the affinity, niche market and partner Birmingham.
We have announced the is now largely complete.
Over the period broker segments.
restructuring of the Human Resources we have made a number of acquisitions, area and the setting up of a centralised including Trygg-Hansa in Sweden, Lietuvos We are restructuring this business to HR service centre, thereby improving Draudimas in Lithuania and Balta in Latvia, improve cost effectiveness by moving efficiency and service at the same time which have given us leading positions in our from seven main centres to four.
Life At the same time the restructuring We are taking rm action to reduce In August we announced the conclusion programme has led to the sale of 25 property costs.
We plan to approximately of our UK Life review and our decision operations and portfolios of business halve the number of buildings we occupy to close our UK Life operations to new across the Region.
We are now concentrating exclusively on efficiently servicing the needs As a result of the actions we announced We think of our businesses in three ways: of our existing life and pensions customers.
in November 2002, we expect that the Core, where we have a substantial share number of roles in our general insurance In one of the biggest ever outsourcing of stable markets that offer a good business will have reduced by approximately agreements in the UK life and pensions prospect of profitable trading.
In market, we announced in February that be the focus for future growth the Life business the numbers will have Unisys will undertake the administration of reduced by 2,700 to around 150.
These Non core, where we have a track record 2.4m policies of the closed Life business.
include the outsourcing projects underway, of profitable trading but do not have The deal secures a highly competitive which should involve the TUPE transfer of critical mass maintenance cost per policy for us, creating around 2,300 roles to other organisations, a cost base that will be directly variable in of which 1,700 will be to Unisys.
We have Developing, where we believe that there is line with policy numbers.
been undertaking full consultations with significant potential for long term growth union representatives on these matters and profit.
Businesses in developing Business services and this will continue.
Wherever possible, markets will, where possible, be grouped We are reducing the number of core affected employees will be offered with well established operations to enable locations at which Strategic Change redeployment opportunities within the strong synergies to be achieved and Information Systems functions are Group and a proportion of the reductions based from eight to two Liverpool will be achieved by natural turnover.
2002 was a year of solid underlying and Horsham.
However, a combination of severe weather events We are also improving our administrative across much of Europe and rising bodily efficiency by consolidating 22 regional injury claims in the Nordic region have ofces into three large core Customer EMEA We are the 3rd largest insurer in Sweden 3 rd We are the 4th largest We are the 3rd largest We are the leading general insurer in Ireland general and 4th largest international insurer life insurer in Denmark in the Middle East Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 19 Americas adversely impacted the overall result.
USA operation, and our Risk Management & We have also increased claims provisions, In the USA we have introduced a new Global RM&G operation.
RM&G produced particularly for liability lines, across the leadership team with strong experience in an underwriting profit, excluding World restructuring and turnaround initiatives.
Trade Center, and achieved account Region.
Considerable progress has been We have also streamlined operations to growth, retention and rate increases, at made in line with our strategic objectives two divisions, focussing on mainstream or above plan.
Future growth in our US during 2002.
In particular: general property and casualty business commercial lines will be premium rate We have consolidated regional groupings insurance and standard & nonstandard driven.
Cumulative rate increases achieved personal insurance.
We also began the sale over 2000, 2001 and 2002 exceed 80% of businesses in the Nordic and Middle process for businesses no longer aligned and this cumulative upward trend looks East areas.
The Groups businesses in with our mainstream property and casualty set to continue.
Denmark, Sweden, Norway and the approach.
We additionally launched a Baltic Region have joined forces in a pan US personal has historically outperformed comprehensive expense management Nordic integration aimed at becoming the industry and we have continued to take effort, which we anticipate will cut the leading and most successful insurer actions during 2002 to further improve this controllable expenses by $115 million in the Nordic region.
Premium rate increases of 13% and reduce headcount by 800 employees has entailed the appointment of a were achieved.
Auto claims frequency was by mid year 2003.
We also anticipate Nordic group management team and reduced by 7% through a series of actions the transfer of another 725 jobs out is aimed at facilitating closer Nordic of the company as businesses are sold.
including the augmentation of pricing and co-operation and competitive advantage These initiatives are expected to result selection processes by the use of insurance through knowledge and resource sharing in improved growth and profitability in scoring for standard business.
were reduced by 2,800: we stopped writing We successfully implemented a business in three unprofitable states for profit improvement and recovery Our US Business Insurance Division includes non standard business and headcount was plan in Ireland Custom Risk and the Commercial Business reduced by 8%.
Commercial is focussing on distinct will be rate driven and we anticipate further We restructured our Multinational segmented customer groups, including expense and headcount reductions.
Commercial business, which has grocers, manufacturing, healthcare, higher subsequently been transferred to education, architects & engineers, and mono Canada the UK Region line workers compensation.
The strategy To restore profitability in 2003, our has resulted in a significant improvement Canadian operation has accelerated its in accident year results over the past 24 strategy of focussing on niche and specialty months.
We expect to launch another two businesses and achieving required premium segments in 2003.
The Divisions Custom rate increases.
Strategic and operational Risk area delivered strong results in 2002, initiatives have produced an improvement particularly RSUI, our surplus lines in the quality of business.
Americas We operate in all 50 states in the USA 50 We operate in 10 countries We are one of the 25 We are the fourth largest in Latin America & Caribbean largest general insurers general insurer in Canada and top 15 commercial with 50 ofces nationwide insurers in the USA Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 20 Operating Review: Business progress against strategies continued Americas continued Asia Pacific We grew three key businesses Johnson We made good progress in strategies All parts of Asia Pacic contributed to our Corporation, our Canadian direct operation: relating to technical skills, control and 2002 result with another good performance Western Assurance, our niche personal lines governance, people development, in Australia and New Zealand as well as company focussing on the Ontario market: process improvement and investment most parts of Asia.
and Agilon, our unit targeting corporate in technology.
Australia continued to see an improvement partnership business and specialty risk.
in results, demonstrating the success of the We will continue to selectively grow these profitability and efficiency improvement areas and other targeted small business strategies that were introduced in 2000. and specialty segments.
The intermediated general insurance In addition, Canadas execution of an business performed strongly and made accelerated and more focussed strategy has progress in its specialty multi niche approach.
resulted in the disposal of underperforming The direct underwriting operations, AAMI segments and territories and facilitated a and Australian Pensioners Insurance Agency, more targeted approach to segments with are showing strong profitable growth, greater profit potential.
We have sold the and continue to enhance a competitive renewal rights of parts of our Quebec advantage in claims management and personal lines as described elsewhere and customer service.
are reducing our participation in long haul AAMIs motor claims satisfaction index trucking, risk management and certain revealed that 95 per cent of customers segments in the middle market.
were pleased with the management of LA&C their claim.
Satisfaction levels have been In Latin America & Caribbean LA&C improving over the last two years thanks, our profitable growth strategy has been in part, to AAMIs ongoing commitment successfully implemented through a to improving the quality of customer care.
combination of solid organic growth plus acquisitions in Brazil and Mexico.
We have The New Zealand business increased its further reduced the volatility of our financial ownership participation of AA Insurance performance through a programme of signalling its intention to also be a major disposals in the Caribbean resulting in a player in the substantial direct personal better overall balance in our portfolio.
lines market in New Zealand.
Asia Pacic We operate in 11 countries 11 We are the largest composite We were the first foreign We have operated in insurer in New Zealand general insurer to be the Region since 1825 granted licences to operate in India and China Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 21 In 2002, Royal & SunAlliance New Zealand pricing discipline is becoming more evident Market and Economic Conditions received a number of awards recognising and the withdrawal of competitors from UK improved performance: The Most Improved the general insurance market is creating Although dominated by hardening rates, Company from the New Zealand Business acquisition and accelerated organic growth the UK market in 2002 has proven to be Excellence Foundation: Top Underwriter opportunities as well as improving our challenging for the insurance sector with awards were awarded to the general the prospect of increased regulation and competitive leverage.
At the same time, insurance company by the two major the continuing effect of depressed equity customers propensity to insure is broking organisations: and the Life business markets restricting capital.
increasing in face of recent global events was rated Top for Customer Service by and heightened uncertainty of the future.
The UK Government agreed to expand the both intermediaries and ultimate customers role of Pool Re which provides cover to in independent surveys.
In spite of this, with the exception of facilitate the provision of terrorism cover the top end commercial lines segment, Elsewhere in Asia, there has been a focus under commercial property policies on an we are not seeing the rate hardening on a continued improvement in the quality all risks basis.
within general insurance that was widely of the business underwritten and the expected across the Region, although Flooding and the issue of insurance cover contribution made to the Groups overall clearly the pricing, terms and conditions continued to occupy the newspaper targets.
This has been achieved by ensuring of reinsurance support are more than ever headlines.
As the existing Association of a disciplined approach to underwriting dictating the way in which the primary British Insurers moratorium, under which and pricing, peer and portfolio reviews, markets can operate.
the UK industry undertook not to refuse technical training and risk management.
flood cover to personal insurance customers, In some of the developing markets we has come to an end, they introduced a new Commercial lines growth in Asia was a are seeing significant developments in Statement of Principles from 1 January 2003. result of a combination of premium rate the legislation regulating the industry This means that insurers will continue cover increases on existing business and new and we are working to ensure that we for existing customers who live in areas accounts secured.
are closely involved in the consultation where the Government will build or improve processes.
In Poland, the Group received flood defences by 2007.
Royal Sundaram, our joint venture operation an award presented for its commitment in India, has had a successful year of in helping to develop the Polish financial Employers liability insurance has been an operation.
It continues to set benchmarks in services sector through our investment in issue for many of our brokers and their the insurance industry in terms of innovation our local life operation.
Recent law reform, the re emergence and service.
We now have a network of 17 of issues around asbestos and other latent ofces and branches including key regional Americas disease claims, alongside newer sources of centres in Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Our operations in the US, Canada and LA&C claims such as stress and chronic obstructive Chennai.
During the year we have seen airways disease, have compounded the faced similar market conditions in 2002. strong development of our personal lines problem of providing cover.
As a result the Early in the year, the market continued to business, through corporate partner business market has become more selective over risks feel the effects of the World Trade Center and the acquisition of a number of major that it will write.
The majority of employers attack but, by mid year, was showing signs multinational commercial accounts.
We have liability providers, including us, believe that of greater strength and stability.
Increased launched our Enterprise suite of products the solution lies in a fundamental reform to pricing reected the hardest insurance for small and mid size businesses and also the UK system of workplace compensation, market in a decade a trend complemented introduced Indias first property all risks which may help to ensure that cover remains by improved underwriting margins and low package policy.
We welcome the fact catastrophe losses.
With our restructuring that the Government is reviewing this area.
plans now in place for 2003, the Region expects to be better able to capitalise on EMEA these market conditions going forward.
For EMEA, the insurance industry is experiencing unprecedented change Although the US general insurance market Regionwide.
Shifting demographics, improved signicantly over 2001, rating deregulation, rising consumer wealth, agencies continued to downgrade ratings fast technology, smarter competitors across the industry in 2002, due in part to and changing distribution patterns are a combination of reduced capitalisation having a significant impact on the way and weak earnings.
in which financial institutions access and service their customers.
In the US, the federal government approved a three year terrorism reinsurance While each market is at a different state of programme.
The legislation limits the evolution, we face a number of common amount insurers would have to pay out forces, which inuence the overall business if another terrorist attack occurs.
Depressed equity markets results in the largest role the US federal and operating losses, caused not least by recent catastrophe events, have impacted government has ever played in property the industrys financial strength.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 22 2002 saw us largely complete the final In the claims area we are aiming to stages of our restructuring plan, which ensure that we deliver operational Operating involved the announcement of several excellence in the three areas of: control of indemnity costs, operational efficiency significant divestitures, in Benelux, the and customer satisfaction.
Isle of Man, Germany and the direct Review underwriting operation in Italy.
We also Our focus continues to be on delivery, put our French subsidiary into run off.
and developing truly excellent performance continued Our position in Scandinavia has been and talent throughout the UK.
We are improving HR processes to support further strengthened by the acquisition of and drive a high performance culture.
The deal, By effectively managing performance which was announced in November 2001 our aim is to achieve improved individual and completed during 2002, has increased and team results, ensuring everyones Codans personal lines portfolio by 10% and Net written premiums for the US market contribution and behaviour is focussed increased by 14% in 2002 as substantial our gross premium income by DKK 415m.
on achieving the aims of the business and rate increases in all sectors personal, is recognised and rewarded.
2002 was also significant for the evolution commercial and reinsurance have been of our small but profitable Middle Eastern accepted by consumers, agents and MORE TH N won a number of awards business, where we acquired a commercial brokers.
Encouragingly, AM Best have during the year for its approach to portfolio of business in the United Arab said that they expect the hard market customers and its marketing campaign.
Emirates, Bahrain and Oman, strengthening conditions will last through 2004.
These included: Best Integrated Campaign our presence in these markets.
Our intention from the Financial Services Forum, Customer The Canadian market is hardening is to create a profitable business of greater Services Representative of the Year in the dramatically.
With the significant rate scale within the Middle East area.
European Call Centre of the Year awards increases being achieved, this improving and Best Responsive Website in the Our US operation announced plans to sell trend is expected to continue into 2003.
Despite the overall improvement, the RSUI, Artis, Afnity Programs, Financial industry continues to experience Services and REMi in 2003.
In addition, we EMEA unsatisfactory auto results in most areas finalised the sale of our Professional and EMEA is seeking to improve the of the country.
We have worked with other Financial Risk practice ProFin business in performance and accountability of country leading companies to achieve product 2002 and moved to discontinue our World management teams through the adoption reform while managing our exposure to Assurance business.
of clearer accountabilities and more the auto segment.
This reform combined specic performance targets.
with a return to underwriting and pricing In December 2002, Canada concluded a discipline within the industry are key to transaction with CGU Canada under which We are also implementing new risk control industry profit in 2003. they will offer renewals on parts of our measures, which will be reported to the personal insurance business in Quebec, newly created Regional Risk Management LA&C faced currency devaluations in several commencing with 1 April 2003 renewals.
Board and the EMEA Executive Board.
countries as well as some political instability in the aftermath of the Argentine financial Our LA&C operations successfully Throughout the Region we are increasing crisis during 2002.
By remaining focussed on integrated acquisitions in Brazil and Mexico our online sales capabilities with Italy, our core disciplines of underwriting, claims into the region a move which immediately Norway and Sweden all expanding their and expense management, however, we had a positive impact on results.
In Brazil, offering to customers.
have addressed these issues and improved we merged CGU Companhia fide Seguros our regional operating result for the year.
SA with our current Brazilian subsidiary.
For the second year running Codan has In Mexico, Seguros BBV Probursa was taken first prize for call centre operation Asia Pacic rebranded as Royal & SunAlliance.
As part in the International Teleperformance A key trend in the Australian insurance of our move to exit non core businesses and Customer Relationship Management Grand industry has been significant market Prix 2002.
We have exported our expertise those with significant catastrophe exposure, rationalisation.
There has also been a in this area to Lithuania opening the we completed our withdrawal from move towards increasing capital and countrys first call centre during the year.
Bermuda and the sale of our subsidiary regulatory requirements.
2002 saw us move into a new market in The business outlook and market positioning Bahrain and build upon our new operation The sale of Guardian Trust Australia and for Royal & SunAlliance in Australia and in Egypt.
Both of these businesses fall within Tyndall Investment Management Australia New Zealand remains strong.
the ambit of the Middle East regional hub were announced early in 2003.
These two market growth in New Zealand reflects the Modest economic growth has been entries have been undertaken in a low cost increased investment in AA Insurance.
experienced in most of Asia in 2002 with manner, which allows the Region to optimise Our withdrawal from the Taiwanese and the exception of China where stronger the Groups network and resources already Indonesian markets is now complete and growth has been seen.
in place in the Middle East regional structure.
we are in the process of withdrawing from Korea.
Acquisitions, Disposals 2002 also saw the launch of an important and Investments new pensions product by Codan in Other Initiatives The UK have sold our Group Risk Operation Denmark.
Time Pension, launched in UK in Bristol to Canada Life, reduced our September, introduced the new equalisation Our UK underwriting strategy continues shareholding in Global Aerospace principle, a concept which equalises heavy to focus on technical pricing and Underwriting Managers and reduced our uctuations in investors returns and offers underwriting for profit.
A major project participation in the 2003 aviation Pool, and the prospect of higher growth but with in this area has been the underwriting sold Royal & SunAlliance Investments to ISIS.
a lower risk profile on the investment le review project.
This aims to identify portfolio.
The objective is to offer very substantial potential benets from This has been another significant year for customers the realistic prospect of earlier achieving greater underwriting consistency EMEA as tough decisions had to be made retirement.
Codan is so confident in this and precision across the commercial against the backdrop of continuing new product that it currently has a corporate book.
volatility in the worlds financial markets.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 23 Inationary pressures fuelled by recent The Zenith partnership programme was Americas strong economic growth have led to our successfully launched, recognising the most The Americas Region will continue to Irish operation developing its claims profitable intermediary partners across all support the Groups capital enhancement inflation model, which has directly businesses.
This programme uses web based plan during 2003 through restructuring impacted pricing and reserving decisions.
technology to provide innovative incentives initiatives across the three operations.
Our The resulting analysis has also helped us to encourage further growth and profit key focus will be on achieving immediate to effectively communicate to our brokers from the most valuable business partners.
financial targets through rate increases and the reasons for premium increases.
With the increasingly favourable market outlook and our focussed Outlook Overall in 2002, we saved over 3m execution strategy, the aim in 2003 is to The ability of the Group to write certain in Ireland on fraudulent claims and we build upon our excellent results in LA&C types of general insurance business is hope to increase this figure in 2003. and to restore profitability in the US dependent on the maintenance of the and Canada, achieving underwriting appropriate ratings with the credit rating Americas profitability in all three operations in agencies.
The Group aims to maintain The Americas are committed to 2004 and beyond.
ratings at single A from both Standard & differentiating themselves from our Poors and AM Best and, at the time of competitors by offering a higher Asia Pacic writing, both organisations rate us A-.
level of service to customers.
In November 2002, plans for an Initial Any worsening in the ratings would have Public Offering involving Australian and SM an adverse impact on the ability of the In the US, AutoLink our web based New Zealand businesses was announced.
Group to write certain types of general policy transaction and information system The floatation is scheduled to take insurance business, in particular certain for the Personal Insurance Divisions place in the first half of 2003, with other commercial lines in the USA.
nonstandard auto products attracted operations in Asia Pacic remaining part nearly 80% of our 11,000 independent of the worldwide Group.
The system allows agents Our intention is to fundamentally reshape to quote and bind new business, make cash the UK operations into a more disciplined, payments, create endorsements and make focussed and well controlled business with policy inquiries online, while saving the a much more competitive cost base.
company millions of dollars annually.
This web based innovation, in combination with In 2003, we will continue our programme a major systems consolidation known as SM of radical action to take out costs and Project Sylvester, also earned AutoLink a improve our operational efficiency and permanent spot in the Smithsonian Institute.
In the general insurance business To support its business repositioning, we aim to implement cost reduction Canada has focussed on those broker initiatives of 95m and achieve underwriting relationships that have proven to be and claims improvements of 105m by profitable and have the best prospects for the end of 2004.
The Life business has profitability going forward.
The company also radically reshaped itself to achieve has taken a proactive role in communicating significant operating expense savings.
our strategy to brokers, working with them Going forward, we will be writing business to help consumers understand the reasons for underwriting profit, not volume or behind rising premiums and providing leadership in industry discussions related market share.
In this way, we aim to to regulatory reforms.
strengthen our position as a leading player in the UK general insurance market.
We achieved significant recognition for customer service across our LA&C EMEA operations.
In Argentina, Answer SeguroFor EMEA turbulence in international on-line, our innovative direct personal financial markets and unsettled climatic lines operation, won four awards in the conditions make the outlook difficult International Teleperformance Customer to predict.
However, the actions taken Relationship Management Grand Prix throughout 2002, specically in respect of 2002: Puerto Rico was voted Insurance increasing claims provisions for prior years, Company of the year by the Professional give us confidence that the Region is well Insurance Agents Association for Puerto placed to report a better performance in Rico and Caribbean: and Chile was the 2003.
To be best able to manage through first insurance company in Latin America these times we need to concentrate on core to be certied ISO 9001: 2000. disciplines.
Accordingly, we will seek to: Asia Pacic Enhance the competence and quality The decision has been made to insource of our underwriting the Australian and New Zealand data centres, with the operation to be Achieve greater efficiencies and control consolidated in Sydney.
The decision to of our claims processes and costs consolidate from within the Group was made to gain synergies and cost savings Maintain our focus on a smaller number for the Region.
The planning for this of markets and businesses where there project began in 2002 and is expected is sufficient market share or profitable to be complete mid 2003. growth potential to deliver sustainable long term profits Good progress has been made in Enterprise, a new broker channel, and ABBi, a direct Exercise management control of the marketing operation, both launched in businesses through our Executive 2001.
These two initiatives target small Management Board, supported by a and medium businesses.
small highly professional Regional Ofce Previous Contents Next I I
