Operational Review GCHQ The Great Western Hospital The new GCHQ being built by Carillion Carillions fifth PPP hospital completed on under the Government PPP programme time and to budget in just 37 months.
is one of the largest PPP projects to date This 490-bed hospital has been the focus and has won many awards for design, of many leading edge construction and construction and safety.
sustainability innovations, including energy saving and waste management solutions that will ensure this hospital consumes 30% less energy and emits 35% less carbon dioxide compared to existing hospitals.
new standards in hospital design, but also Investments in Sustainable Development.
Working in Turnover conjunction with The Natural Step, we have designed and constructed one of the 61.6 million UKs most sustainable buildings, which 2001: 43.9 million gained top marks for sustainability in a Operating profit recent Building Research Establishment report.
We were equally delighted to 7.8 million underline our position as a PPP market 2001: 5.5 million leader with five top PFI Awards in 2002, Pre-tax profit including the premier award of PFI Project of the Year, for our New Accommodation 2.5 million Project for GCHQ, Cheltenham.
2001: 1.7 million Although the flow of PPP projects reaching Pre-tax profit from our PPP Investments preferred bidder and financial close in increased by 47 per cent, reflecting the all sectors of the UK market slowed maturing nature of our portfolio of 16 considerably over the last 18 months, financially closed projects.
Twelve of these we believe that this was temporary.
With projects are operating successfully with the confirmed Government plans for over remaining four currently in construction.
75 billion of investment in our chosen Committed PPP equity increased from PPP sectors of Health, Transport, Defence 45 million to 48 million during the year.
and Secure Establishments over the next Details of our 16 financially closed PPP 10 years, we expect the flow of projects to projects are can be found in the Financial increase significantly in 2003 and beyond.
In December 2002, we were selected as In November 2002, our fifth PPP hospital, the preferred bidder for the John Radcliffe the Great Western Hospital, Swindon, was PPP hospital project, in Oxford, adding to handed over successfully and on time.
This our successful appointment as preferred 490 bed acute general hospital was built bidder for the North East Derbyshire social at a cost of some 100 million under a housing project in November 2002.
The 27-year concession, during which Carillion John Radcliffe project, which is expected to will also provide non-clinical support generate around 600 million of turnover services.
The Great Western not only set Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 08 Channel Tunnel Rail Link FM Services for Healthcare Carillion Rail is playing a major role in the Carillion is developing innovative ways to construction and maintenance of this highhelp deliver excellent healthcare services, speed rail link.
The construction contract including the delivery of safe, clean, clinical for Phase II, worth 120 million, is being environments and the support services that undertaken by Carillion Rail and two joint primary care professionals rely on to do venture partners.
Carillion Rail has also their jobs effectively.
been awarded the maintenance contract for Phase I of CTRL.
for Carillion, including construction, this growth was organic, maintaining the money services.
Securing a 200 million support services and our share of the average compound annual growth rate in IMC 2000 maintenance contract for South Special Purpose Companys turnover, this segment at over 10 per cent during Wales and Marches and 130 million of represents a further significant step in the the last five years.
The remaining growth construction and maintenance contracts development of our Healthcare Business.
resulted from the acquisition of GT Railway for the Channel Tunnel Rail Link CTRL, Maintenance in September 2001 and Citex were notable contract wins in 2002.
The Carillion is currently shortlisted for a Management Services in August 2002.
CTRL contracts were particularly significant further 14 projects with an estimated Operating profit increased by 29 per cent.
as they substantially increased Carillion total construction and support services The slightly lower margin in 2002 reflects Rails presence in South East England, one value of around 2.4 billion, including a revised method of extracting profit from of the areas due to benefit from increased two major hospitals in Canada, where Monteray, the effect of which is to reduce investment.
A further important initiative there is a growing PPP market from which operating profit and the minority interest was the development of Eurailscout GB, our long established Canadian business is charge by similar amounts.
a Carillion Rail joint venture that will well placed to benefit.
offer vehicle-mounted high-speed track Rail inspection services throughout the UK.
Carillion Rail performed well in 2002.
It Services are expected to start by mid 2003 Business Services was voted the UKs best rail maintenance and will further improve the safety and operator for the second year running quality of track inspection and maintenance.
Turnover in the 2002 National Rail Awards and 821.7 million recently won the 2003 Network Rail Carillion Rail therefore remains well 2001: 609.3 million Security and Safety Award.
Carillion Rail positioned to benefit from continuing is now an established market leader with high levels of expenditure on maintenance Operating profit maintenance contracts for over 20 per cent and from planned investment to upgrade 39.0 million of the UKs heavy rail network.
It is also the UK rail network, particularly the 2001: 30.2 million a leading provider of rail renewal and 7.0 billion programme for the West enhancement projects, together with Coast Mainline, and in due course Public Margin a comprehensive range of design and Private Partnership projects.
4.7% consultancy services spanning all aspects 2001: 5.0% of rail construction and maintenance.
Facilities Management The acquisition of Citex Management Turnover increased by 35 per cent primarily Carillion Rails success is based on Services in August 2002 brought to as a result of growth in Carillion Rail its absolute commitment to safety, the Group a portfolio of contracts with and Carillion Services, our facilities compliance and performance through blue-chip corporate customers and an management business.
Around half the delivery of high-quality value for entrepreneurial management team with Before exceptional operating charges of 0.4m and goodwill amortisation of 0.4m Before goodwill of 2.6m Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 09 Operational Review Continued London, Heathrow Marina Towers, Dubai Manchester The new 24 million hangar for Virgin At the spectacular Marina Development The new magistrates court under Atlantics Airbus A340-600, which is seven south of Dubai city, six luxurious towers, construction in Manchester, is a Carillion metres longer than a Boeing 747, has between 16 and 37 storeys high, are PPP project and will comprise 18 court been designed by Carillion engineers.
being built alongside the three-kilometre rooms, a coroners court and support marina, which will eventually be home facilities for 180 staff.
to a population of 80,000. a successful track record.
It therefore Surrey County Council for a long-term Engineering and completing our exit complements our well-established highways maintenance contract worth from small-scale civil engineering projects.
facilities management business, which up to 150 million.
The latter is a major As a result of our strategy, over 80 per has an extensive portfolio of public sector success in the Local Authority market, cent of turnover in UK building and contracts, and strengthens our ability in where we are targeting long-term infrastructure projects was generated the UK and overseas to deliver further contracts for larger networks where we from some 20 key customers.
Maintaining growth in this sector.
can offer high quality, competitive services.
a strong but selective construction capability, broadly at its current level, In 2002 there were also a number of remains a key part of our strategy, as contract successes, including signing Construction Services it enables us to provide integrated joint venture agreements to undertake solutions, spanning design, construction, Turnover facilities management in the Middle East maintenance and operation, that maximise 1,125.4 million and Caribbean, worth up to 500 million value for money and minimise whole-lifeover 10 years, and a seven-year contract 2001: 1,335.9 million cost.
We believe that this capability is to provide non-clinical services to the essential to the successful delivery of Operating profit North Lincolnshire and Goole Hospitals PPP projects.
PPP construction accounted 17.1 million NHS Trust worth some 50 million.
for some 24 per cent of turnover in 2001: 22.1 million this segment.
Highways Margin Our highways maintenance business also Operating profit before exceptional items 1.5% performed well in 2002.
With Highways and goodwill reduced to 17.1 million, but Agency contracts for maintenance of over 2001: 1.7% margins before net PPP bid costs increased 20 per cent of the motorways and trunk from 2.4 per cent to 2.5 per cent.
As the Margin before net PPP bid costs road network in England, it continues to detailed design of assets such as buildings 2.5% be a market leader in this sector.
Our focus or infrastructure, account for the majority on skills and innovation to provide high- 2001: 2.4% of PPP bid costs, the greatest proportion quality value for money services were key of these costs, some 10.6 million in factors in two further successes in the Turnover reduced by 16 per cent as a 2002 2001: 9.5 million, continue to first few weeks of 2003 being awarded result of our strategy to focus on higher be taken in this segment.
our second Managing Agent Contractor added value work for long-term key contract by the Highways Agency, a five customers.
Well over half of this reduction Building year contract for Area 12, extendable to is specifically due to the full-year effect of Carillion Building continues to be the seven years and worth up to 140 million, disposing of our social housing business UK market leader in commercial building, and being appointed preferred bidder by in July 2001, downsizing of Crown House focused primarily on the office, retail and Before exceptional operating charges nil 2001: 4.7m : and goodwill 0.1m 2001: 0.1m Restated for the effects of UITF 34 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 10 Canada Copenhagen In Canada we have had a well-established A Carillion led consortium has built a new business for over 30 years.
Its operations metro in Copenhagen.
The driverless, include highway maintenance, building fully automated trains are carrying up to and civil engineering.
300 passengers at such a frequency that timetables are a thing of the past.
Our Building In the UK, we remain highly selective, contractor in the Province, with contracts Developments business is similarly selective, targeting larger projects where our skills for the maintenance of nearly 750 km of specialising primarily in the regeneration of and resources enable us to offer higher highway, worth around 34 million per brown field sites and developments where added value services.
We had two projects annum.
We are also currently shortlisted risk is minimised by pre-letting or sale to of this kind under construction in 2002 for two major PPP hospitals in Canada.
occupiers in sectors where there is the 485 million M6 Toll, which we are continuing demand.
building with three joint venture partners, Other successes in 2002 include signing and the Nottingham Express Transit NET, joint venture agreements for facilities In addition to maintaining successful a Carillion PPP project with a construction management in the Middle East and relationships with a number of leading value of some 80 million.
Early in 2003, Caribbean worth up to 500 million high street retailers and commercial and we were awarded a 65 million contract over the next 10 years and securing a residential developers, new long-term by the Highways Agency to upgrade the prestigious three-year construction contract contracts were secured with the Scottish A74 to motorway standard and complete for the first phase of the Dubai Festival City Prison Service and the Ministry of Defence.
the missing M6 link between Carlisle development worth around 350 million.
The former is a framework agreement and Guardsmill.
We expect an increasing worth up to 90 million and the latter the number of similar opportunities in 2003 Crown House largest PRIME contract let to date, worth and beyond as the Government brings The performance of Crown House CH, around 43 million, for the reconstruction forward more transport schemes under our specialist mechanical and electrical of Lucknow Barracks.
Carillion Building has its 185 billion 10-year Transport Plan.
services business has continued to also made a good start to 2003, winning improve during 2002, following the contracts and preferred supplier positions Our International Regions have continued strategic and operational changes begun for over 350 million of work in the first to make progress with their strategy, in the second half of 2000 and fully eight weeks of the year.
Therefore, with which mirrors that of our UK business, implemented in 2001.
In 2002, CH had its good order book and well balanced namely to grow their PPP Investments a number of notable successes, including geographical and market positions, the and Business Services activities alongside a 10-year framework agreement with outlook for our building businesses their selective and well-established BAA worth up to 200 million, a six-year remains positive.
framework with the Scottish Prison Service worth up to 30 million and its selection Capital Projects In Canada, the Government is following by BAA as a preferred supplier for the Capital Projects includes our UK civil the UK model for PPPs and increasingly construction of Terminal 5 at Heathrow.
engineering and our international outsourcing other public services.
Our joint Through the adoption of a highly businesses in Canada, the Middle East, venture highways maintenance business selective approach to work winning the Caribbean, France and the Republic secured a further contract in Ontario, CH is on course to return to overall of Ireland.
making it the second largest maintenance profitability in 2003.
Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 11
