REVIEW OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Turnover from continuing operations was 964.6 million 2001 restated: 1,040.1 million.
The decline is primarily due to a reduction of 35.7 million in advertising revenues.
Operating costs are under tight control.
A stringent review last year identied 45.0 million in annual savings in the second full year, including Carltons share of savings in ITV.
Delivery is well ahead of target with savings of 54.2 million achieved by end-September.
June Brown and Penelope Keith star in Margery & Gladys, a Carlton production Total continuing operating profit before amortisation and for 2003. exceptional items was maintained at 65.3 million 2001: 65.8 million.
The total amortisation charge, including joint ventures, was 17.6 million 2001: 17.4 million and operating exceptional items totalled 4.8 million 2001: charges 52.4 million.
Net interest charges were 12.0 million 2001: 35.6 million.
The fall is attributable to lower effective interest rates and lower net interest bearing balances.
Amounts written off investments were 8.2 million 2001: nil.
profit on continuing operations before taxation was 32.3 million ITV has extended its rights to show Bond 2001: loss of 39.6 million.
BROADCASTING Turnover was 799.5 million 2001: 830.1 million and profits were 67.4 million 2001: 83.3 million.
Carltons television advertising revenues recovered to show an increase of 2 per cent in the second half of the year, compared to the same period last year.
After a difficult first six months, year-on-year growth resumed in May.
For the year as a whole Carltons Net Hugh Laurie in Fortysomething, Advertising Revenue NAR was 660 million 2001: 695 million, a Carlton production, for transmission including a full year of HTV which was acquired at the end of October in 2003.
On a like-for-like basis the decline in NAR was 6 per cent for the year.
ITVs advertising performance continued to be inuenced by the penetration of multi-channel television and exposure to global brands that were affected by the worldwide economic climate.
Although revenues in many product categories were lower than last year, cars, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and home entertainment were all higher.
ITV1s share of total UK television advertising revenues for the year is estimated at 54 per cent 2001: 57 per cent.
ITVs programme schedulers have worked hard with advertising sales to ensure that the strongest possible commercial schedules are 15 16.0 OTHER 5.5 FIVE 8.5 CH4 10.0 BBC2 28.1 BBC1 32.0 ITV1 ITV1 is the most watched channel in delivered to advertisers.
The promotion of ITV has been a key priority peak time % of share of viewing and a major conference, TV Matters, was held to reinforce to the 12 months to Sept 2002 advertising industry the unique power of commercial television to connect with consumers.
A follow-up study entitled TV and the Brain, which looked at why television is the most powerful advertising medium, was presented earlier this month.
During the year, it became clear that the management structure of ITV should be streamlined to improve its decision-making process and that extra investment in the schedule was both needed and justifiable in anticipation of a recovery in advertising demand.
Carlton Televisions Chief Executive, Clive Jones, was made Joint Managing Director of ITV.
Closer cooperation was introduced between programmers and the marketing teams that led to an effective ITV Upfront roadshow to promote and market the channel directly to individual advertising agencies and media buyers this autumn.
An upbeat message of more drama, more entertainment and more feature lms in 2003 was well received by ITVs clients.
The launch of a new on-screen identity for ITV and the appointment of Nigel Pickard from the BBC as the new Director of Programmes were two further positive developments at ITV.
One of the most important benets of the proposed merger with Granada will be to simplify ITVs decision-making.
For the first time, ITV will be managed with a single set of objectives for the benefit of David Harewood returns as Inspector Joe advertisers, viewers and shareholders.
Robinson in the fifth series of The Vice.
ITV1s programme budget was boosted by an additional 25 million lifting the total for the year to 773 million 2001: 735 million.
This investment contributed to an improvement in audience share in the final quarter of the year.
A further increase in the network programme budget to 815 million has been agreed for the 2003 scal year, and to almost 1 billion including local news and regional programming.
This is the largest programme budget of any single commercial channel in Europe and demonstrates our confidence in ITV.
ITV1 remains the most popular peak-time channel delivering an Pop Idol Extra:The Final was the highest audience share of 32 per cent during the year, a 4 percentage point rated show on ITV2 since launch with 2.27m viewers.
The most popular lead over BBC1.
ITV1s average peak time share is almost 4 times non-terrestrial show in the last two years.
Channel 4s, nearly 6 times Fives and double all cable and satellite channels combined in fact greater than all of the other commercial channels combined.
ITV1s lead over its terrestrial commercial rivals is even greater in multi-channel homes.
This reects the popularity of ITVs original,  programming compared to other commercial channels that rely heavily on imported or repeated programmes.
Carltons share of ITV1 network schedule costs was 326.5 million, an increase of 6.4 per cent before programme stock provisions of 6.5 16 174m 2002 156m 2001 142m 2000 139m 1999 135m 1998 million.
Total licence fees including digital satellite transmission costs Cinema admissions have reached their highest level since 1971 fell to 111.1 million 2001: 119.5 million.
This was due to lower NAR and the effect of the increased penetration of digital television, offset by an increase in payments following the renewal of the Carlton Midlands licence and by the first year digital satellite transmission costs.
ITV2, 44 per cent owned by Carlton, is extending the ITV brand in multi-channel homes.
ITV2s progress this year has been well ahead of expectations and it enjoyed the biggest rise in popularity of any channel in multi-channel homes.
The number of brands advertising on the channel has doubled and its revenues grew from 9.5 million last year to 12.9 million, benefiting from its launch on digital satellite last November.
ITV2 is now available to nearly 50 per cent of the population and achieved its highest ratings since launch with extensions to top ITV1 shows such as Pop Idol, Who Wants To Be A Millionaire and Im a Celebrity, as well as Champions League football.
Since September, ITV2 has been the second most watched nonterrestrial channel and in early November started morning weekday transmissions in response to rising demand from advertisers.
Carltons share of losses in ITV2 reduced to 7.2 million from 9.7 million last year and is expected to fall further as revenue growth Frank Skinner and Zoe Ball hosted continues in 2003.
Cinema Advertising: Turnover for the year was 60.1 million 2001: 57.4 million.
Carlton Screen Advertising CSA had its best year ever.
It is the worlds leading cinema advertising specialist and has developed state-of-the-art campaign management systems for the cinema.
Carlton is now building on this expertise by investing in joint ventures in the much less developed US and continental European markets.
The rise in cinema audiences and advertising revenue continued in The ITV News Channel is cross-promoted the UK, supported by a strong slate of blockbuster lms.
its important UCI Cinema advertising contract accounting for 386 screens across the UK and Ireland.
Its contract with UGC ended in January, which impacted second half growth, but it won National Amusements Showcase just after the year end.
CSA now operates on over 2,100 screens accounting for 63 per cent of the 174 million cinema admissions in the UK this year.
The Screenvision joint venture with Thomson in the US expanded its coverage through the acquisition of Val Morgan in September and now accounts for 54 per cent of all US cinema advertising screens.
Screenvision Europe was formed with Thomson in June to acquire cinema advertising interests across continental Europe including France, Belgium and Spain for 62 million of which Carltons share was 31 million.
The financial impact of these ventures, which are in the early stage of development, was small.
17 0.1 US 0.7 Europe 1.6 UK Cinema advertising as a % of total display Facilities: Turnover was 40.8 million 2001: 33.4 million.
advertising, 2002, showing growth The Moving Picture Company MPC, Carltons post-production potential in Europe and the US house, enjoyed a very successful year with turnover advancing by 30 per cent to 21.7 million.
MPC has invested in new equipment and software enabling it to create more exciting special visual effects for feature lms.
MPCs output included work on several of this years top lms such as Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets and the latest Bond lm Die Another Day.
Work is now starting on a new Tomb Raider lm due next year.
MPC continues to provide high-end postproduction services for television commercials for major advertisers such as Adidas, Nike, the Royal Mail and Stella Artois.
Carlton 021 provided outside broadcasting facilities for major sporting and entertainment events including the Champions League final which was broadcast to countries throughout Europe and to the US.
CONTENT Turnover was 165.1 million 2001: 181.7 million and profits, before amortisation, were 10.1 million 2001: 1.4 million, including The Moving Picture Company created signicantly reduced losses from the interactive businesses previously major visual effects sequences for Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets included in digital operations.
the ying Ford Anglia Whomping Willow and for Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone pictured.
Carlton Productions: Turnover for the year was 75.5 million 2001: 100.6 million.
Carlton continues to produce some of the best entertainment, drama and factual programmes on television.
However, delays in ITV commissioning and the ending of the Big Breakfast contract for Channel 4 contributed to a reduction in output for the year.
Successful drama productions in 2002 included Bertie and Elizabeth, broadcast in over 30 territories and Pollyanna, seen in more than 50 countries.
Importantly, Carlton Productions now has one of its strongest ever forward order books.
We will be producing approximately 30 per cent of ITVs new drama output in 2002 2003 including shows such as Making Waves, Fortysomething, Margery & Stuart Milligan and Jane Asher are providing Gladys and Sweet Medicine.
The successful hard-hitting police series, The the glitz as Max and Angel Samson, the new management at Crossroads.
Vice, is returning in a new one hour format and Crossroads has been re-commissioned for the key tea-time slot with a new production and editorial team.
Entertainment productions included The Vault, Catchphrase and more recently Today with Des and Mel, the new centrepiece of ITVs daytime schedule.
Key televised awards events included The Brit Awards, The Soap Awards, The Multicultural Awards and The Evening Standard Theatre Awards.
Carlton also won a broad range of commissions from other broadcasters including Sky, Channel 4 and BBC Choice.
Awardwinning factual programmes included Kelly and her Sisters and we 18 produced and sold further historical documentaries in the In Colour series both in the UK and overseas.
Carltons production ventures in the US made encouraging progress.
We formed a new enterprise, Carlton Productions LLC, to develop factual programming and to build on existing relationships with Newsweek Inc. and the PBS Network.
An international production fund, established with PBS in 2001, has approved five Des O Connor and Melanie Sykes new important projects for production totalling over $7 million, including ITV1 daily entertainment and talk show a major lm on the Watergate scandal.
Carlton also signed a joint has been recommissioned for a second run in 2003. entertainment development deal with the Gurin Company, makers of The Weakest Link in the US, to exchange ideas on new shows and formats.
Combining Carltons production activities with Granadas will create the UKs leading commercial production company with original programme and content sales of approximately 700 million.
Greater critical mass and resources will allow more effective and efficient production for ITV and for other national and international channels.
Award winning The British Empire in Colour, Carlton International: Turnover for the year was 89.5 million a TWI Carlton production.
Carlton Internationals sales grew by 10 per cent despite difficult conditions in the international television market.
It has the largest English language lm library outside of Hollywood and enjoyed strong demand for its lms from broadcasters in Europe, Latin America and Asia.
Recent sales included its largest ever deal with China that will bring the famous Carry On movies to Chinese audiences for the first time.
Award-winning acquisitions such as Bob and Rose have been sold to over 40 territories worldwide.
Other recent deals include The Planman, Robbie Coltranes first TV project for several years, and the big budget production Boudica starring Alex Kingston.
Joe 90, the cult Supermarionation series, Carlton America added nine new US television movies to its library released by Carlton in the UK as a five disc of productions and co-productions.
One major new project going to digipack and 8 video box set.
production is a biographical drama based on the life of former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani.
Carlton is building an increasingly valuable contemporary TV movie catalogue with lms that perform strongly on the main US networks and also sell well in Europe, making Carlton America the biggest independent supplier of US TV movies to the international market.
The long term development of Carltons ever-popular Thunderbirds brand will be underpinned by the release of a Hollywood live action lm in 2004.
It will be followed by a new TV series and major licensing and publishing initiatives.
Boxed sets of Thunderbirds DVDs have been selling very well in Japan.
This helped Carlton Visual to its best year to date.
Other strong DVD sales included collections of classic titles such as Inspector Morse, Auf Wiedersehen Pet and Sapphire & Steel.
19 A combined Carlton and Granada will have a huge library of new and classic TV programmes and feature lms, creating new opportunities to sell programmes and licence rights for music and merchandising to customers in over 200 countries.
DISCONTINUED - ITV DIGITAL Deloitte & Touche was appointed administrator of ITV Digital on Carlton Americas Amy and Isabelle was the 27 March 2002.
On 30 April, it announced the closure of the business highest rated movie on ABC last year.
and on 18 October, Grant Thornton was appointed as liquidator to the company.
Carltons share of ITV Digitals and ITV Sport Channels pre-closure losses was 99.1 million.
As announced at the half year, an exceptional charge of 98.6 million was taken as a result of the decision to place ITV Digital in administration.
This was made up of a 34.6 million balance sheet write-off and a 64.0 million provision for Carltons share of closure costs.
No further charges were incurred in respect Carlton Americas Atomic Twister was the of ITV Digital in the second half of the year, nor are any further second highest rated movie on a cable charges expected in the future.
network in the US this year.
In August, the High Court ruled that Carlton and Granada were not liable for the 131.8 million claimed by the Football League from ITV Digital.
Subsequently, ITV and the Football League have agreed a broadcasting contract for certain rights during the 2002 03 and 2003 04 seasons.
PROPOSED MERGER WITH GRANADA Following the initial announcement in October of merger proposals with Granada, a detailed submission has been made to the Ofce of Fair Trading for regulatory consideration.
In the meantime Carlton and Granada are working together to deliver early efficiency gains and cost The British Gas Energy efficiency campaign savings from sharing resources in areas that are not sensitive from a was developed by Carlton.
regulatory perspective, including transmission, purchasing and certain support services.
