5 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Operating review This year we have seen the continuation of the benefit from the product and store initiatives introduced over recent years.
Sales for the year were 361.5 million representing 12.0% overall growth and 6.7% on a like for like basis, this is after having disappointing sales over the Easter period.
The Company opened the year trading from 325 stores and closed with 347, a net increase of 22.
During the year we opened 34 new trading units and closed or relocated 12.
The trading area occupied at the end of the year was 3,347,000 sq.
ft. representing a 6.6% increase in trading space year-on-year.
Gross margin achieved on the sales for the year was 58%, a 0.8 percentage point increase on last year.
This margin was achieved as a result of the increase in sales of higher price, cut length product, cut from our warehouse facilities in Rainham.
We have continued to focus on tight cost management with our administrative costs to sales ratio for the year held against last year at 42.6% including the start-up and running costs of our new cutting warehouse opened in June 2001 plus initial training costs for our five metre cutting warehouse opened in May 2002.
Distribution costs show an increase against the previous year of 40% as a result of increased cutting activity at the Rainham warehouses.
This helped increase our gross margin.
Profit before tax for the year was 52.5 million, returning a net margin of 14.8%, 0.9 percentage point ahead of last year.
Earnings per share rose 15.5% to 48.4p.
The market The UK retail floorcoverings market in the last year has again seen no growth in either value or metreage.
The floorcoverings market has not experienced any cost price increase with surplus capacity remaining a feature of the manufacturing market.
There has been no upward pressure on selling prices.
The UK housing market and improved consumer confidence combined with our move into the top end product has buoyed Carpetrights sales.
Our like-for-like sales increase demonstrates the continuing growth in our share of the UK retail floorcoverings market, which is estimated at some 22% of the market which remains fragmented and dominated by independent retailers with 60% of the market.
Last year, Carpetright moved into Southern Ireland, a new market in which we now trade from six stores.
This market, previously serviced by small independent retailers, is responding well to Carpetrights presence and we are now achieving good sales growth.
6 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Operating review continued Stores Throughout last year we continued to review our store portfolio for geographic representation.
Over the last year Carpetright has continued to relocate stores and to open new stores in areas where it was previously not represented.
During the year we opened 34 new sites and closed or relocated 12.
Six of the new stores are sample only stores sited on the edge of high streets trading under the Carpetright name.
This initiative has been successful, demonstrating customer awareness of the strong Carpetright brand name.
Carpet Depot, as a concept, has played a valuable part in Carpetrights history as it performed a role as real competition in the higher end of the market.
Many of these outlets now trade as profitable Carpetright stores building on the position and customer base established under the previous banner.
All our Scottish stores have been rebranded to Carpetright and it is our intention to rebrand our Harris Carpet stores as part of our strategy to consolidate our trading under the strong banner of our Carpetright name.
We had 32 at home vans operating out of our trading stores at the year end, 30 under the Harris Carpets banner and two under Carpetright.
We will convert all vans to Carpetright at home over the coming months.
At the close of the year the Company was trading from 347 stores, 32 vans and 3,347,000 square feet of trading space.
The store environment has undergone significant change over recent years with the establishment of a new store layout.
This layout which puts our higher quality carpet ranges to the front of the store, with roll stock at the back, has been developed alongside the growth of our own brand carpets.
During the year the Company purchased one long leasehold and three freehold properties at a total cost of 10.6 million.
The long leasehold and one of the freeholds were purchased from Carpetworld and represented the acquisition of established carpet stores in new areas for Carpetright and in the case of the freehold an independent retail tenant in addition.
The other two freehold purchases represented acquisitions of key retail trading sites for Carpetright.
During the year Carpetright achieved a profit on property disposals of 1.3 million.
We expect to generate profit from property transactions in the future.
9 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Operating review continued Product Over the last year Carpetright has continued to develop product ranges to satisfy its broad customer profile.
We continue to provide a wide range of excellent value, own-branded roll-stock for immediate take away or subsequent fitting.
These ranges are continually reviewed to ensure we match the changing tastes of our customers within the mass market.
We also provide an exclusive own-brand collection, which is sold from samples in store and cut at our warehouse in Rainham.
We also offer a small selection of manufacturers branded ranges, which are sold from samples in our stores.
This year we have, in close co-operation with our suppliers, continued to develop our range of branded collections.
In particular, we have been working on the development of a broader offering of five metre wide product in order to satisfy increasing consumer demand for wide width carpets.
The Company continues to market its 11 own brand labels Crossley, Masterweave, Premier, Classic, Heritage, Royal, Carpets by Harris, Regal, Imperial, American and Windsor.
These 11 exclusive brands represent exceptional value and encompass a full range of material composition, product construction and colour in plains, patterns and textures across each range.
The percentage of our own brand mix of sales was in excess of 99% for the year.
Product initiatives undertaken over the last three years have significantly changed the product profile of our sales, whilst prices have seen no inflationary push.
Changing product profile Percentage of turnover Market price band 26 weeks to 26 weeks to 26 weeks to sq.
metre 30 October 1999 27 October 2001 27 April 2002 020 81 58 48 2030 16 32 38 30 3 10 14 These ratios clearly demonstrate that Carpetright has grown the marketplace in which it is competing for custom, whilst maintaining its stronghold in the value end of the spectrum.
We will continue to work closely with our manufacturers to develop existing and new ranges within these brands to ensure that we are at the forefront of technological development with yarn and construction and abreast of the latest taste in patterns, plains, textures and colours.
This is vital in a market which has become more interested in fashionable home improvement, encouraging more frequent changes of style and colour.
Our roll-stock carpet ranges for the buy today take away customer continues to grow as does our range of roll-stock and cut length vinyl products which have been developed over the year in order to accommodate changing consumer taste.
We continue to expand our range of laminate flooring and rugs and over the last 12 months we have increased our market share of these products.
During the year we have introduced Bensons Beds, Sleepmaster and Courts bed concessions within 31 of our stores.
This initiative has proved to be mutually successful.
New business Our at home business initiative continues to contribute to the overall business through ongoing customer calls, insurance replacement business and the support of store estimating services.
The turnover from these activities through the vans continues to grow and has returned a positive contribution in the year.
Carpetrights move into the insurance market has proved effective.
This year we have formed an effective alliance with a company with strong relationships with a broad spectrum of insurance organisations which undertakes damage inspection and issues a voucher for redemption with preferred suppliers.
This relationship gives Carpetright access to many insurance companies without the necessity to establish an overhead to manage direct relationships.
The Company has extended its focus to other opportunities within the domestic contract market, and has now agreed a contract with one building company and is in discussion in respect of others.
Business services Central Business Service operations are located at Rainham in Essex.
Our increased warehouse and cutting facilities have been running 7-day, 24-hour cutting at peak trading periods throughout the year.
The continuing increase in cutting demand, driven from the sales of our own brand product cut at Rainham, has increased throughput in the warehouse from 565,000 to 700,000 cuts in the last year.
In March 2002 the Company fitted out a new 63,000 square foot warehouse at Thurrock in Essex, some seven miles from our Rainham facilities, immediately adjacent to the M25.
The warehouse provides a new five metre cutting facility housing one machine with capacity to install a further machine when required.
This one new machine will increase current capacity by a third.
A second complete production computer has been installed at the Thurrock warehouse providing the Company with two identical, separately located systems each capable of running the four cutting machines.
This provides the Company with continuity for this business-critical part of the supply chain, reducing business risk.
The Company has continued to develop its new retail system.
After the system had been rolled out to 90 stores a number of technical and operational issues were identified.
The Company has made good progress in resolving these and expects to resume the roll out to the remaining stores later this year.
Carpetright has been working in conjunction with the Flooring Industry Training Association FITA in order to establish a Carpetright Fitters Academy.
We will require all existing fitters to be subject to a FITA assessment against Carpetright criteria.
New fitters will be required to undergo such assessment before being added to a stores list of recommended fitters for customers.
The Academy will ensure a uniformly high standard of fitting competence among our fitters giving Carpetright the opportunity to maintain exemplary standards of service to its customers.
13 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Operating review continued Outlook Since the year end we have purchased the freehold of our new five metre width warehouse in Thurrock.
The combined purchase and fit out cost was 8.6 million.
The Company plans to increase the store base by 32 this year.
In addition, we will continue to look for opportunities for edge-of-town sites for small, sample only stores.
Product development this year will continue to be focused on the ranges within our exclusive own brands, in particular new five metre width ranges which we see as key in our aim to increase the percentage of higher priced carpets sold through our stores.
A nationwide television and radio advertising campaign is planned for the autumn with a Carpetright brand focus featuring television personality Ian Wright.
Since the year-end we have negotiated with Interiors for Europe IFE entry into the European carpet retail marketplace, where we have been dealing with manufacturers for many years.
We have chosen the Dutch, Belgian and Luxembourg markets as the target for our geographic expansion, as they are culturally similar to the UK as well as physically close.
Carpetright has entered into a binding agreement with IFE, the major shareholder of which is Mitiska nv, a company quoted on Euronext, Brussels.
The agreement sets out the terms of the purchase of two property companies which own 12 freehold and three long leasehold properties, trading sites of the Dutch and Belgian retail operators of IFE.
In addition, we have agreed under a joint venture agreement to purchase 50% of the share capital of Carpet-land nv, the Belgian holding company of the reorganised trading operations for Holland, Belgium and Luxembourg.
Carpetright holds call options to purchase the remaining 50% shareholding, exercisable in three tranches from 1 April 2005 to 30 September 2008.
The trading company operates from 92 stores with last years turnover at 194 million, with profit before interest and tax of 13.8 million.
We believe that our sales focused culture, buying strength and lean management approach will, in combination with our joint venture companys experience and positioning in the new marketplace, generate significant business benefits and enhanced value to the existing operation.
The initial investment will be funded by cash and new bank facilities, amounting to less than 150 million and be earnings enhancing from the first year.
We are confident that our strategy makes us well placed to further grow our share of the UK and Southern Ireland market.
Our initiative in Europe gives us a new market to exploit using our strength and expertise gained in the existing markets.
This growth in market share combined with our product, service and marketing initiatives will ensure enhancement of shareholder value.
We look forward to another successful year.
