Operational Review Celltech Pharmaceuticals The pharmaceutical business has made A key component of the Groups strategy is the significant progress during the last year balancing of risk and reward.
The pharmaceutical towards realising the Groups long-term business helps Celltech achieve this goal in two key strategic goals, in particular through the access to its first global specialist-focused ways.
Firstly, the steady revenue stream from the existing product, Dipentum, and the subsequent product range helps underpin an internationally formation of marketing capabilities that will competitive level of R&D investment.
Secondly, Celltech support the marketing of both this product and future pipeline products to is able to assess the competitive environment for gastroenterologists.
marketing in a particular disease indication against the capabilities it possesses or can reasonably acquire, Due to the variability of foreign currencies, all comparisons of sales performance for the facilitating an optimal partnering strategy for each pharmaceutical business have been made at programme, and hence maximising the long-term value constant exchange rates.
All other financial from the pipeline.
comparisons have been made at historic exchange rates.
Sales of major products 2002 2001 change The pharmaceutical business continued to m m % generate a substantial revenue stream, with product sales 8% higher at 252.9 million Tussionex 71.3 61.4 16 2001: 234.9 million, including a full year Zaroxolyn 28.5 29.0 2 impact from the German business of 25.1 Metadate CD 18.0 8.2 120 million 2001: 6.6 million.
Excluding the Delsym 14.3 9.5 51 impact of the acquisition of Thiemann in Generic methylphenidate 12.6 19.6 36 September 2001, sales were steady at 227.8 million 2001: 228.3 million.
Perenterol 7.1 1.5 nm Coracten 6.3 5.4 17 A key focus for Celltech is strengthening the Ionamin 5.5 5.3 4 pharmaceutical business, both to ensure a Dipentum 4.6 nm robust revenue stream and also to build Pediapred 3.9 5.7 32 critical mass in its emerging specialised Semprex-D 2.6 6.4 59 marketing capabilities.
One component of this is the acquisition of specialist-focused Other 78.2 82.9 6 products, such as the access to Dipentum, Total product sales 252.9 234.9 8 which is marketed as a treatment for Effect of exchange differences 6.8 ulcerative colitis, from Pharmacia during As reported 252.9 241.7 5 2002.
Celltech has acquired the European rights to Dipentum, involving total payments At constant exchange rates 20 Celltech Annual Report 2002 of up to $20 million, and has exclusive sales, being largely compensated by growth in the Celltech expects a significant increase in the marketing and distribution rights for the key promoted brands.
The performance of contribution from this product.
product in the US, with an option to acquire individual key US products was as follows: Prescriptions of all types of generic global product rights in January 2005. methylphenidate continued to decline during Dipentum has been relaunched in the US and Cough cold franchise 2002, as anticipated, due to the continued in the European markets in which Celltech Celltechs cough cold products continue to switching from physicians to newer once-daily operates, with a positive initial response from represent an important component of its formulations, with sales of Celltechs product prescribers.
Celltech continues to evaluate product portfolio.
Tussionex, a long-acting range decreasing by 41% to 11.1 million.
similar product opportunities, particularly hydrocodone based anti-tussive, continued to where pan-European or global product rights perform strongly, notwithstanding a weak Other products are available.
cough cold season, with sales increasing by Zaroxolyn, a diuretic for the treatment of 16% to 71.3 million and prescriptions congestive heart failure, maintained A second aspect to strengthening the existing growing by 4%, gaining market share during prescription levels with sales slightly lower at pharmaceutical business is the development 2002.
28.5 million 2001: 29.0 million due to a of product life cycle strategies for its existing planned reduction in wholesaler inventory portfolio, including new dosage strengths, Delsym, the only OTC extended release antilevels.
improved formulations and maximising the tussive, responded strongly to the efficiency of manufacturing, particularly in its introduction of a new bottle size, with sales Initial US sales of Dipentum were 3.2 million, cough cold and attention deficit hyperactivity increasing by 51% to 14.3 million.
although this product was not formally disorder ADHD franchises.
promoted by Celltech in the US until its Following the receipt of an FDA approvable relaunch in January 2003.
Celltech continues to build its specialist letter for its new codeine-based anti-tussive gastrointestinal commercialisation capabilities product, Codeprex, during 2002, Celltech has European Operations ahead of the launch of pipeline products.
made significant progress in addressing the Celltech continued to transform its European Celltech has a strong network of opinion points raised in the letter, with product launch organisation during the year.
The specialist leaders to help guide development and anticipated in time for the 2004 5 cough cold salesforce organisation will be substantially commercialisation of these products and is season.
strengthened over the coming year in order to increasing its presence at key scientific support specialist-promoted products such as meetings, in particular through the relaunch Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder Dipentum and Equasym.
Celltech has also strengthened franchise ADHD expanded its geographic reach during the its salesforce capabilities during the year by Metadate CD continues to maintain a share year with the opening of an office in the creation of a new US gastrointestinal of the once-daily methylphenidate market of Denmark, which will market certain existing salesforce, initially 30 representatives, with an around 9%, and achieved sales for the year of specialist-focused products across the Nordic annualised cost of approximately 3 million.
Celltech now has a presence in the In conjunction with this, Celltech announced the reduction in salesforce, Celltech has majority of European markets, which is in July 2002 a reduction in the US primary substantially reduced and refocused its important for both the commercialisation of care salesforce from 350 to 170 promotional efforts for Metadate CD in its pipeline products and also in positioning representatives, generating annualised savings response to the increasingly competitive itself as a potential partner for pan-European of approximately 12 million.
nature of the ADHD market.
Celltech is also in the process of restructuring During the year, Celltech announced positive European sales increased significantly to 90.4 its European salesforce, reducing the number results from a head-to-head study against the million 2001: 75.6, reflecting a full years of general representatives and strengthening current market leader in the once-daily ownership of the German business.
This study was the impact of this acquisition, sales declined overall number of representatives is likely to designed to confirm that the pharmacokinetic by 6%, reflecting the mature nature of the be reduced over the next few years, it is not profile of Metadate CD translates into European product portfolio, in addition to the anticipated that the cost base of the improved clinical control during the school cessation of certain revenues relating to European salesforce will change significantly day.
The positive results from this study have Celltechs agreement with PowderJect for the due to the higher cost of the specialist been submitted for publication in a peer marketing of vaccines.
It is anticipated that representatives.
Celltech also the European business will continue to show plans to introduce two new dosage strengths a modest decline ahead of the launch of US Operations for Metadate CD during 2003.
It is pipeline products or product acquisitions due Product sales from US operations were anticipated that, notwithstanding the reduced to the challenging healthcare budget broadly in line with the previous year at promotional efforts, Metadate CD revenue situations across Europe, including the recent 162.6 million 2001: 159.4 million, will modestly decline over the next few years.
announcement of enforced price cuts in reflecting declines in certain older products, However through the reduction in promotion, Germany.
