Operational Review Research Programmes In inflammatory disease, Celltechs research is Celltechs chemistry strengths in target families potential for small molecule orally active focused upon critical components of the such as kinases, proteases and integrins.
immune system such as T cells, B cells, Celltech has a track record of significant NCE dendritic cells and endothelial cells, in collaborations, including Merck This research resulted in the adoption during addition to cytokines and cytokine receptors.
phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors, Bristol-Myers September 2002 into the development Squibb matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors, pipeline of CDP 323, an orally active small In oncology, Celltech also has a number of AstraZeneca aggrecanase inhibitors and molecule targeting both 41 VLA-4 and active programmes and is seeking further Johnson & Johnson KDR kinase inhibitors.
This molecule will initially be validated targets against which to exploit its developed for rheumatoid arthritis.
Further flexible antibody fragment technology Through its collaboration with Neogenesis efforts are ongoing in research to provide platform.
SLAM technology offers the exciting established during 2001, Celltech now has both a structurally distinct back-up possibility of direct selection of human access to ultra high throughput screening programme, in addition to exploring the antibodies against certain disease targets.
technologies that are competitive with those utility of these compounds in other of large pharmaceutical companies.
This inflammatory conditions such as MS and IBD.
Small molecule research technology has become a key component of Celltech has a strong capability in the design Celltechs small molecule research efforts, Kinase inhibitors and production of small molecule NCE with excellent progress having been made Celltech has built considerable expertise in therapeutics, with a focus on the identification against a number of important disease targets kinase inhibitors, with an early success of best-in-class approaches against wellduring the year.
including the partnering of the KDR kinase characterised targets.
The NCE research efforts programme with Johnson & Johnson, who are aligned to areas where Celltech has a Integrin antagonists for continue to evaluate Celltechs library of strong understanding of disease biology, in inflammatory disease potent and selective KDR kinase inhibitors as particular for mechanisms involved in Celltech has been pursuing for a number of novel anti-angiogenic approaches for the autoimmune and inflammatory disease.
years a substantial effort to identify potent treatment of cancer and diabetic retinopathy.
Celltech also has a growing effort in oncology, antagonists acting at 4 integrin receptors.
where many approaches have synergy with Encouraging results in both MS and IBD have Celltech has a substantial in-house targets being explored in the inflammatory been published with an antibody targeting programme around the use of p38 MAP portfolio.
The NCE pipeline also reflects 4 integrins, highlighting the commercial kinase inhibitors as novel anti-inflammatory Celltech believes SLAM technology, SLAM: the next-generation antibody technology licensed from Abgenix in 2001, is RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC the pre-eminent antibody RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC technology available today.
RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC SLAM allows rapid selection of RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC extremely high-affinity antibodies RBC RBC RBC B cell RBC RBC from a variety of species.
Celltech RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC has further developed this RBC RBC RBC B cell RBC technology and believes that it now RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC affords significant advantages over RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC RBC ABOVE: A graphical representation of the SLAM plaque assay in operation.
Antibody-producing B cells are selected directly from an immunised species and allowed to proliferate.
The Y shaped antibodies are shown being displayed on the surface of the B cells.
The protein target of interest is coupled to red blood cells, which are introduced into the supernatant.
Antibodies against the target protein will cause lysis and the death of the red blood cells.
This causes a visible plaque around the individual B cell producing the antibody with the desired properties, allowing it to be easily visualised and extracted using a micropipette.
p38 MAP kinase is a critical Other small molecule projects point of discovery.
The second aspect is the signalling step in the inflammatory pathway, Celltech has an extensive portfolio of small combination of genetics with a drug surrogate leading to the release of pro-inflammatory molecule research programmes, including strategy, involving the search for disease cytokines such as TNF, IL-1 and COX-2.
several at a late stage, targeting key phenotypes that resemble the desired effect of Celltech is currently undertaking late stage mediators of inflammation.
Celltech is also the target therapeutic.
This approach increases research activities and expects to enter a leveraging its library of kinase inhibitors as the likelihood that, once the gene responsible candidate, CDP 146, into preclinical novel anti-proliferative approaches in has been identified, the target therapeutic will development during the second half of 2003. oncology.
The Neogenesis technology is being result in the desired effect.
Several targets in our Initial data from this programme suggests used alongside Celltechs existing small discovery pipeline have been identified in this potent anti-inflammatory activity, comparable molecule capabilities in order to rapidly way, including the SOST gene, which plays an to other compounds in this class.
identify lead series of compounds.
important role in bone deposition.
Combined, these aspects of our target discovery programme Celltech is also pursuing a number of Disease target selection strategy for dual should enable Celltech to capture valuable additional kinase approaches at an earlier pipeline intellectual property on targets that have a high stage of research.
Access to novel disease targets for the degree of validation at the point of adoption into antibody and small molecule pipelines is our portfolio.
Aggrecanase inhibitors essential to maintaining a consistent flow of In October 1995 Celltech entered into a high-quality pipeline products over the longIn its small molecule programmes, Celltech collaboration with Zeneca now AstraZeneca term.
For its antibody pipeline, Celltech is carefully selects targets within its key chosen regarding the use of gelatinase inhibitors as pursuing both in-house target discoveries, in protein families that have a high degree of potential treatments for cancer, subsequently addition to the licensing of high quality disease validation.
Celltechs core therapeutic expanded to include aggrecanase inhibitors.
targets from academic institutions and the focus remains within the autoimmune and AstraZeneca continues to pursue novel biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry.
inflammatory disease area, with increasing inhibitors of aggrecanase as potential Celltechs strong in-house target discovery preclinical specialisation in RA and joint treatments for osteoarthritis.
Celltech will programme is unique in two important disease, IBD, inflammatory pain, MS and other receive progress-related milestone payments aspects.
Firstly, all targets are identified in the autoimmune diseases.
Celltech is also and royalties on future sales of any products context of disease function, thereby selectively building its preclinical capabilities in arising from this collaboration.
establishing highly validated targets from the oncology as a second strong area of focus.
D Value current methods for selecting high Potent neutralisation of a protein target with SLAM derived antibodies 0.5 affinity human or near-human This chart illustrates the power of SLAM technology in antibodies.
In addition, Celltech has generating antibodies to a difficult protein target.
0.4 Using traditional hybridoma technology, in which antibodyrapidly expanded the use of the producing B cells are fused with a myeloma, a single 0.3 antibody with the desired properties was generated amongst technology to include target 20,000 clones.
This complicated process required one manyears effort.
identification, and target validation, 0.2 Using the SLAM technology, a large number of extremely high using function modifying antibodies, affinity neutralising antibodies were rapidly generated four 0.1 shown here, requiring just one man-months work.
These with both antagonist and agonist antibodies demonstrated potent neutralisation of the protein 0 target at significantly lower antibody concentration levels.
0.1 1 10 100 1000 Antibody concentration ng ml Hybridoma Slam1 Slam2 Slam3 Slam4 FAR LEFT: One of the key aspects of SLAM is the ability to generate high quality research reagents to antigens to validate targets for antibody-mediated therapy, significantly enhancing our discovery capability.
Potent therapeutic antibodies have already been discovered using SLAM, and these are contributing to our Development pipeline.
CENTRE: Visualisation of a B cell producing antibodies against an unknown protein target using fluorescence technology.
LEFT: Isolation of a single antibody-producing B cell using a micropipette.
