PEG PEG PEG PEG Operational Review Development Programmes the identification of C-reactive protein CRP a royalty on product sales.
In addition, primary endpoint, assessing response at 28 as a marker for response, with those patients Celltech has received milestone payments to weeks, CDP 571 showed significant benefit having elevated baseline CRP levels showing date of $60 million, with a further $220 when using a per protocol analysis, but not significantly enhanced treatment benefit, million dependent upon the attainment of when looking at the intent-to-treat detailed further in the panel on page 10. certain future events.
However, significant treatmentCelltech intends to use this information, along obligations for the development of CDP 870 related benefit was seen at the acute with input from gastrointestinal opinion in RA above an agreed threshold, which will endpoints weeks two and four using the leaders, to select the optimum trial design be triggered during 2003.
Celltech is clinical endpoint of 100 point reduction in and dosing regimen for Phase III trials.
responsible for the costs of developing CDP the Crohns disease activity index CDAI score Celltech plans to discuss its Phase III plans 870 in Crohns disease, subject to a one-off and or disease remission CDAI 150, with the FDA in the first half of 2003, with contribution from Pharmacia towards these highlighting its potential use in acute disease trials scheduled to commence in mid-2003.
costs made at the time of the collaboration.
for the management of disease flares.
The current intention is to simultaneously file The terms of this collaboration will be RA and Crohns disease indications for unchanged following the planned acquisition The Phase III studies also confirmed that CDP registration.
571 had low immunogenicity and an excellent safety profile, with no significant differences Celltechs collaboration with Pharmacia CDP 571 in adverse events between the treated group provides for Celltech to have co-development Celltech announced results in July 2002 from and those taking the placebo.
and co-marketing rights in the US, EU and two large Phase III studies in Crohns disease Japan, with Celltech earning a share of the using its humanised anti-TNF antibody Celltech is currently assessing the extent of profits arising from product sales in RA and CDP 571.
The main study evaluated the ability commercial opportunity for CDP 571, Crohns disease from these territories.
In other of CDP 571 to induce and maintain remission including its use on a named-patient basis.
territories and indications, Celltech will receive in patients with active Crohns disease.
For the Celltech intends to pursue discussions with Celltech: focus on oncology Oncology remains an area of medicine with significant unmet The use of antibodies as oncology drugs need, with current treatments being Growth factor Toxin Apoptotic Immune antagonists delivery signal response limited by treatment toxicities, drug resistance mechanisms or responses only in subsets of patient groups.
Celltech is pursuing antibody-based approaches, using its flexible PEGylated antibody fragment platform to facilitate a range of different mechanistic approaches, as well as small molecule approaches Celltech is using its antibody fragment platform to develop both cytostatic approaches for the treatment of cancer, such as its anti-GFR project CDP 791 and its anti-CSF-1 programme, and cytotoxic approaches, using the toxin and linker technology licensed from Seattle Genetics.
SLAM technology allows Celltech to sample a much larger repertoire of the immune response.
Using SLAM it is possible to isolate both antagonist and agonist antibodies with extremely high affinities for their target, as well as internalising antibodies that can deliver toxic payloads.
12 Celltech Annual Report 2002 regulatory authorities regarding the data anti-IL-1 antibody fragment, CDP 484, into focused on several key target classes, package required for acute or as needed development in late 2001.
The product is including integrins, kinases and chemokines.
It is anticipated that Celltech will expected to have similar dosing characteristics Celltech intends to develop potent and review its licensing arrangements for CDP to CDP 870, and high manufacturing yields selective small molecule anti-inflammatory 571, including the existing collaboration with have been obtained.
The first clinical agents with a superior therapeutic window to Biogen, following these meetings.
indication will be rheumatoid arthritis, where current treatments.
CDP 484 will be explored both for efficacy in CDP 484 non-responders to anti-TNF therapy, in CDP 323 Interleukin-1 IL-1 is a cytokine associated addition to first line therapy.
Celltech expects Celltech has been researching for a number of with pain, joint destruction and inflammation.
to enter CDP 484 into Phase I trials in midyears the utility of 4 integrin inhibitors as In models of arthritis, antibodies to IL-1 have 2003. improved disease modifying drugs that are shown significant therapeutic effects on both potent anti-inflammatory agents, but which clinical scores of inflammation and joint Small molecule approaches for lack the adverse long-term side effect profiles erosion in established disease.
Antibodies inflammatory diseases of existing drugs.
4 integrins are involved in targeting IL-1 may therefore have the Celltech is pursuing a number of small the recruitment of leukocytes to areas of potential to offer the anti-inflammatory molecule approaches for the treatment of inflammation such as those found in joints, activity of other anti-cytokine approaches with inflammatory disease, both in-house and central nervous system and gut, highlighting enhanced joint protection, with the long through collaborations with major the potential utility of this class of drugs in circulating half-life expected to overcome pharmaceutical companies.
These treating RA, MS and IBD.
pharmacokinetic limitations of competitor programmes, which are complementary to approaches.
anti-cytokine antibody approaches, leverage During 2002 Celltech entered CDP 323, an Celltechs deep understanding of key orally active antagonist of 4 integrins, into Celltech entered a high-affinity humanised inflammatory disease pathways, and are preclinical development.
This potent inhibitor CDP 791 blocks the activity of a central growth factor using its extensive kinase expertise, receptor involved in tumour angiogenesis, or new blood vessel formation.
CDP 791 upper panel potently inhibited in addition to the high-throughput blood vessel formation and fibrosis in a sponge model of screening afforded through its angiogenesis, compared to a control antibody lower panel.
Endothelial cells are revealed by Factor VIII immunostaining.
SLAM technology affords the possibility of isolating very high affinity human anti-tumour antibodies directly from patients with interesting immune repertoires.
In this regard Celltech is working with clinical collaborators to identify suitable patients.
Kinases are an important class of validated drug targets in oncology, and are a major focus in Celltechs medicinal chemistry programmes.
Celltech has an excellent knowledgebase in kinases, with several kinase targets in its inflammation discovery pipeline, certain of which have synergies with related oncology targets.
Celltech intends to use its in-house crystallography and kinase libraries, along with the screening capabilities through its collaboration with Neogenesis, to identify novel new kinase inhibitors for the treatment of solid tumours.
Celltech Annual Report 2002 13 PEG PEG PEG Operational Review Development Programmes has a profile consistent with once-or twiceCOPD.
Under the terms of the collaboration Mylotarg daily dosing, and has shown encouraging Celltech will receive progress-related Mylotarg is a novel treatment for acute therapeutic activity in models of arthritis.
milestone payments, and royalties on myeloid leukaemia AML, consisting of a Celltech plans to initiate Phase I studies during worldwide product sales.
Celltech also has an humanised anti-CD33 antibody linked to the the second half of 2003, with rheumatoid option to obtain a share of future profits, potent cytotoxic drug calicheamicin, which arthritis as the first clinical indication.
Research through a contribution to Phase III was co-developed with Wyeth.
Mylotarg was is also ongoing into the use of CDP 323 as a development costs.
approved by the FDA in May 2000 for treatment for MS and Crohns disease.
relapsed patients aged 60 years or over who Oncology are not considered candidates for other PDE4 Celltech has a growing pipeline of oncology cytotoxic chemotherapy, and was the first Phosphodiesterase 4 PDE4 is a key mediator products, being developed both in-house and antibody-targeted chemotherapy product of underlying inflammation in a number of in collaboration with major pharmaceutical approved in the US.
These include respiratory disorders companies.
Celltechs dual-pipeline antibody such as asthma and chronic obstructive and small molecule capabilities enable it to Wyeth has continued to explore the utility of pulmonary disorder COPD.
Antagonism of address a variety of disease situations, Mylotarg in AML and other conditions, and in PDE4 by a small molecule orally active product including the use of its flexible antibody December 2002 published preliminary Phase II represents a potentially important therapeutic fragment platform for a range of mechanistic data at the American Society of Haematology advance in the treatment of these diseases.
approaches, detailed in the panel below.
ASH meeting highlighting the potential for Celltechs oncology pipeline reflects both use of Mylotarg as combination therapy in Merck continues to progress a novel, potent cytostatic approaches, which aim to slow or the first line treatment of AML.
once-daily PDE4 inhibitor, which arose from halt tumour growth, and cytotoxic their collaboration with Celltech, in Phase II approaches, which aim to kill tumour cells by studies for the treatment of asthma and antibody-targeted delivery of potent toxins.
Celltechs innovative antibody Celltechs antibody fragment Monovalent technology platform platform not only offers significant blocking FAb production advantages when compared to traditional whole antibody approaches, but also T cell affords a flexible platform for design and production of the optimum therapeutic entity for a specific application.
Coupled with the SLAM Antigen technology for antibody selection, presenting cell and Seattle Genetics toxin and Divalent FAb-drug conjugate RIGHT: These images show the transfer of antibody molecules ABOVE: The flexibility of Celltechs antibody fragment from the surface of T cells, where they are visualised by platform is illustrated by the two distinct approaches being orange fluorescence, to the interior of the cell, visualised by pursued for the OX40 receptor programme.
This property of antibody internalisation utilising both a blocking Fab-PEG and a targeted cytotoxic is key to the process of targeted delivery of cytotoxic drugs approach to address this target, believed to be important in to specific cell types and can be controlled by formatting T cell mediated inflammatory diseases.
antibody fragments in various valencies.
14 Celltech Annual Report 2002 BMS-275291 Derived Growth Factor PDGF.
CDP 860 is CDP 791 Bristol-Myers Squibb continues to evaluate currently being assessed in a Phase II study to It is believed that antibodies blocking this selective matrix metalloproteinase determine whether the drug is able to receptors for certain growth factors will be inhibitor in a large Phase II III trial in non-small increase blood flow into human tumours.
The potent inhibitors of angiogenesis, with cell lung cancer in combination with Taxol results from this study are expected in midpotential utility for treatment of a broad paclitaxel and Paraplatin carboplatin, 2003.
If successful, further studies will be range of tumours when used in combination which is expected to be completed during undertaken to assess whether CDP 860 is able with existing chemotherapeutic regimes.
2003. to selectively enhance tumour uptake of a CDP 791 is a very high affinity PEGylated standard chemotherapy regimen.
humanised antibody fragment targeted CDP 860 against a key growth factor receptor.
One of the limiting factors in CMC-544 CDP 791 is expected to enter Phase I chemotherapeutic treatment of tumours is the The effectiveness of Mylotarg has confirmed clinical development in mid-2003.
high interstitial fluid pressure IFP, which the rationale for using antibodies to deliver impedes the rate of uptake of these agents cytotoxic agents selectively to human tumour into tumours.
A number of recently published cells, thus reducing the unwanted side effects research articles highlight the potential for normally associated with chemotherapy.
inhibition of the PDGF receptor as a novel Wyeth and Celltech are collaborating on approach for the treatment of cancer, by CMC-544, a further approach using the reducing IFP and hence enhancing the technology related to that developed for effectiveness of chemotherapy regimes.
CMC-544 is an anti-CD22 antibody linked to calecheamicin, and is scheduled to CDP 860 is a humanised antibody fragment enter clinical development for Non-Hodgkins targeted against the beta-receptor for Platelet lymphoma in the first half of 2003.
Fab yield g L linker technology, Celltech has a Excellent antibody fragment manufacturing yields with CDP 791 1.6 world-leading antibody technology Celltech has achieved extremely high yields, approaching 1.5g 1.4 platform.
per litre, with its antibody fragment based product CDP 791, with excellent partitioning between Fab product retained in 1.2 the periplasm upper lines versus that which leaks into the 1.0 production media lower lines, aiding recoverability of product Celltech has strategic manufacturing for purification.
These attributes are important in order to 0.8 partnerships with Biochemie and provide competitive cost of goods profile and avoid supply issues.
This data also illustrates the efficient scale-up of the process 0.6 Bioreliance to ensure that supplies of from laboratory scale 10 litre to large scale 1000 litre 0.4 manufacturing with no reduction in production yields.
its antibody fragment based 0.2 products are available for both 0.0 clinical development and eventual 0 10 20 30 40 Time post induction hours 10L scale 1000L run 1 1000L run 2 1000L run 3 market supply.
LEFT: Biochemies large-scale fermentation facility in Kundl, Austria.
In September 2002 Celltech announced a long-term agreement, whereby Celltech has reserved a fixed annual manufacturing capacity in Biochemies 3,000 and 13,000 litre fermenter systems.
This agreement allows Celltech flexibility in the manufacturing of its portfolio of PEGylated antibody fragment based development products.
Celltech Annual Report 2002 15 Operational Review Research Programmes Antibody-based programmes Celltech has a highly efficient and productive research Celltech has established a world-leading organisation, evidenced by the entry of four novel new position in the design, engineering and entities into development during the last 18 months.
In particular, the combination of the SLAM Celltech has continued to invest in new technologies, technology with Celltechs PEGylated antibody both through in-house development, such as further fragment platform provides a highthroughput capability that enables Celltech to improvements to its microbial expression system, and move rapidly from disease target to through collaborations, including access during the year therapeutic entity.
to Seattle Genetics novel toxin and linker technology.
A key component of Celltechs antibody The continued establishment of high value collaborations research is the development of new product ideas and novel process development to validates Celltechs novel product pipeline, with a major generate intellectual property protection.
agreement during the past year with Amgen for the Celltech strives to continuously improve both the efficiency of its antibody generation sclerostin programme.
Key late-stage research activities and also product characteristics.
programmes in the antibody and small molecule Excellent progress has been made with the pipelines are highlighted below.
SLAM technology, licensed from Abgenix during 2001, enabling Celltech to routinely isolate high-affinity functionally active antibodies, in addition to encouraging progress using this technology for identification and validation of novel disease targets.
Celltech continues to pursue collaborations to access novel targets and CDP 323: Celltech has built a highly effective a novel small molecule anti-inflammatory approach small molecule research capability, evidenced by the entry into Vascular lining development of CDP 323, an antagonist of 4 integrins, during Blood flow a Rolling b Adhesion c Migration 2002.
This innovative programme Vessel cavity overcomes high plasma clearances and low gastrointestinal absorption seen with many competitor Vascular membrane Release of TNF IL-6 approaches, leading to good Synoviocytes exposure that is consistent with once-or twice-daily oral dosing and Synovial lining Selectins Integrins Immunoglobulin super-family Direction of cell movement ABOVE: The critical role of integrins in leukocyte trafficking, a key step in a number of inflammatory processes.
It has been demonstrated using antibody antagonists that inhibition of the interaction between leukocytes and adhesion molecules such as integrins provides a potent anti-inflammatory effect in man.
Celltech believes that CDP 323 has the potential to provide the same potent anti-inflammatory effect, with the benefit of an oral dosing regimen.
16 Celltech Annual Report 2002 technologies that improve the efficiency of its cytotoxic agents.
Celltech expects to complete fragment targeting sclerostin that is able to research activities.
proof-of-concept experiments validating this trigger high quality deposition of bone as a approach during 2003. novel treatment for bone disease, including Anti-OX40 receptor antibodies for osteoporosis.
The critical role of sclerostin in inflammatory disease Celltech is also pursuing a second distinct bone deposition, and the ability of antibodies The OX40 receptor is over-expressed on approach, using a monovalent antibody to neutralise sclerostin, have now been activated T-cells, and has been found to fragment to block activation through OX40, demonstrated in a number of disease models.
govern their long-term survival through without causing signalling through crossMore recently, a large human genetics study interaction with the OX40 ligand.
The OX40 linking of the receptor.
Through its antibody has demonstrated the high correlation between receptor shows greatly increased expression in fragment technology, Celltech has been able specific genetic changes in the SOST gene a wide range of autoimmune diseases to produce a non-costimulatory form of antiregion and the onset of osteoporosis in humans.
including RA, IBD, systemic lupus OX40.
This approach is likely to require erythematosis, MS, and psoriasis.
Preliminary chronic administration, where the microbial Celltech entered a major collaboration with experiments have confirmed that OX40- expression technology will provide a Amgen during 2002, bringing together positive T cells are critical for perpetuation of substantial advantage for large-scale Celltechs expertise in the sclerostin target and T-cell mediated inflammation.
It is anticipated that a antibody generation, with Amgens experience candidate will be entered into development in protein therapeutics and bone biology.
Celltech is pursuing two distinct approaches during the next 12 months.
Celltech is currently undertaking target to targeting the OX40 receptor, illustrating validation, following which it will generate an the advantages of its flexible antibody Anti-Sclerostin antibodies for antibody fragment for entry into development.
fragment platform compared to whole bone disease antibody approaches.
The first approach is to Celltech has identified a gene termed SOST Early stage antibodies develop antibody fragment targeted cytotoxic previously known as BEER, with extensive Celltech has a full pipeline of antibody projects, agents to selectively deplete OX40 overresearch suggesting the product of this gene, reflecting a wide range of mechanistic expressing cells.
Using SLAM technology, a protein called sclerostin, plays a pivotal role approaches.
Celltech has been able to isolate internalising in controlling bone deposition.
The goal of antibodies suitable for targeted delivery of the programme is to produce an antibody demonstrates a potent antiClinical assessment Potent anti-inflammatory effect with CDP 323 inflammatory effect in disease 2.5 CDP 323 demonstrates marked efficacy in models of models.
In this model, which assesses the ability 2.0 to halt progression of arthritis using a variety of clinical assessments, CDP 323 demonstrated a potent disease modifying CDP 323 will be developed initially 1.5 effect that was equivalent to current gold standard treatments.
as a novel disease modifying 1.0 treatment for rheumatoid arthritis.
Research is also ongoing into its 0.5 utility as a treatment for other Vehicle 0 chronic inflammatory conditions, Day 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 CDP 323 including multiple sclerosis and inflammatory bowel disease.
FAR LEFT: Celltechs extensive small molecule capabilities involve the use of structural based drug design, including computer aided drug design, computational methods and structural NMR, in addition to ultra high throughput screening capabilities through its collaboration with Neogenesis.
These efforts are underpinned by extensive biological expertise, including substantial expertise in models of rheumatoid arthritis LEFT: inflammed joint from an RA patient where the goal is to both reduce signs and symptoms of inflammation and to modify the progression of the disease.
