Operational Review Research and Development Celltechs R&D programmes have advanced significantly New product development in all of the therapeutic areas in which it is engaged.
CDP Autoimmune disease 870 and the Merck PDE4 inhibitor programme, which are The immune system comprises a complex key mid-term growth drivers for Celltech, have continued network of cells and tissues whose primary function is to seek out and eliminate to progress well, with Celltechs growing research pathogens such as bacteria and viruses.
productivity illustrated by the entry into preclinical Autoimmune diseases result when the development of CDP 323, a novel new oral treatment for immune system recognises a normal component of the body.
Celltechs early stage pipeline has response directed at a pathogen stops once expanded, with four products scheduled to enter Phase I this has been eliminated.
Celltechs world-leading technology diseases the response can carry on for many years, often until the entire target has been platform has been further enhanced by access to Seattle destroyed, for example in rheumatoid arthritis, Genetics novel toxin and linker technology.
where the immune system recognises a joint component leading to inflammation and eventual joint destruction.
Autoimmune diseases represent an increasing class of medical conditions that afflict many people worldwide.
Celltech is actively researching treatments for diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis RA, inflammatory bowel disease IBD, psoriasis and multiple sclerosis MS. Celltech has identified that C-reactive protein CRP, a commonly used marker of active inflammation, helps identify Crohns disease patients who respond best to treatment with CDP 870.
Patients with elevated CRP levels at initiation of treatment, representing an inflammatory disease episode, were found to respond significantly CDP 870 in Crohns disease better to CDP 870 than those with normal CRP levels.
Patients with 10 Celltech Annual Report 2002 Antibody approaches for inflammatory fragment targeting IL-1 and a number of with Phase II data and outline Phase III clinical disorders programmes in late-stage research, which aim plans, were agreed with the FDA in July 2002.
Celltech has a long-established interest in to address the anti-TNF therapy nonPharmacia initiated Phase III dosing for RA in anti-cytokine approaches, such as anti-TNF responders.
October 2002, triggering a $10 million antibodies, as novel treatments for milestone payment to Celltech.
The Phase III inflammatory disorders.
Biological treatments CDP 870 programme, involving 1,500 treated patients, targeting TNF have rapidly become the gold Celltechs leading product using its proprietary will investigate the safety and efficacy of standard for treatment of severe inflammatory PEGylated antibody fragment technology, CDP 870 as both monotherapy and in conditions such as RA and Crohns disease, CDP 870, represents the next generation of combination with additional disease with total sales of anti-TNF products anti-TNF therapies.
These studies, in which reaching over $2 billion in 2002.
Substantial anti-TNF antibody fragment, is being patients will be treated for up to 12 months, further growth is predicted for this market developed as a treatment for both RA and will evaluate the effect of CDP 870 on both segment, driven by the entry of new therapies Crohns disease through a major collaboration signs and symptoms, using the American with superior dosing characteristics, increased with Pharmacia.
College of Rheumatology ACR clinical penetration of existing markets, and utility in scoring system, and disease progression, using other inflammatory diseases such as psoriasis.
Phase II data in RA presented in 2001 x-ray techniques to measure improvements in Notwithstanding the impact of these highlighted that CDP 870 has a fully the rate of joint destruction.
therapies, a significant number of patients competitive efficacy and safety profile at the show no response or only partial response to 400mg dose, with a convenient four-weekly Separately, Celltech is developing CDP 870 in treatment with anti-TNF agents.
It is believed subcutaneous dosing schedule.
Following the announcement that other cytokines such as IL-1 may drive first half of 2002, Pharmacia developed a new of positive Phase II data in February 2002, the disease pathogenesis in these patients.
lyophilised formulation of the drug, which will Celltech has carried out further analysis to Celltech has a number of anti-cytokine be used for Phase III studies and eventual inidentify the patient groups who will receive programmes, including CDP 484, an antibody market supply.
This new formulation, along most benefit from treatment.
This resulted in elevated baseline CRP levels % of Responders All trial patients demonstrated a rapid and sustained 70 The chart shows response rates for all patients in the CDP 870 Phase II Crohns disease trial, with a rapid and significant 60 response to treatment with CDP 870, response in the treated group.
50 with 42% achieving disease remission 40 by week 10 of the study.
30 20 These findings should enable 10 physicians to target CDP 870 CDP 870 400mg 4-weekly all patients n 72 0 towards those patients most likely to Week 0 2468 10 12 Placebo 4-weekly all patients n 73 show a positive response to the drug and will be incorporated into the % of Responders Patients with elevated CRP levels Phase III development programme.
70 The chart shows the data stratified for those patients with elevated CRP levels i. e. 10 mg L at baseline, showing a 60 substantially enhanced treatment related benefit and reduced placebo response.
50 40 30 CDP 870 400mg 4-weekly all patients n 72 20 Placebo 4-weekly all patients n 73 10 CDP 870 400mg 4-weekly CRP10 n 31 0 Week 0 2468 10 12 Placebo 4-weekly CRP10 n 28 Celltech Annual Report 2002 11
