Operating Review Media Services Carat Interactive is now ranked As the media landscape has become Carat started the year by being amongst the worlds top three ever more diverse and fragmented, named Global Media Agency of the interactive agency networks.
media planning has become Year by AdAge Global and followed increasingly important to clients.
this early success by winning net Posterscope, the Groups outdoor Carat has benefited from this annualised new business billings media business, is the worlds first trend as its suite of media tools worth $1,487 million.
Taking into global outdoor specialist and in are widely regarded as amongst the account the generally quiet new 2002 it continued to expand its best available.
business market pitch activity network presence.
was down by 30% this was an International Account Management excellent performance.
In 2002 these non-traditional The strength of the Groups business areas equated to around international account management By far the largest account win of the one third of the Groups media capability has been rewarded by period was the Hyundai Kia business revenue and are continuing to grow.
continued growth in the number in North America in February.
of international mandates awarded That business is now managed out With large marketers international by clients.
of Carats operation in Southern media budgets reaching in excess California and includes a full range of $1 billion, the role of the media Overall, international new business of media communication services agency has grown significantly in won in 2002 was up by 30% but encompassing all media planning importance with the result that was, for the most part, made up of and buying activities.
media planning has supplanted existing international business creative as the top marketing priority developing into new markets, rather High profile account wins like that for clients.
Increasingly, purchasing than large consolidation pitches.
of Hyundai Kia tend to make the managers are now commonly During the year, existing front pages of the industry trade involved in the relationship and relationships with clients were press.
Less publicised, but equally media productivity has become one extended significantly with 18 as important, is the quiet revolution of the key drivers in the development international clients awarding new that is taking place in respect of the of campaigns.
Key development proportion of Carats revenues now successes were Beiersdorf, adidas, coming from beyond the traditional The end of the 30 second ad is Danone, Pernod Ricard and core competency of media buying nigh has become one of the most Cadbury Schweppes.
overused statements in advertising history but it has an element of truth.
In addition to this new business For Carat, that has meant developing TV is the shotgun blast to the rapier success, Carat International specialist areas such as interactive, thrust of a highly targeted plan using broadened its product offering by outdoor, sponsorship, direct a mix of communication channels to launching a range of consultancy marketing, PR and market modelling.
reach the audience of one.
These new services are Jerry Buhlmann, CEO, Carat International 12 aimed at helping marketers to bring business was thin on the ground.
coherence, advertising effectiveness, However, Carat France had a number and insight to their multi-market of prestigious wins including Speedy, brands and business.
Key products Dim, CNAM and Lacoste.
include Communication Planning and a range of Insight branded Carat Germany and Central Europe advertising effectiveness products.
had a good year and exceeded expectations.
It is a credit to its Carat International was originally management team that the business set up to service the global continued to deliver such a strong aspirations of Carats mainly new business performance in the European client base.
With the face of such poor economic US operation expanding rapidly conditions.
Major client wins however, 2002 saw the launch including Bahlsen, Bewag, C&A, of a dedicated new international Frosta and Turkish Tourism helped management resource in New York.
Carat continue to build market share The investment in New York in the region.
signifies a commitment to supporting major international Carat UK also performed well and advertisers based in the US.
confirmed its position as the UKs Bruno Kemoun & Eryck Rebbouh, Joint CEOs, Carat Europe largest media specialist as well as Europe Carat Interactive becoming Britains In an extremely difficult advertising premier online agency.
Creating an environment Carat retained its integrated communications planning position as Europes pre-eminent service helped garner its three major media brand and was named agency wins of the year: British Gas, HBOS of the year in France, Italy and and the DTLR Department for Spain.
Net annualised new business Transport, Local Government and billings totalled $585 million.
February 2002, all the European operations were brought into one Carat Spain maintained its client cohesive unit reporting to Bruno base and through introducing new Kemoun and Eryck Rebbouh.
clients was able to grow market In an extremely share in a year that saw a continuing Carat France, the leading French downward trend in advertising media agency, continued to grow its spend.
New client wins included difficult advertising revenues through developing a range AXA, IFEMA and MBNA.
of marketing services which now environment Carat account for approximately 40% of its Carat Italy had a tough year but business.
With a quiet market, new overcame the loss of its largest retained its position as Europes pre-eminent Developing Specialist areas such as Sport Sponsorship helped media brand and was Carat France to grow its revenues despite a quiet market in 2002 named agency of the year in France, Italy and Spain.
13 David Verklin, Chief Executive Officer, Carat North America client by winning Enel, the largest 2002 saw Carat launch two new business began to repay the Groups utilities business in Italy.
Revenues divisions, Carat Trade and Carat investment in it by crossing into were only marginally down, Affiliates.
Carat Trade is an innovative profitability ahead of schedule.
attesting to the resilience of its departure from mainstream media management team and their ability buying and planning, facilitating the The weakness of the Latin American to extend existing client accounts barter of clients distressed stock markets has made progress difficult to compensate.
lines or other assets in return for in the region.
Argentina continued to media space or airtime.
The prevailing be affected by the ongoing economic Carats operations in Scandinavia poor economic conditions in the US issues but our exposure is now had mixed fortunes and revenues have given the nascent business a significantly reduced.
Advertising in were affected by the poor market fillip and it has subsequently Venezuela came to a virtual standstill conditions.
In 2002, Carat Europe evolved into a viable new profit in 2002.
Operations in Mexico and management created Carat Nordic by centre for Carat.
Chile continued to make progress.
federating all the Scandinavian operations under a single management Carat Affiliates is a business which structure and thereby offering plans and buys media for small advertisers a true cross-border creative boutique ad agencies service.
Carat Nordic has been well around the country.
Carat Affiliates received by clients and the change is a logical extension of the media has already begun to elicit an services revolution which is improved financial performance.
spawning the launch of hot new creative agencies around the US.
The Americas Carat North America had a successful Carat Interactive also continued to year with the major win of Hyundai grow and develop into new business Kia dominating an impressive roster areas and now ranks in the top of new client wins which included three of global interactive networks adidas, Bank One, Pernod Ricard, according to Mediapost.
These clients, along acquisitions made at the end of with a number of smaller wins, led 2001 and the start of 2002 gave to an excellent net new business Carat Interactive access to two key figure of $730 million.
Combined areas: award-winning creative ability with increased spending by existing and eCRM Customer Relationship clients 2002 billings increased by Management.
Given a flat US adspend Carat Interactives services continued market this is a strong result.
to grow throughout 2002 the 14 David Liu, Chief Executive Officer, Carat Asia-Pacific Asia-Pacific Vizeum brand.
Vizeum will provide Vizeum will provide more 2002 was a tough and challenging clients with the opportunity to year for Asia-Pacific but it was also work with a new independent a breakthrough year.
Having entered media agency with access to the choice to marketers.
The the Asia-Pacific market five years ago world-class systems and negotiating Carat has now established a network power of the Aegis Group.
new independent media of 27 offices in 12 countries in the region.
Furthermore, with a dual The Group has an impressive track network will have access focus on driving top line growth and record of developing its media managing bottom line profitability, business organically.
Since the Carat Asia-Pacific has been turned mid-1990s the Carat network has led to the systems and into a profitable network in less than the market in unbundled media five years.
A tranche of 46 new advice, doubling in size organically negotiating power of the clients helped towards the while many of its competitors impressive $172 million of net new merged with each other to maintain Aegis Group.
business won during the year.
Vizeum will bring further choice to advertisers seeking Carat has started to build a independent advice.
substantial presence in some markets.
In China, it is now one of To ensure that both Carat and the top five media agencies.
In Vizeum leverage Aegis established Taiwan, with the success of new market position, the Group will business growth, it is now the create a holding company called number one media agency in the Aegis Media which will have market.
Given such a strong responsibility for all of its media performance Carat is on track to businesses.
Aegis Media will becoming a significant player in maximise scale benefits by providing Asia-Pacific.
a number of shared services and internal resources including media Vizeum A New Independent negotiation, information technology Media Network and finance.
Vizeum will operate In March 2003, Aegis announced alongside Carat within the Aegis plans to launch Vizeum as its new Media division and will launch in the international media network.
The Summer of 2003 with a significant Group currently has a significant European network that will then be number of strong local media developed globally.
operations, in addition to the existing Carat network, which will be brought together under the Eric Drancourt, Chief Executive Officer, Vizeum 15 Operating Review The formation of Synovate as a new global brand galvanised and stimulated staff and clients around the world.
The proposition Research Reinvented was eagerly seized upon too.
Market Research strengthening the European network In 2002, our research business was a key priority in 2002 and good simultaneously went back to its progress was made in meeting this roots and stepped forward into a objective.
The formation of Synovate countries it is intended to continue as a new global brand galvanised to build Synovates geographic and stimulated staff and clients presence through acquisitions in key around the world.
Synovates Research Reinvented was eagerly international network has been seized upon too.
As a consequence developed rapidly over the past four there is a new unity throughout the years and the business now business that is helping to establish generates over one third of Group its credentials as a true global player.
Much work still needs to be done, however, in developing a suite With strong market positions already of consistent solutions and established in the US and Asia-Pacific, extending the business into higher margin areas such as consultancy.
During the year, Synovates reporting structure was solidified into three regional areas.
Robert Philpott was appointed to head the Americas, Nicos Rossides to EMEA and Tim Balbirnie and Peter Snell to Asia-Pacific.
All processes and best practices are being standardised geographically as well as operationally within the network to meet the needs of international marketers.
All aspects of the business are also being streamlined including communication strategies, human resources and Robert Philpott, Nicos Rossides and Peter Snell, Synovate Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific financial systems.
As the new 16 Adrian Chedore, Chief Executive Officer, Synovate research brand is rolled out in 2003 In 2002, Synovate worked with many and from the automotive division.
it will be based around a consistent of the worlds largest drug companies Furthermore there was strong global service offering using and is structuring the company growth from TeleNation, Synovates standardised research methodologies, to maximise synergies between syndicated global omnibus.
Synovate has various groups working on all During the year Synovate stepped successfully developed a broad aspects of the healthcare industry up its development in Latin America.
range of wholly-owned solutions this includes prescription, OTC, DTC The Brazilian research market which are currently being rolled and healthcare insurance.
continued to show good growth and out across the network.
The ability with the acquisition of Inner to offer consistent feedback and Americas Researchs operation in Sao Paulo, reporting to clients around the globe The research market in North Synovate is now amongst the top will provide significant benefits to America was stagnant for the second 10 research agencies in Brazil.
The clients as well as enhanced consecutive year and Synovates growth prospects of Synovates profitability for the business.
revenues in the region declined by nascent operation in Argentina has 2.9% to 126.7 million.
This small been impacted by ongoing political Synovate has comprehensive decline was due to weak US Dollar and economic uncertainty and it coverage in a wide range of exchange rates which masks a small proceeds with caution to limit Group industry sectors.
Synovates underlying rise, in particular in the exposure in this market.
automotive division, for example, second half of the year.
This revenue has relationships with 15 of the 21 performance, however, belies the major auto manufacturers.
As the major improvements that have been international capability grows it is made to the regions operational expected that clients will extend efficiency and cost base and these relationships further.
changes have had a significant impact on profitability.
Synovates healthcare division is working to strengthen global Major clients in the consumer goods functionality both through sector froze 2002 research spending acquisitions and by sharing best as the economic climate continued practice with Synovate companies to give them cause for concern.
throughout the world who specialise Synovates focus on developing in healthcare.
Synovates Anti-cancer industry sectors bore fruit, however, Drug and Tumour Audit, for example, with improved performances from is currently purchased by over 20 the healthcare division, particularly manufacturers of oncology products.
the syndicated Cancer Audit service, 17 Operating Review Synovate further strengthened its Within the specialist research position as one of the world leaders divisions, there has been strong in panel research services.
revenue growth in the business In particular, the Internet Panel saw consulting and agricultural research revenues increase by around 75%.
divisions much of which is coming Telephone data collection grew from local clients.
In Japan, Research modestly in 2002 but the company Fact performed well and is now a is looking at ways to reduce costs major contributor to the expansion and increase efficiency in this area, of Synovates activities both within principally through computer Japan and across Asia-Pacific as assisted telephone interviewing.
Europe, Middle East and Africa To remain ahead in the hotly EMEA contested Asia-Pacific research EMEA saw revenues increase by market Synovate commenced the 158.9% to 42.7 million in 2002 introduction of new global solutions helped by the continued expansion for customer satisfaction and brand of the network in the region.
Another new product introduction is a new Synovate continued to build its interactive data collection terminal European operations through three developed by Synovate Americas, acquisitions.
Market&More, acquired which allows graphics, Synovates automotive division undertakes research for many of the worlds largest automotive manufacturers including studies on in February, gave it a presence in the advertisements and other visual new product design, brand image and customer satisfaction.
Benelux and German markets as well material to be shown whilst as strengthening its presence in achieving much faster collection France.
Sample Surveys was acquired time.
Clients appear to be very in the UK in August.
Finally, Inner receptive to this technique, even in was acquired in September giving less developed markets such as Synovate a presence in Spain as well China, Philippines and Indonesia.
as offices in Portugal, Argentina, Brazil and the Ivory Coast.
The focus on developing synergy across all business units within the Looking at market sectors, Synovate global network has Synovates automotive division resulted in a number of showed encouraging growth with the opportunities to extend relationships UK, Central Eastern Europe and the with key multinational clients based Middle East all performing in the Asia-Pacific region.
has also been working closely with Carat offices on a number of joint The successful deployment of pitches which should begin to yield branded solutions such as Pinpoint results in 2003. and The Momentum Engine across the EMEA region in 2002 saw a significant increase in sales.
Further strong growth in proprietary products is expected in 2003.
In addition, the roll out of Synovates Customer Commitments model in 2003 will end third party licensing with a corresponding benefit to bottom line profitability.
Asia-Pacific Synovate Asia-Pacific saw revenues grow to 42.0 million representing an increase of 13.2% over prior year.
The main contributors to revenue growth were Korea, China, Taiwan and Philippines.
Close monitoring of internal and direct costs, and the implementation of standardised processes also helped to improve profitability over the period.
18 To remain ahead in the hotly contested Asia-Pacific research market, Synovate commenced the introduction of new global solutions for customer satisfaction and brand equity management.
