Review of Operations With business in more than 90 countries, Compass Group has a strong and experienced management team around the world.
Each country is run by local nationals wherever possible, who are based in that territory.
Each country is also part of a division that is represented on the Executive Committee.
Where the company has sufficient critical mass or The Group continued to move into new territories with potential within a territory, the business is managed under both new and existing clients.
For example, Eurest won its sector-specific teams ensuring the delivery of a bespoke first contract in Croatia.
This agreement, with the countrys offer, tailored to the specific needs of clients.
This can third largest company HT Telecom, provides an excellent range from Medirest and Morrison caring for patients, staff base from which to grow.
and visitors in hospitals, through to Select Service Partner operating around the world catering for the needs of the UK & Ireland travelling public.
As the largest foodservice company in the UK, Eurest has won a record level of new contracts.
Notable gains during Business and Industry B&I 2002 included significant multi-site contracts with: Eurest is the worlds largest specialist provider of Land Securities Trillium: This new ten-year contract foodservice to business and industry around the globe.
worth 15 million in annual revenue with a leading Despite recessionary pressures in many economies property outsourcing company, is to provide services during 2002, Eurest has continued to see strong business to the BBCs London and Scotland estates where Eurest retention in line with the group rate of 95% and excellent is delivering catering services across 20 sites.
business gains, which together have delivered good and HM Customs and Excise and the Inland Revenue: continuing growth in turnover.
A five-year contract worth over 3 million in annual revenue to provide catering services for 17,000 staff International growth at 20 UK sites.
Eurest continues to see an increase in the number of Esporta Health and Fitness: A four-year contract worth national and multi-national contracts it has with clients.
10 million in annual revenue at 40 health clubs.
A new ten-year contract with British Airways means that Other significant B&I contract wins included: in the UK, Eurest will be the sole provider of the airlines GlaxoSmithKline, Britannia Airlines, Hammond Suddards employee restaurant and vending services as well as all Edge, Clerical Medical, Pearson Education, SAP, the passenger-lounge catering services.
Sister company FLIK National Marine Aquarium, Eurotunnel, Centrica, Orange, will provide foodservice for 18 of the carriers lounges in the Seeboard, Online Finance and Norwich Union Healthcare.
USA and Canada, valued at a further $10 million annually.
Eurest now caters for Volkswagen in a number of countries North America worldwide and 2002 saw the award of VWs largest single The North American division had another record sales year contract to date worth over 6 million a year to provide continuing to win significant new contracts with clients foodservice at four sites in Brazil.
In Slovakia, Eurest will on a local, regional and national basis.
The largest single also be delivering the foodservice for VW in Bratislava, contract win was the award to Eurest and Thompson with annual sales in excess of 1 million.
Hospitality of a ten-year contract to provide food and vending services to The Boeing Company at locations in the Puget Sound area of Washington State, Portland, Oregon, and Wichita, Kansas.
The contract is valued at about $40 million per annum.
Canteen Correctional Services has been awarded a five-year contract worth $60 million in annual revenues by Corrections Corporation of America CCA to provide foodservice and vending.
04 Compass Group PLC As part of the ChevronTexaco agreement, Eurest Support Services has a significant presence in Kazakhstan.
Using locally sourced food products and sub-contractors, it will prepare more than 10,000 meals a day, and provide a host of facilities management and support services.
Compass Group PLC 05 Over 390,000 people around the world Working to deliver great service Review of Operations continued France Eurest Support Services ESS won four new North SeaFollowing the strengthening of the management team in based contracts worth a total of 3 million per annum, France last year, new contracts gained by Eurest include: to provide offshore catering and hospitality services for Mutuelles du Mans Assurances: Providing foodservice Kerr-McGee, Prosafe, Enterprise Oil and Rasmussen.
and vending at this prestigious insurance company site in Le Mans, worth 4 million per year.
In Australia the ESS contract for Normandy Mining Ltd European Parliament, Strasbourg: Eurest is providing opened in December 2001 with over 1 million annual sales, foodservice for over 1,800 customers a day with and in Qatar, ESS signed a five-year contract to cater for revenues of over 3 million per year.
officers and soldiers with 2.8 million meals served a year Federal Express: A foodservice contract worth over and annual sales in the region of 5 million.
Fine Dining Rest of the World Restaurant Associates has a strong reputation in the US, Eurest continues to win new business around the world.
and within six months of its launch in the UK, the company A selection of new contracts include: announced contracts with Deutsche Bank, J Walter Germany: Accenture, DZ Bank, Ford, Hewlett Packard Thompson, Manchester Art Gallery and the unique Sunborn and Werder Bremen Stadium are recent contract wins Yacht Hotel berthed at ExCel in Londons Docklands.
with annual revenues of 14 million.
Medirest have won contracts with Diakonie Hospital, Mannheim, Leading restaurateur Oliver Peyton joined Restaurant St Elizabeth Krankenhause in Cologne and Iserlohn and Associates to help cultivate new business opportunities Marienhospital, Witten, with combined annual and implement new dining concepts for the companys revenues of 5 million.
Olivers contract with Brazil: The local team has been awarded the foodservice Londons Somerset House, through his company Gruppo for Ford at three sites in Sao Paulo with annual sales of Events, is now operated by Restaurant Associates.
Belgium: A three-year contract for the five staff restaurants of SAS in Oslo with annual sales in excess of 1 million.
Czech Republic: Eurest is providing over 3,000 meals a day for Karosa, part of the Fiat Group.
Romania: Eurest won its first major contract with Renault Dacia with annual foodservice sales of over 1 million.
Offshore and remote site services In January 2002, Compass Group announced the largest agreement in catering industry history a ten-year $200 million per annum agreement with ChevronTexaco covering catering and facilities management for most of the companys facilities, offshore platforms, refineries and office locations worldwide.
06 Compass Group PLC Major new contract wins during the year in Business and Industry, read like a global Whos Who: GlaxoSmithKline, British Airways, SAP, Federal Express, Ford, Volkswagen, the BBC and the European Parliament.
The acquisition of Onama, the largest company in the Italian contract catering market, makes the Group market leader in continental Europes third largest foodservice market.
Onama provides 90 million meals a year from 600 catering facilities.
Clients include Olivetti and Pirelli.
Compass Group PLC 07 Operating in over 90 countries Local service, international reach Canteen Vending has won a three-year contract with Americas largest car retailer, AutoNation, to service 215 locations nationally, and will also be installing Ritazza coffee machines in 230 Shell forecourt convenience stores throughout Brazil.
Eurest and Vendepac have won contracts to supply vending and foodservices to the UK mobile telephone network Orange, while Eurest and Canteen Vending won a ten-year contract to provide food and vending services to three Boeing sites in the USA.
08 Compass Group PLC Annual revenues of over 10 billion Market leadership Review of Operations continued Vending Compass Group has a market-leading position in vending throughout the world, through a number of well-known operating companies.
Canteen Vending, which operates primarily in the United States, is the worlds largest route vending company.
The ability to offer a national vending service in addition to foodservice is a key competitive advantage in North America, where vending typically forms part of our clients requirements especially when national contracts are awarded.
In Europe, Selecta is now able to operate according to a similar combined vending and catering model.
Major vending gains for Selecta during the year including Ford Germany and Belgium and Orange UK have again been achieved through close co-operation with Eurest.
Further growth has come this year from Selectas expansion into new markets, supported by and complementing existing catering activities.
For example, Selectas joint venture with HB Makro has established a market-leading position in vending in the Czech Republic.
The arrival of Euro coinage in January 2002 was a major event.
Selectas own machines and many more third party machines were successfully converted to operate with the new currency.
The Euro has also enabled Selecta to introduce multi-currency machines at key travel locations.
2002 was the first full financial year for Selecta and Vendepac as part of the Compass Group and it saw a number of important developments.
The two businesses are now operating as a single European vending division, and from 2003 the Selecta brand will be used in the UK.
Selectas public vending activities continue to expand, and a contract to provide snack and beverage vending in the Vienna metro system has been awarded.
In the USA, Canteen Vending gained significant new contracts in the prisons market at the Florida Department of Juvenile Justice a $6 million account and at the Greensville Correctional Centre worth $4 million.
Compass Group PLC 09 Review of Operations continued Healthcare Rest of the World Compass Group continues to build a successful presence Another year of strong organic sales in Denmark, included in healthcare foodservice worldwide, through foodservice a major new contract with the Roskilde County Hospital.
companies Medirest and Morrison, supported in the USA In Norway Medirest has been awarded the contract for the by Crothall, its specialist healthcare facilities management newly built Nordland Hospital BF patient hotel in Bodo subsidiary.
worth over 1 million per annum.
North America ADNH, our joint-venture in the Middle East, made a In April, Morrison won a five-year contract with Fountains significant breakthrough in the healthcare sector in Dubai, Retirement Communities, Inc. to provide dining services winning a contract to provide meals for patients and staff management for 17 of the companys communities across at the state-run Al Wasl hospital.
This is the first time that the United States.
The contract represents sales of more the catering contract has been awarded to a private than $14 million per annum and is the largest retirement sector company.
community alliance in the for-profit senior living market.
A five-year agreement with The University of Texas Medical The Australian team opened Caff Ritazza at St. Vincents Branch, Galveston with annual turnover of $3 million and a hospital, Sydney and in New Zealand several further Caff contract to provide over 2,000 meals a day at Owensboro Ritazzas opened in healthcare to consolidate our strong Mercy Health System, Kansas have also been awarded.
UK The company continues to work with leading chef John Benson-Smith to develop a range of innovative new dishes to support the National Health Services Better Hospital Food initiative.
This aims to make the meals served in hospitals even closer to the standards of top restaurants.
France Significant contract wins during the year for Medirest included two new key accounts: Promo Accueil & Smam, Medirest will be providing 13,000 a consortium of retirement residences.
The operation of meals a day for the patients and a three-year contract with Assistances Publiques des staff of six Paris hospitals, after Hpitaux fide Paris started.
This catering contract, worth winning a three-year contract worth 14 million per annum.
14 million per annum, is with the authority that manages This will include providing state hospitals in Paris, and represents 13,000 meals per catering services for the day for the patients and staff of six hospitals.
The agreement famous Nutrition Department also covers the maintenance of equipment.
Caff Ritazza at the Htel Dieu.
also opened in Hpital du Val fide Grace & Hpital fide Garche.
10 Compass Group PLC Our US healthcare business gained 95 new contracts in 2002.
These included The Fountains Retirement Communities, Inc. where a five-year agreement worth over $14 million per annum to provide dining services, is the largest of its kind in the for-profit senior living market.
Compass Group PLC 11 Contract retention strong at 95% Client and customer satisfaction Review of Operations continued Retail and Concession Catering The airline industry has experienced significant set backs during the year as a result of the terrorist attacks in the USA on 11 September 2001, with much reduced traffic in the North American sector.
However, SSP has minimised the impact through prompt management action and close co-operation with airlines and airport partners.
Forward projections for passenger growth remain strong, with the number of people travelling by air forecast to increase substantially during the next decade.
SSP has continued to perform well in the airport restaurants business with new contracts awarded to our teams in Sweden, Hong Kong, Thailand, Austria, Australia, Canada and Germany.
In the UK, SSP won significant new business including a ten-year contract with Glasgow Prestwick International Airport worth a total of 3 million, and a ten-year contract to provide catering facilities at Leeds Bradford International Airport worth 4 million per annum, as well as business at Liverpool and Exeter airports.
In Germany, SSP has been awarded a ten-year contract at Terminal C at Dusseldorf International Airport worth 3 million per annum and a seven-year contract for two new units at Hong Kong International Airport worth over 1 million per annum.
In addition several contract extensions have been negotiated in Spain and Norway.
The introduction of Group brands, particularly Upper Crust and Caff Ritazza, has continued to play an important part in this growth.
The company also acquired a majority shareholding in the Cyprus-based Louis Catering.
This has allowed SSP to enter for the first time markets in Cyprus and Greece, and the strategically important territories of Russia, Poland and Hungary.
In rail and other transport contracts, growth and consolidation have been maintained, through continued roll out and conversion to Group brands.
This was supported by other initiatives such as the development with Marks & Spencer of their Simply Food concept with a further 40 openings planned at UK stations.
In Brazil, improvements were made to a number of contracts using Group brands, including Upper Crust at Tiete bus station, So Paulo.
In Leisure and Hospitality, the Group continues to see good new business in a range of sectors and territories.
In Australia, the Group gained the foodservice at Taronga Zoo in Sydney, a retail and leisure contract opened in February 2002 with annual sales of 3 million, and in Spain, new units were opened at the IFEMA exhibition centre.
12 Compass Group PLC Motorways and Roadside Moto is the largest operator of motorway service areas in the UK, with 48 sites in 34 locations.
As part of its continued effort to improve the customer experience, Moto has introduced new Motokids and Motobaby packages to make life easier for parents on the road.
Organix baby food is now available free in most of Motos Fresh Express restaurants, where a purpose-built baby feeding area features a microwave oven to heat Rail Gourmet, acquired in baby food safely, and disposable bowls, cutlery and bottle March 2002, offers a new area warmers.
Motobaby changing rooms, play areas for kids of expertise satisfying the and pick n mix five item meals complete the offer.
growth in the high-speed train service market with on-board foodservice operations in Spain, Switzerland, the UK, Belgium and Scandinavia.
Each year Moto sells enough Coca Cola to fill 266 Olympicsized swimming pools.
Our three million sandwiches use 280,000 loaves of bread.
We make 15 cups of tea each minute and sell enough Mars bars to have a Mars a day for 1,350 years.
SSP has continued to develop its portfolio of convenience store concepts.
The first Simply Food store in a railway station opened at Londons Liverpool Street in November 2001 in collaboration with Marks & Spencer.
The company now has four sites in the UK with a further 40 planned to open in 2003.
Compass Group PLC 13 Launched vision and values training Operational excellence Review of Operations continued Education France Scolarest and Chartwells are leading international Scolarest has won a range of new contracts in the year companies in the education market, meeting the needs including foodservice for state schools in Paris 12 me of pupils and students, from pre-school infants, through arrondissement 2,000 meals per day, and in the cities of primary and secondary school to higher education.
All Noisiel 1,500 meals per day, Wasiers 600 meals per day divisions worldwide have reported a strong performance and Courcouronnes 1,400 meals per day.
Private education contract wins included Private School North America Groups of Sacr Coeur and Jeanne dArc Paray Le Monial In the USA, Chartwells gained contracts with Louisiana 500 meals per day, Franklin Paris 16 me 700 meals per State University: State University of New York Purchase: day, Saint Laurent, Lagny over 900 meals per day, Private Oakland University, Michigan: Winston-Salem Forsyth School Group Saint Ursule, Caen 1,100 meals per day, County Schools, North Carolina: Indiana University Purdue Public Lyce Dessaignes, Blois 1,270 meals per day and University Indianapolis IUPUI and Haverhill Public Schools Lyce Saint Joseph, Thonon 1,000 meals per day.
with combined annual revenues of over $40 million.
Rest of World These strong contract gains were supplemented by the Education contracts gained elsewhere in the world acquisition in April 2002 of Bon Apptit.
Bon Apptit has included foodservice in Chile at Junta Nacional fide Auxilios a strong reputation for high quality foodservice in the Escolar y Becas, with annual sales of 2 million.
education, business and industry and concessions markets.
Clients include Stanford University and the recently gained Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
UK Scolarest is now the UKs leading education caterer, securing a number of multi-site contracts in the year including a seven-year, 5 million annual turnover contract to cater for schools across Bedfordshire.
Other major new contracts included an 11 million annual turnover, two-year contract for schools in Essex and Scolarest also successfully retained a 4 million per annum three-year catering contract in Sandwell.
In the field of higher education, Scolarest won a 2 million annual turnover, ten-year contract with City University, London, and a ten-year, 1 million annual turnover contract with the University of North London.
Compass Group companies place In February, Compass Group acquired one of the UKs a high value on nutrition and leading independent education specialists, Castle balanced diet, particularly critical Independent, which operates a medium-sized portfolio of in the education sector where our contracts throughout the UK.
In June, Castle Independent Scolarest teams have their Eating with Dinosaurs programme for was awarded a five-year contract worth 2 million in annual students in school.
turnover by Brighton and Hove City Council to provide services to 64 schools in the area.
14 Compass Group PLC Through Chartwells and Scolarest the Group operates in more than 30 countries leading to an unrivalled understanding of foodservice in education.
The education sector brings the additional challenge of providing food that often brand-conscious students want to eat, whilst at the same time meeting the expectations of their parents for nutritious and varied diet.
Compass Group PLC 15 Great people, great service, great results Preferred employer LETHEB Y & C HRISTOPHER................................................................. CA TERING MADE SPECIAL For the benefit of our clients, venuecollection.
com was launched as an internet database featuring details of all the leisure venues operated by the Compass Group throughout the UK, from racetracks to Royal palaces.
16 Compass Group PLC New business gains of over 1.1 billion signed Financial performance Review of Operations continued Sports and Events Compass Group Canada won the Through several high-profile subsidiaries, Compass Group World Youth Day contract worth $13 million over a two-week provides top-quality catering for prestigious sporting, social period in July.
Some 3.5 million and leisure events around the world.
meals were served to around 450,000 young people at the North America event whose most distinguished guest was Pope John Paul II.
A highlight of the year was the 2002 Winter Olympic Games, and the Paralympic Winter Games, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Compass Group was the official catering services supplier for the Games, serving 3,500 residents of the Olympic Village as well as more than 125,000 people daily during the Games at nine competition venues and six non-competition venues spread over 5,000 square miles.
More than 450 staff served among other items 400,000 hot dogs, 310,000 boxed meals, 38,000 gallons of soup and 34,000 gallons of hot chocolate.
Levy Restaurants successfully entered the NASCAR market in March with a 20-year deal to operate Finishline, the foodservice division of Speedway Motorsports.
Annual turnover is projected to be $32 million.
Levy will provide on-site foodservice and catering for all of Speedway Motorsports racing events, daily operations, and minor league baseball contracts across the United States, as well as the Texas Motor Speedway Club.
Combined annual attendance at all Speedway Motorsports events exceeds 3.5 million, with over 100,000 fans being served in corporate hospitality pavilions.
During the year Levy Restaurants was also awarded catering contracts at the Houston Arena and at Lambeau Field, home of the NFLs Green Bay Packers.
The two contracts are worth $21 million annually.
Levy has also recently signed a contract with Manchester United PLC.
UK Letheby & Christopher won the contract to provide specialist catering services at six of the UKs most popular racecourses representing turnover of 5.5 million per annum.
This followed another prestigious contract win to operate conference, banqueting and hospitality catering services at the Silverstone motorsport circuit in Northamptonshire.
The three-year contract at the home of the British Formula 1 Grand Prix, is worth 3 million in annual turnover.
In February, Compass Group acquired leisure caterer P&C Morris, which manages a fleet of mobile catering We cater for some of the worlds units providing public catering services at major greenfield largest sporting events at the most prestigious venues: the events, such as the Chelsea Flower Show.
Following the US tennis Open at Flushing branding of a number of the mobiles with key Group Meadows: the Ryder Cup on brands including Harry Ramsdens, Upper Crust and Little both sides of the Atlantic: test Chef, turnover increased by an average of 35%.
matches at the Sydney Cricket Ground: Rugby at Twickenham: and the Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs.
