04 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Operating review Operating review The turbulence of 2002 proved once again that there is no substitute for clarity of strategy and precise timeliness of implementation.
Croda had a good year in spite of the global conditions.
We never wavered from our chosen path to increase innovation and add value for our customers.
Our continued focus on Consumer Care paid real dividends in increased profits, cash generation and real growth in our core speciality Oleochemical business.
On continuing operations, sales were up 3.3%, with the core speciality Oleochemical business increasing sales by over 5%.
Operating profit for continuing operations increased by 15.9% and profit before tax, helped by lower interest charges, was 22.8% higher than 2001.
The core speciality Oleochemical operations returned to a more normal trading margin of 16.7% and now represents over 88% of group turnover and nearly 93% of trading profit.
It was once again a tough year for the remaining industrial businesses but in spite of falling sales, margins were increased to a creditable 9.7% from 9.2% in 2001.
These businesses are well managed operations which performed well against their global peer group.
For the first time in a number of years we increased sales in ANDY BRAMLEY the UK for our continuing operations with particular growth in Operations Director Personal Care, and overall sales in Europe were up over 4%, in Rawcliffe Bridge and Leek Croda Chemicals Europe what was a very tough market.
Sales were down in France and flat in Germany and Italy, but we achieved good growth in Andy joined Croda in 1990 as a Quality Control the Benelux countries, Spain, Switzerland and especially chemist at the Rawcliffe Bridge site and worked in a number of technical roles before becoming Site Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
Director for the Leek operation in 2000 and then Manufacturing Director for both the Leek and Rawcliffe Bridge sites in 2001.
Croda has invested heavily in recent years on both sites, most recently with a GMP approved plant for the production of material for sale into pharmaceutical markets.
Whilst further investment will be made when commercially justified, maximising output and returns from the existing plant is his key task.
05 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Operating review MIKE HUMPHREY Group Chief Executive In the Americas, we returned to the historically strong growth we had enjoyed for many years prior to the second half turmoil of 2001.
Sales in the USA increased by nearly 9%.
In some parts of Latin America we increased sales substantially, compensating for the flat performances in the financially challenged areas such as Argentina and Brazil.
There was also a welcome increase in sales in Canada.
In Asia, there was a mixed performance.
Sales in Japan were flat in extremely difficult circumstances, but there was good growth in China, South Korea, and most of South East Asia.
Sales in Africa, mainly South Africa, were up almost 10%, but as expected, sales in the Middle East dropped heavily due to political and economic uncertainty in the region.
Our choice of focus over diversification brought its rewards, with sales up substantially in our target area of Consumer Care.
There was a fall in sales revenue in Plastics Additives caused by the drop in demand in the Middle East, exacerbated by the volume driven strategy of some competition.
It was again a record year for new product introductions, including Keravis for hair strengthening, the Eyeliss and Ryzasol skin care active ingredients, and a number of products from our Crodamazon range in Brazil.
This bodes well for future growth.
We continued to invest in our core research competencies and expect even more great ideas in the future from our dedicated and creative science teams.
We moved swiftly to continue the strategic focus on true specialities.
We sold Croda Distillates, our solvent recycling business.
We closed down the small textile chemicals business SURINDER CHAHAL and exited the manufacture of commodity gelatin products Research and Marketing Director as the aftermath of BSE and continued regulatory pressures Personal Care and Health Care Croda Chemicals Europe took its toll.
Surinder joined Croda in 1987 as a development chemist at Croda Colloids and subsequently worked in a number of research based roles before becoming R&D Director in 2001.
Surinder has been particularly involved with the development of specialty proteins for the cosmetic industry where their use in Hair Care products is well established.
More recent developments for proteins have included their application in fabric conditioners.
Following the recent re-organisation of our European operations, Surinder was appointed to his present position and is looking forward to a closer working relationship with the sales and marketing teams and an increased speed of response to market needs.
06 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Operating review Operating review I am pleased to report that capital expenditure was again much better controlled.
This does not mean we are ignoring our future, merely that the heavy expenditure of the last ten years is bearing fruit.
Singapore output grew in line with plan.
Our recent investment in the USA is now fully operational, giving us both capacity and efficiency.
We constructed and commissioned a brand new lanolin plant in Brazil and completed the new plant and capacity improvements at Rawcliffe Bridge, which enabled the successful transfer of the Westbrook business and subsequent closure of the leased site in Bradford.
The SAP system is continuing to provide benefits across Europe and the roll out continues this year in Brazil followed by Singapore.
Again, cash generation was strong with great efforts at the business units backed by shrewd management at the centre.
We are proud of the achievements in once again reducing debt, but there will be no let up in the drive to reduce working capital.
Our decision to focus on organic growth seems to be wholly vindicated.
We have the strength in our balance sheet to make suitable acquisitions, but we also have the strength of mind to pursue only those that will add true value.
VANIA PACCHIONI OLEOCHEMICALS Technical Marketing Manager Croda Brazil RESULTS 2002 2001 % m m Change Vania joined Croda Brazil in 1986 in the technical department for Personal and Health Care, since when External turnover 260.1 247.4 5 she worked in a number of technical and sales roles, Trading profit 43.4 37.0 17 before taking up her current position in 2000.
Vania has been key to marketing of many of Crodas raw Margin 16.7% 15.0% 11 materials into the Brazilian market, both from our Brazilian manufacturing plant and elsewhere in the Capital employed 198.2 205.5 4 Croda Group.
More recently the establishment of our Return on capital 21.9% 18.0% 22 operation in the Amazon has given Vania access to an abundance of new potential raw materials for our processes.
She relishes this new challenge.
This was a strong performance in challenging market conditions.
Trading profits increased by 17.3% on a sales increase of 5.1%.
We continued to refine the product portfolio and returned to a trading margin of 16.7%.
In spite of a number of raw material price increases, we increased gross margins.
We continued to implement price increases and again improved the product mix.
07 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Operating review We achieved good growth in Personal Care, led once again by Sederma.
They enhanced their leadership in the Actives market with another sparkling set of new product introductions.
Last years key product launch, Matrixyl, was a great success.
Planned customer launches in 2003 will ensure that it becomes the most exciting new product for Skin Care in recent years.
Our plant extracts business, Crodarom, also had a terrific year by moving up the value chain with an emphasis on quality and innovation.
In North America, the drop in performance in 2001 was completely reversed by aggressive marketing of both new and more mature products.
The new capacity in Mill Hall has been very welcome and we look forward to more progress in 2003.
The most significant event in this sector was the formation of a pan European company, combining all the sales and marketing operations throughout the European mainland with the four main manufacturing operations in the UK.
This new operation faces the market place through customer and industry focused business units, supported by a unitary manufacturing and logistics resource.
With the exception of Plastics Additives, this business demonstrated good growth in sales and profits and the new structure will accelerate the process.
TAKESHI KORESAWA Production and Technical Director In the planning of this new operation, it became obvious that Croda Japan the commodity gelatin business was unsustainable.
With some Koresawa-san has been with the Croda Group for regret, especially for the people involved, we decided to exit over thirty years.
During this time he was key to this business.
We also closed the Westbrook site in Bradford the development of Crodas Snow White Lanolin, a very successful ultra pure lanolin.
developed for the production of SWL remains at the core of the Shiga factory, though the plant is In Latin America, we opened the new high quality lanolin plant now also used for the super refining of many other in Brazil, which has put clear water between Croda and oils, waxes and esters.
According to ancient tradition in the area of our factory, to be a indigenous manufacturers in this important region.
The successful merchant, the seller, the customer and Crodamazon project continued on its upward path, with the public should all benefit from your actions and launches in Europe and the USA which generated a number Koresawa-san continues to actively develop new products and technologies embracing this Good of exciting enquiries.
The financial instability in the region was for three sides spirit.
extremely well managed and good growth was secured in a number of countries.
08 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Operating review Operating review The Singapore plant increased output again and sales from this operation were up over 16%.
There was excellent progress in Personal Care in China and most of South East Asia.
We maintained sales in the Japanese market in adverse market conditions and the innovation and high quality workforce at Croda Japan give us cause for optimism going forward.
The team at Croda South Africa increased sales by a very creditable 10%.
Emlyn Horne, who has managed this business very successfully for many years, retires in April and I would like to thank him for his exceptionally successful leadership throughout all the turmoil of recent years in this important market.
There was strong growth in our Health Care business which increased sales by over 14%.
We invoiced our first commercial quantity for the exciting Asthma project and we are fully prepared for supply of Polidocanol to Provensis.
Though both of these projects will not have major impact for some time, solid progress is being made.
The new ultra high purity lipid plant has had a positive impact as we move the business into the higher value added area of pharmaceuticals.
Globally, Health Care remains one of our key growth platforms for the future.
The renewed focus on Home Care has produced excellent results and much new business is in the pipeline.
We continue to do well in the supply of additives for wet wipes nonwovens.
The project to transfer protein technology from Hair CLAIRE MAS-CHAMBERLAIN Care to Fabric Care has been successful and we expect Scientific Director Sederma significant sales in this new business area.
Crodas acquisition of Sederma in 1997 brought Once again, the results for speciality Oleochemicals were many new technologies and research methods to underpinned by our global marketing network, which we will the Croda Group.
Sedermas ability to innovate and develop new products has always been key to their expand again in 2003.
This global spread is a major strength success.
They focus on developing new active for Croda and enables us to be much less reliant on one or ingredients for Personal Care.
Many of the worlds two major customers than our peer group.
leading cosmetic houses rely on Sederma products for their own marketing claims.
Claire uses her imagination and inspiration to create and support In the last annual report, I remarked that 2002 would be a new active ingredients.
Her excellent knowledge of better year for our core business, and so it has proved to be.
skin physiology, biology, technology and a sensitivity to markets trends are invaluable.
The pipeline of new products means we should expect further solid progress in 2003.
09 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Operating review OTHER RESULTS 2002 2001 % m m Change External turnover 34.9 38.2 9 Trading profit 3.4 3.5 3 Margin 9.7% 9.2% 5 Capital employed 21.3 21.8 2 Return on capital 16.0% 16.1% 1 It was another difficult year for these small units which operate in a much more depressed environment than our core business.
However, it is pleasing to report increased margins which resulted in flat profits on turnover down by over 8%.
Baxenden Chemicals again produced good results in challenging market conditions.
Fire Fighting Chemicals increased profitability after a poor year in 2001 and Seatons performed well as it outsourced manufacture to mainland Europe.
We exited the solvent recovery business by selling Croda Distillates.
Croda Application Chemicals and our small company in Australia, Celtite, both had difficult years but remained in profit.
ABEL PEREIRA SUMMARY Research Director Product Development Croda Inc In 2002, we increased sales, increased productivity, increased margins, accelerated cash generation, increased innovation, Abel joined Croda in 1978 as a 17 year old for what reduced debt, continued to sharpen our focus and most should have been a summer job and he has been importantly, substantially increased profits.
Behind these with us ever since!
In the early 1980s Abel played an important part in establishing our manufacturing achievements is a committed creative workforce, a consistent operation in Brazil when he went there on strategy, and an unrivalled ability to implement change.
His help and assistance was invaluable, have learned from both our successes and our failures and we especially as he speaks fluent Portuguese.
Abel has worked directly in manufacturing, technical services, will be stronger because of these lessons.
The corporate marketing and sales, but has spent the last ten years culture of innovation and common sense has enabled us to in a lab based role, being promoted to his current achieve much over the last few years.
There are no certainties position in 2000.
He has been directly responsible for nine patents, with another eight pending.
These in these times of political and financial turmoil, but we will have a particular emphasis on products for sale into continue to try to deliver on our commitments to all our the Hair Care market, an area where Croda Inc is stakeholders and look forward to the challenges of 2003 recognised as a market leader.
