operational review Regional Review Overview of trading conditions Group revenue declined by 12% over the In a period of deteriorating global period, but some stabilisation returned in economic conditions and increasing the second half of the year when uncertainties, trading in all Dimension revenues were only marginally down on Datas regions remained extremely the first half.
Constrained IT budgets, declining volumes, smaller deal sizes, Gross margins came under severe lengthening lead times and postponement pressure over the year.
Lower volumes, of significant spending decisions were all fewer large opportunities and the fiercely features of the period.
Across the board, competitive trading environment resulted customers were cautious about in pressure on technology pricing and committing to new IT infrastructure spend.
billing rates, particularly in the second half They remained focused on extracting of the year.
This was exacerbated by low returns on their IT investments, reducing utilisation levels and excess overheads the operational costs of existing relative to the reduced level of activity.
The infrastructure and were more inclined to Group-wide rationalisations largely in the invest in services and solutions.
second half of the year in response to the deteriorating market conditions were costly and further disrupted trading in some regions.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 19 Africa $'000 FY2002 FY2001 Turnover 292,866 426,790 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 20,027 65,630 Operating margin 6.8% 15.4% Net operating assets 78,617 352,256 Dimension Data remained the overall Gross margins have declined over the Black economic empowerment is leader in the South African IT services second half of the year due to increased becoming increasingly important when market, maintaining market share in the capacity in Internet Solutions, which competing for new customers.
network infrastructure and integration accounted for a 2% drop in operating Management has been proactive in business.
Over the year the Rand declined margin.
As capacity is utilised in 2003 implementing a black empowerment by 22% against the US dollar, which margins will again improve.
charter and setting targets to ensure that contributed to the 31% decline in reported it is realised.
These include new dollar revenues compared to a Rand The African business is entering 2003 with appointments, partnerships, supplier revenue decline of only 12%.
a more focused and streamlined relationships, internal training and operation, a more efficient cost structure leadership initiatives aimed at creating Management changes, cost reductions and upgraded management systems.
The representation across all staffing levels.
and rationalisations were implemented, lines of business have been reduced from largely in the second half of the year.
Employee incentive structures The Corporate Social Responsibility Costs came down by 23% relative to have been realigned to ensure greater Report contains details of our black budgeted costs at the beginning of the cross-pollination and a single services empowerment initiatives.
year, following retrenchments, cost cuts organisation has been established to drive and a major rationalisation and improved service and utilisation levels.
consolidation of our lease exposures.
Sales force effectiveness, key account Headcount was reduced by 17%.
management and bid management are other areas that received additional investment and focus.
The top customer wins during the year included: MTN, a three year, US$9.5 million, core network upgrade to enable convergence of voice and data.
The project will offer a Primer service.
MTN is an existing customer.
Parmalat SA, a five year, US$5.7 million, upgrade and outsource contract.
Parmalat is an existing customer.
Santam, a three year, US$4.7 million, network management contract.
Santam is an existing customer.
University of Pretoria, a two year, US$2.0 million, network infrastructure, Primer and Uptime contract.
University of Pretoria is a new customer.
SA Petroleum Refineries SAPREF jointly owned by Shell and BP, a US$1.0 million, contract streamlining their business processes and accelerating productivity.
SAPREF is an existing customer.
20 DIMENSION DATA OPERATIONAL REVIEW Asia $'000 FY2002 FY2001 Turnover 404,908 546,195 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 16,961 47,221 Operating margin 4.2% 8.6% Net operating assets 283,150 584,381 Datacraft changed its year end from 30 In response to the turbulent market Datacraft has strengthened its focus on June to 30 September to bring it in line conditions and a reduction in business services by appointing separate heads for with Dimension Datas year end.
volumes, the company reduced fixed professional and operational services.
The Datacrafts reported numbers reported overheads by implementing a companybusiness will also be targeting more global under a separate announcement reflect wide restructuring programme.
and multinational accounts and has the 15 month period to 30 September Restructurings undertaken during the year introduced new business lines and 2002 whilst the commentary below and all reduced overheads by 19% and solutions sets in the areas of enterprise numbers in this document refer to the 12 headcount was cut by 21%.
storage, call centre integration, IP months to 30 September 2002. convergence and managed security.
A key Datacraft continued to focus on focus in 2003 will be on strengthening Although revenue in the Asian region streamlining its operations, its balance cash flows and the balance sheet, declined by 26% year on year, some sheet and cash flows.
Following a improving profitability ratios and returning stability returned in the second half when US$17.9 million increase in the provision China to profitability.
the sequential decrease on the first half for bad debts mainly in China, financial was only 8%.
Declining IT spend from controls have been strengthened and new Enterprise and Telco customers was financial management appointments have buffered by pockets of good demand for been made.
IP infrastructure and iBOSS solutions and demand for services held up better than A number of operations have been infrastructure demand.
Whilst merged to improve efficiencies, including performances differed widely across Datacraft New Zealand and NCS, regions, Datacraft maintained or grew Datacraft Korea and Dasan, Datacraft market share in all areas with the Singapore and Multisoft, and Datacraft exception of China, where revenues China and DNI.
The top customer wins during the year included: State Bank of India, a one year, US$18.0 million, project to build and manage Indias largest banking backbone network including a three year Uptime and Insite contract.
State Bank of India is a new customer.
PT Telkom Indonesia, a seven month, US$12.0 million project to build Indonesias largest high speed IP backbone.
PT Telkom is an existing customer.
TA Orange Thailand, a one year, US$5.6 million contract to set up and manage a countrywide network that interconnects more than 120 sites throughout Thailand.
TA Orange is an existing customer.
Hanoi Post and Telecommunications HNPT, a six month, US$2.6 million contract to provide Vietnams second largest telecommunications carrier with the infrastructure to transform itself from a local loop operator into a full-spectrum fixed-network service provider offering the latest IP-based services.
Hanaro Telecom, a three year, US$2.3 million outsourcing contract which will see Datacraft Asia provide Uptime support and maintenance for the companys networks in Korea.
Hanaro Telecom is an existing customer.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 21 Australia $'000 FY2002 FY2001 Turnover 364,609 406,857 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 10,188 16,596 Operating margin 2.8% 4.1% Net operating assets 104,505 253,920 Depressed demand resulted in revenues in Profitability was impacted by a relatively The DD Way framework and the Groups the Australian business declining by 10% higher contribution from Express Data, refined Application Network strategy have on 2001.
However, following a sharp which is a lower margin business.
In given the Australian business a clearer decline in the first half of the year, reaction to lower utilisation levels and focus and increased emphasis on selling revenues rebounded strongly in the second margin pressures, headcount was cut by Dimension Data packaged solutions and half, increasing sequentially by 33%.
18% over the year, unprofitable businesses services.
New initiatives during the year Demand for services that optimise existing were exited and lease overheads include the formation of a solutions sales IT investment drove increased customer significantly reduced.
This resulted in cost team, the launch of new customer interest in operational services and growth reductions of 12% relative to budgeted interactive voice and storage solutions as in areas such as customer interactive costs at the beginning of 2002. well as new operational services, such as solutions and service provider solutions Uptime for applications and new Surveyor iBOSS.
Stricter margin governance Express Data gained market share in processes, improvement of services major product lines and the network margins through better utilisation and infrastructure and integration business recovery rates and the outsourcing of maintained its market leadership position.
logistics to Express Data are key objectives aimed at improving profitability in the new financial year.
The top customer wins during the year included: Victorian Department of Natural Resources and Energy, a three year, US$6.0 million project lead in two major contracts, one is to provide directory and authentication services and the second contract is to build and maintain a new converged network to support voice, video and data.
They are an existing customer.
A leading Tier-One Telecommunications and Services Operator in the Asia-Pacific region, a nine month, US$4.9 million project to implement an iBOSS solution.
A Leading Financial Institution, a one year, US$4.1 million, preferred supplier agreement for infrastructure technology supply and Insite, Uptime and operational services contract.
Boral Limited, a three year, US$1.8 million, renewal and upgrade to pre-existing Uptime and Insite contracts.
Boral is an existing customer.
Australian Centre for the Moving Image ACMI, a three year, US$0.8 million contract to design, supply and develop a new network server and storage architecture.
22 DIMENSION DATA OPERATIONAL REVIEW Continental Europe $'000 FY2002 FY2001 Turnover 360,774 360,339 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 18,691 24,957 Operating margin 5.2% 6.9% Net operating assets 162,112 859,067 After a strong revenue growth and profit Pockets of good demand were The rightsizing of the businesses has performance in the first half of the year, a encountered in value-added areas such resulted in more focused and efficient general deterioration in economic as IP convergence, VoIP and security operations going into 2003.
Key initiatives conditions led to a slowing in revenue solutions.
Benelux and Switzerland for the new financial year include building growth in the second half.
Revenues were benefited from strong respective market solutions synergistically across Europe in flat on 2001 but in the second half, positions in the customer interactive and the areas of security, IP convergence and revenues declined sequentially by 9%.
Germany showed good contact centre integration.
Focus is also response to the difficult trading progress in the areas of security and being given to improving sales environment, the European business operational services.
management and productivity as well as protected market share by focusing on the the quality of the core business by retention of core customers and gaining a To offset declining margins, a large scale increasing services sales and annuity greater share of their IT spend.
re-engineering of the business was income streams.
Other objectives are to embarked upon in the second half of the grow market share in Germany and year.
Significant rationalisations took place achieve critical mass in Italy and Spain.
largely in Germany, France and the Netherlands, with overall costs down by 9% over the year relative to budget.
The top customer wins during the year included: Essent Kabelcom, a multi year, US$8.0 million, infrastructure technology supply and services contract.
Essent Kabelcom is an existing customer.
SOGEI, Societ Generale dInformatica SpA, a three year, US$3.9 million project to build a complex environment based on infrastructural technology.
Sogei is an existing customer.
Interoute, a multi year, US$3.1 million contract to provide services to the owner and operator of Europes largest, most densely connected and advanced intelligent IP network.
Interoute is an existing customer.
R V Insurance Company, a multi year, US$2.0 million contract to provide an IT infrastructure which incorporates the flexibility to introduce new technologies such as VoIP and is supported by Uptime services.
Holcim Schweiz AG, a multi year, US$1.0 million IP telephony installation including Primer and Uptime Services.
Holcim is an existing customer.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 23 United Kingdom $'000 FY2002 FY2001 Turnover 193,652 243,575 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 8,644 26,248 Operating margin 4.5% 10.8% Net operating assets 111,291 970,644 The revenue decline of 20% in the UK A comprehensive rationalisation A number of new managers and skills was driven by the business focus on the programme was undertaken in the second have been recruited to enhance our ability financial and media sectors where there half of the year to address the to sell services and solutions and to focus was a sharp drop-off in IT spend.
This on growing our annuity income streams.
involved senior management changes, Despite uncertainty surrounding the Despite a depressed demand overhead cuts and retrenchments, as well economic outlook in 2003, we are environment, good revenue performances as measures to improve sales productivity optimistic about achieving improved were seen in the security, enterprise and vendor and partner relationships.
The profitability due to new management, solutions, service provider solutions and business focus has been improved better skills, a simplified business model operational services areas of the through cutting the number of business and more efficient cost structure.
The network infrastructure and lines from 13 to five.
integration business suffered due to a drop in demand for infrastructure Increasing customer demand for a full upgrades and the application business solutions offering, combined with the also suffered in highly competitive market competitive environment, has led us to conditions.
The Merchants Group moved hone our offering to a more focused value back into profitability in the second half of proposition particularly in the areas of the year following rationalisations in H1 customer interactive solutions, IP 2002 and improved utilisation levels convergence, security, service provider following new contract wins.
The top customer wins during the year included: HSBC, a three year, multi million dollar contract to provide global procurement and services for IP networking technology.
HSBC is an existing customer.
Shimizu, an 18 month, US$17.0 million contract to design and implement the electric cabling infrastructure to a new mixed commercial and residential development in London.
Paddington West Key End Development, a three year, US$11.0 million contract to supply power and telecommunications infrastructure to 470 residential and 13 retail spaces.
Powergen, a three year, US$4.7 million contract to provide Uptime and Insite services.
Powergen is an existing customer.
Leading Global Life Sciences Company, a three year, US$4.7 million contract to provide technology, Uptime and Insite services.
24 DIMENSION DATA OPERATIONAL REVIEW USA $'000 FY2002 FY2001 Turnover 503,753 407,893 Operating loss profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 9,021 12,187 Operating margin 1.8 % 3.0% Net operating assets 120,309 659,450 In the US, revenue growth was achieved Performances varied across regions.
New Focus in 2003 will be on aggressively in the network infrastructure and York achieved strong revenue growth and driving a higher contribution from services integration business.
In addition, whilst the increased market share.
The South East particularly in the areas of security, operational services business performed also delivered a relatively strong enterprise solutions, IP convergence and well, the overall contribution from services performance benefiting from a niched operational services.
In addition, margin fell short of target.
Following a decline in service offering.
Washington suffered due improvement will be targeted by avoiding demand in a highly competitive market, to poor demand conditions and Boston, low margin technology sales.
Through revenue in the application business which was loss-making, has been Dimension Datas service and solution decreased.
Revenue growth in the consolidated into the New York business, capabilities, it is well positioned to benefit network business was partially driven and now operates as a sales office with from further consolidation in the US by a number of strategic, low-margin delivery out of New York.
Improved technology transactions, which are competitiveness and profitability will be expected to translate into services The applications business was rationalised aided by the use of lower cost offshore business going forward.
Steps taken to return delivery capabilities in India and South the business to profitability include highAfrica.
level management changes, large-scale retrenchments 42% over the year to drive improved utilisation levels, and rationalisation of lease expenses.
Scope remains to reduce costs further in 2003.
The top customer wins during the year included: Mazda North American Operations, a two year, US$11 million contract for the revitalisation of Mazdas on-line applications and services.
Mazda is an existing customer.
A large Global Pharmaceutical Company, a three year, US$9.0 million technology supply, services and consulting contract.
This client is a new customer.
Volkswagen of America, a three year, US$6.3 million contract to provide account support, application development and application maintenance of the English and French versions of VW.
Ocwen Financial Corporation, a two year, US$5.2 million contract to help migrate its existing call centre operations to an infrastructure technology IP based contact centre solution.
Goodrich, a two year, US$1.0 million Operational Services engagement including Insite and Uptime for the companys global WAN.
