Packaging The Groups Packaging activity is segmented into Corrugated and Paper, and Plastics.
02 Corrugated and Paper We have three different types of corrugated 07 05 The Group produces a number of types packaging operations.
Sheet feeder of corrugated packaging for a wide operations produce corrugated sheet board range of consumer and industrial uses.
Sheet plants convert 06 08 03 04 Conventional corrugated packaging, for corrugated board into various forms of 01 transporting fresh and prepared foods, packaging ranging from simple boxes and drinks and other consumer products, trays to more complex shaped and printed 01-04 Corrugated packaging is used by the is predominantly produced in high volumes display packs.
Integrated corrugated plants food industry for printed display packs and for our customers to erect, ll and close combine both the production of corrugated for transporting fresh and prepared foods.
Decorative and sheet board and converted packaging on 05-06 The Plastics division produces liquid point of sale packaging is supplied for one site.
packaging and dispensing products including consumer goods where superior printing, bag-in-box systems.
design and display is required.
Heavy duty Paper is produced at two mills in France 07-08 Returnable transit packaging is used corrugated packaging is generally used and seven mills in the UK.
75% of the by the automotive industry.
by industrial customers for packing output is CCM the internal uting and and transporting bulky and heavy items external liner components of corrugated or for protecting sensitive products.
The remainder is specialist products for packaging and other uses.
90% of the paper produced by the Group is made from recycled bre obtained from recovered 08 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 packaging and paper, of which a large St Regis Paper is the UKs largest recycler More information can be found on proportion is collected by the Groups own and manufacturer of paper, operating our packaging divisions at: recovered paper collection businesses.
Total seven paper and board mills and the www.
com paper output is approximately 1.2 million Groups Severnside recycling operation.
com The Corrugated and Paper segment, The Plastics division operates from locations which represents about half of the Groups in the UK, France, Belgium, Germany, Spain, turnover, is managed through three divisions: Portugal, Poland, USA, Dominican Republic, Israel and Australasia.
The division is focused DS Smith Packaging, the Groups UK on liquid packaging and dispensing and corrugated packaging division, has industrial RTP.
Liquid packaging incorporates 28 manufacturing locations.
bag-in-box systems and injection moulded taps and dispensers.
RTP includes Kaysersberg Packaging manages the thermoformed transit packaging for continental European corrugated and returnable container and pallet systems, paper operations located in France, Italy, extruded sheets in solid and multi-wall Poland, Turkey, the Czech Republic and corrugated plastic form and injection the Ukraine.
09 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Operating Review Packaging Total Packaging sales increased by 3% to 892.4 million.
Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles advanced by 6% to 63.9 million resulting in an operating margin of 7.2% compared with 7.0% in the previous year.
Return on year end capital employed was 11.5% compared with10.6%.
Financial Highlights Turnover Operating profit Capital employed 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 m m m m m m Corrugated and Paper 708.5 702.1 51.7 51.3 477.8 484.4 Plastics 183.9 161.1 12.2 8.9 78.5 82.0 Packaging 892.4 863.2 63.9 60.2 556.3 566.4 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles excluding intangibles 10 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Abbey Board, Kettering Acquired in September 2001 from Danisco, this well invested sheet feeder plant produces corrugated board for high quality printing and other speciality uses.
11 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Packaging Corrugated and Paper 01 Substantial operational improvement, increased efficiency levels and lower CCM prices enabled DS Smith Packaging to make good progress in sales, profits and cash generation.
02 Corrugated and Paper Europe has negatively affected the market Sales in the Corrugated and Paper segment but the impact has been mitigated to an increased to 708.5 million 2000 01: extent by major producers taking downtime.
Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of Recovered paper prices weakened in the first intangibles grew slightly to 51.7 million half of 2001 but have moved ahead sharply and operating margins were unchanged since the autumn, reecting greater demand at 7.3%.
Return on capital employed was from Asia and higher usage across Europe.
The UK packaging waste regulations imposed higher targets for waste recovery UK industry data for calendar year 2001 and recycling for 2002 which resulted in shows a 3.7% fall in demand for corrugated higher Packaging Recovery Note PRN board.
The equivalent industry data for values.
The failure by a major compliance France and Germany for 2001 shows falls in scheme to meet its 2001 obligations under demand of 1.9% and 0.1% respectively and the packaging regulations has been demand in Europe as a whole fell by 0.6%.
These weak market conditions continued in the first quarter of 2002.
01 Bob McLellan, Chief Executive of DS Smith Packaging.
CCM prices declined in the first half of 2001 02 Preparation of a die cutter for converting corrugated board into boxes at DS Smith, and price weakness continued through the Fordham.
remainder of the year and into the early 03 Jean-Paul Loison, Chief Executive months of 2002, reecting continued weak of Kaysersberg Packaging.
demand and high industry stock levels.
04 DS Smith, Fordham: the corrugator However, there was a rming of prices in the converts paper into corrugated board final weeks of our financial year.
New CCM by forming the internal uting and capacity coming on stream in continental gluing it between the external liners.
12 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 DS Smith Packaging In September 2001, the division acquired Substantial operational improvement, two sheet feeders and 11 sheet plants from increased efficiency levels and lower CCM Danisco, based mainly in the south and prices enabled DS Smith Packaging to west of the UK.
These operations have been make good progress in sales, profits and integrated successfully.
In particular, the cash generation.
This was despite the Kettering sheet feeder plant, which is a well impact of the continuing decline in UK invested factory focused on the fast growing manufacturing and our plants in Scotland lightweight speciality board segment, has being badly hit by the closure of customers been allied with our existing Abbey sheet in the electronics sector.
feeder to form a single business, allowing us to operate with an expanded product range profitability at the conventional corrugated at a lower cost.
plants, which account for nearly 40% of divisional sales, was helped by lower paper Kaysersberg Packaging 03 prices but also through higher efficiency The Groups continental European levels.
The segment is benefiting from the corrugated and paper division, Kaysersberg capital invested in previous years.
Packaging, achieved a healthy advance in profitability, principally due to lower CCM Volumes progressed well across the majority prices and good cost control.
of our speciality operations, in part due to the success of ongoing efforts to develop Through good product mix management, new products and identify new market the French paper mills continued to perform niches.
The decline of the electronics industry well despite a fall in selling prices and at affected our high value decorative print volumes.
A new combined heat and power business in Scotland but we took swift plant was commissioned during the year at action to close another operation and the Kaysersberg mill leading to a reduction in combine the businesses, thereby achieving energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions.
The investment in new printing and converting facilities is well underway.
Sales at the main corrugated plants in France 04 fell in line with the decline in the national The Tri-Wall heavy duty corrugated business market.
However, profit increased, suffered most from the UK manufacturing considerably enhanced by greater efficiency Kaysersberg Packaging recession and the relative strength of and helped by lower CCM prices.
The French achieved a healthy advance sterling against the euro in export markets.
corrugated operations strong position in the The investment programme to make this heavy duty sector will be further strengthened in profitability, principally business more cost competitive and to allow by the development of a specialist packaging due to lower CCM prices it to develop further speciality products is solution for the rubber industry in alliance well advanced.
with Georgia-Pacic Corporation and the and good cost control.
opening of an extension to our sheet plant The division continues to focus on innovative near Orleans.
product development as a key means of adding value and this was reected in the In Italy, Toscana Ondulati continued to grow four awards it won in the recent Worldstar its volumes signicantly.
Its margins improved global packaging competition.
Recent as a result of increasing its output and a successful product introductions have decrease in raw material costs that was partly included a system, branded Xtend, that offset by a fall in selling prices.
The new combines corrugated packaging and a greeneld Lari factory was commissioned at plastic lm from the Group company, StePac, the end of March 2002.
It will produce to control and extend the ripening period lightweight corrugated packaging for the of fresh fruit and vegetables, and ovenable ceramic and pizza industries, allowing the corrugated packs that enable cakes to be existing factory at Marlia to focus on heavy baked in their packaging.
This places Toscana Ondulati in a strong position across several market sectors.
13 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Packaging Corrugated and Paper Our Polish business also made good progress, The Kemsley paper mill again performed growing at a faster rate than the national well, producing over half a million tonnes market.
Its merchanting operations continue for the second successive year.
Wansbrough to provide a strong sales outlet for the main and Taplow underwent planned downtime plant.
The margin improvement reects the while their machines were partly rebuilt advance in production efficiencies resulting and upgraded.
This investment will enable from recent investments and a shift in sales Wansbrough to rationalise its product mix to higher added value products.
mix to focus on the more profitable paper grades.
The upgrade at Taplow increases the The opikas operation in Turkey was divisions capability to produce lightweight seriously affected by the countrys difficult CCM of a quality to satisfy growing economic situation and action was taken customer demand for lighter weight paper.
to restore the business to profitability.
The 01 impact of these actions and the acquisition The divisions specialist paper mills continued of a small corrugating operation close to to experience heavy competition from the divisions international customers in the overseas but product development enabled Istanbul area, gives encouragement that them to make reasonable progress.
the business is set for improvement in the coming years.
Severnside had to contend with the fall in recovered paper prices in the early months St Regis Paper of the financial year but, although prices St Regis achieved a resilient performance rmed in the second half of the year, the within the context of a tough trading volume of paper recovered was adversely environment.
Sales volumes were at and affected by the difficulty of sourcing paper selling prices were depressed by the overall against strong export demand.
This, together with higher continued to invest in its waste collection recovered paper prices since the autumn capability, adding further mobile compaction of 2001, led to a fall in both sales revenue vehicles in the year.
CCM market demand in the UK was subdued but the continuing focus 01 Don Coates, Chief Executive of St Regis Paper.
on cost reduction helped to mitigate the 02 The recently upgraded motor control centre St Regis achieved a resilient poor market conditions.
at St Regis Paper, Wansbrough Mill, has increased automation and process control.
performance within the Trading cash ow showed a significant context of a tough trading improvement on the prior year due largely to a reduction in working capital.
assisted by lower recovered paper prices in the early part of the financial year.
However, they came under increasing pressure towards the end of the period as input costs rose, due to the supply of recovered paper in the UK being affected by increased exports to Europe and Asia.
14 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 St Regis Paper, Wansbrough Mill Recent investment has raised efficiency levels and enabled it to focus on higher performance and more profitable paper grades in corrugated case materials, coreboard, for tubes, and envelopes.
15 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Packaging Plastics Plastics of a small plastic pallet manufacturing DS Smith Plastics sales grew by 14% to business.
The plastic crate business had a 183.9 million through a combination of good year, benefiting from strong organic growth and acquisitions.
Operating performances from its Dominican Republic profit before amortisation of intangibles and Spanish businesses.
advanced by 37% to 12.2 million, assisted in part by lower polymer costs.
Operating Our packaging management activities margins increased from 5.5% to 6.6% and had a difficult year due to more aggressive the return on year end capital employed competition throughout Europe.
Action moved ahead from 10.9% to 15.5%.
has been taken to reduce costs, particularly in the UK.
The division continued to build its strong position in liquid packaging and dispensing.
01 Adrian Whiteld, Chief Executive of DS Smith Plastics.
01 The divisions liquid packaging business, Rapak, is now the number two supplier 02 Extruded corrugated plastic sheet from DS Smith Plastics Gloucester factory is used globally of bag-in-box packaging and in industrial returnable transit packaging maintained its strong sales growth in for transporting car components.
both Europe and in particular, the USA.
In November 2001, it extended its market coverage and secured some core and valuable technology with the acquisition of a 50% interest in a liquid packaging joint venture in Australia and New Zealand.
This enables Rapak to provide truly global coverage to its major multinational customers.
WD, the dispensing tap business, experienced strong levels of demand across its product range.
Its US business completed 02 a major factory extension in the year which enables it to offer its multinational customers an enlarged US manufacturing facility.
DS Smith Plastics sales grew Despite the adverse effects of the slow-down by 14% to 183.9 million in European manufacturing which held through a combination back sales in some sectors, we continued to develop our strong position in industrial of organic growth and RTP in Europe.
operations held up well in difficult market conditions, but profits declined somewhat as a result of lower volumes.
In May 2001, we acquired a small extruded plastics packaging company based in Madrid to enable us to develop the Iberian market and we have subsequently relocated an additional extruder to this site.
Our competitive position in RTP was enhanced in December 2001 by the acquisition and successful integration 16 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 DS Smith Plastics, Gloucester The recent investment in a new three metre-wide extrusion line has signicantly increased output and quality of corrugated plastic sheet for use in industrial returnable transit packaging and other applications.
The trimmed offcuts from the edges of the sheet are directly recycled into the heating and extruding process.
17 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002
