Office Products The Groups Office Products activity is segmented into Wholesaling and Manufacturing.
Wholesaling Spicers supplies products to office stationery 06 01 Spicers is the leading European wholesaler dealers on a same or next day delivery 03 of office products and operates through service through a network of regional 05 a network of distribution centres in the UK, distribution centres RDCs : 02 07 04 Ireland, France, Germany and Spain.
UK 9 RDCs Spicers produces catalogues in electronic France 5 RDCs 01-04 Spicers product range includes electronic and paper format for each of the countries Germany 2 RDCs office supplies, office catering provisions and it serves, which offer between 8,000 and Ireland 1 RDC stationery items.
The product range covers Spain 1 RDC 05-07 Black n Red branded items and bespoke a wide selection of office products, office stationery are produced by John Dickinson.
furniture, electronic office supplies and Central distribution centres CDCs replenish consumables.
In total, nearly two million RDCs stock in the UK, Ireland and France.
full range printed catalogues are produced Also, in the UK, a dealer distribution centre annually.
These are personalised by office DDC provides a service whereby products products dealers and distributed to offices are picked, wrapped and dispatched on throughout each country.
behalf of a dealer and sent directly to their customers via an independent delivery service.
This service is also available in France and Germany via the RDCs.
18 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 In addition to traditional stationery products, Manufacturing John Dickinsons three factories supply a Spicers is developing sales in other related John Dickinson is the leading manufacturer major share of the stationery used in the UK: areas such as janitorial supplies, office of envelopes, books and pads in the UK.
catering and vending provisions and Its product range features many leading 1 in 8 envelopes electronic office supplies EOS, the fastest brands, including Basildon Bond, Challenge, 1 in 4 personal stationery and writing pads growing office products sector.
EOS items Plus Fabric, New Guardian and Black n Red.
1 in 2 casebound books include printer supplies, data storage media Branded stock items, own label designs and and computer accessories.
bespoke stationery are produced for the More information can be found on commercial and retail markets.
Photographic our office products divisions at: Oscarnet is an internet catalogue and presentation products, such as albums, are www.
com ordering system provided by Spicers which produced for the professional photography www.
co. uk dealers can personalise and use to sell to market by Spicer Halleld.
It contains the full Spicers range and enables dealers to set their own prices which can be tailored to individual consumers.
It is available in the UK, Ireland, France and Germany.
19 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Operating Review Office Products Total Office Products sales increased by 2% to 547.8 million but operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles was lower at 8.1 million 2000 01: 24.7 million.
Operating margin fell to 1.5% 4.6% and return on year end capital employed was 5.8% 15.5%.
Financial Highlights Turnover Operating profit Capital employed 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 m m m m m m Wholesaling 500.5 485.0 9.7 24.4 123.9 122.7 Manufacturing 66.7 71.4 1.6 0.3 16.3 36.4 Intra segment 19.4 20.5 Office Products 547.8 535.9 8.1 24.7 140.2 159.1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles excluding intangibles 20 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Spicers, Barcelona Spicers first distribution centre in Spain was commissioned in April 2002.
The purpose-built warehouse replicates Spicers operations in the UK, Ireland, France and Germany.
A second Spanish distribution centre is planned for Madrid in early 2003.
21 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Office Products Wholesaling Manufacturing Wholesaling Despite the difficulties in the UK and Ireland, Spicers total sales grew by 3% to Spicers maintained its strong competitive 500.5 million, despite the sharp slow-down position.
It is continuing to upgrade its in demand for office products across Europe, operations and the planned relocation of particularly in the second half of the year.
the South London RDC from Bermondsey to For the year as a whole, Spicers sales in Greenwich in the current year will increase France and Germany grew by 15% and capacity, service capabilities and efficiency.
17% respectively, but this was partly offset by sales decreases of around 3% in both There was a substantial slow-down in the the UK and Ireland, where Spicers has French office products market, but Spicers more established market positions.
Operating France continued its growth based on its profit growth for the year was expected strong market position and assisted by the to be low as a result of start-up costs acquisition in October 2001 of a smaller 01 in Germany and Spain and the cost competitor, Plein Ciel.
This move added of developing additional capacity in the UK a strong brand and sales are being and Ireland.
In the event, the downturn successfully expanded through the Plein in demand in all our markets and a number Ciel dealer network.
of operational difficulties in the UK and Germany resulted in a decline in operating In Germany, the second RDC, at Nremberg, profit to 9.7 million 2000 01: 24.4 million was opened in April 2001 and became fully and a reduced operating margin of 1.9% operational during the first half of the year, 5.0%.
Return on year end capital employed increasing capacity and allowing same was 7.8% 19.9%.
day delivery to the whole German market.
Difficulties with the implementation of EOS are accounting for an increasing share an updated version of Spicers integrated of the office products market worldwide IT system during autumn 2001 resulted and of Spicers business.
The lower margin in reduced service levels and a reduction available from this growing segment of the in sales growth.
Actions have been taken to 02 business has contributed to the reduction rectify the situation and to restore customer in margin for the business as a whole.
The IT problems have now are being taken to adapt pricing structures, been resolved, customer confidence is The office products market costs and trading policies to this fundamental recovering and sales growth is picking up.
remains challenging but the Spicers Spain was launched in April 2002 actions we have taken in The level of bad debts increased as dealer with the opening of the new Barcelona customers suffered from the deteriorating RDC.
Plans are well advanced for a second 2001 02 should allow us to market conditions.
The consolidation of RDC in Madrid, due to open in January improve our position in the four warehouses into two late in 2000 01 2003.
Initial indications and feedback plus the roll-out of the upgraded IT system from the dealer community are encouraging, coming year, even in the also created extra costs, in part related although the business will be loss making absence of market growth.
to overcoming a deterioration in service.
Decisive action was taken to address these issues, including strengthening management, The office products market remains amendments to the pricing policy, the challenging but the actions we have taken reinforcement of operating disciplines, in 2001 02 should allow us to improve our new procedures for rolling out IT, reduction position in the coming year, even in the of the cost base and further tightening absence of market growth.
of stock and credit control.
These actions yielded some significant benets in the final quarter of the year, in particular in terms of quality and customer service and are expected to improve performance further in 2002 03.
22 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Manufacturing The book and pad stationery business John Dickinson experienced a 7% decline experienced weaker demand but achieved in sales to 66.7 million due to reduced an improvement in product mix towards volumes and price pressure in its markets.
The Spicer The division made an operating loss before Halleld photographic stationery business exceptional items and amortisation of produced a disappointing result due to intangibles of 1.6 million compared with lower sales and a number of one-off costs.
a small operating profit of 0.3 million in the previous year.
The 2001 02 result 01 Bill Armstrong, Chief Executive of Spicers.
however is stated after charging a 02 Customers orders are picked from the 1.9 million restructuring charge associated 8,000 office product items stocked at the new Spicers Barcelona warehouse.
with exiting certain product lines and The number of product lines stocked reducing the workforce by about 100. is planned to increase as the operation develops.
Market conditions were tough for all parts 03 Richard Evans, Chief Executive of the business but sales of envelopes were of John Dickinson.
particularly badly affected by the economic 04 John Dickinsons Washington factory downturn with severe price competition in is one of the best equipped and most part driven by a high level of imports.
The efficient envelope production operations in Europe.
Sawston envelope factory was restructured towards the end of the year to reduce capacity, cut costs and focus on the higher added value products.
03 Market conditions were tough for all parts of the John Dickinson business but sales of envelopes were particularly badly affected by the economic downturn.
04 23 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002
