Operating Review Operations Wireless Infrastructure accounted for 67% of the groups sales and contributed 31.8m 2001 27.2m of operating profit, an increase of 16.9%.
Filtronics Wireless Infrastructure business is the worlds number one independent supplier of radio frequency front end subsystems for cellular base station applications, and has increased its market share to approximately 35%.
Lucent, Motorola and Nokia are the principal customers.
After many years of strong growth, this market has declined although 2G and 2.5G systems will continue to be deployed for several more years.
Growth is not expected until third generation 3G systems begin to be deployed in volume.
We expect to be a major supplier into 3G systems both to our existing customers and others.
During this period of a declining world market, the Wireless Infrastructure business has taken steps to reduce costs and improve margins and efficiency without compromising customer support.
As a result the business has performed exceptionally well with strong cash flow and increased profits.
Cellular Handset Products accounted for 17% of the groups sales and contributed 9.7m 2001 5.2m of operating profit, an increase of 86%.
Handset antenna sales exceeded 86 million units in the financial year, an increase of more than 21%.
This exceptional performance confirms Filtronics position as the worlds number one supplier of handset antennas.
It results from our expertise both in design and volume manufacture of internal antennas and our strong position as a supplier to Nokia, the worlds leading handset manufacturer.
Together with new business from other leading manufacturers, this has resulted in our market share continuing to increase during a period of market decline.
Although sales of ceramic diplexers for US TDMA handsets have now reduced, we expect to see renewed opportunities for them in 3G WCDMA handsets.
In the Electronic Warfare division, we have addressed a number of management and operational issues which should create better opportunities for this business to improve its performance.
Many products which have been under development are now expected to move into the production cycle.
During the year, the EW activity in Australia was sold to management for net asset value.
This has been a very difficult year for the Broadband Access business.
Demand, particularly in the second half of the year, was very weak, resulting in continuing losses.
By August 2002, the major part of this business, which manufactures transceivers for point to point cellular base station interconnections, will have relocated to Newton Aycliffe.
This move will facilitate the production of new generations of product utilising gallium arsenide monolithic microwave integrated circuits, which will enable Filtronic to exploit new opportunities.
The Compound Semiconductor division, which reports to Professor C M Snowden, is fully dealt with in the Executive Chairmans statement on pages 2 to 5.
Employees At 31 May 2002, the group employed 3,141 people, 15% less than one year ago.
1,354 of this number were employed in the UK, 616 in the USA, 742 in Finland, 190 in Australia, 239 in China and Japan.
Approximately 425 of the staff are engineers.
A R Needle Managing Director 29 July 2002 6 Annual Report 2002
