22 GKN plc 2002 OPERATING REVIEW AUTOMOTIVE: STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENTS IN GKN DRIVELINE AND RECOVERY UNDERWAY IN POWDER METALLURGY.
Automotive financial highlights Automotive sales of 2,950 million were 106 million 4% above 2001.
The net favourable effect of acquisitions and divestments was 40 million while the adverse impact of currency translation related mainly to the US dollar, Brazilian real and Japanese yen was 51 million.
Excluding these factors sales rose by 117 million.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 197 million compared with 187 million in 2001, an increase of 10 million 5%.
The net impact of currency, acquisitions and divestments was negligible.
Operating profit after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 139 million 2001 129 million.
Market background The year began with great uncertainty for the worlds major automotive markets.
Expectations of weaker demand in North America were confounded by continued consumer demand for new cars and light trucks.
This trend prevailed for most of the year supported by incentive programmes, particularly by the Big Three US domestic manufacturers.
Total 2002 North American output of light vehicles was 16.4 million a 6% increase on 2001.
In contrast, weaker demand in Western Europe was largely in line with expectations and at 16.5 million vehicles, production was 1.8% down on 2001.
However, there were wide variations across the major European markets.
Output in the UK and France showed an increase over 2001, Spanish production was relatively flat but output was down in Germany and in Italy.
Competitive pressures within the automotive industry continued to intensify.
Vehicle manufacturers extended their product offerings and the use of pricing and financial incentives became a routine marketing tool.
This obviously translates into continuing competitive Below: Drivers view of the Nissan March.
pressure within the supply chain.
GKN technology has a significant impact on the driving experience of vehicles Western Europe is GKNs largest automotive market and the variation using the Groups components and in demand across major national markets within the region caused systems.
Technology from GKN and its operational imbalances, particularly within the European operations partner TFS is at the heart of the of GKN Driveline, formerly the Automotive Driveline Division.
While revolutionary, four-wheel drive FWD some German driveline plants were operating at or near maximum variant of the March launched in 2002.
When the driver of this sub-compact wants capacity to support customers programmes, the Groups Italian to move from front-wheel drive to fouroperations were affected by the downturn in the Italian market and wheel drive, electrical power is delivered well publicised problems at Fiat.
Actions have already been initiated to the rear wheels.
The system is called to adjust capacity to meet anticipated 2003 demand levels.
e-FWD and uses CVJ sideshafts from GKN and a FWD control unit from TFS which Driveline Sales 1,826 million 2001 1,781 million manages the electrical drive system.
For GKN Driveline 2002 was a year of significant strategic activity Refinement, stability and safety are all influenced by a vehicles driveline system.
which saw a continued enlargement of the Groups presence within Sales 2002 m By origin By market Europe 1,547 1,446 Americas 1,035 1,073 Rest of the World 368 431 Total 2,950 2,950 23 GKN plc 2002 Japan and a related drive to develop a leading position within the its new plant in Gallatin, Tennessee in the US and is now operating growing market for advanced torque management devices.
GKN Sinter Metals European plants performed strongly and is already the world leader in constant velocity jointed driveline there was encouraging progress in the recovery within US operations.
components and torque management is a closely related systems Steady progress is now anticipated as management works hard to application.
A specialist Torque Systems Group was established bring all of its plants closer to the level of its best performers.
within GKN Driveline to expand its presence in this area.
In April GKN Sinter Metals took 100% ownership of the former In March the Group acquired a 33.3% stake in Tochigi Fuji Sangyo joint venture company, Mahindra Sintered Products Ltd India TFS, a leading Japanese supplier of advanced automotive driveline for a consideration of 9 million.
The new subsidiary, GKN Sinter devices.
This was acquired from Nissan and other major shareholders Metals Ltd, is now Indias largest producer of powder metal for 29 million.
GKN also obtained the option to acquire further components.
The transaction is a key step in GKN Sinter Metals shares to bring its potential holding in TFS to 50.4%.
TFS and GKN Asian strategy and aligns closely with GKNs Group-wide Driveline have been partners for 16 years in a viscous coupling joint determination to serve its customers on a global basis.
venture in Japan and enjoy an excellent working relationship.
TFS OffHighway and AutoComponents Sales 492 million employs more than 2,000 people in Japan and elsewhere in Asia 2001 451 million Pacific and in the US.
The Japanese automotive industry leads the GKN has a number of smaller automotive businesses largely focused world in torque management technology and TFS is one of the on the market for agricultural and construction equipment and on leaders in the field.
There were signs in early 2002 Since 1999 GKN Driveline has built a major presence in Japan through of a recovery in the US off-highway market following increased a manufacturing joint venture with Toyoda Machine Works, a member government subsidies to farmers but this was short-lived.
However, of the Toyota Keiretsu, and through the acquisition of Nissans driveline GKN OffHighway Systems was able to take advantage of a slightly manufacturing operation at Tochigi.
This penetration of the worlds third stronger European market and once more confirmed its ability to largest automotive market is built on successful and long established generate cash and deliver profits in challenging conditions.
relationships with the major Japanese vehicle manufacturers who As a result of a customers decision to relocate tractor assembly account for almost 30% of world light vehicle output.
operations out of the UK, GKN announced the closure of its cab During the year GKN Driveline increased its 51% shareholding in systems business based at Telford in the UK.
The closure is GKN Driveshafts India Ltd to 96.4% for a total consideration of scheduled for mid-2003 and will result in approximately 150 5 million.
This follows a number of transactions in recent years which redundancies.
The closure costs are included in the 2002 results.
has seen GKN Driveline acquire control of joint venture businesses in During 2002 the supply of the chassis for an important Land Rover the worlds emerging markets.
These markets, albeit from a relatively model was threatened when a supplier went into receivership.
GKNs small base, are experiencing growth rates higher than those in the AutoComponents business, which is a long established supplier to mature markets of North America, Western Europe and Japan.
GKN Land Rover, was able to assume control of the insolvent suppliers Driveline has been successful in building a strong presence in emerging manufacturing operation in Wolverhampton in the UK and markets.
In Asia Pacific, excluding Japan and Korea, GKNs share successfully secured the chassis supply contract.
Land Rover has of the market for constant velocity jointed sideshafts is 60% and also awarded the contract to produce the chassis frame for a midin Latin America it is 79%.
This compares with an overall 42% share sized platform to a partnership between GKN and Dana of the US of the global market.
which will use a new metal forming technology.
Powder Metallurgy Sales 632 million 2001 612 million Emitec For GKNs Powder Metallurgy businesses GKN Sinter Metals Emitec, the 50:50 joint venture with Siemens VDO, held US sales and Hoeganaes 2001 was a year of considerable difficulty after at the same level as 2001 but sales in Europe declined slightly a period of positive performance.
During 2002 however there has due to the weaker market and higher sales of diesel engined cars been a significant recovery in profitability.
which are subject to less stringent emission legislation.
The new Management action has involved the closure of a number of plants Test and Development Centre in Thuringia in Germany continues in the US and a cost reduction programme at Lichfield in the UK.
the development of new cell structures and higher cell densities Hoeganaes has overcome the start-up problems associated with to meet increasing customer requirements.
Some automotive awards received in 2002 VW Group award for exceptional performance GKN German Driveline Operations Fiat Auto Qualitas Award.
State of Rio Grande Quality and Productivity Award GKN do Brasil Ltda Ford Silver World Excellence Award for Quality and Delivery Performance Shanghai GKN Drive Shaft Co Ltd Renault Charte Qualit du Delai for delivery performance GKN Sheepbridge Stokes Ltd Toyota Certificate of Recognition for Cost Management Achievement GKN AutoStructures Ltd Honda Best Quality Award for Quality and Delivery.
Toyota Best Quality Performance Award GKN Driveshafts Thailand Co Ltd
