Personnel WE FOCUS ON THE SPECIALIST STAFFING SECTOR.
THERE ARE ATTRACTIVE GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES IN CONTINENTAL EUROPE AND WE WILL BE TAKING FULL ADVANTAGE OF THEM.
ONE OF OUR GREAT STRENGTHS IS OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN A FLEXIBLE COST BASE.
Natalie Templar, AXA, being interviewed by Hays plc 08 Paul Mills, Hays Personnel Solutions REVIEW OF OPERATIONS IN DIFFICULT MARKET HAYS PERSONNEL IS EXPANDING BEYOND CONDITIONS, THE SPECIALIST TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT PERSONNEL DIVISION RECRUITMENT INTO FULLY OUTSOURCED LONG-TERM HAS PERFORMED HR CONTRACTS.
EXTREMELY WELL, GAINING MARKET SHARE AND EXPANDING ITS NETWORK OF OFFICES IN BOTH THE UK AND CONTINENTAL EUROPE.
from left to right Laurence Hoefkens Ross Hetherington Mark Brunning Leigh McMaster Robert Smith Business Sector Director, Business Sector Director Finance Director Business Sector Director Business Sector Director, Hays Personnel Solutions Hays Accountancy Personnel Hays Personnel Hays Inter-Selection, Hays Montrose & Hays Iberia & Specialist Services Hays Banking Personnel, Hays Personnel Australia Hays plc 09 Key events of the year Major wins in HR outsourcing for Hays Personnel Solutions 55,000 visitors per week to www.
com Temporary staffing continued to grow Good growth in public sector recruitment and Hays Montrose Expansion in France, Holland, Belgium, Spain, Germany and Portugal Despite difficult market conditions, Hays Personnel has demonstrated its resilience and performed extremely well compared to our peers, gaining market share.
Total sales were 1% below prior year with operating profit at 122.5 million, after a 15% decline in higher margin permanent recruitment activity.
However, certain sectors continued to grow, notably the supply of specialist staff for the construction industry and the public sector which now accounts for 16% of total fees.
In Continental Europe we also introduced several specialist brands as part of our long-term strategy.
Hays Personnel Solutions, which provides outsourced HR solutions to blue chip companies, enjoyed a year of exceptional success.
Public and private sector employers are increasingly drawing on HR outsourcing services in order to focus on core activities.
We have won a number of significant long-term exclusive contracts with clients such as Liverpool Victoria and AXA, covering all aspects of HR service delivery.
We also introduced HaysWorkflow, our web-enabled HR and recruitment software, for our recruitment management contracts with clients such as Egg and Prudential.
Investment in our portal website, www.
com, continues to pay dividends.
Around 55,000 people visit the site each week, of whom some 15,000 make online job applications, while 19,000 subscribe to our weekly Job Alert e-mail service.
The site regularly carries around 25,000 jobs.
com is also a profit centre in its own right, selling online advertisements and recruitment microsites to employers, as well as our unique web-based HR facilities such as skills validation tests and behavioural profiling.
In the face of adverse market conditions, particularly in London and the South East, Hays Accountancy Personnel performed well overall.
The number of temporary workers grew as evidence of our ability to continually deliver innovative temporary recruitment solutions.
We strengthened our position as market leaders in public sector recruitment with exclusive and preferred supplier contract wins, including the London Borough of Camden.
In the City of London, significant contracts for temporary recruitment were secured or renewed with leading Investment Banks.
Hays Montrose, which recruits for the construction industry, was one of the success stories of the year producing record results.
Six new offices opened and a further six are due to open in the first quarter of the forthcoming year.
Hays Montrose has taken advantage of continued government investment in schools, hospitals and transportation.
Major contract wins such as Atkins, with its own interactive recruitment website, are paving the way for integrated recruitment solutions.
Due to tight cost control and increased management focus, productivity increased by 7% overall.
Hays Personnel continued to expand in Continental Europe.
We opened three new offices in France, with further new offices planned in key towns throughout the country over the remainder of the financial year.
Hays Alpha, which recruits for the French banking and insurance sectors, achieved good results, retaining key contracts with a number of blue chip clients.
In Spain, Portugal, Belgium and Holland, six new offices were opened, hosting our accountancy, engineering, construction and IT divisions, while our Portuguese operation established an interim recruitment division.
This has strengthened our ability to support pan-European organisations with cross-border recruitment.
Hays IT experienced difficult trading in line with market conditions across the UK and Continental Europe.
Prompt action by the management in reducing costs enabled us to achieve significantly better results relative to our peers.
There were important business wins as well as the expansion of our public sector division.
Despite adverse economic conditions, in Australia and New Zealand we successfully introduced two brands, Hays Education Personnel and Hays ZMB legal staff.
Hays Montrose expanded to Canberra and Adelaide, while specialist insurance divisions opened in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Hays Personnel Solutions has played a crucial role in our Australian operation, winning partnerships with a number of blue chip clients, including Vodafone.
This contract sees the first implementation of HaysWorkflow outside the UK.
Financial Highlights 2002 2001 Turnover 1,076.9m 1,084.0m Operating Profit 122.5m 146.0m Operating net assets 105.5m 121.1m Employees average number 4,083 4,084 before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Hays plc 10 Hays Personnel Solutions and the Prudential Hays Personnel Solutions is a leader in the fast growing field of outsourced HR solutions.
Among our customers is the Prudential, for whom we recruit customer service staff.
Though employed by Hays Personnel Solutions, the Resourcing team works in the Prudentials own offices in Reading, Stirling and Belfast as a Prudential branded internal agency.
Our team manages the entire recruitment process, including initial selection, telephone screening, assessment and competency based interviewing.
The initial contract, for the recruitment of permanent staff, was swiftly followed by another for temporary staff.
The recruitment of customer service staff is not the only work which Hays Personnel does for the Prudential.
Some of our other specialist businesses, notably Hays Accountancy Personnel, also supply them with professional staff.
Prudential is only one of some 25 blue chip customers for whom Hays Personnel Solutions provides a wide range of outsourced HR Solutions.
Eight of these clients are taking significant benefit from the deployment of HaysWorkflow, a web-enabled, customisable database program connecting all parties in the resourcing process.
