were driven by a clear strategy focused on delivering economic profit IMI Business Presidents In this review of our business areas comparisons with markets.
We are not neglecting our end user and the previous year relate to continuing operations distribution channels with many new marketing initiatives and operating profit is stated before rationalisation and implemented.
reorganisation costs, goodwill amortisation and The move to low cost manufacturing made significant SSAP24 pension credit.
progress with production in Mexico making a good start and the new facility in the Czech Republic opening during the fourth quarter.
The restructuring of sales and technical fluid controls resource and simplification of the infrastructure was accelerated further during the year.
Further investment Severe Service was made in new products and key account development.
Despite softer demand in Following a major review of ISI Systems it was announced the US power generation last December that further investment in this activity market, our Severe Service could not be justified and that it would close early in 2003. valve business maintained Closure costs of 5.7m have been provided.
In 2002, ISI its growth record with sales m Systems incurred losses of around 2.5m, which are organic sales some 10% included in discontinued businesses in the profit and ahead of last year.
Global demand in power Indoor Climate markets generally remained steady and the gas market Although German TRV thermostatic radiator valves had a strong year.
CCIs ability to redirect its resources volumes were again lower this year, margins were produced its most successful year to date in securing maintained through aggressive cost reduction within our LNG liquified natural gas orders and, with continuing German operations.
Encouragingly, balancing valve focus in the market on plant improvements, it enjoyed volumes which had been flat in the early part of the year a good year in customer service and aftermarket regained momentum with some growth in the second business.
The new facilities in Mexico and the Czech half.
Significant efficiency improvement measures have Republic, although still only small, are coming on been taken including outsourcing of some manufacturing stream and will help provide a platform for capacity to Estonia and China.
We continue to add to our European expansion.
STI of Italy added to our actuation commissioning and service capability with the purchase of technology and the recent purchase of Fluid Kinetics in a small French business in June 2002 and Commtech in California extends our noise reduction expertise.
UK-based Commtech is a specialist Fluid Power provider of commissioning services to building facility Volumes remain exposed to the capital equipment operators.
markets and declined further in 2002.
However, the decline was largely in the first half of the year with second half volumes ahead overall, particularly against the fourth quarter of 2001.
Margins improved significantly in the second half of the year.
Our key OEM sector strategy continues to gather pace as resources are targeted increasingly at our chosen 16 operations review 668 62.8 661 65.2 IMI Business Presidents left to right below Wayne Whitney Stuart Carson Peter Wallace Per Borgvall Rick Barkley Mike Hardy Merchandising Severe Service Fluid Power Indoor Climate Beverage Dispense Building Products Systems Merchandising Systems retail dispense The volume decline experienced at the end of 2001 continued into 2002 but levelled out in the fourth Beverage Dispense quarter.
Display Technologies, purchased in June Underlying volumes 2001, produced a solid performance, a reflection of were around 3% ahead the large added value and innovative nature of its of last year and in sales m business.
Operational improvements and overhead addition, sales in the first reductions were implemented throughout 2002 half included around 2001 2002 profit m resulting in progressive enhancement of margins 21m from the roll out during the year.
DCI, purchased in August 2002, of the frozen carbonated beverage order received at made an excellent start.
In what is traditionally its the end of 2001.
Good UK demand and increased strongest period of trade during the year, it produced market share led to a strong performance in beer sales of 33m and operating profit of 4m and, dispense equipment.
encouragingly, a number of major new contracts 2002 was a year of major operational changes were won.
particularly in the United States, where our ambitious programme to relocate a significant amount of component manufacture to Mexico and China had the building products most impact.
The change in operations involved not only the closure of two of our US plants but also a Continuing good UK significant relocation of production within the US.
demand enabled the Given the magnitude of these changes, it became Polypipe pipe businesses sales m necessary to maintain parallel running of the US plants to produce another solid and the Mexican facility for most of the year, thus performance in both 2001 2002 profit m deferring costs savings into 2003.
In a year with so sales and profit.
much activity it is pleasing to report increased profit.
Operational efficiencies generally mitigated upward pressure on raw material prices.
Significant reductions in working capital enhanced the excellent cash generated by this business.
Elsewhere the small European businesses were affected during the year by weather and general economic conditions.
The leisure business remains vulnerable to seasonal conditions but significantly reduced its capital employed.
Polypipe continues to be managed vigorously and its results reflect the pro-active attitude of its management.
17 382 36.7 437 42.3 369 32.3 365 33.5 IMI plc Annual Report 2002 the IMI Academy is raising our ability to service customers effectively and efficiently Lucy McQuillan IMI Cornelius Account Manager the IMI academy Launched in May 2002, the IMI Academy is an innovative investment in building customer relationships by developing our human resources.
The Academy involves senior account professionals and functional line managers in residential courses and web-based material as well as on-going peer support and review.
The Academy has been developed and is managed in association with Cranfield School of Management, one of the worlds leading business schools.
More than 140 of our people with the potential to handle complex major customer relationships have already been through the initial course and taken the ideas generated back to their business units to put in to practice.
More than 120 line managers in engineering, 18 operations review accounts and production have also begun the A focus on core technology is also unleashing significant programme to enable them to support the key synergies between businesses.
The most recent account teams in improving our project management example is a temperature compensating regulator for and delivery capabilities.
beer kegs that takes technologies from Indoor Climate Senior management is fully committed to The and Fluid Power and combines them into a product Academy.
Fifty-five of our most senior managers have marketed by our Beverage Dispense business.
undertaken a residential course at Cranfield to help IMI Visions brief is to bring advanced technologies at them appreciate the key account philosophy and minimal commercial risk safely through to equip them to fully support their staff.
commercialisation, to support the development of IMI We are already seeing benefits in the form of shared companies.
Investment in IMI Vision to develop true learning and experience as we develop a cadre of ever technical and commercial insightwill continue and the more professional business people.
These people are creative nature of this entrepreneurial team will be used bringing energy and focus to add value to our to fast track developments through to the markets.
customers enterprises and to our own.
procurement initiatives technology centres and e-commerce The three IMI Vision technovationcentres, set up last Our global procurement team is building closer, smarter year, have begun to deliver technologies to support relationships with suppliers and increasing both IMIs quest for market leading positions in its defined operational effectiveness and efficiency through all growth markets.
Working closely with each of the businesses, IMI Vision Lean, demand-driven logistics across IMI companies and has already created some strong potential through the supply chain are helping to reduce opportunities which will be commercialised in the next inventories.
Better practice and processes, including 12 months.
These ground breaking technologies will be e-procurement activities such as reverse auctionsfor based on unique intellectual property and deliver commodity items, reduce costs and improve our significant added value to our customers.
responsiveness to changes in demand.
Interactive web conferencing allows IMI businesses to meet with suppliers all over the world, including those based in low cost economies.
This is increasing speed meeting customer demand for shortened delivery lead times, leanness doing more with less and agility responding quickly to changes in demand for both volume and variety.
With our most important strategic suppliers, we are also developing long-term mutually beneficial partnerships that add value to both parties.
At the same time, the use of web-based technologies is assisting our customers in dealing with us.
Bevcore, our parts supply business, for example, is facilitating paperless exchanges with our Beverage Dispense customers, while Norgrens pioneering on-line initiatives, including electronic catalogues, three-dimensional computer-aided design drawing downloads and e-commerce transactions have enabled customers to be serviced more efficiently and effectively.
