Interserve Plc Review of operations Annual report 2002 Facilities Services 8 Industrial Services 12 Project Services Equipment Services PFI Investments The division performed well, posting a 16 per cent increase in operating profits and consolidating Interserves position as one of the UKs major, broad-based facilities management companies.
The growth in the UK outsourcing market shows no signs of stopping and our track record, skills and reputation place us in an ideal position to be part of that growth.
During the year we continued to extend our simply flow through our accounts but carry no range of activities from property-focused margin, operating margin rose to 5.7 per cent services into new, but related, areas such as from 4.7 per cent.
Information and Communications Technology at the Health & Safety Laboratories in Buxton A continued focus on client relations and and medical records and medical engineering service delivery improvements yielded contract at Dudley.
Our growth plan is based on growth or extensions with clients such as Eli capturing more business in our core areas in Lilly, the Defence Science and Technology tandem with additional back office services Laboratory at Porton Down, the Inland through large and very broadly-based Revenue, the London Borough of Lambeth, outsourcing contracts, predominantly with Railtrack and Boots.
New clients won included public-sector clients.
the Health & Safety Executive, Tameside Borough Council, the NHS, HM Land Registry, Facilities Services has grown and changed HM Prison Service, Virgin Atlantic, British considerably since its inception several years Airways and Iceland Stores.
In 2002 we initiated a significant project, respective partners were also named preferred now well advanced, reviewing our internal bidders in the Tyrone Colleges PFI in Northern business processes.
This has resulted in various Ireland and the Army Training Estate PPP, the organisational changes and performance latter valued at 600 million to the joint improvements, particularly relating to the venture over its initial 10-year life with the delivery of support functions across the possibility of a five-year extension.
Since the division, and is expected to yield further year end we have also been named preferred benefits in 2003. bidder on the Defence Sixth Form College PFI project.
We continued to see attractive opportunities in our chosen markets during 2002 with the Market conditions are generally favourable.
volume, breadth of service provision, We see a continuing expansion of the scope of complexity and length of contract life that outsourcing by public-sector clients into a would play well to our strengths.
Overall, broader range of services, and an increasing though, the pace at which these convert into sophistication in the specification and live operational contracts has been slower than measurement of service delivery.
As a leading anticipated, particularly in respect of largeintegrator of outsourced service delivery and scale, public-sector procurement through PFI change management, we welcome both these and PPP channels.
This, combined with our trends as opportunities for us to differentiate 1 Inland Revenue, Newcastle strategy of reducing lower-margin mechanical our service offering and client relationships.
Cleaning is one of the many support services supplied by and electrical M&E project work, meant that Our forward order book at the end of 2002 Interservefm in the 150m turnover remained broadly the same as in 2001. stood at 2.0 billion and will be further Inland Revenue contract.
However, the resulting shift in work balance enhanced by approximately 0.35 billion 2 West Lothian College gave rise to an increase in operating margin to with the addition of contracts we expect to Interservefm provides a full range of services at the first 4.0 per cent from 3.3 per cent.
Taking into convert from preferred bidder and those we PFI college in Europe in a account the effect of MoD works bills, which have won since the end of the year.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2002 Operating margin increased to 4.0% from 3.3% Preferred bidder on 600m Army Training Estate PPP contract 9 Over 80% of turnover in public sector 16 % Extension of services into back office areas Operating profit increased Forward order book of 2.0bn 0.35bn pipeline by 16% to 15.8 million 80% of anticipated 2003 work already secured Interserve Plc Review of operations Annual report 2002 Facilities Services 10 Industrial Services 12 Project Services Equipment Services PFI Investments Interserve Plc Annual report 2002 New market sectors opened up Satisfactory performance, given difficult market conditions 11 50% growth in access hire & sales 550m 11 new term contracts secured Client retention over 90% Forward order book at year Over 60% anticipated 2003 work already secured end up by 5% to 550 million The division performed satisfactorily given the generally difficult market conditions.
We have refocused the business to generate sustainable, longterm revenue streams and have realigned the management structure and cost base to suit this strategy.
We are well positioned to take advantage of the ongoing trend towards outsourcing in the industrial sector.
In 2002 we made significant progress in Our flexibility and understanding of the changing the focus of the business towards market enabled us to enter two new sectors long-term maintenance contracts and away in the year.
In marine engineering we won from large, low-margin, high-risk engineering a substantial contract with BAE Systems in projects.
The transformation is largely Scotland involving the application of specialist complete.
Our actions taken to reduce the protective coatings and access work on the cost base, meanwhile, should result in construction of two Royal Navy vessels.
This improvements in future profitability.
contract will run over a three-year period and Continuing the development of the access will be the base for further developments in side of the business, we are seeking to improve this field.
Meanwhile our contract for the our return on assets by reducing townwork in Commonwealth Games in Manchester, where the medium term, redeploying these resources our hire and sales arm supplied temporary on sustainable work as we further diversify seating for 15,000 people and all the security within the industrial sector.
We maintained fencing and barriers, has established us as a the emphasis on safety throughout the credible contender in the events sector.
division, which we view as of paramount importance since our staff often work in Looking forward, outsourcing of industrial potentially hazardous environments.
In maintenance services is becoming more addition, the ability to operate safely is an widespread as more companies realise the important differentiator in the industrial economic and logistical benefits.
Throughout the year we saw a developed a leading presence in the continued improvement on our already marketplace and are recognised for our high standards across the business.
Despite the uncertain economic conditions that led to a slowdown in spending in some areas of the market, we succeeded in maintaining client retention of over 90 per cent and won 11 new term maintenance contracts while renewing a number of others.
These included the renewal of the three-year integrated maintenance contract for BP at Hull, a five-year infrastructure improvement 1 Commonwealth Games agreement for BNFL at Sellafield, the supply Industrial Services entered the of multi-discipline services for Avecia in events sector, supplying a variety of specialised access Huddersfield, a three-year maintenance equipment at the biggest contract on the Avonmouth Bridge and an Commonwealth Games ever.
access term maintenance contract for 2 BP Kronospan at Wrexham.
At the end of the Building on a strong relationship, the division secured a further year the divisions forward order book stood three-year term maintenance at 550 million.
Interserve Plc Review of operations Annual report 2002 Facilities Services 12 Industrial Services 12 Project Services Equipment Services PFI Investments Project Services had an exceptional year in 2002, generating an operating profit of 18.0 million, an increase of 35 per cent.
While we achieved this on the back of a conscious reduction in turnover, as we eliminated some of the lower-margin work traditionally associated with the construction industry, the business benefited from the incidence of profit recognition on a number of major projects completed during the year.
Our strategy of reducing the proportion of won extensive refurbishment work through competitively tendered work has contributed framework agreements with the Central Bank significantly to the divisions improvement in of Qatar and Doha Bank and secured repeat margin.
This went hand-in-hand with a closer business with three further projects at Doha balance of business between the first and Airport for Qatar Airways and three projects second halves of the year.
In Dubai we won our first work with an important new client, In recognition of the increasing importance of Dubal, and successfully completed the framework agreements in both the public and 14-month construction of the 60 million private sectors, we have established a new Convention Centre for the Dubai World Trade business unit focused on winning framework Centre just after the year end.
agreements with national customers and on delivering services to them once secured.
We received welcome recognition through a Frameworks won during the year included the variety of awards in 2002.
In addition to the NHSs groundbreaking ProCure 21 initiative in environmental awards discussed on pages the north-west and midlands.
Our wide-ranging 20 and 21 we won a Gold Award from RoSPA, involvement with PFI projects continued, Severn Trent Water named us Process meanwhile, as we completed work on Neath Contractor of the Year and we took top Port Talbot Hospital, Portsmouth Social prize in the Building category in the Concrete Services care centres and two of the three Societys annual awards for our work on Hattersley schools, and began the construction the Millennium Gallery in Sheffield.
In the of a third Hattersley school and fit-out works Considerate Contractors Scheme 2002 we at phase two of the Harmondsworth won not only a Gold Award but also the Immigration Centre.
We also finalised the Site of Sites Award for being the Most contracts to build new prisons at Ashford in Considerate Contractor.
Middlesex and Peterborough, the first in December and the second after the year end.
Including the order pipeline, 60 per cent of the divisions anticipated 2003 turnover is In Infrastructure we secured a three-year, already secured.
Healthy demand and 285 million framework agreement with workflow are encouraging indicators that United Utilities as part of KMI Water, a joint prospects remain strong in our core chosen venture with two other partners.
Clients are increasingly seeking 1 BAA Heathrows new 25m aircraft preferred bidder for Thames Waters Little to procure construction services through hangar, built for joint clients Marlow waste water treatment works, established supply chains and the public BAA property and Virgin expected to be confirmed in spring 2003. sector is pushing forward some very significant Atlantic, was completed in June 2002. framework programmes.
Our water business 2 Neath Port Talbot Hospital The International division secured several has a good forward workload and in rail we Project Services delivered this notable contracts through our associate have won our first three-year re-signalling PFI project five weeks ahead of companies in the Middle East.
In Qatar we framework contract with Network Rail Eastern.
It became operational in November 2002.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2002 New framework contracts worth some 460m Benefiting from strategic refocusing on added-value projects 13 Operating margin increased to 3.8% 35% PFI projects in education, healthcare and custodial sectors Operating profit increased Two-thirds of turnover in public & privatised sector by 35% to 18.0 million Forward order book of 630m 135m in pipeline Interserve Plc Review of operations Annual report 2002 Facilities Services 14 Industrial Services 12 Project Services Equipment Services PFI Investments Interserve Plc Annual report 2002 18.3% operating margin 20% return on capital employed 7 contracts won on Taiwan 15 high-speed railway New formwork system 36countries launched: Reflex Improving outlook in the Far East Equipment Services is active in 36 countries We performed satisfactorily in most markets in 2002, although progress in Ireland and some parts of the Far East was held back by reduced spending.
The outlook is improving, with significant infrastructure development planned in many areas.
After an excellent year in 2001 the United Australia and New Zealand both made Kingdom saw further improvement in 2002. good progress.
The Australian business Among the major projects undertaken were benefited from a selective move into access the Birmingham Northern Relief Road, where equipment hire, while in New Zealand we formwork and falsework systems were used have established a small satellite depot in in constructing 43 new bridges and a similar New Plymouth to take advantage of the number of culverts, and Europes most petroleum developments under way there.
advanced cement plant, at Buxton, where a Chile, too, made further progress.
wide variety of solutions enabled the creation of around 30 structures ranging from kiln Equipment Services success rests as much stacks to substations.
Following our success on the quality and innovation of our products on the Channel Tunnel Rail Link phase one we as on the skills of our designers.
In 2002 we have also won major work on the second phase launched Reflex, a curved-wall formwork which will contribute to turnover in 2003. system developed by our engineers in Australia, that has already enabled the In the rest of Europe the picture was mixed.
construction of a 10m-diameter, 6m-high Spain again produced a satisfactory water tank in the Daintree rainforest in performance which is set to accelerate Queensland.
Two systems launched the as the countrys government embarks on previous year Alshor Plus high-load a programme of major projects over the versatile shoring and Airodek lightweight next five years.
Short-term budgetary issues soffit formwork also proved highly in Ireland have meanwhile led to a reduction popular during 2002. in the pace of construction, although the government is committed to an expansion Looking ahead, governments in our European of infrastructure.
markets are planning significant expenditure on infrastructure over the next few years.
The results from the United Arab Emirates We are also well-placed to take advantage in the Middle East were its best ever: profit of the forecast increase in commercial-sector before tax was four times higher than in 2001. construction in Australia, and in the Far East Projects included the , we secured several major hire contracts 1.27km Wadi Muddiq to Gillay mountain following the year end that signal a better tunnel, where a custom-made travelling form year ahead.
was designed to fit the tunnels 12.3m-wide elliptical cross section while allowing site traffic to pass through its centre.
1 Birmingham Northern Relief Road Markets in the Far East were generally difficult Formwork and falsework was due to public spending limitations, although used in the construction of over 80 bridges and culverts.
Taiwan had a good year with significant wins 2 Taiwan High Speed Railway on the countrys high-speed railway, which Equipment Services won several used around 3,500 tonnes of our equipment major contracts on the railway, supplying specially-designed over seven contracts.
Interserve Plc Review of operations Annual report 2002 Facilities Services 16 Industrial Services 12 Project Services Equipment Services PFI Investments The PFI Investments division, which trades as Interserve Investments Plc, increased its portfolio during the year with the signing of three PFI contracts and our designation as preferred bidder in two more.
In addition we saw several projects move into their operational phase.
At the year end Interserve was involved in In addition to St Genevives and Hattersley, 18 PFI projects and held significant equity in several other projects moved into operational 13 with nominal investments in two more.
We opened two day centres and Our downstream involvement is either in a short-stay residential unit for Portsmouth facilities services provision or design construction Social Services in the summer and completed or both.
Neath Port Talbot Hospital five weeks ahead of schedule.
In Cornwall we brought on stream We reached financial close on three projects 28 of the 31 fire stations we are building and during the year.
The contract for the Health refurbishing in a Pathfinder PFI scheme.
We and Safety Laboratories at Buxton, Derbyshire, are also providing interim facilities services is worth approximately 80 million in at Southampton Schools prior to their full operational fees.
Interserve is supplying interim operational phase.
services at the existing sites at Sheffield and Buxton while construction is under way.
The At the year end Interserve had committed to premises at these locations will be replaced by an investment of some 29 million in PFI the new laboratories, where we shall provide projects, not including those where we were facilities services.
Working to a tight timetable, preferred bidder.
We see the Private Finance we built and opened the first two Hattersley Initiative primarily as a means of generating schools on time in September and are on good-quality work for our Facilities and Project schedule to open the third in the spring of Services divisions, whether combining their 2003.
The last project to be signed in 2002 was capabilities to offer an integrated package or Ashford prison, which will be the first new, allworking with partners to fulfil a particular womens prison in the UK for over 30 years.
One further deal, Peterborough prison, was signed after the year end.
In September an Interserve consortium was named preferred bidder for the Tyrone Colleges PFI in Northern Ireland, where we shall supply facilities services for the two colleges.
This was the same team that successfully delivered Belfasts St Genevives School earlier in the year.
In December another Interserve consortium became preferred bidder for the MoDs Army Training Estate PPP in which we 1 Pinfold Primary School shall provide facilities management for the Opened by Kevin Keegan, this is entire estate.
Since the year end we have also one of three Hattersley schools been awarded preferred bidder status on the in a 30-year PFI contract.
Defence Sixth Form College PFI this is not 2 Owler Brook Nursery and Infant School included in the figures above.
HRH The Duchess of Gloucester opened the school, part of the Sheffield Schools PFI contract, in March 2002.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2002 3 PFI contracts signed in 2002 29m of investment committed on 13 projects Named preferred bidder on 17 2 projects in 2002 Peterborough prison signed 18projects since year end Defence Sixth Form College at preferred bidder since Investments in 15 PFI PPP year end 5 projects moved into projects plus 3 at preferred operational phase in 2002 bidder stage Interserve Plc Environment and the community Annual report 2002 18 Interserve recognises that conducting its business in a way that minimises environmental impact, promotes positive interaction with the community and is conducted with sound ethical standards brings benefits to all concerned.
Board directors are appointed to be responsible for Group environmental, social and ethical policies.
We are a support services group with a broad Group environmental policy statement range of operations stretching from the UK to The policy of the Group is to conduct its the Far East and Australasia.
As such, we are operations in an environmentally sustainable closely involved with many different cultures manner in order to protect the environment and stakeholders.
With all of these we endeavour for future generations.
to maintain a consistent approach that satisfies the legitimate interests of the people concerned.
In implementing its policy the Group will seek, This applies whether we are working with them through its operating companies, to ensure: directly or if they are affected in any way by Compliance with relevant environmental the results of our activities.
legislation and regulation This section of the annual report covers our Prevention of pollution approach to environmental, social and ethical The efficient use of natural resources matters.
Health and safety, an area we regard as equally important, is discussed separately in The minimisation of waste and emissions the Directors report see page 28. to air Environmental awareness of all employees Environment Effective monitoring of environmental performance The prosperity of our business and of the Continual improvement in environmental communities with which we engage requires performance a long-term commitment to the sustainable management of our activities.
These activities can have both beneficial and negative impacts The Group will set targets and objectives on the local and global environments.
All of for the improvement of environmental our businesses work in partnership with our management and will publish details of clients to seek to minimise the impact of our its environmental performance.
operations and where possible to work to improve the local working and living environment.
All employees have a role to play in the care of the environment.
The Group has appointed The following revised Policy Statement has a director to be responsible for environmental provided a new focus for environmental issues, and environmental responsibilities are management throughout the Group with a allocated to line management throughout number of business units achieving ISO 14001 the organisation.
certification for their Environmental Management Systems EMSs see page 21.
This policy will be subject to periodic review to ensure it continues to meet the Groups environmental requirements.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2002 19 12 34 Environmental impact Interserves external stakeholders are diverse Interserves workload profile changes from and come from all sections of the population.
year to year and with it the potential for The structure of the workforce needs to reflect environmental damage.
The environmental this diversity to enhance our interaction with management systems developed within the community.
operating companies focus on minimising the environmental impact of projects and Harassment and victimisation eliminating the risk of pollution incidents.
We consider harassment of any employee As a result of these arrangements, in 2002 for any reason to be unacceptable.
Interserve there were: does not tolerate any form of victimisation or sexual or racial harassment.
No cases of enforcement action taken against any Group company by the All employees are encouraged to think Environment Agency about their own behaviour and that of their colleagues and to reflect on whether it might No incidents of pollution reportable be unacceptable or offensive.
Managers to the Environment Agency have a responsibility to ensure that any form of harassment does not take place All businesses are encouraged to be proactive in the workplace.
Interserve Site Services part of the Project Services division operates a waste transfer station serving Ethical clients in the Birmingham area which works to reduce amounts sent to landfill.
As a result of In all of Interserves operations it is important this operation a total of 1489 tonnes of to retain a set of core values and approaches material were recovered which would to the process of doing business.
The otherwise have gone to landfill.
reputation of the company and the trust and confidence of those with whom it deals are among its most vital resources.
The protection Social of these is of fundamental importance, and we demand and maintain high ethical standards in Diversity and equal opportunities carrying out our business activities.
We do not We are committed to a policy of diversity and tolerate any form of corrupt practice.
equal opportunities in our employment 1 Raft Race practices.
The policy aims to ensure that there Our ethical policy includes guidance for Project Services Uxbridge office be no discrimination either direct or indirect organised a raft race event managing our relationships with customers, against employees or applicants on the basis of which resulted in 14 grants suppliers and competitors and addresses through SportsAid, Interserves sex, marital status, sexual orientation, race, the specific issues associated with chosen charity.
2 Ice Hockey Nick Compton, a talented 15-year-old ice hockey player, All employees have a personal responsibility for benefited from funds raised by the practical application of equal opportunities Interserve staff at Twyford.
in their everyday dealings and working 3 Cyclo-Cross relationships with colleagues, customers, Graham Platts sponsored coastal walk raised a SportsAid suppliers and other appropriate parties.
grant for 17-year-old cyclo-cross specialist Edward Perry.
4 Judo Three-times National Medallist 14-year-old Jason Smith was another of Interserves SportsAid beneficiaries.
Interserve Plc Environment and the community Annual report 2002 20 Charitable Giving Achievements Interserve is inextricably linked with the In addition to the progress we have made communities in which it operates, and we internally in achieving our objectives, we are recognise that contributing to society means proud to have received acknowledgement of more than providing our services in the course our efforts from several external bodies, either of business: it means making a commitment to in the form of awards or through certification helping others and taking part in the to various standards.
Environmental Awareness Award To provide a focus for the charitable activities National Business Awards 2002 of staff and the Group as a whole, Interserve Project Services was one of five finalists.
has formed a relationship with SportsAid, a leading youth sports charity that operates both Environmental Management Award at national and local levels.
SportsAid has been Premises and Facilities Management supporting youngsters from the age of 12 Partnership Awards 2002 winner upwards for over 26 years, with activities Facilities Services, together with its client, ranging across 60 sports throughout the United Office for National Statistics, won the award Kingdom.
As the Groups chosen charity, for its successful introduction of the first webSportsAid benefits from events organised and based EMS to be used on a Government estate.
supported by Interserve staff at all levels.
Golden Apple Interserve made its first donation to SportsAid Green Apple Awards 2002 in June 2002 with a cheque for 25,000.
During Project Services received the award for good the year events took place across all divisions environmental practice during the Malton and with staff participating in a variety of activities Norton Flood Alleviation Scheme.
from a raft race to a sponsored 157-mile coastal walk.
This raised funds for a total of 19 grants Environmental Team of the Year to be made to youths throughout the country Severn Trent Awards 2002 participating in sports such as snowboarding, Awarded by Severn Trent to Project Services.
ice hockey, cyclo-cross and judo.
Interserve has also contributed to charities such as Crisis, Help the Aged and Cancer Research, while divisions, branches and individual staff have supported many more.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2002 21 1 23 ISO 14001 Another part of Project Services Building Environmental Management Standard group, Regional Services, is working towards A number of Interserve companies have registration.
achieved or are working towards ISO 14001 registration.
ISO 14001 is the internationally Investors in People recognised standard for EMSs.
It specifies a Investors in People IiP is the national standard process for controlling and improving a which sets a level of good practice for training company's environmental performance and development of people to achieve business and consists of: goals.
It provides a framework for improving business performance and competitiveness General requirements through a planned approach to setting and communicating business objectives and Environmental policy developing people to meet these objectives.
Planning Interserve has achieved re-accreditation at its Implementation and operation head office, and all of its principal operating Checking and corrective action divisions are either in the process of re-accreditation or are preparing for initial Management review accreditation.
We shall continue to be reviewed regularly against the standard in Interserve Facilities Management Ltd, part of order to gain the benefits of ongoing the Facilities Services division, has established improvement, both for our employees and for EMSs registered to ISO 14001 for its contracts the business.
with the Office for National Statistics and Cumberland Infirmary.
Interserve Defence Ltd, also part of Facilities Services, has also established an EMS for the companys defence contracts and is working towards ISO 14001 registration on five sites.
Industrial Services has achieved ISO 14001 registration at its head office.
Project Services has achieved ISO 14001 registration in several of its divisions: Strategic Projects 1 Environmental Team of part of the Building group the Year 2002 Interserve Water, part of Project Services, was named Civils part of the Infrastructure group Severn Trents Environmental Team of the Year 2002.
Water part of the Infrastructure group 2 Investors in People Interserve Plc head office was among the locations winning re-accreditation to the Investors in People standard.
3 Environmental Management Award 2002 Interservefm and client Office for National Statistics won the award at the PFM Partnership Awards 2002.
