Heritage Paving, Calder Brown Landscape Products Division Sales in 2002 were 254.5 million 2001: 247.6 The year had three very different trading periods.
million an increase of 2.8 per cent over last It started very strongly with sales ahead of expecyear, despite the significant disruption to trade tations, there then followed the special events of caused by the special events in the summer.
the summer, which dramatically reduced activity However, we still managed to increase operating right across the industry, and finally came a slow profit by 11.9 per cent, to a record 38.5 million recovery through until September when sales 2001: 34.4 million.
returned to more normal levels.
8 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 The significant capital investment programme undertaken over the past few years has enabled us to deliver record operating profits.
This is not only producing greater manufacturing efficiency, but also, as all Service Centres now have the appropriate plant, we are able to deliver our full range of products to every region of the country at lower cost.
The other aspect of our strategy, investment in marketing both to the domestic and commercial sectors, did not produce all the potential benefits in 2002 because of the unusual trading conditions.
Nevertheless, the business will gain this year from new products and the continued development of the Marshalls Register of approved driveway and patio installers, and investment in focused advertising directed at our various target customer groups.
All three elements of the marketing strategy will again be taken to new levels during 2003.
Chancery Flagstones, Grey Green Chancery Circle, Grey Green.
Tegula Drivesett and Tegula Cobbles, Traditional Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 9 Divisional Outlook Our market research continues to confirm strong consumer interest in driveway, garden and patio products to enhance the environment.
Consumers also recognise that investment in this area improves the value of their property, and can easily be financed.
In 2003 we plan to use television advertising for the first time through sponsoring lunchtime gardening programmes on UK Style, the satellite channel.
To link with this we are also extending our offer to consumers, through members of the Marshalls Register, to include a finance package that will make it easier for them to meet the cost of installation.
Woodstone Posts and Sleepers, Light Buff New products already launched and directed specifically at the commercial and public sector markets, put us in a strong position to win a share of announced Government spending projects.
These are continuing to forecast that construction sector growth will be ahead of the wider economy which should compensate for any possible weakness in consumer spending.
While it is not within our power to influence economic conditions we can improve the performance of our own business, and will continue to work to that effect during 2003.
Graham Holden Chief Executive Landscape Products Division Driveline Excel, Burnt Ochre.
Drivesett Kerb, Traditional 10 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 Shrewsbury School.
Clay products Clay Products Division The 2.9 per cent increase in sales to 30.3 million We have told Shareholders previously of our 2001: 29.4 million should be seen in the context continuing drive to lower the cost base of the of a half per cent rise in Industry volumes for the business and find more operating efficiencies.
year, despite the improved level of activity in the There still remains much to be done in this area.
We are as determined as ever to deliver this value to Shareholders.
We saw most growth from products sold to builders merchants through the Landscape Products Divisions Service Centres.
This facility Divisional Outlook allows merchants to purchase smaller quantities The outlook for the brick market is probably of Clay Products for immediate delivery when better than it has been for some time.
With the ordering other landscape products.
private house building market remaining active, and the Governments intention to increase While market conditions are not easy, the significantly the provision of low cost public restructuring already undertaken by other housing, there are encouraging signs in terms of companies in the Industry, including capacity future demand.
Other public sector projects, reduction, has resulted in a better trading particularly new schools and hospitals, together environment.
This has also been helped by falling with increased spending by local authorities on Industry stocks.
repair and maintenance, should also create more demand for bricks.
Operating profit at 4.4 million 2001: 4.5 million is after charging redundancy costs and writing down certain stocks as part of a stock cleansing programme.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 11 Natural Stone Division The Natural Stone Division supplies a diverse range of products, principally for commercial and public sector projects.
Besides Yorkstone products from our own quarries the range includes aggregates and imported granite and sandstone.
This is the first year in which we have disclosed the results of this business which now merits Divisional status.
Sales, amounted to 25.0 million 2001: 19.6 million an increase of over 27.6 per cent, including a full years contribution from Stancliffe Stone, acquired in June 2001.
Organic growth in sales was 14.0 per cent.
Operating profit, after reorganisation costs and goodwill amortisation, increased by 31.1 per cent to 3.3 million 2001: 2.5 million.
Organic growth in operating profit was 10.6 per cent.
Over the past 2 years, significant investment in new plant and technology has been made to enhance the Divisions productivity.
The benefits of this policy are showing through in the results.
More investment will take place in 2003.
The Divisions diverse portfolio of stone products is appreciated by leading Architectural practices working on prestigious schemes, particularly in London and the South East.
Recent projects include Somerset House, The Royal Opera House, and currently Trafalgar Square.
Divisional Outlook The Management structure of the Division has been strengthened to take advantage of the many opportunities that exist in the marketplace.
With a healthy order book, the prospects for further growth are encouraging.
2003 will also see a full year contribution from a small but profitable sand and gravel business acquired in December 2002.
Natural Stone paving 12 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 Emerging Businesses Division Sales in the Division amounted to 32.3 million Classical Flagstones 2001: 31.5 million an increase of 2.7 per cent.
The aspirational ranges of high quality flagstones Following the disposal of the Flooring business produced by this business are sold mainly to the in November 2002, the Division now domestic market for internal flooring in hallways consists of three businesses: Drainage Products, and kitchens.
During the year we encountered Street Furniture, and Classical Flagstones.
The difficulties with our production facilities that took sales of these remaining businesses, on a like for some time to resolve.
As a consequence we were like basis, increased by 12.7 per cent.
Operating required to delay fulfilling orders until these profits of 4.1 million 2001: 3.9 million problems were corrected.
Sales were therefore increased by 6.1 per cent.
more than 26 per cent below last year.
The business is now back to normal production levels.
The reason for the sale of our Flooring business is that we did not see the prospect of Marshalls establishing a major market presence in this Divisional Outlook sector.
It remains the strategy of the Division that The improvements we have made across the we either grow the individual businesses Division during 2002 in terms of sales and organically, or by acquisition, to create a production, and also in strengthening the significant presence in their sector, or we dispose management teams, give every reason to believe of them.
The prospects for the remaining that the Division will deliver further significant businesses are good as the growth in sales would growth in 2003.
We are also actively seeking suggest.
acquisitions to increase the size and market share of each business.
Drainage Products The business supplies linear drainage for use in road building as well as for commercial and domestic landscaping schemes.
Until this year it has been a split site business with some activity on the same site as our Flooring business.
Encouraged by the prospect of selling that business, drainage products have now been consolidated on one site.
Despite this disruption, the business managed to increase sales by 20.9 per cent in the year.
Street Furniture The Street Furniture business consists of our own manufactured concrete products and metal telescopic bollards, supplemented by a wide range of factored products.
This year saw sales improve by a very encouraging 16.6 per cent.
The management of this business has also been strengthened recently.
As a result more attention Classical Flagstones, Pennant will be given in future to working closely with the rest of the Group on enquiries for projects where our other products are also likely to be specified.
