51 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration report Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with s420 of the Companies Act 2006 and in line with the Schedule 8 of the Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The Remuneration Committee believes in and promotes good governance through the adoption of the Combined Code, compliance with the Listing Rules and due reference to the ABI guidelines.
The aforementioned regulations require certain elements of this report to be audited by the Companys auditors and for them to state that the audited information has been duly prepared in accordance with the regulations.
The report therefore has been arranged into two sections: Section A: not subject to audit and Section B: subject to 01 audit.
The report will be presented for shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM on 14 July 2010.
Section A: The following information is not subject to audit Remuneration Committee Membership The Remuneration Committee met eight times in the year and is comprised of solely Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
06 The membership of the Remuneration Committee during the year is shown below: Table 1: meeting attendance record No of meetings Director attended 1 T K Morgan cbe Chairman 4 D S Jenkins 8 G J Potts 8 14 R J Matthews 7 2 I S J Macpherson 4 Note: 1 Terry Morgan was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 30 September 2009 and attended all Remuneration Committee meetings since his appointment 2 Ishbel Macpherson resigned as a director of the Company and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 30 September 2009.
Advisers to the Committee During the year the Committee requested the attendance of and sought advice from Kepler Associates.
Kepler Associates provide no other services to the Company.
Ruby McGregor-Smith, Chief Executive, attended Remuneration Committee meetings by 60 invitation only, to provide further information to the Committee on the Companys performance and the performance and remuneration of the Executive Directors.
Terms of reference The terms of reference for the Committee are available on request from the Company Secretary thecompanysecretary@mitie.
com and from the Companys website.
The terms of reference include: Shaping and agreeing with the Board the framework of policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors and certain aspects of the remuneration of senior management: Determine the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director with due regard to the performance of the individual in line with the agreed remuneration policy: Agreeing Executive Directors contractual terms: Acting on behalf of the Board, in connection with the establishment and administration of the Groups current and or future share option schemes, including the selection of participants, the setting of option prices and the setting of performance targets: Drafting and approving the Directors remuneration report and any remuneration related resolutions to be put to the shareholders at the Groups Annual General Meeting.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview 52 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration report Remuneration policies and principles General remuneration principles The Committee is responsible for formulating remuneration policies and principles that promote the success of the Company in creating value for shareholders over the longer term through alignment with the corporate objectives and business strategy after taking into full account the associated risks.
The Committee understands that it is accountable to shareholders for the decisions made on Executive remuneration and seeks to maintain open and constructive communication where changes on remuneration policy are being proposed.
The remuneration policy for the Companys Executive Directors and other Group senior executives is shaped by the requirement to align the interests of the senior executive team with those of MITIEs shareholders.
The policy has particular regard to the Companys and the Groups long-standing culture of encouraging equity ownership in order to achieve this alignment.
The Committee, and the Board, continue to believe that the principle of equity incentivisation has been a key driving force in the past success of the Group.
Consequently, in order to maintain and further develop MITIEs performance culture, the Committee believes that the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors should continue to contain significant performance-related equity-based elements.
The Remuneration Committee believes exceptional performance should be matched with appropriate remuneration to retain and motivate Directors and management while being mindful of the behaviour that such packages create.
The Committee ensures that packages are linked to and support the long-term performance of the Company.
Remuneration policy The remuneration policy of the Company promotes and embeds the Companys remuneration principles.
The Companys policy is: Performance linked Company performance determines a significant element of remuneration packages.
Only top-end performance can achieve the stretching targets that are reflected in the performance-linked pay elements of the packages.
Shareholder aligned The discretionary share schemes are based on EPS growth aligning the interests of shareholders and the members of the senior executive team.
Bonuses are structured to reward the attainment of the strategic target of sustainable, profitable growth.
Comprehensive and simple The overall remuneration policy is comprehensive without becoming overcomplicated and encourages Executives to concentrate on growth of the Group.
The Remuneration Committee believes and is satisfied that the remuneration policy is appropriate and takes account of the Groups performance and strategic objectives.
The Committee plans to continue to use this approach and policy as a framework for the setting of future packages, whilst having due regard for the remuneration packages offered across the Group and the external market.
Share Ownership Policy A share-ownership policy for Executive Directors was introduced in 2007 at the same time as the LTIP.
Under this policy, all Executive Directors are required, over time, to build and maintain a shareholding in the Company worth 100% of base salary 150% of salary for any Executive Director who is granted an LTIP award of more than 100% of base salary.
The Committee recognises that the principal mechanism for building up this holding will be on the exercise of LTIP awards and accordingly, until such time as the shareholding requirement is met, Executive Directors will be expected to retain no fewer than 50% of shares net of taxes that vest under the LTIP.
Table 2: Share ownership update Number of Percentage of Value of target Ordinary shares Value of target holding holding as at owned as at holding as at achieved as at 1 2 1 May 2009 31 March 2010 31 March 2010 1 May 2010 3 R McGregor-Smith 691,000 399,376 913,373 132% 3 S C Baxter 454,500 112,201 256,603 56% N R Goodman 288,000 993,761 2,272,731 789% W Robson 288,000 1,595,053 3,647,886 1,266% Note: 1 On the 1 May each year, the Committee reviews the expected target holding for the Executive Directors, calculated as a percentage of salary: 2 Calculated at a share price of 228.7p being the closing market price on 31 March 2010: 3 Of which a proportion will be sold to settle tax liabilities arising from the accelerated vesting of the 2007 LTIP award.
53 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Key elements of Executive Director Remuneration The overall package for Executive Directors consists of a fixed element salary and certain benefits and a variable element annual performance-related bonus and long-term equity based incentives and has been structured in order to align the Executive Directors packages with the interests of shareholders.
The Committee tests the remuneration structure regularly to ensure that it remains aligned with business needs and is appropriately positioned relative to the market.
The balance between the fixed and variable elements of the Executive Directors packages is set out below.
01 Base salary Benchmarking is conducted by external remuneration consultants against sector and size comparators, in respect of base salary, total cash i. e. salary plus bonus and total remuneration.
The Committee also takes account of a range of other factors when determining appropriate salary levels including market conditions and the responsibilities and skills of the individual Directors.
As detailed within this report, the Executive Directors received salary increases during the year.
The Committee felt the increases were appropriate given the continued growth and performance of the Group, with due consideration of the outcomes of the benchmarking exercise.
06 Annual bonus Variable remuneration is designed to drive MITIEs performance, and be aligned to the Group strategic objective of achieving sustainable, profitable growth.
The annual bonus rewards short-term Company performance.
Shareholders were consulted during 2009 and approved an amendment to the bonus arrangements for the Executive Directors.
Previously, the bonus was earned in full for achieving a single specific performance target.
This was replaced with a two-stage bonus scheme: 100% of base salary continues to be earned for the achievement of Group budgeted financial performance, but Executive Directors have the opportunity to earn up to 125% of salary for a stretched level of performance.
In light of the increase in maximum bonus opportunity, any bonus earned above 100% of salary is deferred into MITIE Group PLC ordinary shares for two 14 years and is forfeited should the Director leave the business during this period.
During the year under review, MITIE delivered the required stretch target.
The Executive Directors were therefore each awarded performance related bonuses amounting to 125% of base salary.
100% of base salary was paid in cash and 25% of base salary deferred into MITIE Group PLC shares.
Share-based incentives The remuneration package reinforces long-term decision making and sustainable growth through the use of share-based incentives.
For Executive Directors and certain senior Group executives, the principal methodologies and schemes designed to 60 support this ethos are the Companys LTIP as described on page 55 and the Share Ownership Policy as described on page 52.
Vesting of share awards under the LTIP are based on performance measured over three years.
This period is considered appropriate to align rewards to Executive Directors with the strategic objectives of the Company.
Certain Executive Directors still retain options granted under the ESOS details of the holdings are set out in Table 4 of Section B below.
It is the intention of the Committee not to issue further ESOS options to Executive Directors, although ESOS continues to be used to reward and incentivise certain other members of the senior Group executive and management teams.
Other standard benefits The other benefits awarded to the Executive Directors consist of contributions to a pension scheme, private healthcare and the provision of a car allowance.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview 54 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration report Executive Directors Service Contracts All Directors are appointed for an indeterminate period of office but are subject to re-election at the Annual General Meeting every three years in accordance with the Combined Code.
The Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at MITIEs registered office, the head office and at the AGM.
All the Executive Directors have rolling service contracts which provide for a maximum of 12 months notice from either party.
There are no provisions for compensation on termination of employment set out within the contracts of the Executive Directors.
The dates of the service contracts of the Executive Directors are set out below: Table 3: Executive Directors service contracts Contract Date of term agreement Notice period R McGregor-Smith Rolling contract 01-Apr-03 12 months S C Baxter Rolling contract 10-Apr-06 12 months N R Goodman Rolling contract 01-Apr-03 12 months W Robson Rolling contract 01-Apr-03 12 months Policy on external appointments The Board recognises that the appointment of Executive Directors to non-executive positions at other companies can be beneficial both for the individual Director and the Group through the broadening of their experience and knowledge.
Roger Goodman receives fees of 40,000 per annum in respect of his role as Chairman of Networkers International plc.
Ruby McGregorSmith receives fees of 45,000 per annum in respect of her role as a Non-Executive Director of Michael Page International plc.
As set out in the Directors and Governance Report, Executive Directors are entitled to retain any fees earned from external appointments.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors fees The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are set by the Chairman and the Executive Directors and they are reviewed annually.
The fee level is designed both to recognise the contribution and responsibilities of the role and to attract individuals with the experience and skills required to contribute to the future development of the Board and the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee with an additional fee for chairing a committee, together with expenses incurred in carrying out their duties on behalf of the Company.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share schemes or the annual bonus scheme, nor do they receive pension or ancillary benefits.
Fee levels for the reporting year were maintained at levels paid in the prior year.
Further details of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are provided in Table 1 of Section B below.
Non-Executive Directors engagement terms The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at MITIEs registered office, the head office and at the AGM.
The Non-Executive Directors are engaged for a term of three years which is terminable on either three or six months notice.
During the year, the Company changed its policy in respect of notice periods offered to Non-Executive Directors from six months to three months.
Table 4: Non-Executive Directors engagement terms Date of engagement Contract Notice Date of Additional Duties terms term period leaving R J Matthews Appointed Chairman on 31 July 2008: 04-Dec-06 3 years 6 months Chairman of Nomination Committee I R Stewart Deputy Chairman 30-Mar-07 3 years 6 months D S Jenkins Senior Independent Non-Executive Director: 31-Jan-06 3 years 6 months Chairman of Audit Committee G J Potts 01-Aug-06 3 years 6 months T K Morgan cbe Chairman of Remuneration Committee 01-Jul-09 3 years 3 months L Hirst cbe 01-Feb-10 3 years 3 months I J S Macpherson Chairman of Remuneration Committee 27-Jul-05 3 years 6 months 30-Sep-09 55 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Employee share schemes Equity-based incentive schemes The Committee regularly reviews the Companys share-based incentive schemes to ensure their continued effectiveness.
The Group operates three equity-based incentive schemes as set out below.
The interests of the Executive Directors in each of these schemes is set out in Tables 4 and 5 of Section B below.
SAYE Scheme SAYE 01 The SAYE Scheme is the Companys non-discretionary option scheme open to all eligible employees and is approved for HMRC purposes.
Salary deductions are made and savings are used to purchase the options at the end of the three-year period.
No options have been issued to any Directors under the SAYE Scheme.
An award may not be granted under the SAYE Scheme after September 2011, when the current scheme expires.
Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS The ESOS is a discretionary scheme and therefore not open to all employees of the Group.
The award of options under the ESOS is generally focused towards employees who are below main Board level and who do not participate in the LTIP.
Currently, ESOS is 06 used to reward and motivate employees with continuous service of six months who are part of the leadership team of the Group includes senior managers, managers and team leaders.
The scheme has been approved by HMRC and options over shares to an individual limit of 30,000 can be awarded in the approved element of the scheme.
Above 30,000, options are awarded under the unapproved for HMRC purposes section of the scheme.
Overall, awards are limited to 100% of an individuals base salary.
Following changes to the scheme approved by shareholders at the 2007 AGM, the ESOS has a single performance threshold for vesting of the options average growth in earnings per share over the three-year vesting period must exceed inflation measured as RPI plus 4% per annum.
The scheme permits the grant of share appreciation rights and the settlement of outstanding unapproved options with share appreciation rights.
No price is payable upon award in respect of ESOS.
14 The share options detailed in Table 4 of Section B were granted to Executive Directors prior to 2007 under the ESOS and the performance conditions that applied at the date of grant required a percentage growth in the Companys earnings per share equal to or in excess of 10% per annum compound over the period from the date of grant of the option to the date on which the option first became exercisable.
The performance conditions relating to the awards to Directors detailed below are the same as for any other member of the schemes who received awards at the same time.
Since the grant to Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter detailed in Table 4 of Section B, there have been no grants to Directors under the ESOS both under the unapproved part and the HMRC-approved part, and it is the Committees current policy that equity-based incentives for Directors will be based solely upon LTIP awards.
60 Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP is a discretionary scheme and therefore not open to all employees of the Group.
The LTIP is focused on incentivising Executive Directors and senior management.
Awards under the LTIP may be made, either through a joint-ownership structure or through direct grants, in the form of nil-cost options, conditional shares or forfeitable shares.
The Committee may also decide to grant cash-based awards of an equivalent value to share-based awards or to satisfy share-based awards in cash, although it does not currently intend to do so.
An award may not be granted under the current LTIP after 26 July 2017, when the current scheme expires.
No payment other than in respect of any individual recipient electing to pay income tax and national insurance, where appropriate is required for the grant of an award.
Awards are not transferable, except on death, and are not pensionable.
The scheme rules, in line with standard industry practice, contain provision for pro-rata vesting in the event of retirement, redundancy, disability and or death.
In the event of a change of control of the Group, awards will be pro-rated both for time and performance, subject to the discretion of the Committee.
The upper limit on the market value as at grant of awards that an individual Executive Director may receive in any financial year is 200% of annual base salary.
The Committee intends to use this upper limit only in respect of awards to Ruby McGregor-Smith the Chief Executive and Suzanne Baxter the Group Finance Director and a limit of 100% of annual base salary will be applied to the other Executive Directors.
In exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment, the rules currently allow for awards of up to 250% of any employees annual base salary.
The Committee continues to believe that EPS is the most appropriate long-term performance measure for MITIE as it is aligned with the Groups strategy and KPIs.
This performance criterion has the advantages of simplicity and transparency which the Committee believes enhance the LTIPs effectiveness as an incentive.
Awards will normally vest after three years provided that certain performance criteria have been met.
All awards are subject to performance conditions that require adjusted EPS, less inflation measured by the retail prices index RPI, to exceed certain performance thresholds over a three-year period.
Where EPS growth is less than a lower performance threshold no awards will vest: awards vest in full when EPS growth is equal to, or more than, an upper performance threshold: vesting is on a straight-line basis for performance between these levels.
For LTIP awards granted in 2007 and 2008, the lower and upper performance thresholds were RPI 5% per annum and RPI 14% per annum respectively.
Following consultation with major shareholders during the year, the upper performance threshold was revised to RPI 10% per annum, first effective for LTIP awards granted in 2009 i. e. no changes have been made to the performance criteria of LTIP awards granted in earlier years : the lower performance threshold remains at RPI 5% per annum.
The Committee believes the revision to the upper performance threshold is necessary to i ensure the LTIP remains motivational in light of the current uncertainty in the general economy, ii ensure our policy to deliver upper quartile pay for upper quartile performance is achieved, and iii be more competitive with comparators long-term incentive performance scales.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview 56 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration report As announced on 30 March 2010, the Committee approved the accelerated vesting of LTIP awards granted in 2007, in line with the plan rules.
This decision was taken by the Committee after thorough and considered reflection and will not result in any additional costs to the Company.
The upper performance threshold applicable to the 2007 LTIP award was assessed to have been achieved and consequently the awards granted in 2007 vested in full.
The Committee will assess the extent to which the performance conditions applicable to the award have been satisfied on the normal vesting date of 26 July 2010 and any award that would not have vested on the normal vesting date will be clawed back.
LTIP awards granted to, and exercised by, the Executive Directors are set out in Table 5 of Section B below.
Share dilution The Company manages dilution rates within the ABI guidelines of 10% of issued Ordinary share capital in respect of all-employee schemes and discretionary schemes the LTIP, ESOS and SAYE and 5% in respect of discretionary schemes the LTIP and ESOS.
In calculating compliance with these guidelines the Company allocates available headroom on a ten-year flat-line basis, making adjustments for projected lapse rates and projected increases in issued share capital.
LTIP awards are satisfied through the market purchase of shares held by the MITIE Group PLC Employee Benefit Trust 2007 and the MITIE Group PLC Employee Benefit Trust 2008.
The potential dilution of the Companys issued share capital is set out below in respect of all outstanding awards granted under the Companys equity-based incentive schemes which are to be satisfied through the allotment of new shares.
Table 5: Share dilution at 31 March 2010 Current total dilution All share plan maximum 10% 7.3% Discretionary share plans maximum 5% 3.8% Total shareholder return The graph below shows the total shareholder return performance of MITIE shares compared with the FTSE 250 and FTSE 350 Support Services indices over a five-year period to 31 March 2010.
The Committee is of the opinion that these comparators provide a clear picture of the performance of MITIE relative to a range of companies of comparable size as well as a specific group of companies within the same sector.
Total shareholder return is calculated according to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and assumes that all dividends are reinvested.
The market price of the Companys shares as at 31 March 2010 was 228.7p.
The highest and lowest prices during the year were 277.8p and 185.5p respectively.
