Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 81 Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Company policy on Directors pay and bonuses Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations The Companys policy is to ensure that Directors are fairly rewarded with 2008.
It also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the regardto responsibilities undertaken, and considers comparable pay levels in Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the theUnited Kingdom, in Chile, and in the international mining industry.
Corporate principles of good governance as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate and individual performance is taken into account in setting the pay level for the Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Chairman as an Executive Director, and this is reviewed on an annual basis to Combined Code relating to Directors remuneration which applied to the ensure it remains in line with companies of a similar nature, size and complexity.
Company during the 2010 financial year.
The UK Corporate Governance Remuneration levels for Non-Executive Directors are based on comparable levels Codeissued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 will apply to the for companies of a similar nature, size and complexity, and take into account Company from the 2011 financial year and will be reported upon in the 2011 specic responsibilities undertaken.
Remuneration includes fees paid for Annual Report and Financial Statements.
non-executive directorships of subsidiary companies and joint ventures withintheGroup.
The Board does not consider it appropriate to make regular During the year under review, the Company complied with the detailed code performance-related pay awards such as bonuses to the only Executive Director, provisions set out in Section B of the Combined Code except, as explained on Mr. J-P Luksic, given his role as Chairman of the Board and his interest in page 80, performance-related pay measures did not apply to the Chairman, theCompanys shares both directly and as a member of the Luksic family.
whowas the only Executive Director provision B.
TheGroup has paid Mr. R F Jara for advisory services to the Group.
During the The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to the Companys year, exceptional bonuses were paid in respect of Mr. Jara and to a number of members on certain parts of this report and to state whether in their opinion long-serving senior executives recognising their contribution to long-term value those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies creation of the Group over the years from the development of the Los Pelambres Act2006.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for mine in the late 1990s to the commissioning of the Esperanza mine towards unaudited and audited information.
The aggregate amount of the bonuses was US$8.8 million.
NoDirector currently receives pension contributions.
Unaudited information Non-Executive Directors fees Remuneration Committee The fees payable to Non-Executive Directors in respect of Antofagasta plc Membership wereas follows: The Remuneration Committee currently comprises Mr. G S Menndez Chairman, Mr. C H Bailey and Mr. W M Hayes, all of whom are considered 2010 2009 US$000 US$000 bythe Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Mr. W M Hayes Base fee 100 100 replaced Mr. D E Yarur, who retired from the Remuneration Committee Audit Committee chairman 20 20 on29November 2010.
Audit Committee member 10 10 Responsibilities Remuneration Committee chairman 16 16 The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are fully set out in its Remuneration Committee member 10 10 Termsof Reference which are available from the Companys registered ofce Nomination Committee chairman 10 10 and may be viewed on the Companys website www.
Nomination Committee member 4 4 TheCommittee is responsible for setting remuneration policy and for reviewing In addition to the above amounts, Non-Executive Directors also receive fees in the remuneration of any Executive Directors and, where appropriate, it consults their capacity as Non-Executive Directors of the principal operating subsidiary the Chairman, Mr. J-P Luksic.
The Committee used benchmarking data from companies and joint ventures within the Group.
As some of these fees are set various sources, but did not appoint external consultants to advise on Directors inChilean pesos, the US dollar payments made in respect of such fees may vary remuneration during the year.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible depending on the applicable exchange rate from time to time.
These additional for monitoring the level and structure of remuneration of Group senior fees are included within the amounts attributable to the Directors within the table management and evaluating management performance.
The remuneration of Directors remuneration on page 83. ofNon-Executive Directors is determined by the Board as a whole.
No Director participates in thedetermination of his own remuneration.
82 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance Remuneration Report continued Service contracts and letters of appointment There have been no changes to the Directors interests in the shares of the Company between 31 December 2010 and the date of this report.
Mr. J-P Luksic has a contract for services with both the Antofagasta Railway Company plc and Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
Both contracts for services can The Directors had no interests in the shares of the Company during the year beterminated by either party on one months notice.
There is also a contract other than the interests in the table set out above.
No Director had any material between Antofagasta Minerals S. A. and Asesoras Ramn F Jara Ltda for the interest in any other contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings provision of advisory services by Mr. R F Jara which can also be terminated on during the year other than in the ordinary course of business.
The amounts payable under these contracts for services Performance graph aredenominated in Chilean pesos and as is typical for employment contracts or contracts for services in Chile, are adjusted in line with Chilean ination, and are The following graph shows the Companys performance compared to the also reviewed periodically in line with the Companys policy on Directors pay performance of the FTSE All-Share Index over a five-year period, measured by although no changes were made in 2010.
Amounts paid during 2009 and total shareholder return as dened below.
The FTSE All-Share Index has been 2010have been included in the table of Directors remuneration on page 83. selected as an appropriate benchmark as it is the most broadly based index to which the Company belongs and which relates to the London Stock Exchange, All Non-Executive Directors other than Mr. Menndez, Mr. Bailey, Mr. Baker and the market where the Companys ordinary shares are traded.
Total shareholder Mr. Dryland have letters of appointment with the Company, for an initial period return is calculated to show a theoretical growth in the value of a shareholding ofthree years from the date of their appointment, subject to re-appointment over a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase ateach Annual General Meeting AGM during their period of appointment.
additional shares at the closing price applicable on the ex-dividend date.
Mr. Menndez, Mr. Bailey, Mr. Baker and Mr. Dryland are each appointed for a Totalshareholder return for the FTSE All-Share Index is calculated by one-year period from the date of their appointment, subject to re-appointment aggregatingthe returns of all individual constituents of the FTSE at the end atthe AGM following their appointment.
The Company intends to comply with oftheve-year period.
7 of the UK Corporate Governance Code from the 2011 financial yearand submit each Director for annual re-election.
These letters require Total Shareholder Return Antofagasta plc vs FTSE All-Share Index theNon-Executive Directors to undertake that they will have sufficient time % todischarge their responsibilities.
The appointments may be terminated by eitherparty on one months notice.
The letters of appointment are available for 500 inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours 400 andat the AGM for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
The service 300 contracts and letters of appointment do not provide for any compensation forloss of ofce beyond payments in lieu of notice, and therefore the maximum amount 200 payable upon termination of these contracts is limited to one months payment.
100 Share options and long-term incentive schemes 0 No arrangements exist to enable Directors to acquire benets through the DEC 2010 DEC 2005 DEC 2006 DEC 2007 DEC 2008 DEC 2009 acquisition of shares in the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, Antofagasta FTSE All Shares tobenet through profit-related pay or share option schemes or to participate Total Shareholder Return represents share price growth plus dividends reinvested over the period.
Total Return Basis Index 1 January 2006 100 inany long-term incentive schemes.
Source: Datastream Directors interests The Directors interests in the shares of the Company at the beginning and end of the year were as follows: Ordinary shares of 5p each 31 December 1 January 2010 2010 1 J-P Luksic 41,963,110 41,963,110 C H Bailey 32,000 32,000 2 R F Jara 1,260 1 Mr. J-P Luksics interest relates to shares held by Aureberg Establishment, an entity which he controls.
2 Mr R F Jaras interest relates to shares held by a close family member.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 83 Audited information Directors remuneration The remuneration of the Directors in the year is set out below in US dollars.
Amounts paid in Chilean pesos have been translated at average rates for the relevant year, which are set out in Note 36 to the financial statements.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable to Mr. J-P Luksic of US$3,232,000 2009 US$3,116,000.
The benets expense represents the provision of car usage and life, accident and health insurance for Mr. J-P Luksic.
2 During 2010, remuneration of US$509,000 2009 US$462,000 for the provision of services by Mr. R F Jara was paid to Asesoras Ramn F Jara Ltda.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable to Mr. R F Jara of US$821,000 2009 US$770,000.
The benets expense represents the provision of accident insurance to Mr. Jara.
As explained in relation to Company Policy on page 81, during 2010 an exceptional bonus was paid to Riverwood Services Inc. in respect of Mr. Ramon Jara reecting his contribution to the Group over a long period oftime.
3 Mr. J W Ambrus resigned from the Board on 14 October 2009, and the amounts shown above for 2009 represent fees payable up to this date.
4 Mr. P J Adeane retired from the Board in 2006.
Following retirement, Mr. P J Adeane has continued to serve the Board as a Senior Advisor under a contract for services at the rate of 10,000 per annum until 30 June 2010.
Mr. Adeane was paid 5,000 approximately US$7,720 under this contract for services during 2010 2009 10,000 approximately US$15,590.
Approved on behalf of the Board G S Menndez Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 March 2011
