Remuneration Report 29 This report contains the information required by Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the relevant parts of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Board of Directors report that the Company has complied with these regulations throughout the year under review.
Information not subject to audit Introduction and overview of the year The Remuneration Committee has continued to focus during the last year on ensuring that the Groups remuneration structure properly achieves its objective.
This objective is to ensure that Nexts employees at all levels receive appropriate remuneration which reflects the performance of the Company and their contribution to it.
The Committee is also keen to ensure that remuneration across Next fairly balances the rewarding of talent and performance with the primary financial objective of sustainable long term growth in earnings per share EPS.
Achieving this balance is central to a fair alignment of the interests of management and shareholders.
The Committee also aims to maintain an appropriate mix of salary, short term and longer term incentive arrangements so that no single element carries disproportionate weight, particularly for executive directors and other senior employees.
Next has achieved record profits and EPS, despite the challenging economic conditions and outlook for the UK.
Bonuses allocated to employees, including executive directors, have therefore been significantly higher than in the year to January 2009.
Pre-tax profits in 2009 10 were 505m, an increase of 76m over the previous year, which resulted in total annual bonuses payable to the four executive directors of approximately 2.3m 2009: 0.4m in accordance with the bonus plan targets set at the start of the year.
At a time when competition for managerial, design and retailing talent is very strong, the Committee is determined that the remuneration strategy should continue to enable Next to attract and retain the highest quality people.
The Committee believes that the stability in the composition of the team of executive directors and senior management has been a significant contributor to Nexts resilient performance.
This overview summarises the principal developments of the year.
More detailed information on Nexts remuneration arrangements is set out in the following pages.
During the year the Committee: n reviewed the overall remuneration, incentive and retention arrangements with a particular focus on whether the four-year Risk Reward investment plans of 2004 and 2005 should continue.
This review was conducted with the support and advice of the Committees independent consultants, Hewitt New Bridge Street.
The Committee concluded that the plan no longer met its original objectives.
Although approved by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting since 2005, no awards under the plan have been made since 2005 and no payouts have been achieved under the 2004 and 2005 plans.
Both plans have now lapsed and the personal investments made by senior executives, totalling 2.0m including 1.3m by executive directors, have been lost with no return.
n concluded that the Risk Reward plan should be replaced by an annual Share Matching Plan SMP complying with current best practice guidelines.
Under the proposed SMP, selected senior executives not expected to exceed 30, including the four executive directors could invest part, or all, of their annual cash bonus in Next shares and receive additional matching shares, depending on growth in EPS over the following three years.
The Committee considers that making awards each year will enable executives to build up a portfolio of awards, enhancing both the incentives for executives as well as strengthening their retention value to the Company.
n consulted major shareholders representing over 40% of Nexts shares in issue on the proposed terms of the SMP and accordingly concluded that it would be appropriate to submit the SMP for investors to consider at this years Annual General Meeting.
Full details are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 88 of the Annual Report.
The key elements of the proposal are: o depending on the Companys fully diluted EPS performance over 3 years and measured against thresholds the Committee set in advance, executives could receive additional Next shares with a value of up to 2 times the pre-tax amount of the bonus invested.
The Committee will have flexibility to make awards in exceptional circumstances of up to 3 times that amount.
The Committee has no current intention to use this flexibility and would do so only after consulting Nexts major shareholders.
Remuneration Report 30 o for any matching shares to vest, Next must achieve pre-determined fully diluted EPS thresholds.
For the initial award, it is proposed that executives would receive a matching award of half a share for each share purchased grossed up for tax as mentioned above if EPS for the year ending January 2013 is at least 191.5 pence.
A one for one match would require EPS of 206.5 pence and the maximum two for one match would require EPS of 221.5 pence.
For EPS at points between the thresholds a straight line basis of calculation for the matching amount would be applied.
These thresholds equate to growth in EPS over the three year period of 8.5%, 17.0% and 25.5% respectively.
The Committee believes that these thresholds are appropriately stretching, particularly given the record profits and EPS achieved in the last year.
o vesting of any award would be conditional on the executive remaining employed with Next for the three-year performance period and retention of their share investment.
o the Committee will set appropriate performance thresholds for later awards which it considers to be no less demanding than for the initial awards, taking account of the Companys recent performance and future prospects.
n considered whether EPS should remain the basis for calculating the level of annual bonuses and whether it would be appropriate to introduce personal performance targets for senior executives, including the executive directors.
The Committee decided that the current arrangements should be maintained.
The key factors in its assessment were: o EPS has been, and remains, the key internal measurement applied by management consistently for many years and used by the Board as a whole for evaluating Group performance.
o Next is essentially a single business selling products under the Next brand: it is not a conglomerate with diverse businesses and unrelated profit streams.
o there is a risk in applying different personal, financial or other targets to individual executives.
This could undermine the present shared goal, to the detriment of the growth of Next.
o long term sustainable growth in EPS, complemented by prudent Board oversight of strategy, annual budgets, financial discipline and investment opportunities, is, in the Committees view, the best indicator of financial performance and the creation of shareholder value.
o the use of EPS for annual bonuses is complemented by the use of Total Shareholder Return to determine vesting under Nexts Performance Share Plan LTIP.
o the use of non-financial or qualitative targets might result in bonuses being paid, or increased, when underlying financial performance might not justify such awards.
n determined that, as his specific product skills are scarce in the fashion retail sector, the annual LTIP awards for Mr Angelides should be increased from 150% to 250% of salary for each of the four performance periods ending July 2012 through to January 2014 to ensure that he is appropriately incentivised.
No equivalent increase for other executive directors is currently envisaged.
n approved with effect from 1 February 2010 an annual cost of living salary increase of 1% for executive directors in line with the wider Company award.
Where appropriate additional merit increases have been awarded to certain senior executives, including one to Mr Angelides.
The cost of living increase is the same increase as awarded last year.
The Remuneration Committee The Committee determines the remuneration of the Groups Chairman and executive directors, and reviews that of senior executives.
It is also responsible for determining the targets for any performance related pay schemes operated by the Company, approves any award of the Companys shares under share option or incentive schemes to the Companys employees and oversees any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
The members of the Committee who served during the year were Mr Dawson Chairman of the Committee, Mr Barber, Mr Barton, Mr Brookes and Mrs Cross.
The directors biographies can be found on page 24 of this Annual Report.
The Committee members have no conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no director is permitted to be involved in any decisions as to his or her own remuneration.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is decided by the executive directors of the Board.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website or on request from the Company Secretary.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Remuneration Report 31 Remuneration policy The remuneration packages of directors are reviewed by the Committee at least annually on the same basis as other employees of the Group.
The review takes into account market practice and performance of the individual and of the business.
Other factors taken into account include the experience and responsibility of the individuals concerned, together with the Groups wider pay structures.
From time to time, the Committee commissions benchmarking exercises by independent consultants covering all aspects of directors remuneration including share incentives and other performance related reward plans.
The Committee also receives information from various independent sources on directors remuneration and draws on members collective experience from other board positions.
The components of the Groups remuneration packages are detailed below.
Remuneration is structured to ensure that no one component or measure dominates and that interests are aligned over different time periods with other employees and shareholders.
Remuneration policy does not conflict with the Companys approach to environmental, social and corporate governance matters and the Committee believes that the current arrangements do not encourage directors to take undue business risks.
Packages include basic salary, annual bonus based on pre-tax EPS, a long term incentive plan based on total shareholder return TSR and participation in Nexts pension plan.
Historically, it also included optional participation in a risk reward investment plan which, if approved by shareholders, will be replaced by the Share Matching Plan commencing this year.
Salary Directors salaries are set by reference to those prevailing in the market, particularly within other major retail companies, and according to individual performance, experience and responsibility as well as pay and employment conditions for employees elsewhere in the Group.
Where appropriate, additional merit increases are awarded.
With effect from 1 February 2010 an annual cost of living salary increase of 1% was awarded to executive drectors, in line with the wider Company award, with one merit award being made to Mr Angelides.
Annual performance related bonus The executive directors participate in an annual performance related bonus scheme which is based on formulae determined by the Committee measuring the performance of the business.
Annual performance targets are set by the Committee based on a range of factors, including consensus analysts profit forecasts and the Companys own internal budgets for the relevant period.
Whilst these are not disclosed in advance for reasons of commercial sensitivity, the targets and performance against them will be disclosed in the relevant years Remuneration Report.
For the year to January 2010, performance targets were set requiring pre-tax EPS of 195.3 pence before any bonus became payable.
A maximum bonus of 150% of salary in the case of the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the other executive directors was payable if pre-tax EPS exceeded 233.2 pence.
A sliding scale of payments operated for performance between these minimum and maximum levels.
Based on the pre-tax EPS of 261.8 pence per share, the actual bonus payable is 150% of salary in the case of the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the other executive directors In the case of the Chief Executive, any bonus in excess of 100% of basic salary is payable in shares, deferred for a period of two years and will be forfeited if he voluntarily resigns prior to the end of that period.
Long term incentive plan Awards under the plan were initially granted annually.
However, from September 2008 the Remuneration Committee adopted a biannual, rather than annual, grant policy.
The Chief Executive, other executive directors and senior management receive grants of 100%, 75% and 60% of basic annual salary respectively every six months in or around March and September each year, i. e. they are able to receive awards of up to 200%, 150% and 120% of basic salary annually.
As noted above, annual LTIP awards for Mr Angelides will be increased from 150% of salary to 250% p. a. for each of the four performance periods ending July 2012 through to January 2014.
Under the plan, performance is measured over periods of three years, which commence in February and August each year, by comparing TSR against approximately 20 other UK listed retail companies.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of a three year performance period then the award for that period will lapse and there is no retesting.
For awards made from September 2008 onwards, before allowing any of the awards to vest, the Remuneration Committee must have regard to the performance of the Company in light of underlying economic and other circumstances, including EPS performance of the Company and of other UK retailers over the period.
Whilst not disclosed in advance, the factors taken into account in determining the awards will be disclosed in the relevant years Remuneration Report.
Awards made prior to September 2008 cannot vest unless EPS of the Company has increased by at least the increase in the Retail Price Index over the period.
Remuneration Report 32 The comparator group of companies for the three year performance period to January 2010 was as follows: Alliance Boots Findel Kesa N Brown Burberry French Connection Kingfisher Signet Carpetright Home Retail Group Marks & Spencer Tesco Carphone Warehouse JJB Sports Morrisons W H Smith Debenhams J Sainsbury Mothercare Woolworths DSG For periods ending January 2011 onwards Alliance Boots has been removed from the comparator group.
For periods ending January 2012 onwards ASOS, HMV and Halfords have been added to the comparator group and Woolworths has been removed.
The Committee considers that the comparator group consists of UK listed companies which are most comparable with Next in size or nature of their business.
The Committee believes that comparison against a group of retail companies is more likely to reflect the Companys relative performance against its peers, thereby resulting in appropriate awards being made.
The graph below shows relative TSR of the Company over five years when compared with the FTSE All Share index and FTSE General Retailers index.
This illustrates the Companys performance against a wide all-share UK index and against other companies in the same sector.
Next plc Performance Chart 2005 2010 Total Shareholder Return 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Re-based to 31 January 2005 100 Next FTSE All Share FTSE General Retailers If TSR is below the median ranking company in the comparator group there will be no entitlement to any of the award.
Median performance earns an entitlement to a minimum percentage of the maximum award.
For performance above the median the entitlement will rise, with the maximum award being earned for performance which places the Company at or above a pre-determined ranking in the comparator group.
Performance against the relative TSR performance targets is calculated by .
Irrespective of where Company performance ranks, no award will vest for any plan commencing prior to April 2008 unless the Companys EPS has increased by at least the increase in the Retail Price Index over the period.
For plans commencing after July 2008, the Committee will confirm if the relevant performance conditions, including the economic underpin, have been met before any award vests.
The maximum award allowed under the current rules of the plan is 200% of basic salary 300% in exceptional circumstances.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Remuneration Report 33 Details of potential awards granted for outstanding performance periods and the performance criteria for maximum awards based on a comparator group of approximately 20 companies are as follows: Maximum potential award % of maximum Performance periods granted % of basic salary potential award at Ranking for commencing Directors Other employees median ranking maximum award February 2007 100% 80% 30% Upper quartile 1 February 2008 150% 120% 20% Upper quintile 2 August 2008 75% 60% 20% Upper quintile 2, 3 February 2009 75% 60% 20% Upper quintile 2, 3 August 2009 75% 60% 20% Upper quintile 1 The maximum potential award made to Mr Wolfson for the performance period commencing February 2008 is 200% of basic salary.
2 The maximum potential award made to Mr Wolfson for these performance periods is 100% of basic salary.
3 Incremental awards made to Mr Angelides, bringing his maximum share award to an equivalent of 125% of salary for these performance periods.
The Committee has discretion as to whether entitlements earned are payable in Next shares or cash and to date it has allowed participants the choice.
Entitlements earned are not pensionable and are based on salary and share price at the start of the performance period.
Individuals included in the plan have not received grants under the management share option scheme in the same year.
Share matching plan Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2010 AGM, a Share Matching Plan SMP will replace the current Risk Reward Plan.
Selected senior executives including the four executive directors will be able to invest part or all of their 2009 10 annual bonus in Next shares Investment Shares under the arrangements to receive a matching award Matching Shares.
Participants will be able to purchase Investment Shares each year.
In return they would receive a conditional award of Matching Shares.
Investment Shares may be purchased out of the cash element of the annual bonus which, for executive directors, is currently capped at 100% of salary.
Deferred shares i. e. any compulsory deferral element of the annual bonus, which currently only applies to the Chief Executive will not count as Investment Shares.
Participants will be able to receive a maximum matching award of 2 Matching Shares for every 1 Investment Share calculated on the value of gross bonus used to acquire their Investment Shares.
Vesting of matching awards will be subject to remaining in employment, the achievement of 3-year performance targets and the retention of Investment Shares.
The scheme will contain the ability to grant a higher matching ratio of up to 3:1 if the Committee considers it appropriate.
In practice, the Committee intends to operate the SMP with a maximum 2:1 match and will consult with major shareholders before any higher award is made.
Vesting of the initial awards is to be dependent solely on stretching fully diluted EPS targets, with a 0.5:1 match offered for achieving threshold EPS and a 2:1 match for maximum EPS.
For EPS performance between these two points, the intention is that the vesting schedule will be kinked with a higher than proportional level of match applying for more demanding levels of EPS growth within the range.
For the initial awards in 2010, the threshold level of vesting will require EPS of 191.5 pence, a match of 1:1 will be earned for EPS of 206.5 pence and EPS of 221.5 pence will be required to achieve the full 2:1 match with straight-line vesting between each of the threshold points.
The Committee is able to set different performance measures and targets for future awards but will consult with major shareholders before applying targets which, in its view, are less demanding in the circumstances than these initial conditions.
Remuneration Report 34 Risk Reward investment plan The risk reward investment plan was first implemented in 2004 in order to provide a retention incentive for executive directors and senior employees who were being targeted by Nexts competitors.
Shareholders also approved the implementation of further plans at an EGM held in 2005 and at the 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 AGMs, but the Committee decided it was not appropriate to offer this incentive in any of the four years to January 2010.
The Committee has decided that shareholder approval for the risk reward investment plan will no longer be sought.
Full details of the 2005 Plan were included on page 22 of the 2006 Remuneration Report.
The risk reward plan that was last implemented in July 2005 concluded in July 2009 and no returns accrued to participants on its maturity.
Management share options The management share option plan was approved by shareholders in 2005 and will be due for renewal in 2015.
The plan provides for options over shares, exercisable between three and ten years following their grant, to be allocated to Group employees excluding main board directors and senior executives who participate in Nexts LTIP at the discretion of the Committee.
Options can either be approved where the beneficiary may qualify for tax relief or unapproved.
The total number of options which can be granted is subject to shareholder approved limits and there are no cash settlement alternatives.
Options are set at the prevailing market price at the time of grant.
The maximum total market value of shares i. e. the acquisition price of shares over which options may be granted to any person during any financial year of the Company is three times salary, excluding bonuses and benefits in kind.
This limit may be increased to five times salary in circumstances considered by the Committee to be exceptional, for example on the grant of options following recruitment.
Grants are generally made annually.
The exercise of options granted prior to 2009 is subject to a performance condition where the percentage growth in the Groups EPS over a three year period must exceed RPI plus a further 3% per annum.
In the light of prevailing economic circumstances, the Committee determined in 2009 that a growth related performance condition was no longer appropriate and a specific EPS performance condition of 133p should be applied for the April 2009 option grant.
For the April 2010 award, the Committee has reviewed Nexts internal budgets and current analysts forecasts and decided this performance condition should revert to the minimum growth in EPS of RPI plus 3% per annum.
If the performance condition for any option grant is not met at three years from the date of grant, the options lapse.
No options were granted to directors or changes made to existing entitlements in the year under review.
No employee has received option grants under the scheme and been included in Nexts LTIP in the same year.
The Company monitors and has complied with dilution limits in its various share scheme rules and has not issued a significant number of new or treasury shares in satisfaction of share schemes in the last 10 years.
Currently, share based incentives are satisfied from shares held by the ESOT see Note 29.
The Committee may recommend further share purchases be made by the ESOT to satisfy outstanding and future option grants.
The Board has also approved the use of market purchases into treasury where necessary for the future settlement of these obligations.
Sharesave options The sharesave option scheme was approved by shareholders in 2009 and expires in 2019.
Invitations to participate are generally issued annually to substantially all employees.
The scheme operates on a save-as-you-earn principle and is subject to a maximum contribution limit of 250 per month per employee.
Options are granted at the prevailing market rate less a discount of 20% and are exercisable three, five or seven years from the date of grant.
A similar scheme is operated by the Company for its employees in the Republic of Ireland.
No sharesave options were granted to directors in the year under review.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Remuneration Report 35 Group pension plan Executive directors are eligible for membership of the Next Group Pension Plan the Plan which has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs and consists of defined benefit and defined contribution sections.
The trustee of the Plan is a limited company, Next Pension Trustees Limited the Trustee.
The Board of the Trustee includes members of the Plan, a pensioner member and an independent director who is also the Chairman of the Trustee.
Two of the directors are member nominated directors and cannot be removed by Next: the other directors, including the independent director, are appointed by and can be removed by Next.
All directors of the Trustee receive a fee for their services, including those directors who are also employees of Next.
Pensioner and member representatives have been elected as member nominated directors.
No director of the Company is a director of the Trustee.
The Plans investments are kept separate from the business affairs of the Next group and the Trustee holds them in trust.
Responsibility for investment of the Plans funds has been delegated by the Trustee to professional investment managers.
From October 2008 the Group initiated a salary sacrifice scheme whereby members from either section can elect to receive a reduced gross salary in exchange for enhanced employer pension contributions.
The participation of members in the salary sacrifice scheme does not result in any overall increase in costs to the Group.
Defined contribution section Employees of the Group can join the defined contribution section of the Plan.
Members elect to pay either 3% or 5% of their pensionable earnings which is matched by the Company.
For death prior to retirement, a lump sum of three times the members basic salary at the previous April is payable along with the current value of the members fund.
Defined benefit section The defined benefit section of the Plan was closed to new members in 2000 but is being continued for the benefit of existing members.
This section provides members with a retirement benefit of one sixtieth or one eightieth depending on chosen member contribution rate of final pensionable earnings for each year of pensionable service.
This section also provides a lump sum death in service benefit and dependants pensions on death in service or following retirement.
Childrens pensions are only payable on death in service.
In the case of ill-health retirement only the accrued pension is payable.
All benefits are subject to Plan limits.
Increases to pensions in payment are at the discretion of the Trustee although pensionable service post-1997 is subject to limited price indexation.
For all current Plan members, pensionable earnings are comprised of basic pay, overtime and, prior to 1 October 2006, annual performance bonuses.
No other items of remuneration are taken into account.
From 1 October 2006, sales and profit related bonuses are no longer taken into account and the normal retirement age under the Plan was increased from 60 to 65.
Members contribute 3% or 5% of pensionable earnings, whilst the Company currently makes contributions at the rate of 17.5%.
The most recent full actuarial valuation of the defined benefit sections financial position was undertaken as at 31 March 2008 and concluded that the Plan had a 15% deficit of assets compared with actuarial liabilities.
The deficit in the Plan at 30 January 2010 calculated in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards was 49.5m: further details are given in Note 23 to the financial statements.
Certain members whose accrued or projected pension fund value exceeds their personal lifetime allowance are provided with benefits through an unfunded, unapproved arrangement where they so elect.
The relevant members contribute towards the additional cost of providing these benefits by paying 5% of pensionable earnings into the Plan.
Specific information in respect of executive directors pension entitlements is detailed below.
Service contracts Each of the executive directors has a rolling service contract current contracts all commenced on 1 February 2009 which is terminable by the Company on giving one years notice.
The Committee will ensure that in the event of any termination payment being made to a director full account will be taken of that directors duty to mitigate any loss and where appropriate the Committee may seek independent professional advice prior to authorising such payment.
Apart from service contracts no director has had any material interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiaries.
Remuneration Report 36 Other benefits Executive directors receive benefits which may include the provision of a fully expensed company car or cash alternative, private medical insurance, annual subscriptions to appropriate professional bodies and staff discount when purchasing the Groups merchandise.
Other employees are also eligible for certain of these benefits.
Mr Varley is a non-executive director of Metric Property Investments plc and the Remuneration Committee has approved his retention of the directors fee of 40,000 per annum for this appointment.
No other executive director currently holds any nonexecutive directorships outside of the Group.
Non-executive directors Remuneration of the non-executive directors of the Company is determined by the Chairman and the executive directors.
Remuneration consists of a basic fee for services in connection with Board and Board Committee meetings.
Additional fees are paid for the roles of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
Letters of appointment for the Chairman and non-executive directors do not contain fixed term periods, however they are appointed in the expectation that they will serve for a minimum of six years, subject to satisfactory performance and successful re-election at Annual General Meetings.
Director Date of appointment Notice period R J O Barton 17 May 2006 12 months S D Barber 1 June 2007 1 month N G Brookes 25 June 2003 1 month C Cross 19 January 2005 1 month J D S Dawson 13 May 2004 1 month Non-executive directors receive a discount when purchasing the Groups merchandise but do not participate in any of the Groups bonus, pension, share option or other incentive schemes.
Information subject to audit 2010 Directors remuneration Performance Total Total 000 Salary fee related bonus Benefits 2010 2009 Chairman R J O Barton 225 225 225 Executive directors S A Wolfson 682 1,022 33 1,737 831 C E Angelides 475 475 30 980 585 D W Keens 454 454 28 936 560 A J Varley 381 381 27 789 423 Non-executive directors S D Barber 53 53 48 N G Brookes 45 45 42 C Cross 45 45 42 J D S Dawson 58 58 55 D N D Netherton 15 Total 2,418 2,332 118 4,868 2,826 Total 2009 2,357 351 118 2,826 All directors were members of the Board throughout the two year period covered by the table above with the exception of Mr Netherton who retired as a director on 13 May 2008.
Mr Wolfson was the highest paid director in the current and previous year: 340,000 of his performance related bonus noted above is payable in Next shares, deferred for a period of two years and will be forfeited if he voluntarily resigns prior to the end of that period.
The Company also paid a pension under the unfunded, unapproved arrangement to a former director of the Company of 34,593 2009: 34,593.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Remuneration Report 37 Long term incentive plan Estimated monetary values were included in the January 2009 Remuneration Report for the three year performance plan which matured at that date based on a share price of 1283p on 23 March 2009.
Performance conditions of the plan are detailed on pages 31 to 33.
Awards were made subsequent to the Report on 31 March 2009 when the share price was 1324p.
Adjustments to the estimated monetary value together with the final award are included in the table below.
A further three year performance period of the plan matured in January 2010.
The Companys TSR over this period ranked fourth in the comparator group of 21 other listed retail companies.
The awards will be settled during 2010 and, based on the share price of 2077p on 22 March 2010, awards would be as follows: January 2010 January 2009 Actual Estimated Adjustment Final no.
of value to estimate value shares 000 000 000 S A Wolfson 32,599 677 6 204 1 C E Angelides 23,709 492 6 193 D W Keens 23,509 488 4 139 A J Varley 17,554 365 3 104 97,371 2,022 19 640 Other participants 123,579 2,567 609 220,950 4,589 1,249 1 Mr Angelides also received a deferred payment of 137,556 in March 2009 for the performance period maturing in January 2007 which was only payable if he remained with the Group until January 2009.
The LTIP performance periods which mature in 2011 and 2012 respectively are not yet complete and no entitlement has yet been earned.
A charge of 15,460,000 for the year 2009: 1,669,000 has been made in the accounts in respect of the long term incentive plan, of which approximately 5,849,000 2009: 692,000 related to the executive directors.
Potential awards over shares under the LTIP for which the performance period was not completed as at 30 January 2010 were as follows: Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum no.
There have been no other changes to awards under the LTIP during the year.
Remuneration Report 38 Directors pension entitlements All executive directors are members of the defined benefit section of the Next Group Pension Plan.
Directors and some senior managers receive an enhancement from the Plan, increasing the accrual of their retirement benefit up to two thirds of their final pensionable earnings on completion of 20 years pensionable service at age 65.
The lump sum payable on death in service for directors and some senior managers is enhanced to four times pensionable salary.
Pension entitlements of the executive directors who held office during the year are as follows: Change Change Transfer value in transfer Accrued in accrued of accrued value less Age at Years of annual annual annual pension directors January pensionable pension pension 2010 2009 contributions 2010 service 000 000 000 000 000 S A Wolfson 42 15 250 16 2,693 2,393 266 C E Angelides 46 17 219 13 2,970 2,670 276 D W Keens 56 23 167 147 3,465 6,338 2,850 A J Varley 59 24 132 3,168 2,909 259 Years of pensionable service shown above may include bought in service from the transfer of other pension entitlements into the Plan.
Mr Wolfson and Mr Angelides have elected to join the unfunded, unapproved pension arrangement and the accrued annual pension set out above includes their membership of that arrangement.
Mr Varley ceased to contribute to the Plan from 31 October 2008.
At this date he became a deferred pensioner of the Plan and stopped accruing pensionable service.
His pension is therefore no longer linked to salary, but his accrued pension as at 31 October 2008 will instead be increased in line with statutory deferred revaluation nil for the current year.
He remains in the service of, and an executive director of, Next.
The increase in the transfer value of his accrued pension increased over the year as a result of his increase in age and changes in external economic conditions.
The accrued annual pension and transfer value for Mr Keens have reduced as a result of his divorce.
During the year employer contributions to the Plan on behalf of Mr Keens totalled 79,537.
Directors pension arrangements are subject to the same actuarial reduction as other employees on termination or early retirement.
Directors interests Directors beneficial interests in shares and share options at the beginning of the financial year, or date of appointment if later, and at the end of the year, were as follows: Ordinary shares of 10p each Options over ordinary shares of 10p each 2010 2009 2010 2010 2009 2009 Average Average No.
No share options were granted to or exercised by directors during the year.
The market price of shares at 30 January 2010 was 1966p and the range during the year then ended was 1088p to 2139p.
The executive directors are also together with other employees discretionary beneficiaries under the ESOT and, as such, were each considered to be interested in the 3,638,271 shares owned by the Trust at 30 January 2010.
Mr Keens has a beneficial holding of 83,000 2009: 83,000 nominal value of the Companys 2013 5.25% corporate bonds.
From the end of the financial year to 22 March 2010 there have been no changes to directors interests in the shares of the Company other than Mr Varleys shareholding reducing by 3,254 shares as part of his divorce proceedings.
Full details of directors interests in the shares and share options of the Company are contained in the Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection.
On behalf of the Board Jonathan Dawson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
