DIRECTORS REmunERaTIOn REpORT PurPose remuneration PoliCy the directors remuneration report is designed to provide for the Last year the Remuneration Committee reported that it would benefit of shareholders details of: undertake a review of Remuneration Policy in September 2009.
Having undertaken this review with advice from Towers Perrin the Committee the role of the Remuneration Committee concluded that the current policy remained appropriate.
This policy which will be applied in 2010 11, and is also currently intended to be the Groups Remuneration Policy applied in each subsequent year, is to provide for Executive Directors Directors remuneration a remuneration package which is adequate to attract, retain and remuneration disclosures required by the Directors Remuneration motivate good quality executives and which is commensurate with report regulations which are audited.
the remuneration packages provided by companies of similar size and complexity.
The key guiding principles of this policy are to: The Company understands investors concerns relating to executive design an overall package to be competitive and to take account of director remuneration and, whilst focus has been on the financial the markets in which the Groups businesses operate sector primarily, it is fully recognised that there is a need for other support the overarching business strategy for the Group sectors to reflect this concern in their remuneration policies and overall remuneration practice.
This is why last year, despite the adopt incentive arrangements designed to reward performance Groups businesses being well positioned in the economic slowdown, and align the interests of the Executive Directors with those of the remuneration committee decided not to increase salaries for shareholders Executive Directors beyond those set in 2008. reinforce the incentive element of the package by maintaining base salaries for Executive Directors at the relevant market median remuneration Committee have a remuneration package which is fair and consistent with the remuneration committee of the Board comprises three other companies in the sector and which provides incentives for Non-executive Directors who are all regarded by the Company as outperformance.
Martin Angle is the chairman of the committee and the other two members are Gerard connell and dinah nichols.
The policy in respect of Non-executive Directors fees is set out on the committees terms of reference is available from the Group page 44 in the Non-executive Directors remuneration section.
Company Secretary and can be found on the Companys website pennon-group.
co. uk It includes: In setting executive remuneration the Remuneration Committee not only takes account of employment market conditions, but seeks to advising the Board on the framework of executive remuneration for ensure that there are coherent pay and benefit structures across the the Group Group which are consistent with the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and Senior Management.
From summary reports determining the remuneration and terms of engagement of the on workforce remuneration and terms and conditions of employment Chairman, the Executive Directors and Senior Management of by the Executive Directors with regard to their respective business the Group.
areas, the Committee has regard to the general levels of responsibility, qualifications and experience required throughout the Group in No Director or any other attendee participates in any discussion on, or setting salary and other benefits of the Executive Directors and Senior determination of, his or her own remuneration.
the committee also ensures the incentive structures do not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently During the year the Committee met on seven occasions and received motivating irresponsible behaviour.
A number of individual performance advice or services which materially assisted the Committee in the objectives specifically relate to achieving non-financial targets.
consideration of remuneration matters from Ken Harvey, Chairman of the Company, and from the following advisors who were appointed The balance between maximum performance-related remuneration directly by the Committee: receivable and direct remuneration ie.
excluding pensions, car benefit Ken Woodier, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary on and health cover is the same as last year with one-third direct and remuneration and share scheme matters.
He also provides legal two-thirds performance-related.
This is expected to continue for the advice and company secretarial services to the Company foreseeable future.
The Company also has a Shareholding Guideline Hewitt Associates Limited, pensions and remuneration consultants, which applies to Executive Directors and Senior Management.
It is on calculating total shareholder return for the Companys Restricted structured to demonstrate their commitment to the future success Share Plan now replaced by the Companys Performance & of the Group.
Executive Directors are expected to build up their co-investment Plan.
Hewitt also provide actuarial and investment shareholding over a five-year period to a value which is at least pensions advice to the trustees of the Groups Pension schemes equivalent to their basic annual salary.
Towers Perrin Limited now Towers Watson Limited, remuneration consultants, who undertook a review of the Groups remuneration policy and practice for the Committee during the year.
remuneration of exeCutive DireCtors Below is an outline of the total remuneration package for Executive Directors.
fixed variable Performance-related Base Salary short-term Annual Long-term 3 years Pension Final Salary Defined Annual Incentive Bonus Plan - Maximum 100% of Performance and co-investment Plan PcP Benefit or cash alternative basic salary with 50% paid in cash and 50% in shares future performance over 3 years deferred for 3 years other car benefit and Assessed against corporate financial performance 50% linked to water and waste comparator group health cover and individual personal achievements relating to a and 50% linked to relative FTSE 250 with an underpin range of operational and compliance targets.
relating to operational and economic performance.
Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010 | P. 41 to key initiatives, projects and compliance The following is a detailed summary of the Performance & Co-investment Plan referred targets for South West Water.
elements of remuneration: to below.
The achievements of the Executive Directors i Basic salary and benefits these In 2009 10 the Committee structured and against their individual performance objectives are set out on page 44 for each Executive operated the Bonus Plan on a different are assessed by the Committee following the director and are not related to performance.
The Bonus Plan was amended by financial year-end when the audited results The Committee reviews salaries annually the committee to permit its operation in of the Company and performance against the taking account of market data available from conjunction with the Companys Executive parameters set are known.
This enables the independent remuneration consultants.
A share option scheme esos which received Committee to apply largely objective criteria pay freeze was applied in 2009 10.
When shareholder approval in 2001 on the basis in determining the level of bonus if any which reviewing base salaries the Committee takes that the aggregate pre-tax value of the should be awarded, with the advice of the account of the performance of the individual awards made under both the Bonus Plan Chairman of the Company, Ken Harvey.
Executive Directors which the Committee and the ESOS would be the same as they assesses with the advice of Ken Harvey, would have been if the Bonus Plan had been iii long-term incentive plan A Chairman of the Company.
Other benefits, operated alone, as in previous years.
This Performance and co-investment Plan PcP not mentioned below, include contributory has been achieved by providing for Deferred was operated by the Company during the pension provision or a cash alternative, Bonus Shares awarded to be forfeited by the year for Executive Directors and Senior four times salary life assurance cover, a Directors up to the same value as that of any Management.
fully expensed car, or a cash alternative and gain made in respect of options exercised by health cover.
the directors pursuant to the esos at the the purpose of the PcP is to award shares end of the three-year restricted period.
Only to participants subject to the achievement of ii Performance-related Bonus annual the HMrc approved part of the esos was stretching performance conditions measured performance related bonuses are awarded in operated in 2009 10 which enabled options over three years.
Awards under the PCP, in accordance with the Groups Annual Incentive over ordinary shares in the Company to be the form of a conditional right over ordinary Bonus Plan the Bonus Plan and are based on granted to directors to the value of 30,000 shares in the Company, were made by the the achievement by the Executive Directors at the then prevailing price.
details of the Committee in July 2009 and, for Executive of overall corporate and individual objectives options granted are set out in the table in directors, the award was over shares worth set by the Committee.
The maximum paragraph d on page 47.
In accordance with bonus achievable under the Bonus Plan for its discretion pursuant to the rules of the Executive Directors for 2009 10 was 100% Set out below is a summary of the performance targets determined by the PcP, the committee made the vesting of of basic salary.
To achieve the maximum Committee for each Executive Director for the awards also subject to the fulfilment of a percentage bonus allocated in respect of 2009 10 and for 2010 11. co-investment condition whereby Executive the corporate targets of earnings per share Directors were required to invest and hold and profit before tax it is necessary for the colin drummond A bonus of up to 40% shares in the Company equal to 20% of the Company to achieve a specified level of for outperformance of Group earnings per value of their award over the restricted Period superior outperformance.
Half of any bonus share against budget: up to 40% calculated being a period of three years from the date of awarded is in the form of ordinary shares by reference to outperformance of the profit the award.
The percentage requirement for in the Company which must usually be held before tax and net debt budgets of Viridor: senior management was suitably scaled back.
for a period of three years before release and up to 20% for personal objectives relating the number of shares subject to each award in deferred Bonus shares.
during this period to key business targets for Viridor.
the event of vesting will be increased by such the directors, in respect of the deferred number of shares as could have been acquired Bonus Shares, are entitled to receive any david dupont A bonus of up to 40% for by reinvesting the dividends which would dividends declared by the Company.
No outperformance of Group earnings per share otherwise have been received on those shares additional performance conditions applicable against budget: up to 40% for outperformance prior to vesting or exercise.
to the release of the deferred Bonus shares against budget relating to net debt and net apart from maintaining continuous service interest of the Group and profit before tax The PCP awards made in July 2009 will vest with the Company, are considered appropriate of South West Water and Viridor: and up to based on the Companys total shareholder by the Committee in view of the stretching 20% for personal objectives relating to Group return TSR performance over a three-year performance conditions applicable to achieve financing and other Group initiatives.
performance period against two different the initial award of the deferred Bonus shares.
comparator groups as set out below.
this the committee, in setting the performance chris loughlin A bonus of up to 40% for is the same performance criteria that was objectives for Executive Directors, takes outperformance of Group earnings per applied to the PCP awards made in July account of corporate performance on share against budget: up to 20% for personal 2008.
TSR measures the value created for environmental, social and governance esG objectives relating to implementing south shareholders through increases in share price matters.
objectives set embrace appropriate West Waters new strategies and projects and the payment of dividends and was applied esG parameters which are important to and meeting compliance targets: and up to by the Committee because, based upon advice the success of the Group and which seek 40% calculated by reference to the average received from remuneration consultants, to ensure that the Group meets a number bonus earned by the other executive directors Deloitte & Touche LLP, it believes that this is of its esG targets as set out in the Groups of South West Water which relate to an appropriate measure to align the interests Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 32 outperformance against the operating costs, of the Executive Directors with those of to 36 of the Business review.
the committee profit before tax, capital expenditure and net shareholders: in setting such objectives and in determining debt budgets of the company: the position the its remuneration policy overall ensures company achieves in the Overall Performance Up to 50% of an award will vest according that the relevant incentives to directors Assessment of water and sewerage companies to the Companys TSR performance and Senior Management raise no ESG risks established by the Water Services Regulatory measured against an index made up of by inadvertently motivating irresponsible Authority WSRA : the achievement of a the following six listed water and waste behaviour.
In addition the Committee will take range of service standards set for the company comparator companies: into account esG matters in determining the by the WSRA: and personal objectives relating vesting of any awards under the Companys P. 42 | Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010 DIRECTORS REmunERaTIOn REpORT
