35 We aim to attract, retain and develop high calibre people, promoting a culture in which they are motivated to succeed and their performance is both recognised and rewarded.
Top left: Ronald Hanna, Chairman of A. G. BARR with Lenzie Academy Head Teacher Roderick McLelland, Councillor Una Walker, Convener of Education from East Dunbartonshire Council and School Captains Stuart Gray and Rosie McKean.
Left: Philip Aspinall Badminton TAUT 100 March 2009 winner.
Bottom left: Roger White and Alex Short presenting the team at the Moston branch with their Investors in People award.
36 Board of Directors Alex B. C. Short 42 Jonathan D. Kemp 38 W. Robin G. Barr 72 Roger A.
A. Hons C. A. M. A. Hons Joined the Company as Joined the Company in 2003 Joined the Company in 1960.
Joined the Company in 2002 as finance director in June 2008. as commercial director.
Appointed director in 1964 managing director.
Retired chief executive in 2004. as chairman and appointed non-executive director in 2009.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 Ronald G. Hanna 67 Andrew L. Memmott 45 James S. Espey 66 Jonathan Warburton 52 C. A. BSc, MSc.
D. Joined the Company in Joined the Company in 2003 Joined the Companys Project Joined the Company in 1999 2009 as a non-executive as a non-executive director.
Engineering Team in June 1990. as a non-executive director.
Currently chairman Appointed chairman in 2009.
Appointed operations director Currently a director of Whyte of Warburtons Ltd and Currently chairman of both in 2008.
& Mackay and The Last Drop a non-executive director Bowleven plc and Troy Income Distillers Ltd. of Samworth Brothers Ltd. & Growth Trust plc.
Board of Directors 38 25 Years Service Awards Ian Johnson Allan Hayes Kevin Addy Kevin Hodgson Supply Chain Business Development Warehouse Operative Service Driver Planning Manager Manager Alan Short Kate Goodwin Stephen Thomson Scott McDowall Service Driver Business Development Senior Sales Trunker Driver Executive Development Manager Julie Sargison Lesley Taylor Graham Widdowson Planning Manager Wages Clerk Sanitiser Yard Chargehand A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39 Accounts Ja nuary 2010 40 Directors Report 43 Statement on Corporate Governance 47 Directors Remuneration Report 53 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. 54 Consolidated Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income 55 Statement of Changes in Equity 57 Statements of Financial Position 58 Cash Flow Statements 59 Accounting Policies 66 Notes to the Accounts 94 Review of Trading Results 40 Directors Report The directors are pleased to present their report and the consolidated Subject to the Companys Articles of Association the Articles financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the 52 and any relevant legislation, the directors may exercise all of the weeks 2009: 53 weeks ended 30 January 2010. powers of the Company and may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
Principal activities The Group trades principally as a manufacturer, distributor and seller The Articles give the directors power to appoint and remove directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee Company number for approval by the board.
The Articles require directors to retire and The Companys registration number is SC005653.
submit themselves for election at the first AGM following appointment and to retire no later than the third AGM after the AGM at which they Business review were last elected or re-elected.
A detailed review of the Groups activities and of future plans is contained within the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 3, the In accordance with Article 82 of the Articles, R. G. Hanna will retire Business and Financial Review on pages 4 to 20 and the Corporate at the AGM on 24 May 2010 and, being eligible, offers himself for and Social Responsibility report on pages 21 to 34. re-election.
Following the completion of his one year contract as a non-executive director, the re-appointment of J. S. Espey on 1 April The information contained in those sections ful ls the requirements 2010 falls to be con rmed.
J. S. Espey has a one year contract from of the Business Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies his date of re-appointment.
Their biographical details are set out on Act 2006, and should be treated as forming part of this Directors report.
Results and dividends Directors interests The Groups pro t after tax for the financial year ended 30 January The directors interests in ordinary shares of the Company are shown 2010 attributable to equity shareholders amounted to 17.948m within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 52.
has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of the Company or any Group company.
An interim dividend for the current year of 6.25p 2009: 5.80p per ordinary share was paid on 23 October 2009.
Other than service contracts, no director had a material interest in any contract to which the Company, or any Group company, was a party The final proposed dividend of 16.85p 2009: 15.20p will be posted during the year.
on 3 June 2010 if approved at the Companys annual general meeting AGM on 24 May 2010.
Directors third party indemnity provisions As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force between the The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under Company and each of its directors under which the Company has s408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented an income agreed to indemnify each director, to the extent permitted by law, statement for the Company.
The Companys pro t for the year was in respect of certain liabilities incurred as a result of carrying out their 13.348m 2009: 16.077m.
role as a director of the Company.
The directors are also indemni ed against the costs of defending any criminal or civil proceedings or any Directors claim in relation to the Company or brought by a regulator as they are The following were directors of the Company during the financial year incurred provided that where the defence is unsuccessful the director ended 30 January 2010: must repay those defence costs to the Company.
The Companys total liability under each indemnity is limited to 5.0m for each event giving R. G. Hanna rise to a claim under that indemnity.
The indemnities are qualifying R. A.
White third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act A.
In addition, the Company maintained a Directors and Of cers J. D. Kemp liability insurance policy throughout the financial year and has renewed A. L. Memmott that policy.
W. R. G. Barr J. S. Espey Research and development J. Warburton appointed 16 March 2009 The Group undertakes research and development activities to update and expand its range of products in order to develop new and existing On 26 May 2009, W. R. G. Barr stepped down as executive chairman products.
Expenditure during the year on research and development of the board and was appointed a non-executive director.
R. G. Hanna, amounted to 437,000 2009: 262,000. previously a non-executive director, was appointed non-executive chairman on 26 May 2009.
Political donations and political expenditure Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries have made any political donations or incurred any political expenditure in the year.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 Charitable donations During the year the Company entered into fundraising activities A signi cant shareholding is fide ned as 3.00% by the Financial Services for the Princes Trust.
Further details of the work are included within Authoritys Listing Rules.
Number of % of Nature the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 21. ordinary shares voting rights of holding The total of the Companys direct donations for charitable Caledonia Investments Plc 3,417,000 8.78 Direct purposes cash donations to charity during the year was 169,640 Lindsell Train Ltd 3,357,568 8.63 Indirect 2009: 113,000.
Further donations of products were made Speirs & Jeffrey Portfolio to community programmes.
Management Limited 2,263,540 5.82 Direct Speirs & Jeffrey Client Land and buildings Nominees Limited 1,855,024 4.77 Direct The directors are of the opinion that there is no signi cant difference between the market value and the book value of the Groups land and buildings as at 30 January 2010.
Relations with shareholders The Company has regular discussions with and brie ngs for analysts Post balance sheet events and institutional shareholders.
The chief executive and finance director normally meet with major shareholders twice annually and brief the Any post balance sheet events requiring disclosure are included in note 29 to the accounts.
next board meeting on their discussions.
All shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity to participate in questions and Employee involvement answers with the board on matters relating to the Companys operation Using regular brie ng procedures, managers keep employees at and performance at the AGM.
all levels informed about matters affecting the Companys policy, progress and people.
Twice yearly, the brie ng includes a report Share capital on trading results.
In addition to this, a bi-annual internal magazine, As at 30 January 2010 the Companys issued share capital comprised The Quencher, is distributed to all employees.
a single class of ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each.
All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally Consultation with employees or their representatives takes place twice in all respects.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the a year so that employees views may be taken into account when the Articles.
Note 27 to the financial statements contains details of the Company is making decisions that are likely to affect their interests.
ordinary share capital and this note should be treated as forming part of this report.
All qualifying employees are entitled to join the Savings Related Share Option Scheme and the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled Employment of disabled persons to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every considered bearing in mind the respective quali cations and abilities ordinary share held.
The Notice of AGM gives full details of deadlines of the applicants concerned.
In the event of employees becoming for exercising voting rights in relation to resolutions to be passed at disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment will the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against continue.
The Groups policy is that the training, career development or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and promotion of disabled persons are, as far as possible, identical and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Subject to those of other employees.
to the relevant statutory provisions and the Articles, shareholders are entitled to a dividend where declared and paid out of pro ts available Payment policy and practice for such purposes.
The Groups policy is to make payment in accordance with the terms agreed with suppliers when satis ed that the supplier has provided the There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
Company other than: Trade payables days for the year ended 30 January 2010 were those which may from time to time be applicable under existing 1 6 days 31 January 2009: 28 days based on the ratio of Company laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
trade payables note 20 at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, during the year to suppliers.
whereby certain directors and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary Substantial shareholdings shares and are prohibited from dealing during close periods.
As at 22 March 2010, the Company had been noti ed under Rule 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency At 30 January 2010 the Company had authority, pursuant to the Rules of the following signi cant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
shareholders resolution of 26 May 2009, to purchase up to 10% of its issued share capital.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2010 AGM.
It is proposed that this authority be renewed at the 2010 AGM, as detailed in the Notice of AGM.
