Governance Report on Directors remuneration Dear shareholder Following my appointment as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the Committee earlier in the year, I am pleased to introduce the 2009 10 Report on Directors remuneration.
During the period, the Committee carried out a review of the Companys remuneration arrangements and consulted with our largest shareholders and major representative bodies.
Our intention is to meet the remuneration guidelines laid down by institutional shareholders and their trade bodies but at the same time structure remuneration and incentives that attract and retain the highest quality operational and portfolio management that the business needs in the future.
The main conclusions of the review, which are set out in more detail in the report which follows, are as follows: Base salary levels are broadly appropriate and should not be increased during 2009 10 Executive Director base salary levels were also frozen in 2008 09.
The next salary review date will be in March 2011 March 2012 for Ian Dyson although to the extent that increases are awarded, it is likely that they will be no greater than the average increase awarded to the general workforce.
Annual bonus potential remains appropriate at 150% of base salary although the equal split between financial and individual performance should be amended in favour of financial performance, with three quarters of potential based on performance against challenging financial targets and one quarter based on individual performance.
The requirement for the Group to hit at least 95% of its profit before tax target before any bonus payment can be made and the compulsory deferral of one third of any bonus into Company shares, which must be held for two years, will be retained for 2010 11.
Consistent with best practice, the Committee has introduced a bonus claw-back provision which will operate for any bonus amounts subsequently found to have been based on materially inaccurate results.
No bonus payments will be made for 2010 to any of the Executive Directors.
Although the Committee acknowledges that the team has worked extremely hard in difficult circumstances and that considerable progress has been made in restoring the health and performance of the business, we do not believe that the business results justify a payment.
The structure of the long term incentive arrangement, use of relative total shareholder return TSR and maximum award level remain appropriate for the 2010 awards which we intend to grant in November 2010.
As operated for the November 2009 awards, the Committee intends to continue with the use of a group of comparable pub companies for half of the award, and the FTSE 250 for the other half.
Whilst the introduction of a financial performance metric was considered by the Committee, given the strategic review being carried out by Ian Dyson at the current time, this was not thought appropriate.
However, the current discretion which underpins the TSR targets, allowing the Committee to withhold all or part of any LTIP if financial performance has been unsatisfactory will be strengthened and clarified for future awards.
While the Committee is committed, as part of his joining arrangements, to granting an award over shares worth 200% of base salary to the new Chief Executive Officer, the Committee will consider scaling back award levels from the usual 200% of salary level to a maximum of 150% of salary for the other Executive Directors in light of the Companys prevailing share price and financial performance.
As disclosed in last years Report on Directors remuneration, the Chief Executive Officer and other Executive Directors will receive in 2010 11 a market consistent pension provision of 25% and 20% of salary respectively.
During the period, the Committee has also dealt with the resignation of the Chief Executive and the recruitment of his replacement.
Details of the termination arrangements for Giles Thorley, and Ian Dysons ongoing remuneration package from appointment on 6 September 2010 which is consistent with the existing Executive Director remuneration policy and arrangements required to facilitate his recruitment, are set out in the following report.
The Committee unanimously recommends that shareholders vote to approve the Report on Directors remuneration.
On behalf of the Board Tony Rice Remuneration Committee Chairman 40 www.
com Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and describes how the Board has complied with the provisions of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code relating to remuneration matters.
The report is divided into two parts.
The first part contains the commentary on remuneration policy which is not required to be audited.
The second part contains the remuneration tables that have been audited in accordance with the relevant statutory requirements.
Unaudited information The Remuneration Committee the Committee For details of the Committee, please see the Corporate governance statement on pages 35 to 39 of this report.
Advisers to the Committee The Committee received independent remuneration advice from Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, part of Hewitt Associates Ltd.
This independent adviser was appointed by the Committee and is accountable to it.
Hewitt Associates also provided consulting advice to the Group in respect of its Punch Pub Company pension schemes and actuarial, investment and other advice to the trustee of the two Punch Pub Company pension schemes.
The Committee does not believe that the independence of its adviser is compromised by these other appointments.
The terms of engagement between the Committee and HNBS are available from the Company Secretary on request.
In addition, Computershare provides administration services connected to the Groups Executive and all-employee share plans.
The Committee also consults with the Chief Executive Officer, the Company Secretary and the Director of Human Resources.
However, no Executive is permitted to participate in discussions or decisions about their personal remuneration.
Remuneration policy The Committees reward policy is designed to help drive business performance and maximise shareholder value.
It is based on the following principles: that remuneration should be viewed holistically Total Reward, taking account of all reward elements: that Total Reward should be set at a market competitive level to retain and recruit people of the required talent and experience: that the package should be structured so that most of Total Reward is dependent on performance: that Total Reward costs should be monitored and controlled: and that Total Reward should support the creation of shareholder value.
Total Reward levels are benchmarked against both listed UK pub, restaurant and hospitality sector companies and those UK companies of a similar size and complexity to the Company in other relevant sectors.
The last benchmarking exercise took place in May 2009 against the following: Comparator group 1 Comparator group 2 UK pub, restaurant and hospitality sector companies UK companies of similar size and complexity to Punch Taverns in examples provided below other relevant sectors Enterprise Inns plc Mitchells & Butlers plc JD Wetherspoon plc Whitbread plc Greene King plc Marstons plc Restaurant Group plc Luminar plc Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 41 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance Governance Report on Directors remuneration continued The table below summarises each element of the Companys Total Reward policy for Executive Directors, and its key features.
Component Size Market position Purpose Delivery Other key features Base salary Varies by role Range from lower To recognise the Reviewed Cash.
quartile to median, market value annually.
however recently to of the employee Pensionable.
Executive Director attract talent to the and the role.
salaries were frozen Company levels have in 2009 and 2010. gone beyond this.
Annual Maximum of 150% Upper quartile To drive and reward One third Based on annual performance of base salary.
annual performance deferred shares, performance: bonus plan of individuals, teams two thirds cash.
Total amount No bonuses paid for and the Group.
upon a combination 2010 11: of Group and Bonuses up to 11.5% claw-back clause.
individual of base salary paid for performance.
Higher levels of Group performance enable higher levels of overall payment subject to individual performance.
2010 11: 75% of bonus will be based on financial measures and 25% will be based on individual measures.
Long Term Maximum award Upper quartile To drive and Shares subject Performance Incentive Plan level of 200% opportunity.
reward sustained to performance condition for of base salary face performance of the conditions.
awards in 2009 10 value of shares.
Group and to align Annual awards was total No LTIPs vested for the interests of vesting after shareholder return, Executive Directors individuals with those three years.
against two peer following the end of of shareholders.
No LTIPs vested for Executive Directors during the 2008 09 year.
Pension 25% of salary for Median.
To provide a Defined the newly appointed market competitive contribution CEO, 20% of salary level of contribution personal pension for other Executive to pension.
com The chart below shows the relative proportions of package components for the newly appointed Chief Executive Officer for 2010 11.
Pay at risk annual bonus and long term incentive constitutes three quarters of the package.
n Base salary and pension contribution 26% n Annual bonus max 32% n Long term incentive max 42% Elements of remuneration Base salary and benefits The table below shows the current base salaries of each current Executive Director.
It should be noted that there has been no salary increases for Executive Directors in each of the past two years.
Name Position Base salary 1 Ian Dyson Chief Executive Officer 675,000 Phil Dutton Finance Director 350,000 Mike Tye Managing Director Punch Pub Company 400,000 Roger Whiteside Managing Director Punch Partnerships 400,000 1 Appointed 6 September 2010.
Base salary levels will next be reviewed in March 2011 March 2012 for Ian Dyson.
To the extent that base salaries are increased, it is anticipated that increases will reflect the cost of living and will be made in line with average market workforce salary inflation other than in exceptional cases where current salary is significantly below market comparators.
The Groups policy is to provide Executive Directors with a market competitive level of benefits, including Company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, lump sum life insurance for death-in-service and income protection insurance for long term disability.
Annual bonus For the 2009 10 annual bonus arrangement, the performance conditions for the Executive Directors were structured as follows: Key performance area Weighting Group financial performance 50% Performance of individuals own business area or function for the Chief Executive Officer this is the Group as a whole and their overall personal contribution to the business 50% The maximum annual bonus was 150% of base salary.
One third of any bonus paid is deferred into Company shares for a two year period.
For any bonus to be payable under the individual targets, at least threshold profit performance must have been achieved.
The Committee decided it was not appropriate to award an annual bonus to the Executive Directors for 2009 10.
The 2010 11 annual bonus arrangement will continue to operate as above although the equal weighting between financial and individual performance will be amended in favour of financial performance, with 75% based on challenging financial targets and 25% based on individual performance.
In addition, a claw-back provision will operate whereby the Committee may seek to claw-back any bonus amounts paid to Executives which are subsequently found to have been based on materially inaccurate results.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 LTIP Awards made during the 2009 10 financial year under the LTIP have the following features: performance shares: vesting is dependent on total shareholder return TSR performance and continued service this is pro-rated for good leavers : maximum annual award levels continue to be 200% of base salary face value : and performance and vesting periods are normally three years.
43 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance Governance Report on Directors remuneration continued There are two TSR peer groups: 50% of an award is measured against a peer group of six UK listed pub companies with the other 50% of an award measured against the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts as follows: Pub % company FTSE 250 of total group Index award Below median index 0% 0% 0% 1 Median index 12.5% 12.5% 25% 1 Upper quartile median index 5% p. a.
50% 50% 100% 1 Straight line vesting between points.
Following a move to a smaller and more correlated comparator group for 50% of an award this part was previously based on a much wider group of 27 UK pub, hospitality and retail companies, the requirement to meet or exceed an upper quartile ranking has been replaced by the requirement to achieve an annualised TSR which exceeds the median by at least five percentage points.
The margin of five percentage points on an annualised basis as a proxy for an upper quartile ranking was set following detailed statistical analysis of historical TSR data, which is considered to be sufficiently stretching for these purposes.
For consistency, these targets have also been applied to the other 50% of an award based on the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
In addition to the TSR targets above, an underpin operates allowing the Committee to withhold all or part of any LTIP if financial performance has been unsatisfactory.
Following a review of this underpin, the wording has been clarified and strengthened.
For future awards therefore, the Committee will consider, inter alia, the Groups like-for-like sales performance, underlying profit performance and debt levels when determining whether the Groups financial performance is consistent with the level of vesting suggested by the relative TSR targets.
These performance conditions were selected by the Committee as they are important measures of the comparative value delivered to shareholders.
In November 2009, an award of shares worth 200% of salary was made to each Executive Director.
For the 2010 awards intended to be granted in November, which will be based on similar targets to those set out above, the Committee is committed, as part of his joining arrangements explained below, to granting an award over shares worth 200% of base salary to the new Chief Executive Officer.
However, while the Committee is committed to the new Chief Executive Officers 2010 award level, the Committee will consider scaling back award levels from the usual 200% of salary level to a maximum of 150% of salary for the other Executive Directors in light of the Companys prevailing share price and financial performance.
Spirit Value Growth Plan SVGP As reported previously, a specific long term incentive plan was approved by the Committee for Mike Tye, Managing Director Punch Pub Company in June 2008.
This was implemented in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2, to facilitate the recruitment and retention of an individual Director.
The SVGP is intended to provide a direct alignment between the performance of the Punch Pub Company business and the remuneration of Mike Tye to assist in driving the performance of this business and its value to shareholders.
The SVGP has the following main features: limited to one individual Executive Director: linked to the value growth of the Punch Pub Company business, as determined by an independent valuation, and valued as an operating company, whereby the Punch Pub Company pubs are deemed to be leased from a separate entity: the initial measurement period is the three financial years from August 2008: payment from the plan is 7.5% of the amount of value growth above a hurdle: the hurdle is 6% compound annual growth per annum: and payments from the Plan are in non-pensionable cash and are phased: 60% after the August 2011 year end, and the remaining 40% after the August 2012 year end.
Share Bonus Plan The Share Bonus Plan enables the Committee to award part or all of any annual bonus in the form of the Companys shares, which the recipient is not permitted to sell during a restricted period normally two years.
Executive Directors have not received any awards under this Plan in respect of 2009 10.
This plan was approved by shareholders in 2008 to replace the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSB.
The DSB had a matched share provision and a three year vesting period with performance conditions attached.
Awards granted under the DSB will therefore only be released if the Groups average EPS before exceptional items tax normalised growth is equal to or exceeds RPI 5% p. a. over the three year holding period from the date of award and the associated bonus shares are retained by the Executive Director over this period.
com Appointment of new Chief Executive Officer Ian Dyson joined Punch as Chief Executive Officer on 6 September 2010.
A summary of his ongoing remuneration package, which is broadly consistent with the remuneration policy outlined above, is as follows: base salary: 675,000: maximum bonus opportunity: 150% of base salary subject to stretching financial targets 75% and personal objectives 25% with one third payable in shares and retained for two years: company car allowance: 11,000: pension: 25% of base salary: LTIP: up to 200% of salary p. a. although, as part of his joining arrangements, a commitment has been made to grant 200% of salary in November 2010, with Committee discretion annually thereafter: shareholding requirement: 150% of base salary shareholding requirement: to be built up within five years of appointment.
Additionally, in order to facilitate his recruitment, Ian Dyson will, shortly after joining, be: paid a cash amount of 69,200 equal to a 2009 10 annual bonus earned but withheld by his previous employer following resignation: and granted a long term incentive award over a number of shares to compensate him for a significant number of unvested share awards which were forfeited upon leaving his previous employer.
This award, which will be granted pursuant to the authority contained in Listing Rule 9.4.
2R2 and is non-pensionable, will be on similar terms and relative TSR performance targets other than as to the quantum of the award and its vesting period as those awards granted to the other Executives to ensure that the team is incentivised in the same way.
This award will be based on a number of shares with a value equivalent to three times Ian Dysons base salary based on the prevailing three month average share price up to the time his appointment was announced on 5 May 2010.
The award will normally vest, subject to the performance conditions referred to below and Ian Dysons continued service, three years after his appointment was announced.
50% of the award will be measured against a comparator group of UK listed pubs, with 25% of this part vesting at median increasing pro-rata to 100% of this part of the award vesting for an annualised TSR of 5% or more in excess of the median.
The other 50% of the award will be measured against the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts, with 25% of this part vesting at the index, increasing pro-rata to 100% of this part of the award vesting for an annualised TSR of 5% or more in excess of the index.
The Committee has the discretion to reduce the level of vesting of the award under these performance conditions if it considers that the Companys underlying financial performance during the three year period over which the performance conditions are assessed has been unsatisfactory.
The award will be structured as a nil cost option, which will normally be exercisable from vesting until the day before the tenth anniversary of grant of the award.
If Ian Dyson leaves the Company as a good leaver or there is a change of control of the Company other than an internal reorganisation of the Punch group before the date when the award would normally have vested, then vesting will be dependent on the achievement of the performance conditions and will be time pro-rated to reflect the reduced period of service prior to vesting.
To the extent the award vests, it will be satisfied with existing shares other than treasury shares.
The number of shares subject to the award may be adjusted in the event of any variation of share capital or a special dividend.
The award cannot be transferred or charged by Ian Dyson.
The award cannot be amended to the advantage of Ian Dyson in relation to: i who can acquire shares under the award: ii the basis for determining his entitlement to, and the terms of, the shares and or cash to be provided under the award: and iii any adjustment that may be made for any variation of share capital or special dividend without prior shareholder approval in general meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the award, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment.
The Committee confirms that it is of the view that the package offered to the new Chief Executive Officer is appropriate and that the Company is not paying any more than was necessary to facilitate his recruitment.
Dilution In accordance with shareholder guidelines, the Committee applies a limit on the amount of shares than can be issued to satisfy all its employee share plan awards of 10% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling ten year period.
Of this 10%, only half can be issued to satisfy awards under the discretionary arrangements.
Based on awards granted since flotation in 2002 the Company is currently well with the 10% limit as shown in the table below: Additional dilution during the 2009 10 financial year Limit Current dilution level included in the previous column 10% in ten years 2.62% 1.25% 5% in ten years 2.37% 1.17% 45 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance Governance Report on Directors remuneration continued Shareholding requirement The Committee requires that all individuals who participate in the Companys LTIP satisfy a minimum shareholding requirement within five years of appointment to the Board.
Targets are set to encourage Directors to retain shares received from share incentive schemes.
The table below shows the shareholding requirement for Executive Directors, and their current personal shareholding.
Shareholding Current requirement To be shareholding Name Position % of base salary achieved by % of base salary 1 Ian Dyson Chief Executive Officer 150% August 2015 23% Phil Dutton Finance Director 150% August 2012 12% Mike Tye Managing Director Punch Pub Company 150% August 2013 5% Roger Whiteside Managing Director Punch Partnerships 150% August 2013 5% 1 Appointed 6 September 2010.
Pension Executive Directors are entitled to receive a defined contribution to pension from the Group of 25% of base salary for the newly appointed Chief Executive Officer and 20% for the other Executive Directors.
As previously communicated, the contribution rate for Executive Directors receiving 20% of base salary will be increased from the 16% of base salary contributed for 2009 10.
All employee share arrangements During 2009 10 the Group operated an HMRC Approved Share Incentive Plan SIP details of which can be found in the Directors report on page 33.
Directors contracts The policy on termination is that the Group does not make payments beyond its contractual obligations.
In addition, Executive Directors will be expected to mitigate their loss.
The Committee ensures that there have been no unjustified payments for failure.
None of the Executive Directors contracts provides for liquidated damages.
There are no special provisions contained in any of the Executive Directors contracts which provide for longer periods of notice on a change of control of the Company.
Further, there are no special provisions providing for additional compensation on an Executive Directors cessation of employment with the Group.
Potential payment on Potential change Company Unexpired term of termination of control 2 Executive Directors notice period Contract date contract months payment liquidation 1 Ian Dyson 12 months 5 May 2010 Rolling contract 12 months salary Nil Phil Dutton 12 months 24 July 2007 Rolling contract 12 months salary Nil Mike Tye 12 months 26 June 2008 Rolling contract 12 months salary Nil Roger Whiteside 12 months 14 October 2008 Rolling contract 12 months salary Nil 1 Appointed to the Board on 6 September 2010.
2 Contract will continue until terminated by notice either by the Company or the Director.
Giles Thorley resigned from the Board on 6 September 2010 although he will continue to provide advice to the Matthew Clark Board for a period to 30 June 2011 for an annual fee of 15,000.
His base salary and benefits as Chief Executive ceased at the time he resigned from the Board on 6 September 2010 no annual bonus was payable for 2009 10.
His 2008 and 2009 LTIP awards will continue to vest at the normal vesting dates subject to performance and time pro-rating to 6 September 2010 and his share options will remain exercisable for twelve months after cessation of employment in line with the rules of the scheme.
Company notice Unexpired term of Non-executive Directors period Contract date contract months Peter Cawdron 12 months 21 May 2003 10 Ian Fraser 1 month 23 September 2004 10 Mark Pain 1 month 8 November 2007 1 Tony Rice 1 month 16 January 2008 3 Ian Wilson 1 month 16 January 2008 3 46 www.
com Non-executive Directors fees All Non-executive Directors have specific terms of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the Board based upon recommendations from the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or, in the case of the Chairman, is determined by the Committee based on recommendations from the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the Chief Executive Officer within the limits set by the Articles of Association and based on the median level of fees payable to peers in the same comparator group as that used for Executive Directors remuneration.
Non-executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Groups share incentive schemes or performance based plans and are not eligible to join any of the Groups pension schemes.
It is the Boards policy to take into account the following factors in determining the fees of the Non-executive Directors: the median level of fees for similar positions in the market: and the time commitment each Non-executive Director makes to the Group through membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The following table sets out the current non-executive fees: 2010 11 2009 10 Company Chairman 155,000 155,000 Basic fee 42,000 42,000 Senior Independent Non-executive Director 45,000 45,000 Additional fees for chairing the Audit or Remuneration Committee 10,000 10,000 Additional fees for chairing the Nominations Committee 5,000 5,000 Having frozen these fees for the past three years it is our intention to continue to review these fees on an annual basis.
Total shareholder return performance graph The graph shows the Companys performance, measured by total shareholder return TSR, compared with the FTSE 350 Travel and Leisure Index and the FTSE 350 Index.
The Committee considers these to be relevant indices for TSR comparison as the Travel and Leisure Index members represent a range of UK quoted leisure companies, and the FTSE 350 is the index of the 350 largest UK listed companies by market capitalisation.
140 120 100 80 60 Punch Taverns 40 FTSE 350 Travel & Leisure Index FTSE 350 Index 20 Source: Thompson Reuters 0 The graph shows the value, at 21 August 2010, of 100 invested in Punch Taverns plc on 21 August 2005, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Travel and Leisure Index and 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Index, for the same period.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
47 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Aug 2005 Aug 2006 Aug 2007 Aug 2008 Aug 2009 Aug 2010 Governance Governance Report on Directors remuneration continued Audited information The total of Directors emoluments in the year was 2,432,000 2009: 3,893,000, including pension contributions of 270,000 2009: 213,000.
2 Total 2009 year payment reflects the fact that Roger was recruited part way through the financial year.
3 Became Chairman of the Nominations Committee on 31 March 2010 following Mike Fosters retirement.
4 Became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and was appointed Senior Independent Non-executive Director on 31 March 2010 following Fritz Ternofskys retirement.
10 This includes salary and pension paid from date of cessation as Director to the contract termination date, notice period and compensation for loss of office.
Pension During the period Giles Thorley, Phil Dutton, Mike Tye and Roger Whiteside received a Group contribution into their personal pension arrangements representing between 16% and 18% of their pensionable salary.
com Directors interests in the Groups share plans Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The following table sets out the awards made under the LTIP.
Full details of the operation of the LTIP are set out in the first part of this report.
Awards granted in 2006, 2007 and 2008 will only be released if the Groups TSR is equal to or greater than the median level of performance of the comparator groups over the three year holding period from the date of grant at which point 25% of the award will be released.
Full release of the award will occur for upper quartile performance with straight line release between the median and upper quartile positions.
Full details of the performance conditions attached to the 2009 awards are detailed on page 43 in the first part of this report.
49 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance Governance Report on Directors remuneration continued Inland Revenue Approved Share Incentive Plan SIP The SIP is the current all employee share plan operated by the Group.
The following table sets out the shares purchased and awarded under the SIP in respect of the Executive Directors.
Full details of the operation of the SIP are set out in the Directors report on page 33 and in the share based payment note in note 26 to the accounts which can be found on page 92.
Full details of the operation of the DSB are detailed on page 44 in the first part of this report.
Value of shares conditionally awarded Value of shares released Number Number Market price as at Share price as at Awarded Adjusted Lapsed at date of Gain on 21 August Date Date at date of 22 August during the during the during the release release 2010 1 Executive Directors of award of release award 2009 000 period period period lapse 000 000 Giles Thorley 13.11.06 13.11.09 11.28 6,815 77 109 6,924 0.90 12.11.07 12.11.10 9.36 8,966 84 144 9,110 15,781 9,110 1 Adjustment made to each individual holding in accordance with the Equity Raise in July 2009 as approved by the Remuneration Committee on 7 October 2009.
The DSB above will only be released if the Groups average EPS growth before exceptional items tax normalised is equal to or exceeds RPI 5% p. a. over the three year holding period from the date of award and the associated bonus shares are retained by the Executive Director over this period.
com Discretionary Share Plan DSP The DSP is a legacy option scheme.
The Company does not currently intend to make any future grants under the DSP.
The last award under the DSP was made in January 2006.
Full details of the operation of the DSP are set out in the share based payment note in note 26 to the accounts which can be found on page 92.
No options were granted, lapsed or exercised during the period.
Performance conditions for option vesting are shown in the table below: Reference Condition C1 Vests if EPS growth is at least RPI 3% p. a. C2 40% of options vest if EPS growth of RPI 12% p. a.
100% vest if EPS growth of RPI 15% p. a. C3 40% of options vest if EPS growth of RPI 8% p. a.
100% vest if EPS growth of RPI 12% p. a.
Spirit Value Growth Plan SVGP The SVGP is a long term incentive scheme awarded to one individual Executive Director, Mike Tye, in July 2008.
The SVGP is intended to provide a direct alignment between value growth of the business of Punch Pub Company and the remuneration of Mike Tye to assist in driving the performance of this business and its value of shareholders.
Payment of the award, should performance conditions be met, is in non-pensionable cash.
Executive Director Date of award First release date Performance period Potential award Mike Tye 07.07.08 Beginning of 2011 12 Three full financial years Payment in cash of 7.5% of the amount financial year following date of award of value growth above hurdle rate staggered over two years following year 1 end 2010 11 1 The performance hurdle is 6% compound annual growth per annum.
The share price at the close of business on 21 August 2010 was 0.772.
During the period the highest share price was 1.498 and the lowest was 0.547.
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board.
It complies with the Companies Acts and related regulations.
This report will be put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
51 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance
