PZ Cussons Plc 37 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report on Directors remuneration This report on Directors remuneration has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and satisfies the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
A resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
The information on pages 41 to 43 relating to Directors interests in shares under incentive arrangements, remuneration during the year ended 31 May 2010 and Directors pension benefits constitutes audited information.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The Committee is also responsible for determining within such policy the remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Company Secretary and for approving the design and operation of all share-based incentive schemes for the Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and met on five occasions during the year ended 31 May 2010.
The Committees current Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Companys website www.
The members of the Committee during the year were Mr Steel Committee Chairman, Professor Arnold, Mr Heale and Mr Lewis.
Each is a Non-executive Director of the Company and all are independent of management and have no conflicts of interest or any day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors with the exception, since his appointment as Non-executive Chairman on 1 July 2010, of Mr Harvey is determined by the Board of Directors.
No Director is involved in any decisions on the level and composition of his own remuneration.
The Committee was advised generally in relation to Directors remuneration during the year by Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP has not provided any other material services to the Group during the year.
During the year, the Committee consulted Mr Green and Mr Harvey in their respective capacities as Executive Chairman and Non-executive Chairman-designate on issues where their experience and knowledge have been of benefit to its deliberations and each attended meetings by invitation.
The Chief Executive has also been consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of members of the Groups senior management team and he too attends meetings by invitation.
Neither Mr Green, Mr Harvey nor the Chief Executive attend when the matters under consideration concern their own personal remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends Committee meetings save where his own remuneration is under consideration.
Policy on Executive Directors remuneration The Groups policy is that the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors should: be sufficient to recruit, motivate and retain executives of the calibre required: be aligned with the enhancement of sustainable shareholder value: provide a competitive level of remuneration against companies of similar size and complexity: be structured such that an appropriate proportion of the remuneration package links reward to corporate and individual performance over the short, medium and long-term: and recognise the long-term ambitions of the Company.
The principal elements of each Executive Directors remuneration package comprise: basic salary and benefits: pension benefits: participation in an annual bonus scheme: and participation in the PZ Cussons Plc Performance Share Plan the Performance Share Plan.
In designing an appropriate incentive structure for the Executive Directors and other senior management, the Committee seeks to set challenging performance criteria which are aligned with the Groups business strategy and the enhancement of sustained shareholder value.
The Committee is also mindful of the need to avoid inadvertently encouraging risky or irresponsible behaviour including behaviour which could raise environmental, social or governance issues.
The Committee receives updates on pay and employment conditions applying to other Group employees: these are taken into consideration when setting Executive Directors remuneration, consistent with the Groups general aim of seeking to reward all employees fairly according to the nature of their role, their performance and market forces.
38 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report on Directors remuneration continued Balance of fixed versus variable remuneration The Committee believes that an appropriate proportion of the executive remuneration package should be variable and performancerelated in order to encourage and reward superior corporate and individual performance.
The following chart illustrates the balance between fixed and variable remuneration for Executive Directors, based on the current policy: Balance of fixed versus variable pay Target 49% 10% 29% 12% Maximum 33% 7% 27% 33% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Salary Pension Bonus PSP 2009 10 review of executive remuneration arrangements As in previous years, the Committee considered and reviewed the effectiveness of executive remuneration arrangements.
The Committee took advice from Deloitte LLP and consulted with the Companys major shareholders in developing proposals.
The outcome of the review was a decision to alter the annual bonus arrangements so that, subject to meeting enhanced share ownership thresholds, Executive Directors may receive and retain the whole of any annual bonus in cash for 2010 11 and beyond rather than in a mixture of cash and deferred shares.
The Committee believes that this will improve the motivational effect of the annual bonus arrangements, while the simultaneous enhancement of the Companys shareholding guidelines combined with the extension of the previous share investment requirement described below will maintain the existing alignment of Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders and preserve an acceptable risk profile.
No changes were made to the target and maximum annual and long-term incentive opportunities open to Executive Directors for 2010 11.
Basic salary and benefits Executive Directors salaries are normally reviewed annually taking account of various factors including individual performance, remuneration levels in companies of similar size and complexity and pay conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Executive Directors salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 June 2009 and details were included within the Report on Directors Remuneration for the year ended 31 May 2009.
No further changes were made to salaries or, save as set out in relation to annual bonus arrangements, to any other elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages during the year ended 31 May 2010.
It is intended that in future Executive Directors salaries should be reviewed with effect from 1 September each year.
Details of the revised salaries in respect of the year ending 31 May 2011 which will be effective from 1 September 2010 but, on a one-time basis, backdated to 1 June 2010 to reflect the change in the date of the review are set out in the notes to the table on Directors remuneration on page 42.
Taxable benefits, which are subject to periodic review, include life assurance, health insurance and car benefits.
Pension benefits Since 1 June 2008 Executive Directors have participated in a defined contribution pension scheme under which the Group pays a contribution of 20% of salary into the scheme on their behalf subject to a minimum employee contribution of 5% of salary.
Executive Directors whose pension benefits have exceeded or are forecast to exceed the life time allowance are eligible, at the discretion of the Committee, to receive a cash payment of 20% of salary in lieu of employer pension contributions.
Up to 31 May 2008, Executive Directors participated in a defined benefit pension scheme which provided benefits of up to two thirds of final salary subject to a scheme-specific earnings cap.
With effect from 1 June 2008 no further benefits accrue under the defined benefit scheme although the benefits payable will remain linked to salary until 31 May 2013 in line with arrangements pertaining to all members of the scheme when it was closed to future accrual.
Further detail on Executive Directors benefits under the defined benefit pension scheme are set out in the table on page 43.
PZ Cussons Plc 39 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Bonus Scheme Executive Directors and key senior executives are generally eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme.
In respect of the year ended 31 May 2010, Executive Directors other than Mr Green, the Executive Chairman, and, in view of his planned retirement Mr Calder participated in the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme, pursuant to which they were eligible to earn an annual bonus linked to performance targets established by the Committee.
For the year ended 31 May 2010, Executive Directors could receive a bonus of up to 80% of basic salary with 60% of salary payable at target dependent upon the achievement of profit before taxation, net working capital and operating contribution targets and payable as to 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares based on the share price on 1 June 2009.
These targets and bonus levels were established at the beginning of the year: no changes were made during the year.
In view of his planned retirement, Mr Calder was subject to separate arrangements providing for a maximum bonus of 70% of annual basic salary, calculated on a pro rata basis up to the date of his retirement and payable in cash, against the achievement of similar targets to other Executive Directors.
Deferred shares awarded under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme are normally received by participants following, and conditional only upon, three years of continuing employment from the date of the grant of the award.
During the deferral period and subject to continued employment, individuals who have been awarded deferred shares under the scheme receive cash payments equal to the dividends which would have been payable on such shares at the same time as shareholders in the Company receive dividends.
Sufficient shares to satisfy such deferred awards are generally purchased in the market and retained in an employee benefit trust pending their transfer to participants.
Further details regarding the employee benefit trust are given in note 25 of the consolidated financial statements.
Bonuses awarded in respect of the achievement of targets for the year ended 31 May 2010 are included in the table on Directors remuneration on page 42.
The eligibility of the Executive Directors to earn an annual bonus in respect of the year ended 31 May 2011 has been set at similar percentages of salary to those in the year ended 31 May 2010 and is dependent upon the achievement of certain profit before taxation, net working capital and operating contribution margin targets for the Group.
As discussed above, any bonus for the year ended 31 May 2011 is payable wholly in cash.
These percentages may be exceeded in exceptional cases at the discretion of the Committee but were not exceeded during the year ended 31 May 2010.
Performance Share Plan Executive Directors and certain key senior executives are also generally eligible for participation in the Companys Performance Share Plan which provides for the grant of conditional rights to receive shares subject to continued employment over a three year vesting period and the satisfaction of certain performance criteria established by the Committee.
Annual awards to any participant are limited to rights over shares with a market value at the time of grant equal to 100% of basic salary.
During the year ended 31 May 2010 awards were made to the Executive Directors over shares with a value equal to 100% of basic salary save that no award was made either to Mr Green, the Executive Chairman, or, in view of his planned retirement, to Mr Calder.
These awards are subject to adjusted earnings per share growth targets measured over the single three year performance period commencing on 1 June 2009.
The Committee considers adjusted earnings per share to be an important indicator of the Companys underlying financial performance providing a clear line of sight for executives between their performance and potential reward.
Further details of these performance conditions are set out in the notes to the table setting out Directors interests in shares under incentive arrangements on page 41.
It is the Committees intention to make further awards to Executive Directors on the same basis during the year ending 31 May 2011.
Such awards are expected to be subject to similar performance targets measured over a three year performance period commencing on 1 June 2010.
This percentage may be increased to 150% in exceptional cases at the discretion of the Committee.
Executive Share Option Scheme Prior to the adoption by the Company of the Performance Share Plan in 2008, Executive Directors other than the Executive Chairman and certain other senior executives were generally eligible for the grant of options under the PZ Cussons Plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
There have been no grants of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme during the year ended 31 May 2010 and it is not expected that any further awards will be made under this scheme: any future share-based incentive awards are expected to be made instead under the Performance Share Plan.
The adjusted earnings per share performance conditions have been met in respect of option awards made in 2007 and such awards are expected to vest in full on 6 August 2010 being the third anniversary of the award date.
All other options made under the Executive Share Option Scheme have now either vested and are capable of exercise or have lapsed.
40 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report on Directors remuneration continued Limits on shares issued to satisfy share incentive plans The Companys share incentive plans may operate over new issued Ordinary Shares, treasury shares or Ordinary Shares purchased in the market.
In relation to all the Companys share incentive plans, the Company may not, in any ten year period, issue or grant rights to issue more than 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company to satisfy awards to participants nor more than 5% of the issued Ordinary Share capital for executive share plans.
Shareholding guidelines for Directors As discussed above under 2009 10 review of executive remuneration arrangements, at the same time as reverting to an annual bonus delivered wholly in cash, the Committee has also: increased the shareholding requirements in the Companys Share Ownership Guidelines, which now require Executive Directors to build up holdings of shares and deferred shares net of tax worth 150% of salary from time to time previously shares worth 100% of salary : and extended the previous share investment requirement such that until these guidelines are met, Executive Directors will be required to invest 50% of their after-tax bonus from 2010 11 onwards into the Companys shares.
They are already required to retain 50% of any vested after-tax shares arising from the Performance Share Plan and 50% of any shares arising after tax from the exercise of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme, until the share ownership threshold is met.
Mr Harvey, Non-executive Chairman, is also required under his letter of appointment to invest 20% of his fees each year in the purchase of shares in the Company and to retain such shares during the term of his appointment.
Non-executive Directors Mr Harvey was appointed a Non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2010 and became Non-executive Chairman on 1 July 2010.
Details of his annual fees are set out in the notes to the table on Directors remuneration on page 43.
No changes were made to the fees payable to other Non-executive Directors during the year ended 31 May 2010.
Non-executive Directors fees are generally reviewed every two years on 1 July and, the last such review having been undertaken with effect from 1 July 2008, the annual fees in respect of Mr Lewis, Professor Arnold, Mr Steel and Mr Heale have been revised with effect from 1 July 2010.
Details of the revised annual fees are set out in the notes to the table on Directors remuneration on page 43.
Awards made in 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 have vested and are capable of exercise in respect of the number of shares shown in the table above.
The adjusted earnings per share performance conditions have been met in respect of awards made in 2007 and such awards are expected to vest in full on 6 August 2010 being the third anniversary of the award date.
2 Awarded under the PZ Cussons Performance Share Plan.
The vesting of awards is dependent upon the extent to which adjusted earnings per share growth targets are achieved over a single three year performance period.
No proportion of such awards may vest unless the Companys adjusted earnings per share grows on average by at least RPI 4% per annum compounded over the performance period.
25% of the award will vest where adjusted earnings per share grows on average by RPI 4% per annum rising on a straight line pro rata basis to 100% vesting where adjusted earnings per share grows on average by RPI 10% per annum or better compounded over the performance period.
Where awards vest, participants will also receive a payment in cash and or shares as determined by the Remuneration Committee on or shortly following vesting of an amount equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid on those shares between the time when the awards were granted and the time when they vest.
3 Awarded under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme following the attainment of pre-determined financial targets.
Awards of deferred shares in respect of the attainment of the financial targets for the year ended 31 May 2010 have been approved by the Remuneration Committee and will be granted at the earliest practicable opportunity permitted by the rules of the Scheme.
Deferred shares will normally be received by participants following, and conditional only upon, three years of continuing employment from the date of the grant of the award.
The aggregate gross gains made by the Directors on the exercise of share options during the year were 2,247,019.
The gains are calculated based on the market price at the date of exercise for share options although the shares may have been retained and no gain realised.
42 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Report on Directors remuneration continued The market value of the Companys shares at 31 May 2010 was 2.892 per share.
The range during the year was 1.72 to 2.97.
Performance graph The graph below illustrates the performance of PZ Cussons Plc measured by Total Shareholder Return TSR over the five year period to 31 May 2010 against the TSR of a holding of shares in the FTSE 250 index over the same period, based on an initial investment of 100.
The FTSE 250 index has been chosen as PZ Cussons Plc is a constituent of that index.
The amounts included in this column include both the cash and deferred shares element, the value of the latter being based on the market value of the Companys shares at 31 May 2010 of 2.892 per share.
At the start of the period, the Committee established the following bonus levels and performance targets: i a bonus of 36% of salary accrued on achieving target adjusted profit before tax Target PBT of which 3.6% of salary accrued on achieving 90% of Target PBT rising pro rata to 36% of salary for achieving 100% of Target PBT rising to a maximum bonus of 56% of salary accrued on achieving 110% of Target PBT, ii subject to achieving Target PBT, a bonus of 15% of salary for achieving a monthly average net working capital to sales ratio target and iii subject again to achieving Target PBT, a bonus of 9% of salary for achieving an operating contribution to sales ratio target.
Each Executive Director participant qualified for a total bonus payable in cash and deferred shares equivalent to 67.8% of salary comprising amounts of 43.8%, 15.0% and 9.0% each of salary in respect of the PBT, net working capital and operating contribution percentage targets respectively.
Until his retirement from the Board on 31 March 2010, Mr Calder participated in separate arrangements based on similar financial targets under which he qualified for a total cash bonus of 59.3% of his salary.
Mr Green did not participate in the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme or any alternative bonus arrangement.
2 With effect from 1 June 2008, Messrs Green, Kanellis, Davis and Leigh became members of the Companys new defined contribution pension arrangement.
Contributions to the defined contribution pension arrangement paid by the Company but not those paid by the Directors themselves are included in the amounts shown above.
As Messrs Calder, Pantelireis and, with effect from 1 November 2009 and 31 December 2009 respectively, Messrs Leigh and Green chose not to participate in the defined contribution pension arrangement, they each received a salary supplement equivalent to 20% of base salary in lieu of pension provision and these amounts are also included in the column headed Pension Contributions.
3 In addition to the above, Executive Directors received the following cash payments during the year in lieu of dividends on past awards of deferred shares awarded under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme which have not yet vested: Mr Kanellis: 7,793: Mr Calder: 10,054: Mr Davis: 4,104: Mr Leigh: 4,772: and Mr Pantelireis 4,942.
4 As reported on page 38 above, the annual salaries of the Executive Directors have been reviewed and will be revised in respect of the year ending 31 May 2011 following advice from Deloitte LLP.
The following annual salaries will apply: Mr Kanellis: 451,500: Mr Davis: 288,750: Mr Leigh: 283,500: and Mr Pantelireis: 246,750.
Value PZ Cussons Plc 43 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 5 The fees payable to Mr Calder reflect his retirement from the Board part way through the year on 31 March 2010 and his retirement as an employee on 7 April 2010.
6 As reported on page 40, the annual fees of the Non-executive Directors other than Mr Harvey were reviewed with effect from 1 July 2010 and the following annual fees apply with effect from that date: Professor Arnold 52,500, Mr Heale 52,500, Mr Lewis 52,500 and Mr Steel 52,500.
7 The fees payable to Mr Harvey reflect his appointment to the Board part way through the year on 1 January 2010.
Mr Harvey receives annual fees of 250,000 subject to a requirement to reinvest 20% of such fees each year in the purchase of shares in the Company and to retain such shares during the term of his appointment.
Directors pension benefits The following Executive Directors were members of the defined benefit pension arrangements provided by the Company.
All of these defined benefit plans were closed to future accrual on 31 May 2008 and replaced by defined contribution pension arrangements.
Benefits built up in the defined benefit plans will continue to receive a salary link until 31 May 2013, or the date that each Director leaves employment with the Company if sooner.
The pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values below relate solely to the defined benefit pension arrangements.
2 Transfer values relating to benefits accrued in the Directors and Expatriate pension plans have been calculated in accordance with the method and basis determined by the Trustee of each plan, on the advice of their Actuary, to be consistent with current legislation and the rules of the plans.
Transfer values relating to unfunded pension benefits see note 7 have been calculated using a method and basis consistent with those used for the funded plans.
3 The value of net increase b represents the incremental value to the Director of his increase in pension over the year, calculated on the assumption that he left employment with the Company at the year-end.
It is based on the accrued pension increase a.
4 The change in the transfer value c includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors, such as gilt yield movements.
5 Mr Calder retired as an employee on 7 April 2010.
The above figures are based on the change to Mr Calders accrued benefits between 31 May 2009 and 7 April 2010, but are valued using his age at 31 May 2010.
On retirement Mr Calder received an annual pension of 194,900 p. a. and a cash lump sum of 450,000.
6 The total accrued pensions as at 31 May 2010 and the value of accrued pensions at 31 May 2009 and 31 May 2010 shown for Mr Calder and Mr Leigh include benefits resulting from transfers into the Directors plan.
7 The Company provides unfunded, unapproved pension benefits for Messrs Calder, Leigh and Davis as their benefits would have been subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap, introduced by the Finance Act 1989 had the earnings cap not been abolished by the Finance Act 2004.
The funded benefits payable to these Directors remain subject to a scheme specific earnings cap, which increases each year and is calculated in a similar manner to the abolished statutory earnings cap.
The above figures include both the funded and unfunded pension benefits.
8 Messrs Pantelireis and Kanellis are former members of the expatriate pension scheme operated by the Company and additional benefits are provided through that scheme, as their benefits would have been subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap, introduced by the Finance Act 1989 had the earnings cap not been abolished by the Finance Act 2004.
The above figures are inclusive of the expatriate pension scheme benefits.
9 Voluntary contributions paid by Directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
Service contracts Executive Directors have one year rolling service contracts.
No Executive Director, including those proposed for re-election, has a service contract with a notice period in excess of one year or containing any provision for pre-determined compensation on termination exceeding one years salary and benefits in kind.
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed for initial periods of three years, normally renewable on a similar basis.
The present letters of appointment for Mr Lewis, Mr Steel, Professor Arnold, Mr Heale and Mr Harvey will expire on 31 May 2013, 30 September 2011, 31 December 2012, 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2012 respectively.
By order of the Board of Directors James Steel Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 July 2010
