Directors remuneration report The directors remuneration report has been prepared by the remuneration committee and has been approved by the board for the year ended 31 December 2010 in accordance with the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Although it is not a requirement of Jersey company law, the report is in compliance with Schedule 8 of the UK Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Letter from the chairman of the remuneration committee Dear Shareholder The remuneration committee has critically reviewed our remuneration structure in the light of our remuneration history, the company business strategy, the desire to ensure the retention and motivation of our top talent and good governance practice.
We have also undertaken a review of the structure and quantum of non-executive remuneration.
Following this review, we propose to make several changes to the way in which the companys remuneration is structured.
These proposals are outlined in this Report.
The remuneration committee is committed to engagement with stakeholders in respect of remuneration design and application and welcomes views from investors.
As part of the changes in remuneration policy proposed this year the remuneration committee proactively informed and consulted with investors and key institutional bodies in advance of any decisions on policy changes.
Our business has been highly successful growing operationally, reaching strategic milestones, delivering value to shareholders and remaining true to its core values and mission.
This is an evolving journey for the company and its executive directors, and we believe that the proposals make significant strides in the alignment of remuneration with good practice.
Yours sincerely Norborne P Cole jr Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 81 ThE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED in comparison to FTSE-100, FTSE mining and Remuneration principles comparable international gold mining companies.
The committees overriding objective is to ensure that the Variable performance-linked pay will be a major companys remuneration policy encourages, reinforces and element of the executive director total remuneration rewards the delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
Variable pay will be a combination of annual company has outperformed the FTSE-350 and the HSBC cash bonuses and longer term incentives based Global Gold Mining Index the HSBC Index over the last on performance over 3-5 years and payable over five years.
100 invested on 1 January 2005 in the company 4-6 years.
This is to balance the managements would have resulted in a shareholding worth 575 on orientation between the achievement of short term 31 December 2010, compared to 129 if invested in the key business measures within the year and long term FTSE-350.
US$100 invested in the company on 1 January sustainable business growth.
2005 would have resulted in a shareholding worth US$516 Performance criteria will be strategically significant on 31 December 2010, compared with US$185 if invested in and demanding, including both financial and nonthe HSBC Index.
As a result of its very significant growth in financial measures, to encourage and reward superior value over this period, the company is now a constituent of performance.
The interests of executive directors will be aligned with those of shareholders through a significant The company competes for management skills and talent in an international market place in the proportion of the total remuneration package being global mining industry.
Competitive reward attracts delivered in company shares.
Executive directors will executives of the highest calibre, to reflect the flexibility be encouraged to build up and retain a share holding and mobility required to work in the companys key through a new company share ownership policy.
operational jurisdictions West, Central and East Remuneration arrangements are internally equitable to Africa.
The company benchmarks each element of support the companys culture and the deployment of its remuneration and the total remuneration package executives around our business.
REMUNERATION STRUCTURE IN SUMMARY Element Policy Details BASE SALARY Competitive base salaries to attract Benchmarked in comparison to FTSEand retain high calibre executives, 100, FTSE mining and comparable based on personal performance international gold mining companies.
Base salary is the only material The remuneration committee reviews element of fixed remuneration.
base salaries with effect from 1 January The company does not fund any each year.
ANNUAL BONUS Designed to encourage and reward Performance measures for 2010 superior performance on an annual The performance measures used to basis.
determine the annual bonus were: Target and maximum annual For the CEO EBITDA, annual incentives are a percentage of base production efficiency, growth in reserves salary.
and meeting role specific strategic One third of the annual bonus will targets.
be deferred from 2011, see below.
For the CFO EPS, control of costs and meeting role specific strategic targets.
Performance measures for 2011 The performance measures used to determine the annual bonus will be more aligned for both of the executive directors.
For both the CEO and CFO: EPS growth cost per ounce.
Meeting role specific operational financial performance targets.
Meeting role specific strategic targets.
Safety the company has monitored safety for many years and with effect from 2011 the achievement of part of the annual bonus will depend upon the safety record in the year.
Randgold Resources 82 Annual report 2010 REMUNERATION STRUCTURE IN SUMMARY continued Element Policy Details DEFERRED BONUS Changes from 2011 Clawback introduced PROPOSED FROM 2011 Part of annual bonus will be deferred Deferred bonuses will be subject to clawback in the event of a misstatement One third of any annual bonus earned will be compulsorily deferred of the report and accounts on which they and paid in shares after three years.
Deferred bonuses may be matched under the proposed Co-Investment Plan see below.
PROPOSED NEw To reward sustained performance The extent of the match will depend on the performance of the companys CO-INVESTMENT relative to global peers.
PLAN FROM 2011 Each year one third of any annual TSR Total Shareholder Return bonus earned will be compulsorily compared with the HSBC Index over a three year performance period.
An executive director may also choose to commit further The match will be 1 share for each 2 shares to a Co-Investment Plan.
shares committed for equalling the Committed shares must be retained performance of the HSBC Index.
The for three years and may be matched, level of matching may increase on a depending on relative TSR scale to 1 for 1 for out-performing the performance over three years.
PERFORMANCE ShARE Rewards sustainable long term performance.
For 2010 For 2010 Each tranche vests based on the Awards of shares are made periodically under the Restricted companys TSR performance against Share Scheme.
Awards vest in one-third tranches Each tranche will only vest if the TSR over three years, commencing on performance of the company exceeds the first anniversary of the award.
the HSBC Index over the relevant Each tranche vests if a relative performance period.
There is no vesting if the companys performance TSR performance test is met.
is below the HSBC Index for the year.
From 2011 From 2011 Focus on operational and financial Awards of shares are to be made annually under the Restricted performance measures rewards Share Scheme, determined as a absolute delivery of key strategic percentage of base salary.
imperatives to build the company for Awards vest after three, four and the future.
five years subject to the Three, four and five year performance achievement of stretching operational period ensures sustainability of growth.
Four separate measures of business One year post-vesting retention growth, each weighted equally: period further supports long term sustainability.
additional reserves in ounces, absolute reserve growth in There will be a maximum number ounces.
of shares over which an award absolute TSR may be made to ensure good plan EPS growth.
A post-vesting retention period will require that at least 50% of the aftertax value of an award must be held for a minimum period of one year.
Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 83 ThE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION STRUCTURE IN SUMMARY continued Element Policy Details NEw ShAREhOLDING Executive directors are encouraged Increased from US$50 000 for 2011.
POLICY FROM 2011 to build and retain a minimum shareholding of 200% of base salary in the companys shares from vested long term incentives.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS Funded by the executive director from their base salary.
OThER BENEFITS Main benefits funded from base Executive directors can elect to salary.
participate in a medical aid scheme or group life insurance, funded out of the executives base salary.
Where appropriate to the business or jurisdiction, the board may authorise the provision of security services while travelling.
SERVICE CONTRACTS Notice periods of six months.
Termination payments based on salary.
From 2011 mitigation on termination payments will be considered.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEETINGS The remuneration committee The committee met four times formally during 2010, and ThE ROLE AND COMPOSITION OF ThE COMMITTEE attendance is set out in the table below.
At the invitation of The remuneration committee is committed to the principles of accountability and transparency, and ensuring that the chairman of the committee, the chairman of the board remuneration arrangements align reward with performance.
The CEO also attended except The committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of where matters associated with his own remuneration were reference, which can be found on the companys website.
These include: Remuneration policy and its specific application to The remuneration committee meetings were also attended the executive directors and general application to the by the company secretary and the human capital executive.
senior executives below the main board: The determination of levels of reward for the executive During the year, the committee also received independent directors: Pr oviding guidance to the chairman of the board on external advice from remuneration consultants Towers evaluating the performance of the CEO, management Watson and Deloitte.
Towers Watson does not provide any development plans and succession planning: other services to the company.
Responsibility for awards made under the Restricted The companys lawyers: Ashurst in the United Kingdom, Share Scheme: and Fulbright & Jaworski in the United States and Ogiers in Ef fective communication with shareholders on the Jersey, also provided advice to the committee.
remuneration policy and the committees work on behalf of the board.
MEMBERS ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS During the financial year 2010, the members of Meetings the committee were Mr Norborne P Cole Jr Chairman, Members Appointed attended Mr Christopher L Coleman and Dr Karl Voltaire.
NP Cole Jr The current members of the committee are independent Chairman 1 August 2006 4 4 non-executive directors in line with the independence CL Coleman 2 February 2009 4 4 requirements of the Combined Code and UK Corporate K Voltaire 29 April 2008 4 4 Governance Code.
Randgold Resources 84 Annual report 2010 For 2011 it is proposed that the remuneration of the executive Key items discussed by the directors will comprise: committee in 2010 base salary: Remuneration committee agenda items included the an annual bonus opportunity: following: a deferred annual bonus: a Co-Investment Plan rewarding relative performance Meeting Items discussed over three years: and participation in the Restricted Share Scheme, rewarding January The 2009 remuneration report was operational performance over 3, 4 and 5 years, with a approved.
further one year post-vesting retention requirement.
Base salaries of the CEO and the CFO were reviewed.
Annual bonuses of the CEO and the CFO four and payable for 2009 were determined.
The one year Three years five years performance measures and opportunities for 2010 were considered and determined.
salary The CEO was made an award under the companys Restricted Share Scheme.
annual bonus May The committee reviewed the companys long term incentive arrangements and deferred annual bonus decided to review the appointment of external advisers.
August Participation in the companys Restricted Share Scheme was extended to a wider co-investment Plan group of senior executives below the main board.
restricted share scheme October The committee received a presentation on market practice on the structure of remuneration packages.
The combined effect of making the proposed changes will Market positioning of chairman and be to: executive director remuneration.
Increase the proportion of the total remuneration package that is linked to the achievement of demanding Executive remuneration performance criteria, and The sTrucTure of execuTive direcTor Extend the period over which remuneration will be remuneraTion earned and paid.
Total executive director remuneration is benchmarked against a comparator group of the company benchmarks each element of its remuneration and the total remuneration The mix of short and long term performance linked package in comparison to FTSE-100, FTSE mining and remuneration under target and maximum performance comparable international gold mining companies.
scenarios is illustrated below: For 2010, the remuneration of the executive directors comprised: base salary: an annual bonus opportunity: and participation in the Restricted Share Scheme, measuring performance over the longer term.
one year Three years salary annual bonus Performance share plan The total executive directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2010 was US$10 284 745 2009: US$9 271 980.
Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 85 ThE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION FOR OThER SENIOR ExECUTIVES increase in the base salary of the CEO for 2011.
The base salary The committee has oversight of remuneration policies for the of the CFO will increase to 390 000 per annum with effect senior executives below the main board, and applies the same from 1 January 2011 to recognise his contribution, value to the principles of transparency, clarity and alignment of reward with company and growth in his role.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS Executive directors can elect to sacrifice up to 20% of their base The company does not operate an annual cash bonus for the salary to contribute to a defined contribution provident fund.
The senior executives below the main board.
company does not make any further contribution to the fund.
It is considered important to support alignment with OThER BENEFITS shareholders.
The company has operated a policy of granting Executive directors can elect to receive other benefits including, share options rather than paying cash bonuses to senior medical aid and group life insurance, funded out of their base executives.
Consequently, the level of share option grants to salary.
Where appropriate, executive directors may be provided this population has been higher than in other organisations.
with other benefits such as security services while travelling for work and the cost of membership of professional associations.
Having recognised the size and growth of the company, the committee has extended the Restricted Share Scheme to the Variable remuneration senior executives below the main board with effect from 2010.
Variable remuneration represents the major proportion of the Restricted shares will not be issued annually, but rather as and individuals remuneration package.
when new projects or key events require or deserve the issue of long term rewards.
For 2010, the variable remuneration of the executive directors comprised: Fixed remuneration a n annual bonus opportunity: and Fixed remuneration comprises a base salary.
No pension p articipation in the Restricted Share Scheme, measuring contributions are funded by the company.
Fixed remuneration performance over the long term.
normally represents less than 50% of the individuals remuneration package based on target performance and expected values of For 2011, it is proposed that the variable remuneration of the share awards.
executive directors will comprise: a n annual bonus opportunity: BASE SALARY a deferred bonus: Base salaries are determined by the committee, taking into p articipation in a Co-Investment Plan rewarding account the performance of the individual.
The company performance over three years: and benchmarks each element of its remuneration and the total p erformance shares awarded under the Restricted Share remuneration package in comparison to FTSE-100, FTSE Scheme, rewarding performance over 3, 4 and 5 years, mining and comparable international gold mining companies.
with a further one year post-vesting retention requirement.
When setting base salaries, the committee also takes into ANNUAL BONUS consideration the requirement for extensive travel and time Encourages and rewards superior performance on an annual spent at the companys operations overseas.
critical in effective management of the companys business Executive directors are eligible to receive an annual bonus, As at 31 December 2010, the base salaries of the executive subject to the achievement of stretching performance criteria.
directors were as follows: C EO Dr DM Bristow US$1 500 000 per annum The performance metrics are intended to reward the C FO Mr GP Shuttleworth 330 212 per annum.
achievement challenging strategic and financial targets that contribute to the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
Following a review of all aspects of the remuneration packages The committee may make adjustments to the criteria used for of the executive directors and as an integral aspect of the measuring performance on an annual basis taking into account proposed changes, it has been decided that there will be no the strategic objectives of the company for the year.
Randgold Resources 86 Annual report 2010 Annual bonus for the CEO for 2010 Bonus payments in respect of 2010 Based on performance achieved against targets during the 2010 Dr DM Bristows annual bonus for 2010 was based on the financial year, the remuneration committee determined that achievement of the following performance criteria: Dr DM Bristow and Mr GP Shuttleworth should receive bonus payments of US$4 500 000 and US$800 000 respectively.
Performance criteria Measurement CEO Annual group financial EBITDA growth The determination of the bonus for the CEO for 2010 took performance account of the following performance metrics: Sustainable growth Replacement or growth in EBITDA growth in the year was 34%: of reserves reserves is calculated on a three the increase in reserves to depletion was 6.77: year rolling average in arrears.
production volume was 440 000 ounces: and Production volume Production volume in ounces performance against strategic output measures was 83% measured against budgeted of maximum.
ounces of production CFO I ndividual strategic Agreed at annual strategic The determination of the bonus for the CFO for 2010 took output performance planning review and approved account of the following performance metrics: targets by the board.
earnings per share rose by 33%: cost of production was US$699 per ounce: and An annual bonus of 150% of base salary was payable for performance against strategic output measures was achieving target performance.
The maximum bonus payable 75% of maximum.
was 300% of base salary for outperformance.
Annual bonuses for the executive directors for 2011 The committee measures performance against each of The annual bonuses for 2011 will be based on the the metrics in the round including whether one or more are achievement of the following performance criteria: significantly above or below the target level.
Performance criteria Measurement Proportion Annual bonus for the CFO for 2010 Annual group financial EPS growth 30% Mr GP Shuttleworths annual bonus for 2010 was based on the performance cost per ounce achievement of the following performance metrics: Role specific Operational 30% operational financial financial Performance criteria Measurement performance targets cost control Role specific strategic Agreed at annual 30% Annual group financial EPS growth performance targets strategic planning performance review and approved Cost control C ash costs per ounce by the board controlled below targeted Safety Measured against 10% LTIFR annual level Individual strategic Agreed at annual strategic The annual bonus payable to the CEO for achieving target output performance planning review and performance will remain unchanged at 150% of base salary.
targets approved by the board.
The maximum bonus payable to the CEO for achieving outperformance will also remain unchanged at 300% of base An annual bonus of 75% of base salary was payable for salary.
The maximum bonus payable was 150% of base salary for outperformance.
The maximum bonus payable to the CFO for achieving target performance will remain unchanged at 75% of base The committee measures performance against each of salary.
The maximum bonus payable to the CFO for achieving the metrics in the round including whether one or more are outperformance will also remain unchanged at 150% of base significantly above or below the target level.
Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 87 ThE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED It is proposed that the one third of annual bonuses payable to Performance is measured against the HSBC Index for each executive directors will be subject to a mandatory deferral for the tranche of restricted share awards.
Awards to executive first time in 2011, as described below.
directors vest in full provided the companys performance is better than that of the index over the performance period.
Deferred annual bonuses No vesting occurs where the companys performance falls Encourages and rewards superior performance on a below that of the index.
The committee considers this target sustained basis.
to be challenging in the context of the companys historical sustained out-performance of the market.
In 2011, part of any annual bonus earned will be compulsorily deferred and paid in shares after three years.
For the CEO The companys performance compared with the performance and the CFO, one third of any bonus will be deferred.
of this index over the past five years is shown in the graph on the previous page.
Deferred bonuses may be matched under the proposed CoInvestment Plan see section below.
In addition, the vesting of any restricted share award is subject to the employee being employed and achieving Deferred bonuses will be subject to clawback in the event a satisfactory individual performance rating for the year of a misstatement of the report and accounts on which they preceding the vesting date.
No vesting occurred on 1 January 2011 in respect of Long term incentives for 2010 Dr Bristows shares over the past 12 month period, as the The company has incentivised executives over the long term companys performance fell below that of the HSBC Index by awarding shares under the Restricted Share Scheme over the performance period.
which was approved by shareholders on 28 July 2008.
Awards have been made periodically, generally not every year, at the discretion of the committee.
Shares awarded Long term incentives from 2011 have been expressed as a specific number of shares, rather From 2011 it is proposed that long term incentives for than a percentage of salary.
Shares awarded under the executive directors will comprise: scheme vest in equal tranches as specified at the date of participation in a Co-Investment Plan rewarding award.
performance over three years: and performance shares awarded under the Restricted The vesting profile for executive directors is in line with the Share Scheme, rewarding performance over 3, 4 and policy for senior executives below the main board.
It reflects 5 years, with a further one year post-vesting retention the fact that awards are not necessarily made on an annual requirement.
basis, and therefore staggered vesting supports the phasing of payments.
Proposed new Co-Investment Plan Rewards sustained performance relative to global peers over Awards outstanding are detailed in the table on page 91. a three year period Performance measures for awards made under the Following consultation with shareholders, a new CoRestricted Share Scheme Investment Plan will be put to shareholders for approval in The gold mining industry is capital intensive, cyclical and long 2011. term.
Outstanding performance comes from finding and accessing high quality resources, successfully developing Each year, one third of any annual bonus earned will be new projects and maintaining efficient and safe operations.
compulsorily deferred and an executive director may also choose to commit further shares to a Co-Investment Plan.
The committee believes that, against that background, The maximum commitment which may be made in the Cosuccess may be measured by the companys total Investment Plan will be 200% of base salary by the CEO and shareholder return performance against the HSBC Index.
The HSBC Index is a  index calculated in 100% of base salary by the CFO.
Committed shares must US Dollars, representing mining companies in 21 countries.
be retained for three years and may be matched, depending Randgold Resources 88 Annual report 2010 on relative TSR performance over three years against the Awards will vest after three, four and five years subject to the HSBC Index.
Both the CEO and the CFO will be given the achievement of stretching operational and financial targets.
opportunity to make the maximum commitment for 2011 if Four separate measures of business growth will be used: Additional reserves in ounces, weighted 25% shareholder approval is received.
Absolute reserve growth in ounces, weighted 25% Absolute TSR, weighted 25% EPS growth, weighted 25%.
Compulsory deferral Voluntary commitment Part of annual bonus Additional commitment Level of vesting Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 earned is automatically deferred into Randgold Additional reserves including reserve shares replacement Nil Less than Less than Less than 18% 24% 30% 50% 18% 24% 30% 100% 30% 40% 50% Performance measured Absolute reserves excluding reserve After the end of three years relative TSR performance replacement is measured Nil Less than Less than Less than 3% 4% 5% 50% 3% 4% 5% 100% 15% 20% 25% Level of vesting After each 3, 4 and 5 years Shares matched EPS growth If the performance target is met shares may be Nil Less than 20% per annum matched, ranging from 0.5 for 1 up to 1 for 1 50% 20% per annum 100% 30% per annum Absolute TSR If after three years the TSR performance of the company Nil Less than 8% per annum 50% 8% per annum equals the performance of the HSBC Index, then the 100% 12% per annum committed shares may be matched on a stepped scale, as shown in the table below.
The maximum level of matching The committee believes that the performance necessary is 1 for 1. for awards to vest towards the upper end of these ranges is stretching.
They should not, therefore, be interpreted as Three year TSR Level of matching providing guidance on the groups expected performance performance on committed shares over the relevant periods.
Below the Index Nil EPS growth will be measured on an average annualised Equal to the Index 0.5 for 1 growth basis.
TSR will be measured over the three months Index 2% per annum 0.6 for 1 before the start and before the end of each performance Index 4% per annum 0.7 for 1 period.
Awards will vest on a straight-line sliding scale for Index 6% per annum 0.8 for 1 performance between these points.
Index 8% per annum 0.9 for 1 Index 10% per annum, or higher 1 for 1 A post-vesting retention period will require that at least 50% of the after tax value of any part of an award vesting must be Proposed new awards under the Restricted Share held for a minimum period of one year.
Scheme Rewards sustained long term performance over a five year Service contracts period.
Executive directors service contracts outline the components of remuneration paid, but do not prescribe how remuneration Each year, awards of shares are to be made under the levels are to be modified from year to year.
Restricted Share Scheme, determined as a percentage of base salary.
The maximum annual award will be 200% of Dr DM Bristow signed a contract in April 2008. base salary for the CEO and 100% of base salary by the Mr GP Shuttleworth agreed a service contract when he CFO.
There will also be a maximum number of shares which joined the company on 1 July 2007, and agreed updated may be awarded in any one year.
contracts on 1 July 2008 and on 1 January 2010.
Both the CEO and the CFO will sign new service contracts with The awards will be made under the terms of the existing six months notice periods following the AGM, subject to Restricted Share Scheme, approved by shareholders on receiving shareholder approval for the proposed changes to 28 July 2008. the remuneration arrangements.
Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 89 ThE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The company and the executive directors can terminate FEES the contract by giving six months notice in writing.
The Non-executive director remuneration levels were last employment relationship can be ended immediately by either reviewed in April 2008 and have been reviewed in 2011. party making a payment in lieu of notice, equivalent to the base salary payable for the notice period.
The chairman and the senior independent director do not receive any additional fees for acting as chairman or a Any retirement benefit due from contributions made by the member of a board committee.
executive director to the companys provident fund may also be paid on termination.
NON-ExECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES FOR 2010 All non-executive directors External directorships Annual retainer fee US$50 000 Executive directors may accept external appointments, Annual award of restricted shares 1 200 shares subject to the boards consent, as non-executive directors Chairman US$170 000 of other companies and would normally retain any fees Senior independent director US$85 000 received.
Chairman of a board committee US$15 000 Member of a board committee In 2010 Dr DM Bristow received fees of US$19 995 Audit committee US$35 000 2009: US$26 702 in relation to his role as non-executive Remuneration committee US$25 000 director of Rockwell Resources International.
Governance and nomination committee US$10 000 Shareholding requirements Ensures that the interests of executive directors are aligned The annual award of restricted shares vests over a three year with shareholders.
period in three equal instalments from the date of the award.
With effect from 2011, there is a requirement for executive NON-ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES FROM 2011 directors to build up a holding in shares in the company at From 2011 it is proposed that: least equal in value to two times base salary from the value the chairmans fee will be increased from US$170 000 of vested long term incentive awards.
This is an increase to US$200 000: in the previous requirement to hold US$50 000.
As at there will be an additional award of restricted shares 31 December 2010 both Dr DM Bristow and to the chairman of 2 400 shares which vest over a Mr GP Shuttleworth held shares at least equal in value to three year period in three equal instalments from US$50 000 and to two times base salary.
1 January 2012: and there will be no change to the annual retainer fee or the New directors are allowed three years in which to acquire the board committee fees or the award of restricted shares required shareholding and this period may be extended at for the non-executive directors.
the discretion of the remuneration committee.
NONExECUTIVE DIRECTORS ShAREhOLDING Directors shareholdings are set out on page 92.
REqUIREMENT A non-executive director must build up and hold shares Non-executive directors at least equal in value as at the beginning of the year to remuneration the annual retainer fee, from the value of vested awards of REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-ExECUTIVE restricted shares.
Save for Dr Dagdelen, who was appointed DIRECTORS to the board in January 2010 and will only obtain his first The companys policy on non-executive directors fees takes restricted shares with effect from 1 January 2011, the into account the need to attract individuals of the right calibre remaining non-executive directors held shares equal to the value of the annual retainer fee at 31 December 2010. and experience, their responsibilities and time commitment.
Performance is measured against the HSBC index for each tranche of the restricted share awards.
No vesting occurred on 1 January 2011 in respect of Dr Bristows shares over the past 12 month period, as the companys performance fell below that of the index over the performance period, however US$1.7m is still included in the figures above for Dr Bristow, in line with the accounting requirements.
Dr Paverd and mr asher retired from the board on 5 may 2009. mr J K Walden left the board on 1 July 2010.
The vesting of any tranche of the above awards is subject to the companys TSR performance and the executive director achieving a satisfactory individual performance rating.
as the companys total shareholder return performance did not exceed the HSBC Index for the period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010, the restricted shares with a vesting date of 1 January 2011 did not vest to Dr Dm Bristow.
# mr JK Walden resigned from the board on 1 July 2010 and restricted shares that had not vested at that date lapsed.
In terms of a resolution approved at the may 2010 aGm, an award of 1 200 restricted shares was granted to each non-executive director on 1 January 2011.
One-third of these restricted shares vested on 1 January 2011, one-third vests on 1 January 2012 and the final third vests on 1 January 2013.
The price of these restricted shares was US$81.60, being the closing share price on the Nasdaq Global Select market on 3 January 2011.
DIRECTORS ShAREhOLDINGS At 28 Feb At 31 Dec At 31 Dec Beneficial 2011 2010 2009 non-beneficial Executive DM Bristow 697 584 697 584 677 584 Beneficial GP Shuttleworth 28 000 28 000 24 000 Beneficial Non-executive P Litard 34 027 32 827 31 765 Beneficial NP Cole Jr 4 572 3 372 2 265 Beneficial CL Coleman 3 800 2 600 1 800 Beneficial K Dagdelen 400 - - Beneficial RI Israel 36 463 35 263 40 263 Beneficial K Voltaire 4 572 3 372 2 265 Beneficial JK Walden - - 400 Beneficial On 9 march 2011, mr Isreal acquired a further 2 000 ordinary shares at a price of US$74.72.
mr JK Walden resigned from the board in July 2010.
ShARE OPTION SChEME Weighted Weighted average US$ average US$ exercise exercise Available Granted price Exercised price Total BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2008 2 727 456 2 666 170 - 6 846 859 - 12 240 485 Adjustment to balance following increase in share capital 1 360 216 - - - - 1 360 216 Shares exercised during the period - 760 400 - 760 400 18.01 - Shares granted during the period 183 000 183 000 56.99 - - - Shares lapsed during the period 9 600 9 600 22.19 - - BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 3 914 372 2 079 070 - 7 607 259 - 13 600 701 Adjustment to balance following increase in share capital 98 063 - - - - 98 063 Shares exercised during the period - 672 300 - 672 300 26.15 Shares granted during the period - - - - - Shares lapsed during the period 220 556 220 556 - 28.43 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 4 232 991 1 186 214 8 279 559 13 698 764 The Randgold Resources Share Option Scheme is not constrained by a fixed time period.
The aggregate number of shares that may be determined for the option scheme includes all options that have been exercised or are the subject of either terminated or expired options after a 10 year period.
at 31 December 2010, based on a fixed 10 year period as suggested by the association of British Insurers, the percentage of shares used by the scheme totalled 9.19%.
Other than these share options, management excluding executive directors does not participate in any other bonus or incentive schemes.
Executive directors do not participate in the Share Option Scheme.
