Directors remuneration report 23 REMUNERATION POLICY Summary The Remuneration committee is responsible for deciding the Details of directors remuneration including pensions which form Companys framework of executive remuneration and setting the audited section of this report are shown in note 7. remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND COMPENSATION The committees policy is to motivate and retain executive The executive directors have each entered into a service contract directors by rewarding them with competitive salary and benefit with the Company.
The contracts do not contain any specific packages and incentives.
These are linked to the overall provisions governing the payment of compensation for loss of performance of the Group and, in turn, to the interests of the office or employment, whether as a result of a takeover bid or shareholders.
The notice period for termination of the contract is twelve months to be given by either the Company or the director.
The committee reviews annually all aspects of the executive directors remuneration, performance and employment.
The non-executive directors have been appointed under contracts for services which are intended to continue for an REMUNERATION COMMITTEE initial period of three years.
However, these contracts may be All the members of this committee are non-executive directors terminated by either the Company or the director on one and a list of membership and the chair of the committee is set months notice.
The terms of reference of this committee are published on the Companys website.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH The graph below shows the Companys total shareholder return The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by TSR performance, compared with the FTSE mid 250 index, the executive directors.
which the directors believe is the most appropriate broad index No new appointments of directors were made during the year.
REMUNERATION Salary 200 The Remuneration committee reviews basic salaries to take effect from 1st July each year.
In deciding appropriate levels, the committee takes account of financial data taken from a cross- 150 section of UK companies within the electronics and engineering sectors.
The voluntary salary reduction of 20%, implemented in February 100 2009, was restored to all staff for the year ended 30th June 2010, including directors, with the exception of three executive directors who elected to continue the reduction through to 50 30th June 2010.
Bonus 0 The Company introduced a new bonus scheme for executive directors in 2008, based on an assumption of improving group 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 profit shown by the Groups business plan.
Rebased to 100 at 30th June 2005 The relevant performance targets for the year have not been Renishaw FTSE mid 250 achieved and consequently there is no annual bonus for the executive directors for the current financial year.
There are no share options or long-term incentive schemes in The report was approved by the Board of directors on 28th July operation for the directors but the position is kept under review.
2010 and has been signed on its behalf by:- The non-executive directors do not participate in a bonus scheme.
Other benefits Company cars and other benefits provided to directors are T D Snowden FCA subject to income tax.
The benefits are included in the directors Chairman, Remuneration committee remuneration table in note 7.
Geoff McFarland is a non-executive director of Delcam plc, in respect of which no remuneration is payable by Delcam plc.
Pensions The Company makes annual contributions of 15% of underlying basic salary to individual pension policies for Ben Taylor and Allen Roberts.
Neither bonus scheme payments nor other benefits are eligible for pension scheme contributions.
Geoff McFarland participated in the Companys defined benefit scheme up to its termination on 5th April 2007 and since that date the Companys defined contribution scheme.
More details are given in note 7.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Companys pension schemes.
Annual report and accounts 2010 Return
