40 Directors remuneration report Rentokil Initials remuneration policies are designed to support the delivery of the groups strategic objectives, specifically to ensure that there is the maximum possible alignment between the interests of executive directors and senior employees with the creation of value for shareholders and the ambition of the company to succeed.
Success can only be achieved if Rentokil Initial can attract, retain and motivate high quality people to deliver the business turnaround and performance shareholders rightly expect.
This requires levels and structures of remuneration that are appropriate to achieve these goals.
Peter Long Chairman, Remuneration Committee Overview setting the targets for performance-related pay schemes for executive directors and senior executives: This remuneration report sets out the companys policy on the remuneration of executive and non-executive directors, together determining the policy and scope of pension arrangements with details of directors pay, employment agreements, letters of for each executive director and other direct reports of the appointment and interests in shares.
The remuneration committee chief executive: aims to comply with best practice guidelines, including guidance approving the contractual terms for departing executive produced by the Association of British Insurers and the National directors and senior executives and ensuring that payments Association of Pension Funds, in producing this report.
All made are fair to the individual and the company and that information disclosed in the directors remuneration report is failure is not rewarded and that any duty to mitigate loss unaudited save where it is stated that the information is audited.
is fully recognised: An ordinary resolution to approve the directors remuneration setting the total remuneration package of each executive report will be put to the annual general meeting on Wednesday director including, where appropriate, benefits, the structure 11 May 2011. and payment of bonuses and share incentive awards: and approving material changes in reward structures across The committee, its advisers and terms the group.
of reference The terms of reference of the committee were reviewed during The members of the committee are Peter Long chairman, the year and the board approved a number of relatively minor Richard Burrows and Alan Giles, all of whom are independent adjustments.
A copy of the committees terms of reference is non-executive directors.
The committees membership has available on the companys website or on application from the not changed during the year.
The duties of the committee cover the following key areas: e stablishing the framework of broad policy for the remuneration of the chairman, the executive directors, the divisional managing directors and the functional heads reporting to the chief executive: Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Governance 41 40 Overview 41 Remuneration policy45 External 45 Bonus Corporate governance 40 The committee, 44 Chairman and appointments 46 Interests in shares Directors remuneration report its advisers and non-executive 45 Executive 46 Rentokil Initial terms of reference directors shareholding versus the 41 Committee 45 Executive directors requirements FTSE 100, 250 and evaluation contracts 45 Pensions 350 indices The committee met six times in 2010 and in addition was consulted Committee evaluation on various remuneration issues between formal meetings.
The The committee conducted a review of its performance during company secretary is secretary to the committee and the group the year with the assistance of an external facilitator.
The review HR director is invited to attend meetings of the committee to concluded that the committee continued to operate effectively provide advice on remuneration matters.
The chairman, chief and that individual directors serving on the committee continued executive and chief financial officer attend by invitation when to have access to appropriate advice and information.
No individual is present during any discussion relating to their own remuneration.
Remuneration policy Deloitte LLP has been retained by the committee to provide advice A new remuneration structure framework was established on executive remuneration and on the companys long-term in 2008 which: incentive plan the Performance Share Plan approved by shareholders in 2006 and on incentive arrangements relating to John enables the company to attract and retain the leadership talent McAdam, Alan Brown and Andy Ransom, approved by shareholdnecessary to reinvigorate and grow the business: ers in May 2008.
Details of incentive arrangements in place in rewards individual contributions for improving financial respect of both schemes are provided in this report.
During the performance and implementing the organisational and process year, Deloitte have provided the company with a limited level of changes identified in the 2008 strategic review: and advice over non-remuneration matters such as taxation, although fully aligns each executives interests with those of the they are not the companys main source of advice in such areas.
Deloitte also provided a limited level of resource to support the internal audit function.
Towers Watson advised the company on This policy is reflected in the PSP awards made during 2008, 2009 its UK pension matters.
and 2010 which are subject to performance conditions relating to both financial performance and shareholder value creation During the year the committee considered the following matters: described further below.
The committee regularly reviews the assessment of performance in relation to the 2009 bonus effectiveness and competitiveness of the total remuneration and outcomes: benefits packages of executive directors and senior executives, determination of 2010 salaries for executive directors and with assistance from Deloitte and respected market surveys senior executives: prepared by Towers Watson.
the companys remuneration report for the financial year 2009: The following summarises the companys current policy in relation to the main elements of the executive remuneration package.
awards under the performance share plan and related policy issues concerning the level of participation in the scheme: Components of remuneration Commentary bonus arrangements for 2010 and target setting for Base salary Set at a competitive level by reference to the market bonus purposes in respect of executive directors and median, taking into account individual skills and experience senior executives: within the roles.
contractual and remuneration incentive arrangements relating Annual bonus Set at a competitive level assuming financial and to the resignation of Michael Murray as chief financial officer operational targets are met.
Links pay to the achievement of financial, strategic and operational goals.
and to the appointment of Jeremy Townsend as his successor: Long-term Senior executives participate in a performance share plan arrangements in connection with the appointment or deparincentive designed to deliver a market competitive contribution to ture of a number of individual senior executives: total remuneration relative to companies of comparable size and complexity.
Performance conditions attached to review of the likely impact of the economic and financial these awards are intended to reward achievements against environment on salary inflation in directors and senior budget related targets and the creation of shareholder executive remuneration: and value.
A one-off equity incentive award was approved by shareholders for the leadership team appointed in 2008, a preliminary review of alternative structures for performance based on achieving stretching absolute share price criteria to apply to awards to be made under the performance performance targets.
Pension Executive director pension arrangements are by way of a defined contribution arrangement with the value of contributions set at market level or through a cash alternative of a similar value.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 42 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report The table below shows the approximate mix between fixed and decrease the bonus outcome subject to an overall maximum variable pay for executive directors based on the achievement of payment of 110% of salary for executive directors and 120% for the on-target and maximum performance.
The companys policy chief executive.
The performance measures for executive directors is that a significant proportion of total remuneration should be are focused on group profit, cash flow and revenue and other performance related.
performance targets necessary to turn around the financial and operational performance of the group businesses and are designed On-target Maximum to focus on business priorities and fully align directors interests 2010 performance performance with those of shareholders.
Base salary 50% 20% In addition to executive directors, over 500 senior executives also Pension 10% 5% participate in the Scheme.
The performance measures for 2010 Annual cash incentive 25% 25% as in 2009 related to group, divisional and business revenue, Long-term incentive 15% 50% profit and cash performance as well as non-financial personal objectives.
Bonuses are typically awarded in March following This illustrates the current remuneration and incentive policy and the end of the financial year to which they relate and specific therefore does not take into account the one-off awards which information on 2010 bonus outcomes for executive directors were made in 2008 under the 2008 Share Incentive Plan to are set out below.
facilitate the appointment of Alan Brown and Andy Ransom In 2011 participants in the Scheme will be measured against further details relating to these awards are provided below.
revenue, profit, cash and meeting strategic operational targets and Base salaries personal performance measures.
The weighting given to financial Executive directors and senior management salaries are reviewed measures will vary by individual and will be between 60% and with effect from 1 January each year.
The committee takes into 100% of the total bonus opportunity.
For 2011, the personal account company performance, experience and the contribution performance modifier has been adjusted to provide the committee of individuals.
Deloitte provides the committee with market with greater flexibility to differentiate bonus outcomes to reflect analysis using data for companies of comparable size, complexity individual performance and contributions.
The bonus modifier will and market sector.
When setting compensation arrangements therefore operate within a range of 85%-120% for all individuals in the committee also derives base salary and other data for senior the senior management population, and accordingly the maximum executives from relevant survey data compiled by Towers Watson.
bonus will be 120% for executive directors, and will remain at this level for the chief executive.
Based upon advice from the group HR director the committee has accepted the proposal that in the context of the general economic Long-term share incentive plans environment, and taking into account pay and conditions within In 2008 shareholders approved a new share scheme under which the Group, there should be no increase in base salaries for one-off share awards were made to the new senior leadership executive directors and members of the company executive board team.
Details of the awards are set out below.
for 2011 as was also the case in 2009 and 2010, although it was The performance share plan introduced during 2006 was develacknowledged that below that level consideration would be given oped in keeping with the remuneration policy as applied at that by group businesses to providing some recognition of cost inflation.
Awards were made to some 500 senior managers in over The company has completed the implementation of a global grading 40 countries around the world in 2006 and 2007.
In 2008, programme to deliver a simple, understandable and consistent the committee refocused participation in the plan, and the framework across all businesses providing a clear and transparent performance conditions that apply.
In 2010 approximately structure for conducting HR processes.
270 participants, in senior management roles across the Group received awards under the plan.
These awards are subject to Annual cash incentive a total shareholder return performance condition, and subject At the start of a year the committee sets the performance to an underpin based on individual contribution to business measures and targets that must be met if a bonus is to be paid financial performance.
under the Senior Executives Bonus Scheme the Scheme.
For 2010 as was the case in 2009, the chief executive and other executive directors have a potential cash bonus opportunity of 100% base salary, subject to the application of a personal performance modifier based on the outcome of the companys performance development review process that could increase or Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Governance 43 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report 200% of base salary depending on seniority.
In exceptional The 2008 Share Incentive Plan circumstances, a grant of up to 250% of base salary may be The Rentokil Initial 2008 Share Incentive Plan the 2008 Plan made to a participant in any year: approved by shareholders in 2008 was designed to facilitate the appointment of John McAdam, chairman, Alan Brown, chief following the appointment of the companys new leadership executive, and Andy Ransom, executive director, and to motivate early in 2008, the committee considered that for 2008 only them over a sufficient period to deliver a turnaround in corporate it would be appropriate to align the performance criteria for performance.
The key features of the 2008 Plan are as follows: awards under the Performance Share Plan with the share price an award to each of John McAdam, Alan Brown and Andy appreciation targets contained in the 2008 Plan described Ransom of 7.5 million shares, with vesting of the awards based in the previous section, as well as the achievement of budget on absolute share price performance targets: related financial performance conditions used to manage the business.
The performance condition for the 2008 award until a minimum share price of 1.20 has been met over a is described in more detail below: sustained period, no shares will be earned.
At 1.20, 20% of the award would be earned, rising on a straight-line basis to full awards made in 2009 and 2010 reverted to a relative TSR vesting at a share price of 1.80: measure replacing absolute share price targets, to reflect market practice and shareholder preferences.
The financial for achieving growth in market value between a share price of performance underpin introduced in 2008 continues to 1.80 and 2.80 further shares may be earned on a straight-line operate as the committee considers this to be helpful in basis up to a maximum of a further 50% of the original award: aligning the plan with shareholders wider interests: and the performance condition will only be satisfied if the share the committee considers that this combination of performance price target is achieved over a sustained period, measured conditions continues to be an effective basis for incentivising on the basis of an average share price over any 60 consecutive the senior management group on an on-going basis, and the dealing days during the performance measurement period: committee currently intends to maintain this approach for demonstrating realisable value creation for shareholders: awards made in 2011. up to one-third of the award may vest following the end of the PSP Plan performance conditions are summarised as follows: third year, two-thirds following the end of the fourth year and the final third following the end of the fifth year, based on the A wards made under the PSP in 2006 and 2007 failed to extent to which performance targets have been achieved: and meet the TSR or EPS performance condition on their maturity in 2009 and 2010, respectively and awards made any unvested portion of the award following the end of the fifth under it have lapsed.
S hare price growth 2008 awards For 2008 only, the During the first half of 2010 the companys share price achieved committee considered that it was appropriate to use a share a 60 day highest average price of 130.82 pence and therefore under price target performance condition which mirrored the the terms of the plan it is expected that 34.43% of the award will share price targets contained within the 2008 plan for the vest with participants being entitled to receive a third of the award senior leadership team appointed in 2008.
These targets from May 2011, a second third a year later and the balance in May are based on the highest average share price achieved over 2013.
Additional amounts can be earned based on share price any 60 consecutive dealing days during the period from appreciation beyond the 130.82 pence level during the remaining 1 April 2008 to 61 dealing days following the announcement life of the scheme.
No further awards may be made under this plan.
of the companys results for the financial year ended 31 December 2010.
The table below shows the percentage The Performance Share Plan the PSP plan of an award that could be released based on different levels In 2006 shareholders approved the PSP plan which was designed of absolute share price performance: to enable participants selected on a discretionary basis to earn shares in the company based on achieving stretching performance Applicable Highest average market value percentage targets.
The principal features of the plan are as follows: Less than 1.20 0% awards are made over shares with a face value set by reference 1.20 20% to a multiple of base salary, which vest subject to the achieve- 1.80 100% ment of performance conditions over a three-year period: Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between each point above.
under normal circumstances, awards will be granted annually with a maximum face value of awards ranging between 25% and Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 44 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report The committee believes that delivering strong and primary resources sectors.
The FTSE 350 is recognised consistent financial and operational performance on a as a broad index, and was considered to be an appropriate year-by-year basis is key to creating long-term shareholder benchmark for measuring performance given the compavalue.
For this reason, an individual performance modifier nys membership of the FTSE 250, the scope and scale of based on annual bonus outcomes, has been introduced the companys international operations, and the diverse to provide additional motivation for every individual who nature of companies in the business services sector.
participates in the PSP to work towards delivering the T he performance modifier introduced in respect of 2008 business plan.
awards will continue to operate as the committee considers The effect of the individual performance modifier would this to be helpful in aligning the plan with shareholders be to reduce the level of award that would otherwise vest wider interests.
Accordingly, there is the possibility that to zero if an individual fails to reach threshold performance awards could vest at two times the target number of shares, under the annual bonus in each of the three years following if the business achieves upper quartile TSR performance grant.
If target bonus outcomes are achieved in each year, over the performance period and financial performance there will be no impact on the vesting of the PSP award.
that leads to maximum bonus outcomes in each of the If an individuals performance is such that they achieve three consecutive financial years for the relevant business maximum levels of award under the bonus plan in each of unit.
The committee considers this to be an appropriately the three years, the level of vesting based on the share price ambitious goal that will not be easily achieved.
The appreciation targets above would be doubled.
This modifier performance modifier challenges the executive group, and also has the benefit across the group of ensuring that all participants in the PSP, to deliver strong and consistent exceptional performance in individual cases is rewarded, financial performance in each year.
If bonus targets are while individuals who have not made an equitable contribunot met, awards under this plan will be proportionately tion to the overall performance of the group do not benefit scaled back: and awards will lapse completely if a disproportionately.
threshold financial performance level is not achieved.
The performance multiplier will be based on achievement F orward looking policy 2011 onwards the committee of annual bonus targets reflecting individual contribution to considered that the level of awards and nature of the business financial performance in respect of each financial performance conditions for the awards in 2010 continues year, as set out in the following table.
to be an effective basis for incentivising the senior management population.
Achievement against annual bonus targets in respect of each financial year Below Threshold average over performance period threshold bonus Target Maximum Chairman and non-executive directors Individual The chairman, John McAdam, has a letter of appointment setting Performance Multiplier 0% 20% 100% 200% out his responsibilities for the management of the board under which he receives fees of 350,000 per annum.
He received an Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between each point above.
award on appointment under the 2008 plan, approved by During the first half of 2010 the companys share price shareholders, details of which are described above and in the achieved a 60 day highest average share price of 130.82 schedule of interests in shares shown below.
He is not eligible pence and therefore under the rules of the scheme 34.43% to participate in the companys annual cash bonus plan or in the of the awards to participants will vest, provided that each companys other incentive arrangements.
His appointment is individual achieved on target annual bonus performance for an initial three-year term, terminable by 12 months notice in 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Awards will be scaled according company and six months notice chairman and is subject to to each participants individual performance multiplier, appropriate post termination restrictive covenants.
which is based on their average annual bonus outcome The appointment policy for non-executive directors is that they in respect of financial performance conditions over the should be appointed for an initial period of three years, which 20082010 period.
would be extended for two further periods of three years by TSR 2009 and 2010 awards awards made in 2009 and mutual consent.
Non-executive directors do not have service 2010 are subject to a relative TSR measure, reflecting contracts and they do not participate in any of the companys market practice and shareholder preferences.
TSR incentive schemes, nor are they eligible to join the companys performance will be measured relative to the constituents pension scheme.
There are no provisions for notice periods or of the FTSE 350 index, excluding financial services and compensation in the event of termination of the appointment Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Governance 45 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report within the contractual framework, it should take a robust line over of a non-executive director and no element of their remuneration payments to departing directors.
On termination without notice, is performance related.
No non-executive director has any executive directors are entitled to a payment equal only to base personal interest other than as a shareholder in the matters pay and the value of benefits for the duration of the notice period.
under consideration, or any conflicts of interest arising from other directorships which would impinge upon their independence or objectivity or any day-to-day involvement in running the business.
External appointments No director plays a part in any discussion about his own remuneraExecutive directors are entitled, subject to board approval of the tion.
Expenses reasonably incurred in the performance of their specific appointment, to accept one non-executive directorship or duties are reimbursed.
similar appointment outside the company and to retain the fees in In addition to the arrangements concerning the chairman connection with such appointment.
No executive director held any described above, all other non-executive directors have specific external appointments during the year or at the date of this report.
terms of engagement and their remuneration is determined by The chief executive, Alan Brown, will join the board of Intertek the board on the recommendation of the non-executive directors Group plc on 15 April 2011 as a non-executive director.
Jeremy fees committee of the board comprising the chairman, the chief Townsend is a director of a business run by a member of his family executive and the chief financial officer within the limits set by the for which he received no remuneration.
articles of association and based on independent surveys of fees paid to non-executive directors of similar companies.
The levels of Executive shareholding requirements fees for non-executive directors were reviewed by the non-executive directors fees committee in 2009 based on external market Recognising investors preferences for executive shareholding data at which time they were set at 55,000 per annum.
requirements, the company introduced shareholding guidelines The chairmen of the remuneration and audit committees are each in 2006.
Executive directors will be expected to build if necessary, paid an additional 15,000 per annum and the senior independent over a period of up to five years from appointment and subsedirector receives a further 5,000 per annum for acting in that quently maintain a holding of company shares with a market value capacity.
These amounts are included in the remuneration table equivalent to their annual salary.
The committee may take into on page 47 which has been audited.
account directors compliance with the shareholding guidelines acknowledging any special circumstances that might apply when considering future long-term incentive awards.
Executive directors contracts It is the companys policy that executive directors should have Pensions rolling contracts subject to one years notice by the company.
The Executive directors participate in defined contribution pension current executive directors have rolling contracts which are subject arrangements or receive additional gross salary in lieu of pension to one years notice by the company and six months notice by the director.
Alan Browns and Andy Ransoms service agreements are contributions from the company at the rate of up to 25% of base dated 7 October 2008. salary.
Alan Brown and Andy Ransom received a cash supplement in lieu of a pension contribution in 2010, Jeremy Townsend Michael Murray resigned as a director with effect from 31 March participated in the companys defined contribution pension scheme 2010 and received only amounts to which he was contractually for approximately 50% of the 15% of salary employer contribution to entitled details of which are shown in the table on page 47. which he is entitled under current group policy and received a cash Jeremy Townsend was appointed a director and chief financial supplement for the balance.
A cash supplement in lieu of pension officer on 31 August 2010.
He has a service agreement dated scheme contribution is not counted as salary for bonus purposes.
On appointment he became entitled to an award under the companys performance share plan for 2010 at the rate Bonus of 100% of basic salary and was granted compensatory awards of shares which will vest 113,273 in September 2011 and 90,618 in In respect of Alan Brown and Andy Ransom and, on his appointSeptember 2012.
The remuneration committee considered that ment, Jeremy Townsend, the committee approved a bonus plan these awards adequately compensated him for the value of equity for 2010 under which they could each earn 100% of salary before awards given up on leaving his previous employer.
the application of the modifier see below with the following features: for the chief executive, 30% of the bonus opportunity The companys policy in respect of the notice periods for the related to revenue growth, a further 20% related to cash termination of executive directors contracts conforms to the conversion and 50% related to the achievement of profit Code.
The committee is fully aware that under the Code, and acting Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 46 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report performance for the group.
For other executive directors the This chart has been prepared by Deloitte LLP for Rentokil Initial plc, percentages and measures varied depending on specific operafor inclusion in the annual report for the year ended 31 December tional priorities.
The plan provided that any earned bonus is subject 2010.
This is based on data sourced from ThomsonReuters to a modifier which is based on personal performance achieveDataStream, and uses spot Return Index data.
ments which at an exceptional level would increase the bonus payment by up to a further 10% for executive directors and by Rentokil Initial versus the FTSE 100, 250 and up to 20% for the chief executive.
350 indices The committee reviewed the 2010 bonus plan outcome for the groups senior management population based on the targets set Rentokil Initial versus FTSE 100 Index and FTSE 250 Index.
Rentokil Initials total shareholder return compared against total shareholder return at the start of the financial year.
No bonus was awarded to the chief of the FTSE 100 and the FTSE 250. executive, Alan Brown as the group profit threshold was not met.
Rentokil Initial FTSE 250 Andy Ransoms bonus shown in the table on page 47 related to the FTSE 100 Total Shareholder Return FTSE 350 performance of the Pest Control division for which he is responsi- 160 ble and no element relates to group performance.
The bonus paid 140 to Jeremy Townsend was an agreed minimum bonus for 2010 120 approved on appointment and was compensatory for value forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
100 For 2011 the committee has approved a bonus plan for executive 80 directors and the groups senior management, which is similar 60 in structure to the 2010 bonus plan.
Some adjustments were approved to the modifier factors and threshold levels to better 40 incentivise higher performing businesses in the group and 20 to better reward higher individual achievement, and penalise 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec under achievement.
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Status of report Interests in shares The schedule of total pay and benefits for directors and details The interests of directors, who were directors on 31 December of share incentive awards are set out on page 47 and form part 2010, in the shares of the company are set out in the directors of this report.
The directors remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies TSR performance graph and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the This report is required to include a graph showing total shareholder Regulations and to comply with the provisions of the UK corporeturn TSR over a five-year period reflecting a holding of the rate governance regime applicable to these accounts.
The companys companys shares, plotted against the movement of a broad equity auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are required to report to the companys market index.
The following graph shows the companys total members on the matters set out in the Regulations, and the shareholder return TSR performance relative to the FTSE 100 elements of the report which have been audited are highlighted.
Index and FTSE 250 Index, on a consistent basis with the graph On behalf of the board, shown last year, and is compliant with these requirements.
The company has been a constituent of both these indices over the five-year period that is shown.
The FTSE 350 index is also shown, Peter Long on the basis that the constituents of the comparator group for LTI Chairman, Remuneration Committee purposes are drawn from this index although the comparator 14 March 2011 group excludes financial services and primary resources companies.
The basis of assessment of relative TSR performance in respect of awards made under the companys PSP differs from the basis on which the chart is prepared, and is described on pages 43 and 44.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Governance 47 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Total pay and benefits for directors The table below sets out the pay and benefits of directors.
The following table has been audited: Termination Pension Allowances 2010 2009 Salary payments provision Bonus benefits Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 John McAdam 350 350 350 Alan Brown 775 194 20 989 1656 Peter Bamford 55 55 48 Richard Burrows 55 55 48 Alan Giles 55 55 48 Peter Long 75 75 64 Andy Ransom 450 113 216 18 797 934 William Rucker 55 55 48 Jeremy Townsend 143 20 125 8 296 Duncan Tatton-Brown 70 70 59 Michael Murray 120 133 17 11 281 824 2010 2,203 133 344 341 57 3,078 2009 2,287 406 1,328 58 4,079 i E xecutive directors are provided with life insurance, private health cover and a company car or a car allowance.
The value of the benefits is included under Allowances benefits in the above table.
ii A lan Brown, Andy Ransom and Jeremy Townsend had a maximum bonus opportunity for 2010 of 100% of salary in the year, subject to an additional 10% modifier 20% for Alan Brown based on personal performance and actual payments earned in respect of the year are shown above.
iii Details of long-term incentives for directors are shown in the table below.
iv William Ruckers fees are paid to Lazard & Co. Ltd. v J eremy Townsend was appointed a director on 31 August 2010.
The bonus shown above was an agreed minimum bonus for 2010 approved on appointment and was compensatory for value forfeited on leaving previous employment.
vi Michael Murray resigned as a director on 31 March 2010.
Awards under the Plan are subject to a performance condition determined at the date of grant of the awards which relate to share price performance between 1 April 2008 and three specified vesting dates in 2011, 2012 and 2013.
These vesting dates will be 61 dealing days after the announcement of the companys financial results for years ending 31 December 2010 first vesting date, 31 December 2011 second vesting date and 31 December 2012 third vesting date.
ii M ichael Murrays awards lapsed on 31 March 2010 when he left the group.
iii The maximum performance share plan vesting is only applicable in the event of upper quartile TSR performance and maximum annual bonus outperformance for participants for the three-year performance measurement period.
No shares will vest if the share price does not reach median TSR performance at the end of the vesting period or if threshold financial performance conditions are not met.
iv J eremy Townsend was awarded compensatory share awards on 1 September 2010.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
