The executives are listed on page 139 together with About the report and committee the positions held during the year and dates of appointment.
This report explains the roles, responsibilities and activities of Australian legislation further requires disclosures in respect of the the Remuneration committee and includes detailed disclosures five highest paid executives below board level selected from the on director and executive remuneration.
It outlines how Rio Tinto senior managers who make, or participate in making, decisions that ensures that its people are appropriately focused on driving continuous, affect the whole, or a substantial part, of the business of the Group, sustainable improvements in performance to maximise total or have the capacity to significantly affect the Groups financial shareholder return by sustainably finding, developing, mining standing.
The Committee has determined that below board level, only and processing natural resources in order to achieve our vision of members of the Executive committee constitute the group of senior becoming the sector leading global mining and metals company.
managers that make decisions that affect the whole, or a substantial part, of the business of the Group.
Following the outcome of the shareholder vote on the Remuneration report at the 2010 annual general meetings, the chairman led a In addition to executive remuneration, this report covers the chairmans consultation process with a range of shareholders to more fully and the non-executive directors remuneration, see page 140. understand any concerns that they have with the Groups executive remuneration policy and practice and to discuss the Committees Remuneration committee responsibilities review of the Groups long term incentive plans LTIPs.
The feedback The Committees role is to ensure that remuneration policy and provided was discussed by the Committee and has been taken into practices reward employees fairly and responsibly with a clear link to account in further developing the executive remuneration policy.
corporate and individual performance, and are aligned with shareholders During 2010, the Committee conducted a detailed review of its interests in maximising shareholder return.
The Committees competitive benchmarking policy for members of the Executive responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference which are available committee.
The conclusions are set out below, and have informed in the corporate governance section of the Rio Tinto website.
the remuneration decisions made by the Committee for the Executive committee.
The Committee is proposing to review the LTIPs and These responsibilities include: commence a further round of consultation with shareholders on monitoring the effectiveness and appropriateness of executive the form of any new plans before the plans expire in 2014. remuneration policy and practice: Based upon the support expressed by shareholders during the earlier reviewing and determining the terms of service, including consultation exercise, the Committee is recommending to shareholders remuneration and any termination arrangements, for the for approval at the 2011 annual general meetings amendments to the chairman, executive directors, PGCEOs, Group executives LTIPs to mitigate any unintended consequences from recent legislative and the company secretary of Rio Tinto plc: changes in Australia.
To ensure that Australian participants are not adversely impacted by the change in tax treatment of share options in reviewing and confirming the remuneration framework and Australia, the Committee has concluded that certain amendments are policies for other senior managers: and required to the rules of the Groups Performance Share Plan PSP, approving the use of share and cash based short and long term formerly the Mining Companies Comparative Plan MCCP.
The incentive plans for the Group, taking into account their alignment proposed changes mean that, participants in the Performance Share with the Group strategy.
Plan and Share Option Plan will be given the opportunity to express their preference as to whether they receive their entire award in the The Committee considers the level of pay and conditions throughout form of Performance Shares as opposed to the current mix of the Group when determining executive remuneration and ensures Performance Shares and Performance Options.
In order to implement the same principles are used when designing the broader employee these changes, a resolution to amend the rules of the PSP is being remuneration policies.
The Committee takes into account aggregate submitted to shareholders for approval at the 2011 annual general remuneration levels and the mix between the executives and meetings.
The notices of meeting for the 2011 annual general meetings professional staff.
This ensures the comparative ratios are reasonable contain further detailed information.
given differences in scope and responsibilities.
The Committee is committed to ensuring that remuneration policy and practices reward This report has been drawn up in accordance with applicable legislation people fairly and responsibly with a clear link to corporate and and corporate governance guidance in the UK and Australia, which are individual performance and reflecting, to the extent practicable, the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Schedule 8 of the global corporate governance guidance on executive remuneration.
Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules, the During 2010, the Committee met three times.
The membership and Australian Corporations Act 2001and Principle 8 of the revised Australian meeting attendances are detailed in the corporate governance section Securities Exchange Corporate Governance Principles and on page 118.
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference in 2010 Recommendations 2nd edition the ASX Principles.
and concluded that its responsibilities had been met and that its terms of reference remain appropriate.
The Committee also Australian legislation requires disclosures in respect of key undertook its annual performance evaluation and reported the management personnel, being those persons having authority and results to the board.
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, including the directors.
For the purposes of this report, the The chairman and chief executive participated in meetings at the Committee has determined that the key management personnel are, invitation of the Committee during 2010.
The members of the Committee in addition to the directors, members of the Executive committee.
are all independent and free of any relationship that would affect their The Executive committee comprises the executive directors, product impartiality in carrying out their responsibilities.
The Committee is group chief executive officers PGCEOs and Group executives.
supported by members of senior management who regularly attend Throughout this report, the members of the Executive committee, meetings to provide information as requested by the Committee.
including the executive directors, are collectively referred to as These included Hugo Bague Group executive, People & Organisation, Jane Craighead Global practice leader, Total Rewards and Ben Mathews 128 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information company secretary, Rio Tinto plc.
None of the attendees mentioned remuneration advice, Deloitte LLP provided unrelated taxation advice above were present when matters associated with their own and advisory services to Rio Tinto.
Deloitte LLP did not provide advice remuneration were considered.
on executive remuneration matters other than to the Committee.
The Committee has also drawn on the services and publications of a range Remuneration committee advisers of external service providers and remuneration consultants such as The independent advisers engaged by and reporting to the Towers Watson, Hay Group and Mercer in relation to market data and Committee during 2010 were Deloitte LLP.
In addition to specialist external validation of total shareholder return TSR performance.
Executive remuneration Remuneration strategy Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets where it competes for a limited pool of talented executives.
To support its strategic drivers, the Group needs high quality, committed people.
The executive remuneration strategy, and underlying policy, provides this support by enabling the Group to attract and retain talent that will maximise shareholder value.
The remuneration strategy summarised below is guided by our B-E-S-T approach, which is based on the principles of aligning remuneration arrangements with strategic Business objectives, Empowering employees by differentiating top performers, whilst fostering Simplicity and Transparency in the design and communication of these arrangements.
The components of this strategy, and how it supports our overall business strategy for achieving our vision of global sector leadership, are set out below: Remuneration strategy Supporting our business strategy Delivering rewards based on the relative standing of our performance against both Shareholder alignment the HSBC Global Mining Index and the broader market of large global companies as We aim to incentivise management to deliver shareholder value, for example, measured through the Morgan Stanley Capital Index MSCI helps drive superior by having relative TSR as the metric for our performance based long term performance, by providing greater upside potential and rewarding high wealth incentive plans.
creation for our shareholders in growth periods.
Our incentive plans are designed to promote and reward decision making with Long term focus a positive long term impact so that our executives successfully contribute to our We aim to provide incentive plans that focus on longer term performance.
business of focusing on investing in and operating large, long term, cost competitive mines and businesses.
The Performance Options and Performance Shares have a three and four year time horizon, respectively.
The Committee has also introduced a deferral of a proportion of the annual bonus, payable in shares after three years.
As an organisation, we strive for superior long term shareholder value creation in a Health and safety healthy, safe and environmentally appropriate way.
These are key elements of our We aim to promote and reward sustainable development, with a strong focus commitment to operational excellence and licence to operate, two of the Groups on health and safety in the annual bonus targets.
This is why we have health and safety as key performance indicators in the Short Term Incentive Plan measured in relation to all injury frequency rates, significant potential incidents rate and semi quantitative risk assessment.
High quality people, who are capable of achieving stretching performance targets, are Competitive, performance related packages essential in generating superior returns for the Group.
By providing competitive and We aim to provide remuneration levels necessary to recruit and retain executives performance related remuneration, we can attract the talent needed to further solidify of the high calibre required to deliver our strategy.
We benchmark our remuneration our strategic advantage and respond quickly and strategically to changing market against our key peers to ensure we offer packages that are appropriate, with due opportunities and challenges.
regard for performance, without being excessive.
Remuneration policy The Committee has recently conducted a review of the comparator groups which should be used for remuneration benchmarking comparisons.
It has concluded that, for the purposes of assessing the appropriate level of executive remuneration, the FTSE 30, excluding financial services companies, and with due regard for size and complexity will be an initial comparator group.
Additional references will be made to a supplementary comparator group, composed of a cross section of international industrial organisations broadly comparable to Rio Tinto in terms of global reach, revenue, market capitalisation and complexity for which the Company competes for talent.
Specific comparisons will also be made against other international mining companies where appropriate.
Typically, base salaries will be positioned at the median of these comparator groups, with total remuneration positioned across the full market range according to performance.
com 129 Remuneration report continued A summary of the current remuneration arrangements is set out below: Objective of component Remuneration arrangements Provides the fixed element of the Salary adjustments effective 1 March 2011 Base Salary remuneration package Any increases are determined with reference to underlying Group fixed Typically, base salaries will be positioned at performance and global economic conditions the median of the identified comparator groups, with total remuneration positioned across the full market range according to performance Focuses participants on achieving annual Target STIP opportunity 100 per cent for PGCEOs and Group executives Short Term Incentive Plan STIP performance goals, which are based on to 120 per cent of base salary for executive directors at risk the Groups KPIs, to create sustainable Maximum STIP opportunity of 200 per cent of base salary shareholder value Performance targets include earnings, cash flow, safety and individual 50 per cent of the bonus delivered in cash and performance objectives 50 per cent delivered in deferred shares under the Rio Tinto Bonus Deferral Plan BDP, vests in the December of the third year after the end of performance year to which they relate generally subject to continued employment to ensure ongoing alignment between the executives and shareholders Rewards participants for increasing the share Market value Performance Options vest based on the TSR performance Performance Options price and delivering superior TSR performance against the HSBC Global Mining Index Share Option Plan SOP against other companies over a long term horizon Target and maximum face value of 300 per cent of base salary at risk Three year performance period to provide long term alignment with shareholders How performance is generated is as important as what level of performance is delivered.
Therefore, before awards vest, the Committee must also satisfy itself that TSR performance is an appropriate reflection of the underlying performance of the business and can adjust vesting accordingly Rewards participants for increasing the share Conditional share awards vest based on TSR performance relative to Performance Shares price and delivering superior TSR 50 per cent the HSBC Global Mining Index: 50 per cent the Morgan Performance Share Plan PSP performance against other companies over Stanley Capital World Index MSCI formerly the Mining Companies a long term horizon Target award equal to face value of 200 per cent of base salary Comparative Plan Four year performance period to provide 1.5 times target award vesting for outperformance of the relevant index long term alignment with shareholders at risk Subject to shareholder approval at the 2011 annual general meetings, As with Performance Options, before vesting from 2011 executives allowed to express a preference regarding the the Committee must also satisfy itself that mix of the long term incentive opportunity between: TSR performance is an appropriate reflection Keeping the current mix of Performance Shares Performance Options of the underlying performance of the business Receiving their full opportunity in Performance Shares and can adjust vesting accordingly Overall the expected value of the total compensation opportunity will remain the same.
In order to facilitate this choice it is proposed that the individual grant limits under the PSP be increased Enhance the Groups ability to attract and Conditional share awards generally vest based on continued service Management Share Plan MSP retain key staff in an increasingly tight and with the company until the date of vesting usually time based competitive labour market Members of the Executive committee are not eligible to participate in awards under this plan Shares to satisfy the awards are purchased in the market and no new shares are issued to satisfy awards Provides locally competitive post employment Post employment benefit arrangements offered Post employment Benefits benefits for participants in a cost efficient fixed manner Provides alignment with shareholders interests Executive directors Two times base salary over a three year period Shareholding requirement from appointment Other members of the Executive committee Two times base salary over a five year period from appointment 130 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Remuneration mix Remuneration components Consistent with the Groups strategy, the Committee seeks to Base salary achieve a remuneration mix which best reflects the long term nature The Committee has completed a comprehensive review of the of the business.
As such, the total remuneration package is designed remuneration levels of the chief executive, executive directors, to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable PGCEOs and Group executives.
components with a focus on long term variable pay.
This review took into account: The remuneration mix assuming target STIP and LTIP awards with Rio Tintos strong performance in 2010 and the Groups growth the current mix of Performance Shares and Performance Options is ambitions for the future set out below and is identical for each group.
an assessment of individual performance 2010 Remuneration mix % b a, b Base salary STIP cash STIP deferred shares the motivation of people with critical skills, at a time of a highly a, c a Performance Options SOP Performance Shares PSP competitive market for talent in the industry the retention of individuals within the Groups succession planning Fixed 24% At risk 76% processes who are vital to the creation of long term shareholder Executive directors 24% 14.5% 14.5% 15% 32% value, and that salaries have remained at March 2008 levels for the chief Fixed 26% At risk 74% executive and members of the Executive committee.
PGCEOs and 26% 13% 13% 15% 33% Group executives These factors were viewed in light of the results of a full, independent review of base salary and total compensation, which was commissioned a Performance Options, Performance Shares and STIP deferred shares constitute long term by the Committee to enable it to make fully informed decisions around incentives pay.
This made reference to the Companys benchmarking b Annual bonus constitutes STIP cash and STIP deferred shares comparator groups, namely the FTSE 30, excluding financial services, c The Performance Options are the percentage of each executives remuneration that consists of options and additional references to global industrial companies that the Company competes with for talent.
The conclusion from this review was that it was considered in the best interests of our shareholders to restore pay to a more competitive market position.
The Committee therefore approved adjustments in base salaries, which take effect on 1 March 2011, as shown in the table below.
The Committee was aware, when making this decision, that these adjustments were outside the range of a typical annual salary review in its major markets.
However, it is equally aware that this still leaves the remuneration of the majority of executives below market rate, within a highly competitive global market for talent.
com 131 Remuneration report continued Short Term Incentive Plan STIP Individual performance metrics for executives are calibrated to be specific, measurable objectives which are aligned with Rio Tintos Awards made under the STIP are based on performance against strategy.
Seventy per cent of the STIP awards are based on business financial, safety and individual business objectives.
The financial measures earnings, cash flow and safety and 30 per cent on individual objectives are balanced equally between earnings performance and measures.
For PGCEOs, the business measures of the relevant product cash flow performance.
The Committee selected these measures as they group contribute to nearly half of the 70 per cent weighting.
are key performance indicators KPIs used in managing the business.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity under the STIP for the As the potential impact of fluctuations in exchange rates and some executives is 200 per cent of salary target opportunity of 120 per cent prices are outside the control of the Group, for earnings and cash flow of salary for executive directors and 100 per cent of salary for PGCEOs metrics, the Committee compares on an equal weighting the actual results unflexed and underlying performance flexed for prices and Group executives.
Half of any bonus earned will be payable in and exchange rates.
cash with the remaining 50 per cent being deferred into shares, under the Rio Tinto Bonus Deferral Plan.
These shares vest, generally subject Safety performance is a priority for Rio Tinto.
Its inclusion in the to continued employment, in December of the third year after the end STIP measured in relation to all injury frequency rates, significant of the performance year to which they relate.
potential incidents rate and semi-quantitative risk assessment is a strong reminder that the safety of our employees is paramount and The Committee continues to review the appropriateness of using STIP should not be compromised when targeting superior financial results.
to incentivise both environmental as well as health performance.
STIP measures for 2010 Weighting for Executive directors and Group Weighting for b executives % PGCEOs % Business measures a Rio Tinto Group Earnings 26.25 10.50 Cash flow 26.25 10.50 a b Product group Earnings 15.75 Cash flow 15.75 c Safety 17.50 17.50 Individual objectives Individual objectives are tailored to each executive but are generally based on the achievement of strategic initiatives, key project deliverables and leadership competencies 30.00 30.00 a The earnings and cash flow measures are weighted 50:50 between flexed and unflexed performance respectively b Sam Walsh is considered a PGCEO with regard to STIP performance measures c Safety measures included All Injury Free Rate AIFR, Semi Quantitative Risk Assessment SQRA and Significant Potential Incidents SPI.
which make up 50 per cent, 30 per cent and 20 per cent of overall safety weighting respectively The same weightings for the STIP will apply for 2011.
STIP business performance outcomes The key objectives of the performance process are to: Rio Tinto had both strong earnings and cash flow results in 2010 improve organisational effectiveness by creating alignment which resulted in the Group and product groups achieving above between the executives individual objectives and Rio Tintos target outcomes for the STIP financial measures.
strategy, and Rio Tinto met or exceeded the Groups and product groups safety provide a consistent, transparent and balanced approach to targets across all three measures including an 18 per cent reduction measure, recognise and reward executive performance.
However, three fatalities in 2010 necessitated a Annual individual objectives are set with the Committee in the first downward adjustment of the overall Groups safety results.
The safety quarter of each year.
Annual performance reviews are completed scores for Tom Albanese, Sam Walsh, and Hugo Bague were capped at during early January of the following year.
100 per cent of target and Bret Claytons score was further reduced as a result of the fatalities.
Performance evaluations for each executive took place in January 2011 in accordance with the process described.
Individual objectives Performance evaluation process for individual executives and awards for 2010 for the executives are set out opposite.
Rio Tinto conducts an annual performance management process for all of its senior executives.
In the case of members of the Executive committee, the chief executive conducts the review.
In the case of the chief executive, the chairman of the Committee conducts the review in conjunction with the chairman of the board.
132 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information STIP outcomes by executive for 2010 Business Individual objectives Name % of target Summary of individual objectives Executive directors Tom Albanese Group Financial 159.8 Provide effective leadership across the Group Individual 150.0 Deliver operational improvements Safety 100.0 Ensure Rio Tintos portfolio remains strong Strengthen Rio Tintos licence to operate Guy Elliott Group Financial 159.8 Provide effective leadership of the finance function Individual 150.0 Ensure continued primacy in strategic formation and development Safety 154.4 Complete the Groups divestment programme Sam Walsh Group Financial 159.8 Provide effective leadership of Rio Tinto Iron Ore. PG Financial 188.3 Provide successful leadership of the design and subject to regulatory approvals, commence the implementation of the Western Australian Individual 165.5 Iron Ore Production Joint Venture with BHP Billiton PG Safety 100.0 Gain approval for strategic initiatives Target new global growth opportunities Other members of the Executive committee Hugo Bague Group Financial 159.8 Provide effective leadership across health, safety, environment & communities and human Individual 130.0 resource streams Safety 100.0 Foster employee engagement for operational improvement Ensure organisational agility and workforce flexibility through functional optimisation and business partnering Preston Chiaro Group Financial 159.8 Provide effective leadership of the Technology & Innovation function Individual 134.5 Create value through effective engagement with business units T&I Safety 177.3 Demonstrate progression of the climate and energy strategy Broaden strategic production planning across Rio Tinto Bret Clayton Group Financial 159.8 Provide effective leadership of the Business Support & Operations function Individual 125.0 Expand corporate risk management to drive a cultural shift in risk management over the longer term BS&O Safety 83.4 Establish additional evaluation techniques for large, long term assets, where appropriate, and consistent with the Group strategy Progress the long term business model to reflect business and geographical diversity Jacynthe Ct Group Financial 159.8 Provide effective leadership of Rio Tinto Alcan PG Financial 144.5 Drive further sustainable cost reduction Individual 133.3 Continue the divestment programme of selected assets PG Safety 200.0 Drive value improvement on key growth projects to reduce capital expenditure intensity Andrew Harding Group Financial 159.8 Provide effective leadership of Copper PG Financial 148.8 Ensure appropriate resources, structure and support to deliver sustainable value in key strategic locations Individual 143.0 Pursue growth opportunities PG Safety 180.0 Establish relationships with key partners, governments and NGOs Harry Kenyon-Slaney Group Financial 159.8 Provide effective leadership of Diamonds & Minerals PG Financial 171.5 Develop and communicate a clear vision, growth strategy and structure Individual 143.0 Develop product group wide collaborative structures and provide active guidance and coaching to ensure the development of talent PG Safety 200.0 Ensure effective management of new strategic joint ventures Doug Ritchie Group Financial 159.8 Provide effective leadership of Energy PG Financial 154.8 Develop clear and deliverable plans for volume delivery and economic expansion in a sustainable manner Individual 139.0 Conduct a global energy study to gain insights into the development and changes to the global PG Safety 103.3 energy market and its impact on our existing and future strategy Debra Valentine Group Financial 159.8 Provide effective leadership to the legal, external relations, media, security and compliance functions Individual 137.0 Deliver key corporate projects and support for business needs Safety 154.4 Focus on developing government relations capabilities across key countries www.
com 133 Remuneration report continued STIP awards by executive for 2010 2010 STIP % of maximum % of maximum % of target Stated in 000 Cash Deferred Shares STIP awarded STIP forfeited STIP awarded Executive directors Tom Albanese 797 797 73.2 26.8 146.4 Guy Elliott 632 632 78.0 22.0 155.9 Sam Walsh A$1,416 A$1,416 80.0 20.0 160.0 Other members of Executive committee Hugo Bague 253 253 70.2 29.8 140.4 Preston Chiaro US$563 US$563 77.6 22.4 155.2 Bret Clayton US$476 US$476 68.0 32.0 136.0 Jacynthe Ct US$636 US$636 77.0 23.0 154.1 Andrew Harding US$249 US$249 77.4 22.6 154.8 140 140 Harry Kenyon-Slaney 298 298 82.8 17.2 165.5 Doug Ritchie A$604 A$604 71.0 29.0 142.1 Debra Valentine US$433 US$433 76.0 24.0 152.0 Long term incentives Vesting of PSP awards, made since 2010, are subject to Rio Tinto TSR performance compared against: The Group operates the following long term incentive plans: 50 per cent the performance of the HSBC Global Mining Index: The Share Option Plan a market value share option plan which is subject to TSR performance and has been approved 50 per cent the performance of the Morgan Stanley Capital by shareholders.
Performance Share Plan formerly the Mining Companies The use of both the HSBC Global Mining Index and MSCI reflects the Comparative Plan a performance share plan which is subject fact that Rio Tinto competes against a global market for investors as to TSR performance and has also been approved by shareholders.
well as within the mining sector and is consistent with rewarding The name changed from MCCP to PSP and all references to the executives for providing stable returns over the long term relative MCCP have been changed to the PSP.
to the broader market as well as the mining sector.
The Management Share Plan a plan which generally provides Vesting for awards is as follows: time based awards.
Outperformance of the index by 8% per annum 1.5 times target award vests Share Option Plan SOP Performance between index and 8% out performance Straight line vesting Under the SOP, options are granted to purchase shares at an exercise Performance equal to index 0.35 times target award price based on the share price at the date of grant.
The maximum Performance less than index Nil vesting face value of grants under the SOP is 300 per cent of base salary.
The outperformance required for maximum vesting has been calibrated The vesting of options is subject to the achievement of a stretching to be equivalent to the upper quartile performance against these indices total shareholder return TSR performance condition, comparing and, as such, is considered by the Committee to be particularly stretching.
Rio Tintos TSR performance to that of the HSBC Global Mining Index The Committee considers that TSR is an appropriate performance as at 31 December of the third year after grant.
If Rio Tintos TSR measure for the SOP and PSP as it captures objectively the return performance is equal to the performance of the index, the higher of one third of the actual grant or 20,000 options may vest.
No Rio Tinto delivers to its shareholders over the long term and rewards options will vest if Rio Tintos TSR performance is less than the indexs executives for the extent to which the Groups TSR has outperformed performance.
The full award will only vest if TSR performance is equal its comparators.
to or greater than the HSBC Global Mining Index plus five per cent per The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring that the level annum.
Between these points, options will become exercisable on a of vesting is commensurate with the underlying performance of the sliding scale.
Therefore, when approving vesting under the SOP and PSP, Performance Share Plan PSP the Committee will ensure it is satisfied that TSR performance is a genuine reflection of the value available to shareholders and the Rio Tintos performance share plan, the PSP, is designed to incentivise underlying performance of the Group and will adjust levels management to drive business performance.
Target awards under the accordingly, if required.
plan can be made with a face value of up to 200 per cent of base salary.
134 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Proposed changes to the Performance Share Plan from 2011 As referred to on page 128 in relation to the shareholder consultation exercise conducted in 2010, the Committee is recommending to shareholders for approval at the 2011 annual general meetings certain changes to the PSP rules.
These changes ensure that participants are not adversely impacted by the recent change in the tax treatment of options in Australia.
As set out above, the Committee currently grants Performance Shares under the PSP with a face value of up to 200 per cent of base salary and Performance Options with a face value of up to 300 per cent of base salary.
The Committee believes that Performance Options continue to be an appropriate incentive tool for senior executives as they create a strong degree of alignment with shareholders.
However, following the tax changes in Australia, the Committee intends that, for LTIP awards granted from 2011 onwards, executives will be given an opportunity to indicate their preference regarding the mix of their LTIPs.
The alternative approaches will be to: retain the current mix of Performance Shares and Performance Options, which is determined annually by the Remuneration committee: or receive their full long term incentive opportunity in Performance Shares.
To allow Rio Tinto the flexibility to grant participants their full LTIP award in the form of Performance Shares where they choose to do so, the individual limits under the rules of the PSP will need to be increased to a face value award of up to 300 per cent of base salary.
Participants would have the opportunity to earn up to one and half times this amount based on the extent to which the performance condition is met.
This amount has been calibrated to be broadly equivalent in expected value terms to the value of the LTIP awards under the current mix of shares and options.
Therefore, the increase in face value terms of Performance Shares is not on a one-for-one basis to Performance Options.
The Company will seek shareholder approval at the 2011 annual general meetings to increase the individual PSP limits so that annual maximum face value of Performance Shares that may be awarded is increased from of 200 per cent to 300 per cent of base salary.
Management Share Plan MSP The primary focus of the MSP is to support the Groups ability to attract and retain key staff in an increasingly tight and competitive labour market.
MSP awards are conditional awards not subject to a performance condition as they vest subject to continued employment, at the end of three years, and thus act as a strong retention tool.
Executive committee members do not participate in the MSP and no awards were made to any executives in 2010.
Jacynthe Ct, Andrew Harding, Harry Kenyon-Slaney and Doug Ritchie received grants under the MSP prior to becoming PGCEOs.
Hugo Bague and Debra Valentine received grants prior to Group executives being excluded from participation in the plan in 2010.
These previous grants vested in part in 2010 and the remainder will vest during 2011 as set out in Table 4a.
com 135 Remuneration report continued Long term incentives granted in 2010 Options over either Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited shares, as appropriate, were granted to each executive under the SOP on 22 March 2010.
A conditional award of performance shares in either Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited shares was also made to each executive under the PSP on 22 March 2010.
The LTIP awards for each executive are set out below.
2009 LTIP 2010 LTIP Expected value of Expected value of Stated in 000 awards granted awards granted % change Executive directors Tom Albanese 1,723 1,723 Guy Elliott 1,283 1,283 Sam Walsh A$2,803 A$2,803 Other members of Executive committee Hugo Bague 684 684 Preston Chiaro US$1,378 US$1,378 Bret Clayton US$1,092 US$1,092 Jacynthe Ct US$1,287 US$1,287 a Andrew Harding US$386 US$618 60.1 a Harry Kenyon-Slaney 175 684 290.9 a Doug Ritchie A$607 A$1,615 166.1 Debra Valentine US$1,083 US$1,083 a 2009 LTIP awards were granted prior to Messrs Harding, Kenyon-Slaney and Ritchie on becoming PGCEOs and reflect the award made to them in their former role.
Long term performance indicators and outcomes The graph below illustrates the TSR performance of the Group against the HSBC Global Mining Index and the MSCI over the past five years.
These two indices have been selected as they are the broad equity indices against which Rio Tintos TSR performance is assessed under the PSP and SOP, and they reflect the fact that Rio Tinto competes against a global market for investors as well as within the mining sector.
TSR US$ Rio Tinto Group vs the HSBC Global Mining and MSCI World indices Total return basis index 2005 100 Rio Tinto DLC HSBC Index MSCI World Index 300 200 100 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 136 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information In 2010, Rio Tinto achieved strong earnings and share price performance.
This strong performance has a direct impact on the LTIP.
The effect of this performance on shareholder wealth, as measured by TSR delivered during the relevant calendar year, is detailed in the table below.
Rio Tinto shareholder return 2006-2010 Dividends paid Share price Rio Tinto plc Share price Rio Tinto Limited Total shareholder return during the year pence A$ TSR Year US cents per share 1 Jan 31 Dec 1 Jan 31 Dec RTP% RTL % Group % 2010 90.0 3,390 4,487 74.89 85.47 34.6 15.3 32.6 2009 68.0 1,231 3,390 29.97 74.89 182.2 156.7 172.8 2008 152.0 4,392 1,231 105.65 29.97 71.5 71.1 71.5 2007 116.0 2,245 4,392 58.60 105.65 99.5 82.9 92.8 2006 191.5 2,193 2,245 54.42 58.60 6.2 9.2 7.4 Long term incentive outcomes for 2010 All employee share plans Despite continued strong share price performance in 2010, the share Executives may participate in broad based share and share option price for the performance period included baseline prices from periods plans which are available to Group employees generally and for which of very strong commodity markets that existed prior to the 2008-2009 performance conditions do not apply.
These plans form part of standard downturn.
Therefore share options granted in 2008 did not vest and remuneration practice whereby employees are offered participation in were cancelled and awards under the PSP only partially vested.
plans to encourage alignment with the long term performance of the Group.
Executives may participate in the Rio Tinto plc Share Savings SOP Plan or the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan depending on whether Plan performance period that ended 31 December 2010 they are employed by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
The plans Comparator group HSBC Global Mining Index allow the participant to save up to 250 per month or equivalent in Index TSR % 6.9 local currency for a defined period, not exceeding five years, before Rio Tinto TSR % 0.3 exercising options granted at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the % of shares vested market value at the time of grant.
Grants made to executives under % of shares forfeited 100 these plans are set out in Table 5 on pages 152 to 155.
PSP The Share Ownership Plan is available to eligible employees in the UK who may receive an annual award of shares up to five per cent Plan performance period that ended 31 December 2010 of salary, subject to a cap of 3,000.
Under this plan, employees may Comparator companies Alcoa, Anglo American, Barrick Gold, BHP Billiton, Cameco, Freeport-McMoRan, Gmexico B, Impala also make contributions from salary each month to purchase shares Newmont Mining, Peabody Energy, Potash, Teck at the prevailing market price subject to a cap of 1,500 per annum.
Cominco, Vale do Rio Dolce, Xstrata The Company matches the shares purchased on a one for one basis.
a th TSR Ranking 7 49% TSR This plan was first approved by shareholders in 2001 and in line with % of shares vested Executive directors and PGCEOs: 36.4 the rules of the plan, after being in operation for ten years, it will be Group executives: 55.6 submitted to shareholders for renewal at the Rio Tinto plc 2011 % of shares forfeited Executive directors and PGCEOs: 63.6 annual general meeting.
Group executives: 44.4 th a Rio Tinto must achieve a ranking of 5 for vesting to begin at 35%.
No awards vest below this level.
Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, participants are the beneficial owners of the shares, but not the MSP registered owner, the voting rights are normally exercised by the Plan period Plan period that ended 31 December 2010 registered owner at the direction of the participant.
% of shares vested 100 Dilution % of shares forfeited Awards under the SOP and PSP may be satisfied by treasury shares, the issuance of new shares or the purchase of shares in the market.
Currently, Rio Tinto plc satisfies awards by the issuance of new shares or the transfer of shares from treasury.
Rio Tinto Limited satisfies awards by the market purchase and delivery of shares to plan participants.
Rio Tinto plc complies with the ABI guidelines in relation to the issuance of new shares.
All other share awards are satisfied by the use of shares which are purchased in the market.
Further information in respect of the number of shares issued under plan arrangements can be found in note 49 to the financial statements.
com 137 Remuneration report continued Post employment benefits Executives may participate in post employment benefit arrangements offered by the Group.
No post employment benefits are provided to non executive directors.
The following table details the post employment benefit components for Rio Tintos executive directors.
Details of executive directors pension entitlements are set out in Table 2 on pages 146 and 147.
Country Executive director Post employment benefit Plan membership UK employer pension plans as provided to other UK based employees.
Pension is indexed to UK price inflation to a UK maximum of ten per cent per annum Tom Albanese Tom Albanese specific provision: Target defined benefit of 2 3rds of basic salary at age 60, inclusive of benefits accrued in the US Guy Elliott Guy Elliott specific provision: Target defined benefit of 2.3 per cent of basic salary for each year of service with the Company to age 60 Plan membership Australian employer funded superannuation plan as provided to other Australian based employees Australia Sam Walsh Target defined benefit is a lump sum multiple of 4.05 times final basic salary at age 62 Additional Company contribution on a defined contribution basis of 20 per cent of the lesser of 50 per cent of the annual STIP award or 20 per cent of basic salary.
This is in line with typical market practice in Australia Other payments during 2010 Relocation payment This section provides information on any one-time payments Andrew Harding relocated from the US to the UK in 2010 as part made during the year which are not a core element of the of the terms of his promotion to PGCEO Copper.
As part of the remuneration package.
relocation, the Company paid Andrew Harding a one time payment, net of taxes, to compensate him for the loss on sale he incurred when Bonus Deferral Plan BDP Company Contributed Awards CCA selling his residence in Salt Lake City, Utah as determined by two During the global and industry downturn in 2009, the Committee independent appraisers.
The payment is detailed in Table 1a.
decided to defer the 2008 STIP payments into shares in order to Future tax payment conserve cash.
Executive directors and PGCEOs were required to defer 100 per cent, and all other executives were required to defer 50 per In 2011, Rio Tinto will be responsible for a tax payment, the amount of cent, of any bonus due in respect of 2008.
The bonus deferral for which is not yet determined, on behalf of Dick Evans, a former executive executive directors and PGCEOs vest 100 per cent based on service at director who retired on 31 December 2009.
These payments are in the end of 2011.
In the case of the other executives, an amount equal to accordance with Rio Tintos contractual obligations relating to his 25 per cent of salary was added to the amount of the bonus deferral to service for Rio Tinto and will be disclosed when known and paid.
provide enhanced retention in a challenging period.
The shares vest on Other remuneration and statutory the basis of 50 per cent vesting at the end of 2010 and 50 per cent at the end of 2011.
Fifty per cent of the shares awarded under the BDP and disclosures CCA vested for Jacynthe Ct, Hugo Bague, Andrew Harding, Harry Kenyon-Slaney, Doug Ritchie and Debra Valentine on 1 December Executives service contracts 2010.
These shares were conditionally awarded prior to the named The executives have service contracts that can be terminated by either executives becoming PGCEOs or Group executives.
The payments party with 12 months notice in writing, or immediately by paying the made under these awards are detailed in Table 1a.
base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
Debra Valentines One-off long term incentive grant service contract can be terminated by either party with six months Upon promotion to the role of CEO Rio Tinto Alcan, and based on notice in writing.
For Jacynthe Ct, the 12 months notice includes the terms of her legacy Alcan Inc. contract, Jacynthe Ct was granted salary and target bonus opportunity, in line with typical market practice a one-time conditional award of shares equal to 25 per cent of her in Canada and her legacy Alcan Inc. contract.
current annual base salary to incentivise her to deliver synergy If termination is a result of a redundancy, the terms of the relevant savings and to promote the effective integration of Rio Tinto Alcan policy would apply in the same way as for other local employees.
In from an organisational and cultural perspective.
The award was the case of involuntary termination, Jacynthe Ct would receive 24 subject to performance conditions which provided for 50 per cent of months salary and target bonus opportunity inclusive of notice in the award that vested on 1 February 2010 and a further 50 per cent line with entitlements under her legacy Alcan Inc. contract.
that vested on 1 February 2011 as the performance conditions were met.
The performance conditions attached to vesting related to In the case of dismissal for cause, the Company can terminate the full achievement of objectives based on the integration and employment without notice and without payment of any salary or re-organisation of Rio Tinto Alcan.
Effective from October 2007, compensation in lieu of notice.
Bonus and outstanding awards under Jacynthe Ct was also granted a one-off time based, special retention the LTIP are forfeited in these circumstances.
grant as part of her legacy Alcan Inc. arrangements on assuming the role of president and CEO Primary Metals, Rio Tinto Alcan.
The remaining 60 per cent of this grant vested on 25 October 2010.
The payments made under these awards are detailed in Table 1a.
138 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information STIP and LTIP rules cover any entitlements that participants may Contractual entitlements to severance are not triggered by a change have upon termination.
If termination is due to any reason besides of control.
All of the Companys share plans contain provisions cause or resignation, participants are eligible to receive a pro rata relating to a change of control.
Outstanding deferred shares would STIP based on the portion of the performance period worked.
Any normally vest in full and outstanding Performance Shares and outstanding deferred shares normally vest in full upon termination.
Performance Options would normally vest and become exercisable Outstanding Performance Options or Performance Shares will vest on a change of control on a pro rata basis, subject to the satisfaction at the normal vesting date subject to performance against the of any performance conditions at that time.
performance conditions, with any awards held for less than 12 months at the date of termination reduced pro rata.
MSP awards generally vest pro rata upon termination.
Date of appointment Name Position s held during 2010 to current position Notice period Executive directors Tom Albanese Chief executive 1 May 2007 12 months Guy Elliott Chief financial officer 19 June 2002 12 months Sam Walsh CEO Iron Ore and Australia 5 June 2009 12 months Other members of executive committee Hugo Bague Group executive, People & Organisation 1 August 2007 12 months Preston Chiaro Group executive, Technology & Innovation 1 November 2009 12 months Bret Clayton Group executive, Business Support & Operations 1 November 2009 12 months Jacynthe Ct CEO Rio Tinto Alcan 1 February 2009 12 months Andrew Harding CEO Copper 1 November 2009 12 months Harry Kenyon-Slaney CEO Diamonds & Minerals 1 November 2009 12 months Doug Ritchie CEO Energy 1 November 2009 12 months Debra Valentine Group executive, Legal & External Affairs 15 January 2008 6 months Shareholding policy for executives Executives external and other appointments The Company recognises the importance of aligning executives Executives may be invited to become non executive directors of interests with those of shareholders and they are therefore expected other companies.
It is Rio Tintos policy that such appointments can to build up a shareholding.
The Committee determined that executive broaden their experience and knowledge, to the benefit of the Group.
directors should aim to reach a holding equivalent in value to two This policy limits each executives external directorships to one FTSE times their base salary over three years, with PGCEOs and Group 100 company or equivalent.
Consequently, where there is no likelihood executives aiming to achieve this holding over five years.
that such a directorship will give rise to a conflict of interest, the boards will normally give their consent to the appointment.
The executive is Share dealing policy permitted to retain the fees earned.
Key management personnel and employee insiders are bound by In 2010, the following executives received fees from external the Rules for dealing in Rio Tinto securities which comply with the appointments: Guy Elliott received US$100,537 2009: US$124,000 requirements of the ASX Listing Rules and are consistent with the and Sam Walsh A$120,690 2009: A$120,000.
UK Listing Authoritys Model Code.
These rules are available on the Details of all board members and executives external appointments Rio Tinto website.
The rules apply fixed closed periods before results can be found on pages 102 to 105. announcements as well as other periods during which key management personnel are prohibited from trading Rio Tinto securities.
Directors Company secretary remuneration and executives are required to certify that they do not hold any inside information when seeking clearance to deal in The executive remuneration policy applies to the company secretary Rio Tinto securities.
of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
They participate in the same performance-based remuneration arrangements as the executives.
Executives participate in long term incentive plans which involve The individual performance measures for the company secretaries the award of Rio Tinto securities at a future date and are dependent STIP comprise Group and individual objectives.
Their personal upon the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Therefore, the rules measures reflect the key responsibilities of the company secretarial contain a provision prohibiting an executive from limiting his or her role and include ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements, exposure to risk in relation to the securities.
The award of shares and oversight of good corporate governance practice and the provision options under the incentive plans is conditional upon compliance of corporate secretarial services.
All employees subject to the rules receive regular training and information.
com 139 Remuneration report continued Non executive directors Chairman and non executive Fees paid to non executive directors reflect their respective duties and directors remuneration responsibilities and the time required to be spent by them so as to make a meaningful and effective contribution to the affairs of Rio Tinto.
Remuneration policy Non executive directors receive a fixed annual fee comprising a base fee, committee membership or committee chairmanship fees, as Chairman applicable, and allowances for attending meetings which involve The Remuneration committee determines the terms of service, medium or long distance air travel.
Rio Tinto does not pay retirement including remuneration, of the chairman.
The chairman receives benefits to non executive directors, nor do any of them participate a fixed annual fee and does not receive any additional fee or in any of the Groups incentive plans.
allowance for either committee membership or for overseas travel.
The fees payable to non executive directors are subject to review by He is provided with a car and driver for business purposes, private the chairmans committee.
During 2010, the review took into account medical insurance and he participates in the Rio Tinto Medical market and related developments.
In light of Rio Tintos size, the Expenses Plan which Group employees are eligible to join.
He is also complexity of its Dual Listed Companies structure and the resulting covered under the Groups accident policy.
These are disclosed as demands on directors as well as market developments, the base fee for benefits in Table 1b on page 146.
He does not participate in the non executive directors was increased to 80,000 from 1 January 2011.
Groups incentive plans or pension arrangements.
Committee fees were also increased, as indicated in the table below, It is Rio Tintos policy that the chairman should be remunerated on a with effect from 1 January 2011.
Fees were last increased in November competitive basis and at a level which reflects his contribution to the 2007.
Allowances for overseas meetings involving long and medium Group, as assessed by the board.
The chairman is not present at any distance flights were increased for the first time since 2005 effective 1 discussion regarding his own remuneration.
January 2010 to take into account market developments.
Remuneration components The table below sets out the annual fees payable to the chairman and the non executive directors in A$, as appropriate.
a 2011 2010 2009 Director fees Chairmans fee 700,000 700,000 700,000 Non executive director base fee 80,000 70,000 70,000 A$160,000 Senior independent director 35,000 35,000 35,000 Committee fees Audit committee chairman 35,000 30,000 30,000 Audit committee member 15,000 15,000 15,000 A$37,500 Remuneration committee chairman 30,000 20,000 20,000 Remuneration committee member 10,000 10,000 10,000 A$25,000 Nominations committee member 7,500 7,500 7,500 Committee on social and environmental accountability chairman 25,000 20,000 20,000 Committee on social and environmental accountability member 10,000 7,500 7,500 A$18,750 Overseas meeting allowances Long distance flights over 10 hours per journey 7,500 7,500 4,000 A$10,000 Medium distance flights of 5-10 hours per journey 3,500 3,500 2,000 A$5,000 a From 1 January 2010, fees were set in only.
140 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Remuneration paid during 2010 Audited information Details of each element of remuneration paid to the chairman and Under Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and non executive directors during 2010 is set out in Table 1b.
No post Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the information employment, long term or termination payments were paid and included in respect of the non executive directors and the directors no share based payments were made.
The total payments made to short term employee benefits and termination benefits in Tables 1a the chairman and non executive directors in 2010 are within the and 1b, and the information included in respect of the directors maximum aggregate annual amount of 3 million set out in the accrued benefits, transfer values and defined contribution pension Groups constitutional documents approved by shareholders at in Table 2, Tables 4a and 4b and Table 5 are all auditable.
The information provided in this Remuneration report has been audited as required by section 308 c of the Corporations Act 2001.
Shareholding policy The Australian Securities and Investments Commission issued an order In 2006, the board recommended that non executive directors be dated 22 December 2010 under which the information included in the encouraged to build up a shareholding within three years of their Remuneration report to comply with paragraph 25 of Australian appointment equal in value to one years base fee.
To help facilitate Accounting Standard AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures relating this, a non executive directors share purchase plan has been to key management personnel compensation is also auditable.
This established under which non executive directors may elect to invest a information comprises Tables 1 executive and non executive directors proportion of their fees net of tax on a regular basis to acquire shares set out in Table 1a and 1b respectively, 3, 4 and 5 and the disclosures on the open market.
Details of non executive directors share interests provided under the headings Executive remuneration and Chairman in the Group are set out in Table 3 on page 147. and non executive director remuneration.
Letters of appointment Annual general meetings Non executive directors have formal letters of appointment setting Shareholders will be asked to vote on this Remuneration report at the out their duties and responsibilities.
These letters are available for Companies 2011 annual general meetings.
inspection at Rio Tinto plcs registered office, and at the annual general meeting.
Each non executive director is appointed by By order of the board the board subject to their election and periodic re-election by shareholders as detailed on page 116.
Non executive directors appointments may be terminated by giving three months notice.
There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of their appointment.
The chairmans letter of appointment stipulates his duties as chairman of the Group.
His appointment may be terminated without liability on Ben Mathews the part of Rio Tinto in accordance with the Groups constitutional Secretary documents dealing with retirement, disqualification from office or Remuneration committee other vacation from office.
Otherwise his appointment may be 4 March 2011 terminated by giving 12 months notice.
com 141 Remuneration report continued Remuneration tables Remuneration received in 2010 The table below provides a summary of the executives actual remuneration in 2009 and 2010 stated in the relevant currency.
This is in addition to statutory disclosure requirements.
The purpose of this table is to enable shareholders to better understand the actual remuneration received by executives and to provide an overview of the actual outcomes of the Groups remuneration arrangements.
The remuneration details set out in Tables 1a and 1b on pages 144 and 146, include theoretical accounting values relating to various parts of the remuneration packages, most notably LTIP arrangements.
b The increase in STIP payments is attributable to improved performance and the change in STIP structure compared to 2009. c The LTIP value is the current expected value of the LTIP awards granted.
The expected value of the awards was recalibrated in 2010 to reflect updated assumptions used in the valuation model.
d Tax equalisation costs are significantly higher in 2010 based on higher earnings on STIP and equity income.
e The 2009 values are based on pay received in US$ for time as both CEO Rio Tinto Alcan Primary Metal and PGCEO Rio Tinto Alcan.
Other payment and benefits includes a one time special bonus.
f The 2009 values are based on pay received in US$ for time as both CEO KUCC and PGCEO Copper.
In 2010 Andrew Harding relocated to the UK.
The payment in A$ is for the payment of his long service leave balance in Australia.
g The 2009 values are based on pay received for time as both CEO RTI&T and PGCEO Diamonds and Minerals.
h The 2009 values are based on pay received for time as both Managing Director Strategy within Rio Tinto Australia and PGCEO Energy.
142 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information 2011 performance payment potential Executives are eligible for bonuses and grants in respect of 2011 if they meet service and performance criteria.
Provided below is the minimum and maximum performance payment potential for each current executive based on the remuneration framework.
See page 135. b Maximum reflects potential under the plan to vest one and a half times the original award for outstanding performance if the participant elects their full long-term incentive opportunity in Performance Shares.
This assumes the amendments to the PSP are approved by shareholders at the 2011 annual general meetings.
c Maximum reflects the potential under the plans to vest if the participants elect for a mix of Performance Options and Performance Shares.
The amounts have been converted using the relevant 2010 average exchange rates of 1 US$1.5459, A$1 US$0.9178, 1 US$1.3262 and C$1 US$0.9704.
The annual cash bonus payable under the STIP has been converted using the relevant 2010 year end exchange rates of 1 US$1.5660, A$1 US$0.9825 and C$1 US$0.9886.
b Cash bonus relates to the cash portion of the STIP.
For Jacynthe Ct, it also includes a special one-off bonus as described in the Remuneration report on page 138. c Other cash based benefits include cash in lieu of a car and fuel.
For Hugo Bague, Harry Kenyon-Slaney and Andrew Harding, it includes a cash supplement equal to 20 per cent of the amount by which their Contributory Salary exceeds the Earning Cap as defined in the Rio Tinto Pension Fund.
For Andrew Harding, it also includes a Long Service Leave payment for his service in Australia.
d Non monetary benefits for executives include healthcare.
The provision of a car, professional advice, and secondment costs comprising housing, tax equalisation and relocation payments made to and on behalf of executives living outside their home country.
Preston Chiaro, Bret Clayton and Debra Valentines 2010 tax equalisation costs are higher than their 2009 figures.
This is a result of higher earnings on their STIP and share based income in 2010.
For Andrew Harding, as described in the Remuneration report on page 138, it also includes a one time payment, net of taxes, to compensate him for the loss on sale he incurred when selling his residence in Salt Lake City, Utah in the amount of US$109,425.
For Doug Ritchie, it includes tax equalisation costs in respect of his expatriate arrangements in 2006.
For Tom Albanese and Guy Elliott, it includes the value of Company provided transport.
Rio Tinto provides accident cover for employee members of the Rio Tinto Pension Fund.
The accident cover for executive members of the Rio Tinto Pension Fund in 2010 was US$7,537.
e Total short term benefits represent the short term benefits total required under regulations made under the UK Companies Act 2006 and total remuneration under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and applicable accounting standards.
f The value of share based awards has been determined in accordance with the recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS2 Share-based Payment.
The fair value of awards granted under the SOP, the MSP, the BDP and the SSP have been calculated at their dates of grant using an independent lattice-based option valuation model provided by external consultants, Lane Clark and Peacock LLP.
Some of these awards will be settled in cash, rather than the transfer of shares, and so the fair value of these cash settled awards has been calculated based on Rio Tintos share price at 31 December 2010.
With effect from 2010, the Groups policy for settling awards granted under the Performance Share Plan the PSP changed.
For settlement of all future awards under this plan, participants will be assigned shares and offered a third party facility to realise these shares for cash and or to meet any tax liabilities.
Accordingly, the fair values of the awards granted prior to this change were re-measured at 1 July 2010 and from that date treated as equity-settled awards.
This re-measurement was calculated using a Monte Carlo valuation model based on the market price of shares and their relative TSR performance at 30 June 2010.
The fair value of awards granted after July 2010 is measured at date of grant.
Further details of the valuation methods and assumptions used for these awards are included in note 49 Share Based Payments in the 2010 Full financial statements.
The fair value of other share based awards is measured at the purchase cost of the shares from the market.
The non executive directors do not participate in the long term incentive share schemes.
g BDP Bonus Deferral Plan represents the accounting value in note f above of the deferral of the 2008 and 2010 bonus under STIP into Rio Tinto Shares.
The shares granted under the BDP are shown in Table 4a.
The number of shares awarded in 2010 have not been approved and granted and are therefore not shown in Table 4b.
i Jacynthe Cts 2009 MSP award was granted with special terms.
Subject to satisfying certain non-marker performance conditions, 50 per cent of her award vested on 1 February 2010 and the remaining 50 per cent vested on 1 February 2011.
Allowance for these special terms has been made in the 2010 figure and the 2009 figure has been recalculated previously stated in 2009: US$990,000 j Hugo Bagues 2009 SOP award was previously omitted from the 2009 Annual report and has now been included in the restated 2009 figures.
k Others include the Share Savings Plan and Share Ownership Plan as described in the Remuneration report on page 137. l The costs shown for defined benefit pension plans and post retirement medical benefits are the service costs attributable to the individual, calculated in accordance with IAS19.
The cost for defined contribution plans is the amount contributed in the year by the Company.
For Andrew Harding, the 2009 cost has been restated to remove US$2,374 which were his own contributions.
For Tom Albanese, the 2009 cost has been restated as an incorrect methodology was used in 2008 and 2009 to value future salary increases to retirement.
The restated figure for 2008 is US$1,702,000.
The figure previously disclosed in 2009 was US$1,056,00 and in 2008 was US$1,443,000.
m Jacynthe Cts remuneration is stated in US dollars.
To convert the base salary and service based retention to Canadian dollars, a fixed exchange rate of US$1 C$1.13740 was used during the year.
All other short term benefits received are paid in Canadian dollars.
The amounts have been converted using the relevant 2010 average exchange rates of 1 US$1.5459 and A$1 US$0.9178.
b Other cash based benefits for non executive directors comprise overseas meeting allowances.
c Non monetary benefits include for Jan du Plessis the value of Company provided transport and medical insurance premiums.
Company provided transport was made available to Jan du Plessis with effect from his appointment as chairman on 20 April 2009.
The cost of this facility was shared with his former principal employer until his retirement from that role on 31 October 2009.
For Sir David Clementi and David Mayhew, it includes the value of a retirement gift.
Rio Tinto plc provides accident cover for non executive directors: the total premium paid in 2010 was US$5,092.
d Represents disclosure of total emoluments and compensation required by regulations made under the UK Companies Act 2006 and total remuneration under Australian Corporations Act 2001 and applicable accounting standards.
Table 2 Directors pension entitlements as at 31 December 2010 Defined benefit pensions Accrued benefits Transfer values Transfer value of change At At Change in accrued Change in Change, net in accrued Years of 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 benefits during the accrued benefit At At of personal benefit net of a e a service 000 pa 000 pa year ended 31 Dec 2010 net of inflation 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 contributions inflation Age completed pension pension 000 pa pension 000 pa pension 000 000 000 000 UK directors b c d Tom Albanese 53 29 336 395 59 47 4,060 5,561 1,501 862 c Guy Elliott 55 30 456 471 15 6 7,706 9,054 1,348 119 A$000 A$000 A$000 A$000 lump sum lump sum lump sum lump sum A$000 A$000 A$000 A$000 Australian director Sam Walsh 61 19 5,203 5,493 290 144 5,203 5,493 209 144 Notes to Table 2 a Price inflation is calculated as the increase in the relevant retail or consumer price index over the year to 31 December 2010, except for Australia where a September to September change is used.
b Tom Albanese accrued pension benefits in the US plans for service up to 30 June 2006 and is accruing benefits in the UK plans for subsequent service.
c The transfer value of benefits in the UK plans is calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Benefit SchemesTransfer Values GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
d The transfer value of benefits in the US plans is represented by the Accumulated Benefit Obligation calculated on the accounting assumptions used for the Groups post-retirement benefits disclosures.
e The assumptions used to calculate cash equivalent transfer values for the UK directors changed with effect from 1 May 2010.
The factors were updated following completion of the formal Trustee funding valuation of the Rio Tinto Pension Fund to reflect the Trustees revised assumptions for calculating cash equivalent transfer values.
This has resulted in a significant increase in the transfer value of Tom Albaneses and Guy Elliotts benefits over 2010.
146 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Table 2 Directors pension entitlements as at 31 December 2010 continued Defined contribution pensions Company contributions Year to Year to Years of service 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 Age completed A$000 A$000 Australian director Sam Walsh 61 19 59 59 Table 3 Directors and executives beneficial interests in Rio Tinto shares Provided below are the beneficial interests in Rio Tinto shares of directors and executives, including connected persons.
b Or date of retirement or resignation or at date no longer a KMP, if earlier.
c Shares obtained through the exercise of options under the Rio Tinto Share Savings Plan or the Rio Tinto Share Option Plan.
The number of shares retained may differ from the number of options exercised.
d Shares obtained through the Rio Tinto Share Ownership Plan and or vesting of awards under the Performance Share Plan, Management Share Plan and Bonus Deferral Plan.
e Share movements due to sale or purchase of shares, shares received under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan, shares purchased sold through the Rio Tinto America Savings Plan or non executive directors share purchase plan.
f The balance as at 31 December 2009 for Harry Kenyon-Slaney was understated in the 2009 Remuneration report by 2,683 shares.
g Interests in outstanding awards under option schemes and LTIPs are set out in Tables 4 and 5. www.
b Or at date of resignation, if earlier.
c Awards denominated in pounds sterling were for Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each and awards denominated in Australian dollars were for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
d The weighted fair value per share of conditional awards granted in 2010 was as follows: Performance Share Plan was 38.26 for Rio Tinto plc and A$79.54 for Rio Tinto Limited.
e Conditional awards are awarded at no cost to the recipient and no amount remains unpaid on any shares granted.
f The amount in US dollars has been converted from sterling at the rate of 1 US$1.5459 and Australian dollars at the rate of A$1 US$0.9178, being the average exchange rates for 2010. www.
b Or at date of retirement or resignation, if earlier.
c All options granted over ordinary shares.
Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each stated in sterling: Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares stated in Australian dollars.
Each option is granted over one share at no cost to participants.
The performance conditions for the Share Option Plan are detailed on page 134. d The closing price of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares at 31 December 2010 was 44.87 2009: 33.90 and the closing price of Rio Tinto Limited shares at 31 December 2010 was A$85.70 2009: A$74.89.
The high and low prices during 2010 of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares were 28.12 and 45.84 and A$61.70 and A$87.94 respectively.
e The exercise price represents the price payable on the options.
f The weighted fair value per option during 2010, at date of grant was as follows: Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan two year contract 9.36: three year contract 11.15 and five year contract 10.61.
Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan three year contract A$24.56 and five year contract A$23.85.
Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan 13.91 March 2010 grant : Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan A$26.97 March 2010 grant.
g The value of options exercised during 2010 is calculated by multiplying the number of options exercised by the difference between the market price and the exercise price on date of exercise.
h In 2001 Harry Kenyon-Slaney was granted 6,857 phantom options over Rio Tinto plc shares at a price of 10.455 per share.
These were exercised on 18 February 2010 at a price of 33.50 per share.
i Options granted in 2007 under the Share Option Plan failed to satisfy their performance condition and did not vest.
The value of the lapsed options are shown in the table below.
com 155 2010 Financial statements Contents Additional disclosures Primary financial statements Page Page Note 31 Operating segments 206 Group income statement 157 Note 32 Operating segments additional information 208 Group statement of comprehensive income 158 Note 33 Financial risk management 210 Group cash flow statement 159 Note 34 Financial instruments 216 Group statement of financial position 160 Note 35 Contingent liabilities and commitments 221 Group statement of changes in equity 161 Note 36 Average number of employees 222 Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards 162 Note 37 Principal subsidiaries and consolidated operations 223 Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements 162 Note 38 Principal jointly controlled entities 224 Note 39 Principal associates 225 Notes to the 2010 financial statements Note 40 Principal jointly controlled assets and other proportionally consolidated units 225 Note 1 Principal accounting policies 163 Note 41 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses 226 Group income statement Note 42 Directors and key management remuneration 230 Note 2 Reconciliation of net earnings to Underlying earnings 182 Note 43 Auditors remuneration 231 Note 3 Net operating costs 183 Note 44 Related party transactions 232 Note 4 Employment costs 183 Note 45 Exchange rates in US$ 232 Note 5 Impairment charges 184 Note 46 Rights issues 233 Note 6 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 184 Note 47 Bougainville Copper Limited BCL 233 Note 7 Interest receivable and payable 185 Note 48 Events after the statement of financial position date 233 Note 8 Taxation 185 Note 49 Share based payments 234 Note 9 Earnings loss per ordinary share 188 Note 50 Post retirement benefits 241 Note 10 Dividends 188 Note 51 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures 246 Group statement of financial position Rio Tinto plc 247 Note 11 Goodwill 189 Note 12 Intangible assets 191 Rio Tinto financial information by business unit 250 Note 13 Property, plant and equipment 193 Note 14 Investments in equity accounted units 194 Australian Corporations Act summary of ASIC relief 254 Note 15 Net debt of equity accounted units 194 Note 16 Inventories 195 Directors declaration 255 Note 17 Trade and other receivables 195 Note 18 Deferred taxation 196 Auditors independence declaration 256 Note 19 Assets and liabilities held for sale 197 Note 20 Other financial assets 197 Independent auditors report to the members of Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents 198 Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited 257 Note 22 Borrowings 198 Note 23 Capitalised finance leases 199 Financial summary 20012010 259 Note 24 Consolidated net debt 199 Note 25 Trade and other payables 200 Summary financial data 261 Note 26 Other financial liabilities 200 Note 27 Provisions not including taxation 201 Capital and reserves Note 28 Share capital Rio Tinto plc 202 Note 29 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited 203 Note 30 Other reserves and retained earnings 204 156 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report
