Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT HOW WE REWARD OUR SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS Dear Shareholders The Directors Remuneration Report has been that the tenure of Mr Peter Kingston and Mr Olivier On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Barbaroux has not affected their independence or the remuneration report for the financial year Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups their ability to bring independent judgement to bear ended 31 December 2010.
Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the in the discharge of their duties, and we believe Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
that each of these Directors continues to display The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews The disclosures contained in this report that are an appropriate independence from Executive executive remuneration arrangements to ensure specified for audit by the regulations and are Directors.
In 2009, Committee membership was that they remain aligned with the interests of covered in the scope of the Independent Auditors refreshed with the addition of two independent shareholders and the overall business strategy.
Report on page 65, are separately identied Non-Executive Directors and 2010 has been a During 2010, the Committee concluded that the below and where relevant are presented in US period of induction and assimilation.
Being satisfied current arrangements continued to be effective dollars consistent with the Groups audited of his continued independence, the Board in achieving these aims.
Key decisions during the financial statements.
A resolution to approve the considers that Mr Kingstons chairmanship has year were as follows: report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual continued to be in the best interest of the Company, General Meeting AGM.
and that his extensive relevant experience and } No salary increases.
Executive directors continued attention to evolving market practice salaries will be frozen for the year ending The Company has complied throughout the best positioned him to provide the independent 31 December 2011. period with the provisions relating to Directors leadership and guidance required by the Committee } Scaled back bonus awards.
Despite a well remuneration set out in the Combined Code and, in particular, its new members.
Mr Kingston executed executive performance, bonuses on Corporate Governance the Code, issued by will retire at the 2011 AGM, and the Board is were awarded below target, recognising the Financial Reporting Council FRC in 2008. undergoing a review of its Committee that the years exploration drilling did not add Additionally, the Companys processes are already Chairmanships as part of its recruitment process, value for shareholders through the addition of in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code as described more fully in the Corporate new reserves.
issued by the FRC in 2010, which takes effect in Governance Report on pages 46 to 53. }
No increase in annual or long term incentive future accounting periods.
The Committee believes it has an applied the principles set out in Code provisions The Board will continue to apply rigorous scrutiny appropriate mix between xed and variable and in Schedule A to the Code as described below.
in its assessment to ensure independence remains remuneration, and that the annual and long term evident in the Committees policies and proposals, incentive maxima also remain appropriate.
Remuneration Committee and in the qualities and behaviours of its members. }
Renewal of our long term incentive plan.
The independent Non-Executive Directors who serve Evidence of adherence to best practice in terms of Our current LTIP will terminate in May 2011. on the Remuneration Committee are set out on page corporate governance guidelines and the advice of A new LTIP will be submitted for shareholder 53.
The Board is keenly aware of its duty to ensure, independent advisors are factors considered in the approval at our 2011 AGM.
This new LTIP is on behalf of shareholders, that the Committee is assessment.
Additional information regarding the substantially similar to the current LTIP and wholly independent.
All members are independent of Committee is contained in the Corporate incorporates a number of best practice features management and free from any conicts of interest Governance Report on pages 46 to 53. which have evolved since adoption of the arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day original plan.
Full details are set out in the involvement in running the Companys business.
The Committee is responsible for determining 2011 AGM Notice.
No member has any personal financial interest, other and agreeing with the full Board a Company-wide than as shareholders, in the matters delegated to the remuneration policy that is aligned with the The Committee continues to monitor corporate Committee.
No Director plays a role in deciding his Companys business strategy and ultimately the governance and best practice developments in own remuneration.
Within the context the executive remuneration environment and will of that policy, the Committee is responsible for incorporate further best practice features as The Companys process for assessing setting the total remuneration packages of the appropriate.
The Committee also takes an active independence and balancing the Boards and Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
interest in shareholder views and the voting on Committees requirements for retention of The Committee also monitors the remuneration the remuneration report, and hopes to receive experience with succession and refreshment are practices and trends throughout the Groups your support at the upcoming AGM.
set out in the Corporate Governance Report on internationally based workforce, including senior pages 46 to 53.
The Board applies a specic set of staff who contribute most signicantly to Peter Kingston focused criteria in the assessment of long tenured achieving the Companys strategic aims.
Remuneration Committee Chairman Directors, in particular, in consideration of Additionally, the Committee is responsible for concurrent tenure with Executive Directors.
After setting the remuneration of the Non-Executive careful consideration, the Board has determined Chairman.
The Committees recommendations SOCO International plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Bus Gover iness nan Rev ce iew and decisions are developed in full consideration including its arrangements for performance based Results of benchmarking exercises are monitored of the Code, institutional guidelines and evolving pay against evolving market practice and relevant for indications of potential unwarranted upward market practice, with particular attention being guidance and with due regard to the current ratcheting.
Pay conditions elsewhere in the given to the challenges represented by the current economic climate.
Any proposed change which Company are taken into account to ensure the economic environment.
is material is only implemented following a full relationship between the pay of the Companys review and approval process deemed appropriate Directors and its employees remains appropriate.
In discharging its duties during the year, the to such change.
Where appropriate, shareholders Similar benchmarking techniques are applied to Committee consulted with the other Non-Executive would also be consulted about any change in non-Board employees and the Committee Directors, and its proposals were approved by the remuneration policy.
monitors senior staff remuneration packages full Board.
In particular, the Committee has sought during the review of Executive Directors advice as it considers appropriate from Mr Rui fide The Directors believe that a uniquely qualied remuneration packages.
As a significant shareholder, he provides and motivated executive management is vital the Committee with a valuable insight into likely to the effective management of the Companys Package Components shareholder concerns around executive international portfolio and the successful execution Executive remuneration comprises a xed remuneration.
The Committee consulted with of the Companys stated strategy for building basic salary and eligibility to receive an annual the Chief Executive on its proposals for the other shareholder value.
It is the Committees objective to performance based cash bonus.
Individuals may Executive Director and senior management, attract, motivate and retain high calibre executives also be eligible to receive awards under long term and received administrative assistance from the through market competitive remuneration that is incentive plans designed to provide reward linked Company Secretary.
The Audit Committee is appropriate to those individuals positions, to the longer term performance of the Company.
consulted as deemed appropriate in setting and experience and value to the Company.
assessing the fullment of targets based on At target performance the Executive Directors financial terms.
The Committee aims to design remuneration packages are structured to deliver 60% of the total packages with significant performance related package in variable remuneration.
At exceptional Deloitte LLP Deloitte, who have voluntarily signed elements linking appropriate, but signicantly performance levels this increases to 80% of the up to the Remuneration Consultants Code of greater, rewards for greater achievements.
Conduct, were independently retained by the Committee seeks to ensure performance based Committee as advisors and provided advice on pay is linked to its business strategy.
To achieve Executive Directors are eligible for additional executive remuneration in terms of relevant current this, shorter term performance is monitored benets, including pension benets, a permanent market practice and developments in best practice against targets based on the Companys strategic health insurance scheme, medical insurance, life guidance, and in particular on the testing and plan.
In the longer term, performance targets are assurance cover, critical illness cover, travel and setting of performance criteria for incentive plans.
more closely linked to share price performance as expatriate benets and car benets.
The original appointment of advisors resulted from an indicator of the Companys success in building a tender process and alternate advisors are shareholder value.
Within this broad framework, Basic Salary considered from time to time.
Deloitte also the Committee takes particular care to ensure Basic salaries for the Executive Directors who are provided audit services to the Group, as set out in that remuneration is designed to promote the long both US citizens are denominated in US dollars, Note 9 to the financial statements and described term success of the Company and does not reward consistent with the Groups reporting currency and more fully in the Corporate Governance Report on excessive risk taking or failure.
the primary currency of Group operations.
The advisors terms of reference salary is xed at appointment or in relation to restrict the provision of certain services in order to Executive Directors changes in responsibility, and is reviewed annually.
maintain auditor independence, and the scope and The Committee reviews all aspects of remuneration Particular care is given in xing the appropriate value of services to the Group is under continuous on an annual basis and with respect to individual salary level considering that cash bonus and review.
Advice is developed with use of established and corporate performance during the year.
These incentive plan awards are generally set as a fraction methodologies and the advisors are not involved in reviews are normally conducted in December.
The or multiple of basic salary.
Basic salary is the only the decision making process.
Advisory partners projected value and structure of the Executive element of a Directors pay which is pensionable.
and staff have no involvement in audit, and are not Directors remuneration packages are periodically Annual reviews take into consideration advice involved in the preparation of audited information.
benchmarked against competitive market ranges.
from remuneration consultants regarding relevant During this exercise, the Groups size and current market practice for salary levels and salary Remuneration Policy complexity and relative positioning within those increases, as well as demonstrated performance.
The policies described in this report have been ranges are taken into account in the context of the Following the annual review conducted in December applied throughout 2010.
The Committee monitors Executive Directors critical value to the Company 2010, it was determined that basic salary levels remuneration policies on an ongoing basis, and demonstrated performance over time.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED to focus behaviour and activity towards deploying appropriate funding for the Groups programmes.
the Companys strategy of progressing projects, The measure of performance is evidenced by capturing their potential and realising value for the year end cash position of over $260 million, shareholders at an appropriate stage.
This reecting cash ows from operations, the emphasises achievements required to grow the successful January 2010 share placing and the The performance business over the longer term rather than short sale of the Thailand asset, which provided the measures for 2011 term revenues, and avoids promoting excess risk exibility to comfortably repay $165.9 million of taking to achieve a short term bonus opportunity.
convertible bonds and fund the most active capital are intended to The actual achievement of each goal is ranked expenditure programme in the Companys history.
focus behaviour and against a scale of expectations.
The Committee The Groups 2010 programmes were efficiently retains discretion over the amount of bonus executed, meeting financial measures as well as activity required to paid out to ensure that appropriate consideration non-financial measures associated with health, grow the business is given to the relative importance of the safety and environmental matters.
The TGT drilling achievements in the year and the actual programme has been successfully executed with over the longer term contribution of these towards furthering the all wells coming in at or better than pre-drill Companys strategic plan.
However, although exploration is set against these measures are considered to be inherently risky and exploration drilling success commercially sensitive and are therefore not set statistically unlikely, the Executive goals included out herein.
However, we can broadly indicate that creating shareholder value by adding new oil performance measures in 2011 will include goals reserves through success in the 2010 exploration Bonus associated with the Vietnam development project, drilling programme.
This goal was not achieved, Bonus awards are considered in two levels, which is of major signicance to the Company.
and was given particular weighting in the years wherein expected performance will result in Goals targeting appropriate stewardship of the assessment.
Accordingly, bonuses of 25% of salary awards in a target range of up to 50% of salary, Companys resources in the current economic were awarded to Mr Ed Story and Mr Roger Cagle, with a stretch level providing a maximum annual environment will continue to be emphasised.
cash bonus opportunity of up to 100% of salary.
Additionally, objectives over safety and The Remuneration Committee, however, reserves environmental measures will remain a priority in Long Term Incentive Plans the right to exercise its discretion and award a consideration of expanded operations in Africa, The SOCO International plc Long Term Incentive bonus above this maximum amount in the event and in particular the security and environmental Plan LTIP will terminate in May 2011 without of truly exceptional performance in the year.
matters relevant to activities in eastern Democratic prejudice to the subsisting participants.
The Board Republic of Congo Kinshasa DRC.
has recommended the introduction of a new plan The annual cash bonus is awarded based on which will be submitted for shareholder approval individual and corporate achievements during the The corporate and operational goals for 2010 at the 2011 AGM the New LTIP.
The New LTIP year towards goals based on the Companys were well executed, indicating a solid Executive is intended to provide a continued mechanism strategic plan.
Goals are set annually for each performance.
The Te Giac Trang TGT project is for motivating and retaining Directors and senior portion of the Companys portfolio aimed at the largest development project in SOCOs history staff members in a way that is aligned with achieving the specic challenges the Company and is of major signicance to the Company.
The New LTIP is faces in meeting its strategic objectives.
The Benchmark targets critical to progressing the substantially similar to the LTIP it is replacing, monitored measures for particular projects may accelerated development programme on schedule however incorporating certain best practice include specified timetables for seismic, drilling and for a 2011 start-up were met.
Measurement is features which have evolved since adoption of the construction programmes, drilling success ratios, based on the achievement of key milestones and original LTIP.
Further details of the New LTIP are discovery targets, reserve levels and production the comparison of actual versus planned progress set out in the Annual Report of the Directors on targets.
Portfolio objectives are set regarding on the overall construction programme as well as pages 42 to 45, and in the notice of the 2011 AGM.
progress towards potential non-core asset certain specic critical components.
The sale of the divestitures and new ventures.
Corporate goals, Groups non-core Thailand asset was completed, Participation in the Companys LTIP is discretionary safety and environmental measures and financial realising a profit on disposal of $80.1 million.
The and determined in consideration of corporate and measures against budgeted levels are additionally Company successfully attracted a strategic partner individual performance.
Awards are subject to established as deemed appropriate.
to farm into the Nganzi Block in western DRC and limits on individual participation whereby the participate in the Blocks 2010 exploration drilling market value, as measured at the date of grant, The performance measures for 2011, including both programme.
Corporate goals focused on protecting of shares subject to awards made in any financial financial and non-financial measures, are intended a strong financial standing and ensuring year will not exceed 200% of the executives SOCO International plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Bus Gover iness nan Rev ce iew total earnings in that year, except in exceptional basis for determining the value generated for Measurement of the Companys performance circumstances on appointment.
The Committee, shareholders over the longer term.
Furthermore, criteria is carried out with reference to external however, has a policy of operating within the more it is the primary indicator of the Companys data sources provided by the Committees restrictive annual limit of 200% of the executives overall corporate performance.
The Committee remuneration advisors to ensure its independence.
also believes that underpinning TSR results by No award will vest if the TSR ranking is below the reference to the Groups oil and gas reserves, median.
If ranking exceeds the median, 30% of the An employee benefit trust currently holds a key business metric, provides an appropriate award will become capable of vesting, with sufficient SOCO shares to satisfy all shares complement for considering that relative TSR is full vesting only for performance in the top 16 conditionally awarded under the LTIP, as more fully a genuine reection of underlying performance.
The actual vesting percentage will be described in Note 26 to the financial statements.
Accordingly, no change to the performance calculated on a pro rata basis between ranking Decisions governing acquisitions of shares into measure is proposed, as the Companys long positions to more closely reect SOCOs actual the trust are considered and approved by the full term goals remain unchanged and the TSR performance relative to the next highest and Board.
In line with corporate governance Committee considers it will continue to most lowest comparators.
guidelines, the aggregate number of new issue closely align the executives interests to those shares which may be subject to awards under all of shareholders.
Performance targets for awards Following measurement of the Companys relevant executive share schemes shall not exceed to date have been set with reference to the performance against the comparator group for 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company Companys relative TSR performance over a awards granted in 2007, 34% of the awards have in any rolling ten year period.
Accordingly, at three year period against a range of comparator been declared vested.
The Committee is satisfied 31 December 2010, 17.0 million new issue shares companies in the oil exploration and production that the performance criteria measurement has 2009 15.1 million may be subject to awards, sector.
Prior to the vesting of an award, the resulted in a vesting level appropriate to the of which there is available capacity remaining achievement of actual underlying financial and underlying performance of the Company over the of 11.4 million shares 2009 7.7 million.
operational performance of the Company will performance period.
Those awards not declared also be considered by the Committee.
At the date of grant of an award, the Committee awards to date, this shall primarily be assessed, sets appropriate performance criteria and on the basis of appropriate external advice, in Further details of incentive share awards are measures these accordingly on the third terms of the additions to and the management set out in the table on page 60 and in Note 27 anniversary of the date of grant to determine the and quality of the Groups oil and gas reserves to the financial statements.
Charges which have portion of the award vesting.
LTIP awards are in view of goals set by the Board.
been reected in the Groups income statement considered in the course of the annual review in in respect of incentive schemes are set out in December, which is intended to put in place an In consideration of corporate and individual Note 27 to the financial statements.
opportunity for regular annual vesting based on performance, along with the intent to retain and performance targets achieved over successive motivate with an appropriate level of reward clearly Share Option Plan three year periods.
When setting award levels, focused on long term stability, discretionary awards The SOCO 2009 Discretionary Share Option the stretch of performance targets is taken into in 2010 were granted over shares with a market Plan the Plan is intended to provide exibility in account to ensure that projected total value of 190% of base salary.
The TSR comparator motivating and retaining senior staff members.
compensation opportunity at assumed levels of group for awards made in respect of the periods No awards have been granted under the Plan.
share price growth is market competitive.
Once between 2008 and 2010 is set out below: There is no current intention for Executive the Committee determines performance criteria Directors to participate.
have been met, there may additionally be a Afren, Bowleven, Cairn Energy, Coastal Energy, requirement that awards be held for a specified Dana Petroleum, DNO International, Gulfsands Pension Contributions retention period prior to exercise or receipt.
Petroleum, Hardy Oil and Gas, Heritage Oil, JKX In respect of the Executive Directors, who are both Oil and Gas, Lundin Petroleum, Maurel & Prom, American citizens, the company contributes 15% The Remuneration Committees selection of Neweld Exploration, Nexen, Niko Resources, of salary each year into a money purchase pension performance criteria is kept under review to Oil Search, Premier Oil, Regal Petroleum, ROC Oil, scheme or other arrangements.
In 2009 ensure these measures remain appropriate to Salamander Energy, Santos, SOCO, Sterling contributions were made to two money purchase SOCOs circumstances and strategy, and most Energy, Talisman Energy, Tullow Oil.
Since the termination of one of these effectively support the delivery of value creation plans, contributions are made to the remaining over time.
While the Committee has taken into The 2008 comparator group did not include these companies, money purchase plan up to the scheme limit and account the potential impact of market volatility which were added as comparators for the 2009 awards, and the balance delivered in a form determined by the on a relative total shareholder return TSR originally included Aminex, and additionally included First Calgary Committee, which can include a cash supplement measure, it continues to provide the primary and Venture Production who have subsequently been fide-listed.
or a contribution to a trust or retirement benefit SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Total Shareholder return in other companies, giving consideration to the Under the terms of an acquisition approved by % time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
shareholders in 1999, the Company and its In consideration of increasing demands and fee strategic shareholder group Investor Group, 200 levels in recent years generally, SOCO has given including Quantic Limited Quantic in which Mr Rui SOCO Cumulative change particular attention to benchmarking data to fide Sousa has a non-notiable share interest, jointly FTSE Oil & Gas cumulative 150 ensure its fees remain appropriate.
Based on participate in certain regions in which the Investor these factors, the annual fees payable to the Group utilises its long established industry and 100 Chairman were set at 180,000 with effect from government relationships to negotiate and secure 1 January 2011.
Annual fees for services payable commercial rights in oil and gas projects.
In the to the Non-Executive Directors remain unchanged 2004 Annual Report and Accounts the form of 50 from those rates reected in the table opposite.
participation to be utilised was set out to be The fees have been set within the aggregate limits through equity shareholdings in which the Investor 0 set out in the Companys Articles of Association Group holds a minority interest in special purpose and approved by shareholders.
Non-Executive entities created to hold such projects.
The 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Directors are not eligible for participation in the shareholding terms have been modelled after Year End Companys incentive schemes or pension schemes.
the SOCO Vietnam Ltd arrangement which was negotiated with third parties.
Quantics minority Directors Contracts holdings in the subsidiary undertakings, which Executive Directors contracts are for an indefinite principally affected the profits or net assets of period and are terminable by either party on giving the Group, are shown in Note 17 of the financial one years notice which may be satisfied with a statements.
The Group has entered into a scheme.
It is anticipated that in future the remainder payment in lieu of notice.
The contracts do not consulting agreement, which is terminable by will be delivered as a cash supplement.
No changes contain specic termination provisions.
The either party on thirty days written notice, wherein in contribution levels are currently contemplated.
Committee has a duty to prevent the requirement Quantic is entitled to a consulting fee in the amount to make payments that are not strictly merited, and of $50,000 per month in respect of such services Other Policies endorses the principle of mitigation of damages as are required to review, assess and progress the With prior approval of the Board, Executive on early termination of a service contract.
Any realisation of oil and gas exploration and production Directors are allowed to accept non-executive payment on early termination will be assessed opportunities in certain areas.
appointments on other boards and to retain the on the basis of the particular circumstances, but associated directors fees.
Under this policy Mr in any event will not be in respect of any period Warrants to subscribe for the same number of Ed Story serves on the board of Cairn India Limited beyond the one year specified by contract.
ordinary shares in the Company, which were for which he retained associated fees for 2010 in The Non-Executive Directors appointments acquired under the terms of the 1999 transaction the amount of $1,200.
Mr Roger Cagle serves on are terminable at the will of the parties but are described above, were exercised during the period the boards of Vostok Energy Limited and Dominion envisaged to establish an initial term of three years by a connected party to Mr Rui fide Sousa over Petroleum Limited and retained associated fees after which they will be reviewed annually.
The 6,036,804 ordinary shares at a weighted average for 2010 in the amount of 40,000. dates of the Directors service contracts or letters market price of 3.99, resulting in a gain of of appointment, which may not coincide with their 23.2 million on exercise.
The Executive Directors have held, and continue to initial date of appointment, are set out in the build, a meaningful shareholding since founding the Annual Report of the Directors on page 43.
Accordingly, and giving due respect to the Executives demonstrated actions, Directors Transactions the Board has not set this requirement out in policy.
Pursuant to a lease dated 20 April 1997, Comfort An appropriate policy regarding shareholding Storyville a company wholly owned by Mr Ed targets will be given consideration upon any Story has leased to the Group, ofce and storage prospective Executive Director appointment.
The lease, which was negotiated on an arms length basis, has a xed Non-Executive Directors monthly rent of $1,000.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman is set by the Committee and approved by the In March 2008, the Company, through its Group Board.
The remuneration for other Non-Executive subsidiary, entered into a production sharing Directors is recommended by the Chief Executive contract over Block V, located in eastern DRC.
and the Chairman and determined by the Board Mr Roger Cagle is the Non-Executive Chairman as a whole.
Remuneration levels are set based on of Dominion Petroleum Limited, one of the outside advice and the review of current practices co-venturers.
SOCO International plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Bus Gover iness nan Rev ce iew Fees basic Benets Annual Total Total Directors Emoluments Audited 1 salary in kind bonus 2010 2009 $000s $000s $000s $000s $000s Executive Directors E Story 838 54 210 1,102 1,269 2 R Cagle 629 90 157 876 963 3 Non-executive Directors R fide Sousa 232 232 236 4 P Kingston 100 100 102 O Barbaroux 62 62 63 R Cathery 62 62 63 E Contini 62 62 63 A Monteiro 62 62 35 J Norton 62 62 63 M Roberts 62 62 63 J Snyder 28 M Watts 62 62 24 Aggregate emoluments 2,233 144 367 2,744 2,972 1 Benets include medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance cover, critical illness cover, travel and expatriate benets and car benets.
2 $0.5 million of Mr Roger Cagles basic salary was paid as an employer contribution to a retirement benefit plan.
3 Non-executive Directors fees are set in GB pounds and have been reported in US dollars at the annual average exchange rate.
4 Emoluments receivable by Mr Peter Kingston are paid to Peter Kingston & Associates.
No Directors received amounts as compensation for loss of ofce as a Director during the year.
Directors Pension Entitlements Audited Money purchase contributions or cash supplements where appropriate in respect of the Executive Directors were as follows: 2010 2009 $000s $000s E Story 126 122 5 R Cagle 94 92 220 214 5 As noted above, in addition to this, $0.5 million of Mr Roger Cagles basic salary was paid as an employer contribution to a retirement benefit plan.
LTIPs were exercised during the period by Mr Ed Story and Mr Roger Cagle over ordinary shares at a weighted average market price of 3.65 and 4.06, respectively, resulting in a gain of 7.8 million and 6.1 million on exercise, respectively.
Those awards set out as exercisable prior to 1 January 2008 are in the form of nil price options to acquire ordinary shares.
Awards exercisable subsequently are in the form of contingent rights to acquire ordinary shares at no cost.
Vesting of the awards set out as exercisable after 1 January 2011 and delivery of ordinary shares remains conditional upon performance criteria and consideration of Model Code restrictions.
2 Options may not be exercised without appropriate Board consents, the Board having given consideration to any requirements on participants to maintain a specified minimum number of ordinary shares under option or equivalent shareholding requirements.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2010 was 3.696 and the range during the year to 31 December 2010 was 2.92 to 4.842.
SOCO International plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Bus Gover iness nan Rev ce iew Directors Interests The Directors who held ofce at 31 December 2010 had the following interests all of which were beneficial except as noted below in the ordinary shares in the Company, warrants to subscribe for the same number of ordinary shares Warrants and contingent rights or options to acquire ordinary shares Options at 31 December 2010 which have been restated to reect the share subdivision described in Note 25 to the financial statements : 1 Number of Shares Number of Options Number of Warrants 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Executive Director E Story 12,856,794 11,497,836 824,000 2,784,336 2 R Cagle 8,617,916 7,123,076 1,039,000 3,305,596 Non-Executive Director 3 R Sousa 8,908,820 3,080,304 6,036,804 P Kingston 16,000 16,000 O Barbaroux 88,000 80,000 R Cathery 400,000 400,000 E Contini 220,000 220,000 A Monteiro J Norton 460,000 460,000 M Roberts 20,000 20,000 M Watts 72,670 24,080 1 Details of Options granted to or held by the Directors in respect of their services as a director, including any relevant conditions of exercise, are set out in the table of Directors Incentive Share Awards.
2 At 31 December 2010, Mr Roger Cagles interests included 3,139,439 ordinary shares 2009 2,548,212 and 421,200 Options 2009 1,315,264 held by Ms Cynthia Cagle, the Options having been granted to her in respect to her services to the Group.
3 200,000 ordinary shares 2009 194,608 are held by Mr Rui fide Sousa personally.
8,708,820 ordinary shares 2009 2,885,696, nil Warrants 2009 221,344 at an exercise price of 0.1375 per Share, nil Warrants 2009 3,700,748 at an exercise price of 0.15 per Share and nil Warrants 2009 2,114,712 at an exercise price of 0.1625 per Share are held by Palamos Limited, a connected person to Mr fide Sousa.
Whilst the Executive Directors, as potential beneciaries, are technically deemed to have an interest in all ordinary shares held by the SOCO Employee benefit Trust Trust, the table above only includes those ordinary shares which are potentially transferable to the Directors and their families pursuant to Options which have been granted to them under incentive schemes facilitated by the Trust.
Details of the Trust and its holdings are set out in Note 26 to the financial statements.
There have been no other changes in the interests of the Directors between 31 December 2010 and the date of this report.
No Director held any other interests in any Group companies.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 22 March 2011 and signed on its behalf by: Peter Kingston Remuneration Committee Chairman SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61 O FINANCIALS 65 Independent Auditors Report 66 Consolidated Income Statement 67 Statements of Comprehensive Income 68 Balance Sheets 69 Statements of Changes in Equity 70 Cash Flow Statements 71 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 91 Five Year Summary After tax profit for the year, $101.4 million, almost doubled that of 2009 $51.1 million largely on the back of the disposal of the Groups Thailand asset gain of $80.1 million.
For more on our financial results, see page 20 Financials SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 63 Financials 2010 FINANCIALS Left: Robert Harris, Corporate Financial Controller Right: Neil Gibson, Manager Group Reporting, Taxation & Treasury Financial results for 2010 The net of these events had three major non-operating is a further strengthening catalysts a share placing: a put in the Groups financial option exercise by a portion of position allowing it to fully the convertible bondholders fund existing exploration and and the disposal of one of the development programmes.
Robert Harris Corporate Financial Controller SOCO International plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
