Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors Remuneration Report There have also been changes to the membership of the Committee itself during 2010.
In April 2010, John Buchanan retired from the Committee when he stepped down from the Board.
On behalf of the Committee I would like to thank John for his immensely valuable contribution to the Committees operation and decisions during his tenure as a member.
Following Johns retirement, Rudy Markham has joined the Committee, bringing with him a wealth of relevant experience, including as a Non-Executive Director of the Financial Reporting Council.
Rudy is also a member of the Audit Committee, and we thereby maintain an important link between the work and deliberations of the two Committees.
As can be seen from the Committee members biographies on page 106, each of AstraZenecas Board Committees including the Science John Varley Committee, which is chaired by Dame Nancy Rothwell is Non-Executive Director and represented in the membership of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee This is intentionally so, and ensures that critical issues concerning performance, productivity, risk and reputation continue to be at the forefront of the Committees considerations.
In this introduction to the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report I highlight a number of The changes that were made to executive remuneration during the year explained more fully below reect a clear desire in the points to give context to the report that follows.
business, which the Committee fully supported, to move towards a longer-term framework which will strengthen alignment with the As we indicated in our 2009 annual report, the Remuneration inherently long-term nature of pharmaceutical drug development Committees main objectives during 2010 were to develop longand thereby with the long-term interests of shareholders.
The term compensation structures to support the strategic and financial revised long-term incentive LTI structures have been designed, progress of the Group, to invest in the development of human cognisant of shareholder views and expectations, to provide a clear capital in AstraZeneca, and to focus on stewardship and focus for the business to outperform its industry peers over time, shareholder value-creation over the long term.
In particular, we to deliver operational efficiency and engender a strong sense of stated our intention to reshape the Groups long-term incentive stewardship that will deliver long-term sustainable shareholder value.
arrangements, maintaining but not increasing the overall value of the package, but recognising that AstraZeneca operates in a On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I commend this uniquely long-term industry.
We sought thereby to strengthen the Directors Remuneration Report to you.
alignment between the time horizons over which our business investment decisions are taken and those to which part of our share John Varley incentive programmes relate.
An important and informative part of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee this process was extensive consultation with institutional investors.
We are grateful for their contribution to the development of the proposals.
Our recommendations received strong support from shareholders at our AGM in April 2010 and the new AstraZeneca Investment Plan was approved.
Meanwhile, 2010 has been a year of considerable change for the senior leadership of AstraZeneca.
Remuneration policy and practices play a key role in supporting the implementation of our strategy to be a focused, integrated, innovation-driven, global, prescription-based biopharmaceutical business.
The Committee has endeavoured to strike an appropriate balance between levels of remuneration that reect the need to attract and retain top talent in a highly competitive global market and policies that are aligned with best practice through risk adjustment, deferral, claw-back and reward for success.
The Committee has applied careful oversight to internal moves and external hires to ensure that AstraZeneca attracts and retains world-class talent in its Senior Executive Team, particularly, in 2010, in light of the changes in our R&D organisation, across its R&D senior leadership.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Directors Remuneration Report 119 Directors Remuneration Report This Directors Remuneration Report Report has been prepared The Committee has responsibility for determining, on behalf of the Board, the individual compensation paid to Executive Directors and in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Regulations SET members.
It takes responsibility on behalf of the Board for reviewing the design and operation of total compensation structures and meets the relevant requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
As required by the Regulations, a and practices across AstraZeneca.
In this regard, the Committees approval is required in relation to, among other things, decisions resolution to approve this Report will be proposed at the AGM on 28 April 2011. regarding: The eligibility, structure, award grant levels, performance metrics The following sections of this Report, up to and including the Non-Executive Directors section on page 128, were not subject and targets, costs and final vesting levels under LTI plans for Directors, other SET members and the Company Secretary.
to audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
Annual bonus payments for Executive Directors, other SET members and senior executives below SET level.
Remuneration Committee membership and meetings The pension entitlements of Executive Directors and other The members of the Committee are John Varley Chairman, Rudy SET members.
Markham, Louis Schweitzer and Nancy Rothwell.
Rudy Markham The Chairman of the Boards remuneration which is approved by became a member of the Committee on 29 April 2010.
Until that the other members of the Committee and the Senior independent date, upon which he retired from the Board, John Buchanan was a Non-Executive Director.
Throughout 2010, all the members of Any single payment or award over $1 million.
the Committee were independent Non-Executive Directors Louis Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and other Schweitzer was considered by the Board to be independent upon SET members.
The independence of the NonThe contractual terms and conditions of, and any potential or Executive Directors is discussed in more detail in the Corporate actual payments arising on termination to, Executive Directors, Governance Report from page 109.
The Company Secretary acts other SET members and the Company Secretary so as to ensure as the secretary to the Committee.
that they are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
The Committee met seven times in 2010.
The individual attendance record of members of the Committee is set out in the Board and The Committee conducted a review of its terms of reference during Board Committee meeting attendance in 2010 table on page 111.
2010 and agreed to recommend to the Board a small number of changes, principally to reect provisions in the new UK Corporate At the invitation of the Committee, except where their own Governance Code.
These were approved by the Board in January remuneration was being discussed, David Brennan, CEO: Lynn 2011 and the revised terms of reference are available on our Tetrault, Executive Vice-President, Human Resources and website, astrazeneca.
Corporate Affairs: Simon Appleby, Vice-President, Performance and Reward: and Viv Gill and her successor, Katie Jackson-Turner, Main work during the year Vice-President, Global Compensation attended one or more The Committee considered the following principal matters Committee meetings in 2010 and provided advice and services during 2010: that materially assisted the Committee.
Completion of the strategic review of the remuneration and The Committee retains Carol Arrowsmith of Deloitte LLP Deloitte incentive framework for Executive Directors and other SET who provided independent advice on various matters it considered members.
This included significant consultation with major in 2010.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the voluntary shareholders and institutional investor organisations.
code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting A review of the terms of senior executives remuneration in the UK, which is operated under the aegis of the Remuneration packages on appointment, promotion and termination, including Consultants Group, in which Deloitte participates.
During the year, the remuneration packages on the appointment of a number of Deloitte also provided taxation advice and other specic non-audit senior leaders in R&D.
The Committee reviewed the potential for The assessment of Group and individual performance against conicts of interest and judged that there was none and that the performance targets to determine the level of executive bonuses independence of its adviser was not called into question.
for 2009 and to set executive bonus performance targets for 2010.
The approval of the rules of the new AstraZeneca Investment Plan Committee terms of reference and main work during AZIP prior to the AZIP being proposed to shareholders for the year approval at the 2010 AGM, and the approval of the rules of the Committee terms of reference new AstraZeneca Global Restricted Stock Plan GRSP, which did A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available on our not require shareholder approval.
The approval of the introduction of a new cash ow target for the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan PSP, to be used in The role of the Committee is to develop and deploy remuneration conjunction with the existing TSR performance condition.
policies and practices for senior management, and for the Group The approval of awards made under the Groups main LTI plans: more broadly, that support the implementation of our business the PSP: the AZIP: and the GRSP to SET members and other strategy and which thereby help the organisation to create value participants.
120 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The approval of restricted share awards to a limited number Following the 2010 AGM, the shareholding guidelines for Executive of senior executives under the AstraZeneca Restricted Share Directors and other SET members were increased.
shareholding requirement for the CEO was increased to 200% of A review of the use of claw-back provisions by the Company.
base salary from 100% and the requirement for all other Executive A review of the Companys governance arrangements for global Directors and SET members was increased to 125% of base salary compensation matters.
A benchmarking review of the Committees activities and policies against institutional investor guidelines.
Incentive programmes designed to deliver long-term A review of the levels of share ownership of Executive Directors shareholder value and other SET members.
The long-term share interests of Executive Directors and other SET A review of the pension entitlements of Executive Directors and members are provided through two complementary share plans, other SET members.
A review of the impact on compensation policies and practices of the current economic environment, including ensuring the Under the PSP, a relative TSR performance condition applies in appropriate degree of risk adjustment to aggregate and individual respect of one half of any award made and the other half of the compensation decisions.
award is subject to a cash ow performance measure that reects A review of the voluntary code of conduct operated under the operational management of the business in a way that is consistent aegis of the Remuneration Consultants Group in relation to with generating value for shareholders.
A cash ow measure was executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
introduced in 2010 because it encompasses all elements of In conjunction with the Senior independent Non-Executive Director operational and financial performance, represents a strong proxy and not in the presence of the Chairman of the Board, a review of through time for shareholder value creation and is a key measure for the basic fee paid to the Chairman of the Board for his services.
Together, the TSR and cash ow performance conditions The preparation, review and approval in January 2011 of this focus reward under the PSP on outperformance of competitors.
The AZIP, approved by shareholders in 2010, operates with an Key remuneration principles eight-year time horizon where reward is conditional on sustainable The Committee considers that the following objectives should shareholder returns and financial performance.
The AZIP creates continue to define its approach to the formation and execution the opportunity for annual awards to Executive Directors and other of AstraZenecas remuneration policy: SET members which must be held for a total of eight years and are subject to a four-year performance requirement from the date All aspects of executive remuneration should be designed to help of award.
AstraZeneca create sustainable growth in shareholder value by the successful implementation of strategy and be developed in The greater weighting within the LTI opportunity is given to awards the context of shareholder views on best practice.
Awards under the PSP are positioned so that Reward structures and performance measures should support interests under this plan can deliver 75% of the overall expected value a strong performance culture enabling delivery of the business from long-term remuneration and the AZIP 25%.
The Committee strategy, where all employees have a clear understanding of the keeps under review the appropriateness of this weighting.
Groups objectives, how their work will impact those objectives and how they will benefit from delivering high levels of performance.
The combination of awards under these two plans enhances the Base pay and total compensation positioning against the market alignment between the time horizons over which our business should be appropriate to attract and develop high-calibre talent investment decisions are taken and those to which our long-term and SET remuneration should continue to be referenced to remuneration vehicles relate.
The AstraZeneca Share Option Plan SOP expired during 2010 and grants of share options no longer form part of our LTI arrangements.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Directors Remuneration Report 121 Directors Remuneration Report Components of remuneration an opportunity to participate as shareholders in the creation During 2010, the remuneration components for all Group employees of long-term economic value.
including those of SET members comprised xed and variable performance-related elements.
Summaries of these elements are The Committee has continued to take into account the wider included in the Components of remuneration table below.
business environment and employment conditions across the Group.
In particular, with the exception of the CFO whose base The way in which these elements of remuneration are combined salary had remained unchanged since he joined the Group, no base and applied varies according to a range of factors, including specic pay increases were awarded in respect of the 2010 calendar year business needs and practices in different markets, although, in to Executive Directors or other SET members whose responsibilities general, the more senior the role within the business, the greater were unchanged.
In addition, award opportunities for SET members theproportion of total remuneration is made up of variable under the Groups LTI plan framework have been held at a performance-related elements.
The Committee seeks to ensure that consistent level since the adoption of the PSP in 2005. the overall proportion of variable pay to which Executive Directors and other SET members may become entitled forms a significant For 2011, the Company will continue to benchmark against part of their overall remuneration opportunity.
The Committees appropriate comparator companies and will assess whether or not objective for senior management is to ensure that such variable pay and to what extent the overall opportunities for remuneration offered is linked to a range of measures designed to promote both by the current structure of remuneration remain appropriate in the individual and team behaviour and performance in a way that context of changes within the business and the external supports the success of AstraZeneca and creates value for its environment in which it operates, taking note also of the guidance shareholders.
Such measures are designed to stretch and issued within the last 12 months from bodies representing challenge the relevant individuals while at the same time giving them institutional shareholders.
Components of remuneration Component of remuneration Role within the remuneration framework Summary of policy Applies to Base salary xed Base xed remuneration.
Based on conditions in the relevant market and All employees recognising the value of an individuals sustained personal performance and contribution to the business, taking account of the market rate for an individuals skills and experience.
Pension arrangements Provision of retirement benets.
Benchmarked against the relevant local All employees xed employment market.
Benets xed Provision of standard non-cash employment benets, Cost-effective and compatible with relevant welfare All employees such as healthcare, insurances and, for certain arrangements and local market norms.
employees, facilitated car purchase arrangements.
Short-term bonus An annual cash incentive opportunity determined Differs by market, but the Group performance All eligible variable by reference to Group, functional and individual measures ensure that all eligible employees receive employees performance, measured over a single financial year an element of reward based on the Groups overall of the Company and taking into account external financial performance.
The functional goals are agreed by the Committee at the start of the year and are derived from the business scorecard, the key elements of which are set out in the Business objectives and key performance indicators section from page 16, and are monitored as part of the quarterly business review QBR process.
Individual goals are based on annual objectives, which are linked to functional goals.
Deferred bonus plan Aligns SET members interests with those of SET members must defer a proportion of their SET members variable shareholders.
short-term bonus one-third of pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors and one-sixth for other SET members into Ordinary Shares or ADSs for a three-year period.
LTI plans variable Long-term equity incentive awards to provide individual AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
SET members and executives and employees with total compensation other senior opportunities that are competitive against local market executives practice, for the achievement of operational excellence, AstraZeneca Investment Plan.
SET members strong financial performance and actions that are Share Option Plan final awards made in 2009.
Senior management closely aligned with the interests of shareholders.
The and SET members primary LTI plans in which SET members participate Global Restricted Stock Plan.
Eligible employees are the PSP and the AZIP.
globally Other share plans All employee share participation arrangements, Examples include the Share Incentive Plan and Eligible employees 1 including some that are tax-approved, for example Savings-Related Share Option Plan UK.
Shareholding guidelines Aligning SET members interests with those of The CEO is expected to hold shares equivalent to 200% SET members shareholders.
of base salary and the CFO and other SET members are expected to hold 125% of base salary in shares.
Overall approach When assessing the overall value of a SET members remuneration the Committee considers, both separately and in aggregate, each component of the SET members total remuneration.
1 Further information on these plans is provided in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 173.
122 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Remuneration and terms of employment for Executive Directors and other SET members Components of Executive Director and SET remuneration Fixed Elements Variable Elements Base salary Linked to short-term performance Linked to long-term performance Pension Bonus AstraZeneca Investment Plan Bene ts such as healthcare Deferred Bonus share-based Performance Share Plan Illustration of xed and variable performance-related Base salary The base salary for Executive Directors and other SET members remuneration Based on AstraZenecas remuneration policy, the Components of is determined by the Committee.
Salary decisions re ect the experience and performance of the individuals to whom they apply, remuneration expected value charts below illustrate the potential weighting given to xed and variable performance-related elements taking account of market competitiveness and the level of increases applicable to employees in the wider Group.
There was no increase of the remuneration package at Executive Director level.
Variable performance-related elements of the package are shown on an to the base salary of the CEO in either 2009 or 2010.
The CFOs expected value basis, and in the event that performance base salary was increased in 2010 for the first time since he joined conditions are not met, such elements would not deliver any value.
Effective from 2011, the Committee awarded The expected value approach considers the range of possible David Brennan and Simon Lowth base salary increases of 2.5%, outcomes and the probability attached to each, in order to provide illustrated in the Executive Directors base salaries in 2010 and 2011 a value that represents the average that would be delivered if the table below.
This is in line with the adjustments being made to the arrangements were operated over many years.
The expected value base salaries of other employees within the Group in 2011. for bonus payment is taken to be the target payout level.
Executive Directors base salaries in 2010 and 2011 Fixed remuneration Annual salary Annual salary Both Executive Directors terms and conditions are UK-based apart in 2010 in 2011 Increase from David Brennans pension and health insurance arrangements, Executive Director % which are described below, and are benchmarked against external David Brennan 972,900 997,223 2.5 UK comparators.
Simon Lowth 620,000 635,500 2.5 Components of remuneration expected value Chief Executive officer % Chief Financial officer % Fixed Fixed Base Salary Base Salary 22 29 11 14 Variable Variable Bonus Bonus PSP PSP AZIP AZIP 22 26 34 42 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Directors Remuneration Report 123 Directors Remuneration Report Pension arrangements Benets The table in the Dened benefit arrangements section on page 130 Consistent with the majority of employers, certain benets are made gives details of the changes in the value of the Executive Directors available to Executive Directors and other SET members via local accrued pensions during 2010. benets programmes offered by AstraZeneca.
Benets under these programmes typically include healthcare, insurances and facilitated CEOs pension arrangements car purchase arrangements.
David Brennan is a member of the AstraZeneca US Dened benefit Pension Plan US DBP, by virtue of his membership of pension Variable performance-related remuneration plans applicable to legacy Astra Merck employees.
On his Executive Directors and other SET members are eligible to appointment to the Board, the rules of the US DBP were amended participate in different elements of variable performance-related pay, so as to remove bonus payments from the calculation of his which are described below.
The decision as to whether or not, in pensionable pay.
Benets for members of the US DBP are delivered any given year, they receive any or all of their elements of variable on a tax-qualied basis, with accrued benets that exceed specic pay is determined by the Committee, which, in making such a limits under the plans formula and the US Tax Code being delivered determination, will typically have regard to the performance of the through a supplementary, non-qualied plan.
individual and the Group and will consider the elements of variable pay applicable to senior employees in other comparable The normal pension age under the US DBP is 65.
leaving or retiring from employment, David Brennan is eligible to take a pension or lump sum equivalent based on accrued service and final Short-term bonus pensionable pay ie without actuarial reduction due to his satisfaction Performance criteria of a condition in the pension plan relating to the combined age and Executive Directors and other SET members are eligible for a service exceeding 85 years, as previously disclosed.
The basis for the payment of any short-term bonus is determined by reference to a range of factors linked to the David Brennans participation in the US DBP is subject to a service underlying performance of AstraZenecas business, the performance of the functional area for which the individual is cap at 35 years service, which will be attained in January 2011, after which no further service accrual can be earned.
responsible and the performance of the individual in his or her role.
Structure and assessment of performance Members and, in the event of death, surviving spouses dependants can elect, in relation to those benets delivered on a tax-qualied As set out in the 2009 Directors Remuneration Report, the performance criteria for the determination of annual bonuses for basis under the US DBP, to take pensions in lump sum form based on actuarial valuation.
Members or spouses dependants may not Executive Directors and other SET members have been aligned more closely with the current objectives and measures that are make such an election in relation to any supplementary nonqualied benets which must be taken in lump sum form.
This approach continued to apply for 2010 and will do so for 2011.
For 2011, the bonus ranges are unchanged from 2010.
The bonus deferral requirements, described in more In addition, David Brennan as a US citizen is a contributing 1 detail below, applied for 2010 and will be reviewed during 2011. member of the US 401 k savings plan.
He also contributes to Executive Directors and other SET members bonuses for 2010 an associated non-qualied plan, as described in the Dened were based on performance criteria linked to the following targets: contribution arrangements section on page 131.
60% by reference to EPS, cash ow targets and the objectives in In the event of a US participant becoming incapacitated, permanent each of the strategic priority areas identied by the Board for the health insurance cover will provide continuation of a proportion of business, the key elements of which are set out in the Business salary, subject to the satisfaction of certain medical criteria.
In the objectives and key performance indicators section from page 16 event of the death of a participant prior to retirement, a life and which are monitored as part of the quarterly business review assurance policy will provide surviving spouses dependants with a QBR process against targets set by the Committee at the lump sum equivalent to one times salary such salary being capped beginning of the year and, which among other things, take into at the maximum pensionable salary under the plan.
account external expectations of performance: 40% by reference to individual measures and initiatives which link CFOs pension arrangements to the business objectives relevant to the individuals functional Simon Lowth is eligible to join the AstraZeneca Group Self Invested accountability or, in the case of the CEO, the average of these Personal Pension UK Dened Contribution Plan UK DCP at a individual outcomes.
company contribution rate of 24% of annual base salary or, alternatively, to take the company contribution as a cash allowance.
These measures reinforce AstraZenecas emphasis on individual For the option years 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010 and business accountability.
The key measures referred to above to 30 June 2011, he elected to take the cash allowance, as detailed are clearly set out in the Business objectives and key performance in the Dened contribution arrangements section on page 131. indicators section from page 16, whereby Group and functional objectives and measures are managed in a robust and consistent In the event of a senior employee in the UK DCP including one who way and assessed by the SET as part of the QBR process.
The has taken an alternative cash allowance becoming incapacitated, outcome of this process is rigorously scrutinised by the Committee.
permanent health insurance cover provides continuation of a proportion of salary, subject to the satisfaction of certain medical Bonus ranges for 2011 criteria.
In the event of death prior to retirement, dependants are For 2011, the bonus ranges for each Executive Director are shown entitled to a pension and or lump sum secured from a multiple of below and are the same as 2010.
1 Bonus range for 2011 The 401 k savings plan is a qualied plan to which eligible employees may make salary-deferral Executive Director % contributions on a post-tax and or pre-tax basis.
Employers may also make matching or non-elective contributions to the plan.
There is a supplementary non-qualied plan in place for David Brennan 0-180 all eligible employees whose earnings exceed specic limits under the US Tax Code.
Simon Lowth 0-150 124 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Bonus outcomes for 2010 The proportion currently deferred into shares is one-third of the In assessing bonuses for 2010, the Committee took into account pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors and one-sixth for other SET the strong EPS excluding restructuring and synergy costs and members.
The Committee will review whether the proportion of cash ow performance, which in both cases signicantly exceeded bonus to be deferred should be increased in 2011.
On leaving, target, together with overall business and financial outcomes and participants would normally have to wait for the shares to be relevant functional performance against clear measures and released at the end of the three-year period.
For Executive Directors initiatives set at the beginning of the bonus year.
The key elements and other SET members who cease employment for reasons other of these strategic priorities and business objectives are set out in than that of good leaver for example, those who are dismissed, the Business objectives and key performance indicators section the deferred bonus award will lapse, unless the Committee decides from page 16, in relation to the following categories, which the otherwise before the cessation of employment.
Committee believes are consistent with delivering shareholder value: AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan Pipeline The PSP was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2005 and Deliver the business provides for the grant of performance share awards PSP Share Business shape Awards over Shares.
The operation of the PSP was reviewed in People and values.
2010 and a new cash ow performance condition, described in more detail below, was introduced.
When assessing the performance of the business in these categories, the Committee noted that during 2010: Basis of participation Participation in the PSP is highly selective and usually includes only In relation to the pipeline and life-cycle management, Vimovo was senior employees on the basis of their performance.
approved in the US and the EU: Brilique was approved in the EU: Kombiglyze XR Onglyza metformin combination was Generally, PSP Share Awards can be granted at any time although approved in the US: additional indications were approved for in practice they are awarded annually, but not during a close or other products: decisions were made in December to discontinue prohibited period of the Company.
In 2010, the main grant of PSP development of motavizumab and Certriad.
Share Awards was made on 26 March, for SET members on 7 Although we suffered some pipeline disappointments, the new May with other Share Awards approved by the Committee in R&D leadership team has made significant progress in 2010 with relation to, for example, new appointments, promotions or the creation of a single R&D organisation.
assignments being granted on 27 August and 5 November.
The The Commercial organisation has continued to drive strong sales value of Shares subject to a PSP Share Award is determined by performance in the face of an increasingly challenging reference to the market price of Shares over the three-day period environment.
immediately preceding the date of grant.
Our Operations function has continued to deliver on efficiency.
The business broadly maintained a good level of employee Details of PSP Share Awards granted to Executive Directors are engagement despite a period of significant organisational change.
shown in the Performance Share Plan table on page 133.
The business response to the Corporate Integrity Agreement has been rigorous with significant work undertaken to continue to Individual limit promote a culture of responsibility and accountability across the In respect of any financial year of the Company, the maximum organisation.
market value of Shares that may in theory be put under a PSP Share Award in respect of an employee is 500% of that employees Having assessed the Companys performance against all the base salary.
measures set out above, the Committee is satisfied that the bonus payments that have been earned against stretching performance The actual individual limits that apply under the PSP, subject to this targets are fully justied.
maximum, are set by the Committee from time to time.
The bonus outcomes for the Executive Directors for 2010 are Performance conditions shown in the table below.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, which are prescribed in the PSP rules, the vesting of PSP Share Awards is contingent on Bonus outcomes for 2010 the satisfaction of specified performance targets and continued employment with the Group.
In addition to the satisfaction of these Short-term bonus delivered as a combination performance targets, PSP Share Awards will generally not vest until of cash and shares, as shown in the Directors 1 emoluments in 2010 section from page 129 the third anniversary of the date of grant.
If a participant ceases to Executive Director % of salary be in relevant employment, the award will be time pro-rated and 1,583,025 162.71 David Brennan vest at the end of the performance period.
918,245 148.10 Simon Lowth Performance period and vesting dates 1 Bonuses for Executive Directors are not pensionable.
In the case of all PSP Share Awards granted to date, the performance target relates to the three-year period commencing Bonus share deferral requirements on 1 January of the year of grant.
Therefore, for PSP Share Awards Consistent with best practice, and to encourage a long-term view made in 2010, the performance period runs from 1 January 2010 and align SET members interests with those of shareholders, the to 31 December 2012.
The vesting date is the third anniversary of Committee has put in place a requirement that certain proportions the date of grant.
of any short-term bonus payment as specified below be deferred and invested into Ordinary Shares or ADSs together, Shares.
Performance targets Broadly, these are acquired on the open market at the prevailing 50% of the award is based on relative TSR against a selected market price and held for a period of three years from the date of peer group of global pharmaceutical companies, of which: acquisition before being delivered to individual Executive Directors 25% of the maximum award vests for performance at the and other SET members.
This arrangement is one of the ways in median of the peer group: which, over time, Executive Directors and other SET members will 75% of the maximum award vests for upper quartile be able to build up a significant shareholding in the Company.
performance: and AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Directors Remuneration Report 125 Directors Remuneration Report 100% of the maximum award may vest at the Committees during the performance period for material factors that might discretion if the Companys TSR performance is substantially otherwise distort the performance measure in either direction.
better than that of the upper quartile of the comparator group.
This is so that performance can be assessed against targets that For PSP Share Awards to vest at this level the Company would have been set on a consistent basis.
For example, adjustments need to have sustained a level of performance signicantly in may be required to reect exchange rate movements, significant excess of upper quartile over a period of years and the acquisitions or divestments, and major legal and taxation Committee would need to be satisfied that this was warranted.
Any major adjustments to the calculation are disclosed 50% of the award vests subject to the achievement of the free to shareholders.
There is no retesting of performance.
cash ow target, which operates as a cumulative cash ow target Adjusted cumulative cash ow Vesting % over a three-year performance period.
0 Less than $16 billion 25 $16 billion The peer group for the TSR measure is: Abbott Laboratories, Inc.
Pro rata BMS, Eli Lilly & Company, GlaxoSmithKline plc, Johnson & Between $16 billion and $23 billion Johnson, Merck, Novartis AG, Pzer Inc. F. Hoffmann-La Roche 100 $23 billion and above Ltd and Sano-Aventis.
For PSP Share Awards granted up to and including 2007, the TSR measures share price growth, and dividends reinvested in companies included in the peer group for the TSR measure were: respect of a notional number of shares from the beginning of the Abbott Laboratories, Inc. BMS, Eli Lilly & Company, GlaxoSmithKline relevant performance period to the end of it, and ranks the plc, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis AG, Pzer Inc. F. companies in the selected comparator group by reference to their Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Sano-Aventis, Schering-Plough TSR achieved over that period.
The rank which the Companys TSR Corporation and Wyeth Inc. As a result of corporate actions in the achieves over the performance period will determine how many pharmaceutical sector during 2009, Schering-Plough Corporation Shares will vest under the relevant PSP Share Award.
Payouts and Wyeth Inc. have been removed from the peer group.
As a result, against performance in relation to TSR for PSP Share Awards are the Committee has decided the following in relation to outstanding expressed as a percentage of the maximum PSP Share Award unvested awards: currently payable, shown within a range of 0% to 100%.
This presentation is shown in the table below.
PSP Share Awards in 2007: the TSR performance for ScheringPlough Corporation and Wyeth Inc. was adjusted from a date a The TSR vesting schedule is as follows: week before the announcement of the relevant corporate action to the end of the relevant performance period so as to track the TSR ranking of the Company Vesting % TSR of the acquiring companies Merck in the case of Schering- 0 Below median Plough and Pzer Inc. in the case of Wyeth Inc.. 25 Median PSP Share Awards from 2008 onwards: Schering-Plough Pro rata Between median and upper quartile Corporation and Wyeth Inc. were removed from the peer group 75 Upper quartile thus reducing the size of the peer group to 10 companies Up to 100 Signicantly above upper quartile excluding AstraZeneca.
For these awards, AstraZenecas TSR will be compared with the TSR for the 10 companies remaining in the peer group in respect of the relevant performance period.
To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return index is averaged in the TSR calculations for each company over the three months prior Performance under the PSP in 2010 to the start and end of the relevant performance period.
The TSR graphs on page 131 show, for each PSP Share Award, how the Companys TSR performance has compared with the TSR In addition to the TSR performance target being met for each PSP for the companies in the comparator group from the first day of the Share Award as set out above, the Committee also has to satisfy relevant performance period to 31 December 2010 and how the itself that achievement of the TSR performance target is a genuine Company ranks against those other peer companies on this basis.
reection of the Groups underlying financial performance and has At the end of 2010, the Company is on track to meet the cash ow the discretion to prevent PSP Share Awards from vesting or only to target.
We will continue to report on the performance of each PSP allow them to partially vest where this appears to the Committee to Share Award against the relevant performance target during the be warranted.
The cash ow target will operate as a cumulative performance AstraZeneca Investment Plan target over the same three-year performance period as the TSR The AZIP was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM and measure.
The measure for the cash ow target is net cash ow provides for the grant of share awards AZIP Share Awards over before distributions and the level of vesting will be based on a Shares.
sliding scale between a threshold cash ow target of $16 billion and an upper target of $23 billion.
Twenty five percent of the relevant Basis of participation portion of the award will vest for achievement of the threshold Participation in the AZIP is highly selective and usually includes only target, rising on a sliding scale to full vesting for achievement senior employees on the basis of their performance.
of the upper target as shown in the table below.
Net cash ow is considered to be the most appropriate measure of cash ow The first grant of AZIP Share Awards was made on 7 May, shortly performance because it relates to the residual cash available to after the approval of the AZIP by shareholders.
In future years, AZIP finance additional investment in specic business needs, debt Share Awards are likely to be made annually at the same time as the repayments and our distribution policy.
annual awards under other long-term incentive plans.
The value of Shares subject to an AZIP Share Award is determined by reference The cash ow measure encompasses a number of important to the market price of Shares over the three-day period immediately elements of operational and financial performance and helps to preceding the date of grant.
align executives rewards with shareholder value creation.
The level of vesting of this element is based on a sliding scale against a target Details of AZIP Share Awards granted to Executive Directors are that is intended to represent a significant challenge for the business.
shown in the AstraZeneca Investment Plan table on page 133.
It is intended that the Committee should have the discretion to adjust, but on an exceptional basis only, the free cash ow target 126 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Performance period and holding period Good Leaver Reason is death, ill-health, injury or disability being compassionate circumstances, the AZIP Share Award will vest in It is intended to operate the AZIP with a four-year performance period Performance Period and a four-year holding period Holding respect of all the Shares subject to the AZIP Share Award as calculated at the end of the Performance Period as soon as Period.
Under the rules of the AZIP, the Performance Period is the period of up to eight years and not less than three years from possible following cessation of employment.
On cessation of employment for any other Good Leaver Reason, the AZIP Share 1January of the financial year in which the AZIP Share Award is made.
The Holding Period starts at the end of the Performance Award will vest in respect of all the Shares subject to the AZIP Share Award as calculated at the end of the Performance Period on the Period and ends eight years from the first day of the financial year in which the AZIP Share Award was made.
earlier of: i the end of the period of 24 months from the date of cessation of employment: and ii the end of the Holding Period.
The Committee does have discretion to determine otherwise if it believes Performance requirement for awards under the AZIP the circumstances justify this.
The AZIP is aligned to AstraZenecas targeted product development cycle, reecting the long-term investment horizons that are a feature of the industry.
The performance requirement attached to awards Individual limit In respect of any financial year of the Company, the maximum under the AZIP is a combination of dividend and dividend cover tests, assessed over a period of up to four financial years beginning market value of Shares that may in theory be put under an AZIP Share Award in respect of an employee is 500% of that employees at the start of the first financial year of the Company in which the award is granted.
The actual individual limits that apply under the AZIP, subject to this maximum, are set by the Committee from time to time.
Share Awards made to Executive Directors in 2010 did not At the end of the Performance Period, the extent to which the exceed 65% of base salary.
performance hurdle has been met will determine the number of Shares in respect of which the AZIP Share Award will vest at the end of the Holding Period.
Claw-back of Shares The Committee can claw back some or all of the Shares that are the subject of a participants AZIP Share Award at any time during The Committees intention in its choice of proposed performance the Performance Period and the Holding Period if, in the opinion tests has been to establish a performance requirement that of the Committee acting fairly and reasonably, any of the motivates financial business performance that will generate returns underlying performance of the Company, the occurrence of an for shareholders on a sustainable basis over an extended time event that causes or is very likely to cause reputational damage period.
The performance hurdle for Share Awards made in 2010 is to the Company, or serious misconduct by the participant, warrants that the annual dividend per share paid to holders of Ordinary the claw-back.
If this discretion is exercised, the AZIP Share Award Shares is increased from $2.30 over the four year Performance will be deemed to have been granted over the reduced number Period $2.30 being the full year dividend for 2009 and that of Shares.
dividend cover based on reported earnings before restructuring costs does not fall below 1.5 times.
AstraZeneca Share Option Plan The SOP was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2000 and Performance under the AZIP in 2010 provided for the grant of share option awards Option Awards over The full year dividend was $2.55 for 2010 and dividend cover did Shares.
The SOP was approved for a period of 10 years and not fall below the 1.5 times threshold.
We will continue to report on expired in May.
The Company did not seek re-approval of the SOP the performance of each AZIP Share Award against the relevant by shareholders.
performance hurdle during the relevant performance period.
Details of outstanding Option Awards granted to Executive Directors Cessation of employment during the Performance Period are shown in the Share option plan table on page 134.
If a participant ceases to be in employment and also, if relevant, an Executive Director with the Group during the Performance Period, The Committee imposed performance conditions in respect of his her AZIP Share Award will generally lapse, unless his cessation is because of death, ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, the exercise of such Option Awards by SET members including the Executive Directors which, in the view of the Committee, were retirement with the agreement of his her employing company, or because of a sale or transfer out of the Group each a Good Leaver considered appropriately stretching.
In order for Option Awards to vest, the EPS of the Group must increase at least in line with the Reason.
In these circumstances, the maximum number of Shares comprised in an AZIP Share Award will, unless the Committee UK Retail Prices Index plus 5% per annum on average, over a three year period, the base gure being the EPS for the financial year determines otherwise, be pro-rated to reect the proportion of the period of employment between grant and cessation, relative to the preceding the date of grant, with no retesting.
In addition, since four-year Performance Period.
In circumstances where the Good the review of executive remuneration in 2004, the Committee has Leaver Reason is death, ill-health, injury or disability being included a condition that, if an event occurs which causes material compassionate circumstances, the performance hurdle will be reputational damage to the Company, such that it is not appropriate assessed and the AZIP Share Award may vest following cessation for the Option Awards to vest and become exercisable, the of employment, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
On Committee can make a determination to reect this.
cessation of employment for any other Good Leaver Reason, the pro-rated AZIP Share Award will remain subject to the performance Other incentive plans hurdle, which will be assessed at the end of the Performance Global Restricted Stock Plan Period, unless the Committee determines that special The GRSP was introduced in 2010 and provides for the grant of circumstances apply, and the AZIP Share Award may then vest on restricted stock awards Stock Awards over Shares.
As the GRSP the later of: i the end of the Performance Period: or ii 24 months is operated for below SET-level employees only, no SET member after cessation of employment, unless the Committee determines participates in the GRSP.
During 2010, two restricted stock plans otherwise.
the AZ RSU Plan and the MedImmune RSU Plan described below applicable to below SET-level employees were discontinued and Cessation of employment during the Holding Period replaced by the GRSP on broadly similar terms to the existing If a participant ceases to be in employment and also, if relevant, an plans, with no increase in overall award levels for the purposes of Executive Director with the Group during the Holding Period, his simplifying the administration.
her AZIP Share Award will generally lapse, unless his her cessation is because of a Good Leaver Reason.
In circumstances where the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Directors Remuneration Report 127 Directors Remuneration Report In 2010, Stock Awards were made under the GRSP on 26 March, Policy on external appointments and retention of fees Subject to the specic approval of the Board in each case, with other Stock Awards approved by the Committee in relation to, for example, new appointments, promotions or assignments being Executive Directors and other SET members may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and granted on 27 August.
Stock Awards granted under the GRSP do not involve the issue and allotment of new Ordinary Shares but retain any related fees paid to them, provided always that such external appointments are not considered by the Board to prevent rather rely on the market purchase of Shares that have already been issued.
There is no increase in the overall quantum of awards or reduce the ability of the executive to perform his or her role within the Group to the required standard.
Such appointments are seen as applicable to target employees through the introduction of the GRSP.
a way in which executives can gain a broader business experience and, in turn, benefit the Company.
Restricted Stock Unit Plans The AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP Restricted Stock Unit Award Plan AZ RSU Plan was introduced in 2007 and provided for the During 2010, with the approval of the Board, Simon Lowth was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Standard Chartered PLC.
grant of restricted stock unit awards to selected employees predominantly in the US.
The MedImmune, Inc. 2008 Restricted In respect of such position, he retained the fees paid to him for his services which, during the period of his directorship from 1 May to Stock Unit Award Plan MedImmune RSU Plan was introduced in 2008 to make restricted stock unit awards to employees of 31 December, amounted to 66,667.
The AZ RSU Plan and the MedImmune RSU Plan were used in conjunction with the SOP to provide a mix of restricted Non-Executive Directors stock units and share options.
Restricted stock unit awards typically None of the Non-Executive Directors has a service contract but vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant and are contingent all have letters of appointment.
The effective dates of appointment on continued employment with AstraZeneca.
The AZ RSU Plan and for each of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table the MedImmune RSU Plan were replaced in 2010 by the GRSP.
In accordance with the Companys Articles, following their appointment, Directors must retire at each AGM and may present themselves for election or re-election.
None of the Non-Executive Restricted Share Plan The AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan RSP was introduced Directors has any provision in their letter of appointment giving them a right to compensation payable upon early termination of their in 2008 and provides for the grant of restricted share awards RS Awards to key employees, excluding Executive Directors.
They are not eligible for performance-related bonuses or the grant of share awards or options.
No pension contributions RS Awards are made on an ad hoc basis with variable vesting dates and may not operate in respect of newly issued Ordinary Shares are made on their behalf.
or Ordinary Shares transferred from treasury.
The RSP was used a number of times in 2010 to make RS Awards to a limited number During 2010, the annual fees paid to Non-Executive Directors were of key senior executives in specic situations considered by the reviewed.
The basic Board fee, the fee of the Chairman and of the Committee.
The Committee has responsibility for agreeing any Senior independent Non-Executive Director, and the fee for RS Awards under the RSP and for setting the policy for the way membership of the Audit Committee were increased.
These in which the RSP should operate.
increases took into account the need for the Company to continue to attract skilled and experienced Non-Executive Directors, having regard to comparable fees at other UK public listed companies of a Other plans In addition to the plans described above, the Company operates a similar size, and to recognise the significant responsibility and time commitment expected of Non-Executive Directors.
The increases Share Incentive Plan and a Savings-Related Share Option Plan in the UK, both of which are HM Revenue & Customs approved plans.
ensure that the Company is well positioned when seeking to recruit new Non-Executive Directors as part of routine refreshment of the Certain Executive Directors and other SET members are eligible to participate in these plans, more detailed descriptions of which can Board and succession planning.
The annual aggregate remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors remains well below the be found in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 173. limit in the Articles approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
None of the Non-Executive Directors has participated or will Dilution under LTI Plans participate in any decision made in relation to the determination of Only outstanding awards under the SOP are settled using newly their own fees.
None of the other LTI plans currently operated by the Company have a dilutive effect because they do not involve the issue and allotment of new Ordinary Shares The Chairmans annual fee is 500,000, and the annual fees applicable to other Non-Executive Directors are set out opposite.
but rather rely on the market purchase of Shares that have already been issued.
In addition to the mandatory shareholding requirement imposed on all Directors under the Articles described in the Directors section Service contracts on page 216, in December 2008 the Board agreed that each Non-Executive Director should also be encouraged to build up, over Details of the service contracts for each of the Executive Directors, including their notice periods, are set out opposite.
Either the time, a shareholding in the Company with a value approximately equivalent to the basic annual fee for a Non-Executive Director Company or the Executive Director may terminate the service contract on 12 months notice.
It is the Committees intention that, 75,000 or, in the case of the Chairman, approximately equivalent to his annual fee 500,000. in the event of early termination of an Executive Directors employment, any compensation payable under his her service contract should not exceed the salary and benets that would have Audit been received had the contractual notice period been worked and The Directors emoluments in 2010 disclosed in the Directors this may be further reduced in line with the Executive Directors duty emoluments in 2010 section from page 129 and the details of the to mitigate losses.
None of the Executive Directors has any provision Directors interests in Ordinary Shares disclosed in the Directors in their service contracts giving them a right to liquidated damages interests in shares section from page 132, have been audited by or an automatic entitlement to bonus for the duration of their notice KPMG Audit Plc.
Compensation for any bonus entitlement will be assessed initially as on target but subject to adjustment by the Committee to take account of the particular circumstances of the termination.
128 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Details of Executive Directors service contracts at 31 December 2010 Date of service Unexpired term at Notice 1 Executive Director contract 31 December 2010 period David Brennan 1 January 2006 12 months 12 months Simon Lowth 5 November 2007 12 months 12 months 1 Neither of the Executive Directors has any provision in their service contracts giving them a right to liquidated damages or an automatic entitlement to a bonus for the duration of their notice period.
Non-Executive Directors terms and conditions 1, 2 Non-Executive Director Effective date of appointment Bruce Burlington 1 August 2010 Jean-Philippe Courtois 18 February 2008 Jane Henney 24 September 2001 Michele Hooper 1 July 2003 Rudy Markham 12 September 2008 Nancy Rothwell 27 April 2006 Louis Schweitzer 11 March 2004 John Varley 26 July 2006 Marcus Wallenberg 6 April 1999 1 None of the letters of appointment applicable to Non-Executive Directors confers upon them any right to compensation payable on early termination of their appointment.
2 Pursuant to the Articles, the continued appointment of each Non-Executive Director is subject to their election or re-election at each AGM.
Non-Executive Directors fees Basic Fee 75,000 Senior independent Non-Executive Director 30,000 Membership of the Audit Committee 20,000 Membership of the Remuneration Committee 15,000 1 Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Committee 20,000 Membership of the Science Committee 10,000 1 Chairman of the Science Committee 7,000 1 This fee is in addition to the fee for membership of the relevant Committee.
Directors emoluments in 2010 The aggregate remuneration, excluding pension contributions and the value of shares under option and shares subject to Share Awards, paid to or accrued for all Directors for services in all capacities during the year ended 31 December 2010 was 5,880,000 $9,088,000.
The remuneration of individual Directors is set out below in pounds sterling and US dollars.
All salaries, fees, bonuses and other benets for Directors are established in pounds sterling.
Directors remuneration pounds sterling Other payments Salary Bonus Bonus Taxable and Total Total Total 1 and fees cash Shares benets allowances 2010 2009 2008 Name 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Louis Schweitzer 456 456 325 303 2 3 David Brennan 973 1,055 528 24 464 3,044 3,186 2,506 4 Simon Lowth 620 612 306 8 96 1,642 1,426 1,304 5 Bruce Burlington 33 33 Jean-Philippe Courtois 80 80 75 58 Jane Henney 90 90 85 76 Michele Hooper 120 120 100 90 Rudy Markham 90 90 75 23 Nancy Rothwell 96 96 92 80 John Varley 99 99 95 83 Marcus Wallenberg 71 71 60 53 Former Directors 6 Bo Angelin 23 23 70 63 6 John Buchanan 36 36 110 96 Others 479 1,181 Total 2,787 1,667 834 32 560 5,880 6,178 5,916 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Directors Remuneration Report 129 Directors Remuneration Report Directors remuneration US dollars Other payments Salary Bonus Bonus Taxable and Total Total Total 1 and fees cash Shares benets allowances 2010 2009 2008 Name $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Louis Schweitzer 705 705 504 567 2 3 David Brennan 1,504 1,631 816 37 717 4,705 4,937 4,692 4 Simon Lowth 958 946 473 12 148 2,537 2,209 2,442 5 Bruce Burlington 51 51 Jean-Philippe Courtois 124 124 116 109 Jane Henney 139 139 132 142 Michele Hooper 185 185 155 169 Rudy Markham 139 139 116 43 Nancy Rothwell 148 148 143 150 John Varley 153 153 147 155 Marcus Wallenberg 110 110 93 99 Former Directors 6 Bo Angelin 36 36 108 118 6 John Buchanan 56 56 170 180 Others 743 2,211 Total 4,308 2,577 1,289 49 865 9,088 9,573 11,077 1 These gures represent that portion of the 2010 bonuses required to be deferred into Shares to be held for a three-year period, as explained in the Bonus share deferral requirements section on page 125.
2 This gure includes a sum of $356,000 230,000 in respect of member contributions to the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and 401 k plan which were paid into the plan by means of a salary sacrifice see the Dened contribution arrangements section on page 131 for further details.
3 Relates to relocation allowances, a car allowance and cash payments in respect of dividends accrued on vesting of LTI share plan awards.
4 Relates to remaining cash following selection of benets within AstraZenecas UK exible benets programme and a cash payment in respect of dividends accrued on vesting of an LTI share plan award.
5 Part-year only as appointed as a Director with effect from 1 August 2010.
6 Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 29 April 2010.
In the tables on this page and on the previous page, salaries have been converted between pounds sterling and US dollars at the average exchange rate for the year in question.
These rates were: GBP USD 2010 0.647 2009 0.645 2008 0.534 Details of share options exercised by Directors and the aggregate of gains realised on the exercise of options, and of awards under the LTI plans, in the year are given in the Directors interests in shares section from page 132.
No Director has a family relationship with any other Director.
Pensions Dened benefit arrangements Pension is payable to David Brennan in US dollars.
For ease of understanding, the table below has been presented in both pounds sterling and US dollars using the exchange rates for 2010 set out above.
David Brennan 000 $000 Dened benefit arrangements 1.
Increase in accrued pension during year as a result of ination 3.
Adjustment to accrued pension as a result of salary increase relative to ination 69 107 4.
Increase in accrued pension as a result of additional service 19 29 5.
Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2009 12,890 19,922 1 8.
Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2010 14,711 22,738 9.
Change in transfer value during the period less employee contributions 1,822 2,816 4 4 10.
Pensionable service years at 31 December 2010 35 35 1 For David Brennan, transfer values are calculated to be consistent with the value of the lump sum distribution equivalent to his deferred accrued pension annuity.
The value shown at 31December 2010 has been adjusted to reect a change in the lump sum factor at 31 December 2009.
130 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Dened contribution arrangements In addition to the dened benefit arrangements set out in the Dened benefit arrangements section above, David Brennan participates in a 401 k plan.
He also participates in AstraZenecas Executive Deferred Compensation Plan EDCP which is operated as a supplemental non-qualied plan in respect of US employees should annual contributions exceed the limit applicable to contributions under the qualied 401 k plan.
During 2010, total employer matching contributions of $91,000 59,000 2009: $98,000 64,000 were made to his 401 k plan and EDCP.
Member contributions of $356,000 230,000 were paid through salary sacrifice into the plans.
As described in the Pension arrangements section on page 124, Simon Lowth chose to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, which during 2010 amounted to 149,000 $230,000 2009: 132,000 $205,000.
Transactions with Directors There were no material recorded transactions between the Company and the Directors during 2010 or 2009.
Total shareholder return The Regulations require the inclusion of a graph showing TSR over a five-year period in respect of a holding of the Companys shares, plotted against TSR in respect of a hypothetical holding of shares of a similar kind and number by reference to which a broad equity market index is calculated.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 100 Index and consequently, for the purposes of this graph, which is set out below, we have selected the FTSE 100 Index as the appropriate index.
This graph is re-based to 100 at the start of the rolling five-year period.
We have also included a Pharma Peers Average excluding Schering-Plough Corporation and Wyeth Inc., which reects the TSR of the same comparator group used for the graphs below.
The PSP requires that the TSR in respect of a holding of the Companys shares over the relevant performance period be compared with the TSR of a peer group of pharmaceutical companies as described in the Performance targets section from page 125.
The graphs below show how the Companys TSR performance has compared with the TSR for the relevant companies in the comparator group from the first day in the relevant three-year performance period in respect of each Share Award to 31 December 2010 and how the Company ranks against those other companies on this basis.
To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return index is averaged in the TSR calculations for each company over the three months prior to the start of the relevant performance period as stipulated in the PSP and, for the purposes of the graphs below, over the last three months of 2010.
TSR over a five-year period TSR AstraZeneca compared with peer group 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010 % 160 AstraZeneca 60 Pharmaceutical peers average 50 140 FTSE 100 40 30 120 20 10 100 0 -10 80 -20 -30 January January January January January January 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 AZ GSK BMS J&J NOV AL SA PFI LLY RCH MRK TSR AstraZeneca compared with peer group TSR AstraZeneca compared with peer group 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2010 % 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 % 50 20 40 15 30 10 20 5 10 0 0 -5 -10 -10 -20 -15 BMS MRK AZ SA GSK LLY PFI J&J NOV AL RCH AZ BMS MRK NOV LLY J&J GSK PFI SA AL RCH AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Directors Remuneration Report 131 Directors Remuneration Report Directors interests in shares beneficial interests The table below shows any change in the interests of the Directors including the interests of their Connected Persons, as such term is dened in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 in Ordinary Shares from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 or on the date of resignation of such Director if earlier.
All such interests were beneficial except as otherwise stated.
However, interests in Ordinary Shares or ADSs that are the subject of PSP Share Awards, AZIP Share Awards and or the Deferred Bonus Plan discussed in this Report, are not included in the table below but are shown in the Performance Share Plan, AstraZeneca Investment Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan tables on page 133.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Companys subsidiaries.
Between 31 December 2010 and 27 January 2011, there was no change in the interests in Ordinary Shares shown in the table below.
beneficial interest in Ordinary beneficial interest in Ordinary Shares at 1 January 2010 or Change to beneficial Shares at 31 December 2010 Name if later appointment date interest or if earlier resignation date Louis Schweitzer 5,356 11,259 16,615 David Brennan 128,375 58,607 186,982 Simon Lowth 850 8,496 9,346 1 Bo Angelin 787 787 1 John Buchanan 2,500 2,500 2 Bruce Burlington 553 553 Jean-Philippe Courtois 2,635 2,635 Jane Henney 787 527 1,314 Michele Hooper 1,700 700 2,400 Rudy Markham 1,420 520 1,940 Nancy Rothwell 787 527 1,314 John Varley 500 794 1,294 3 Marcus Wallenberg 67,264 3,618 63,646 1 Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 29 April 2010.
2 Part-year only as appointed as a Director on 1 August 2010.
3 Ceased to have an interest in 3,618 shares held by a family member who ceased to be a Connected Person during 2010.
Unitised stock plans David Brennan, in common with other participating executives in the US, has interests in the following plans which were awarded to him prior to him becoming CEO: the AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan, the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and the AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan.
These are unitised stock plans into which the value of certain previous share incentive awards has been deferred and are not incentive awards in their own right.
Participants hold units in each plan, which represent a long-term equity interest in the Company.
A unit comprises part cash and part ADSs.
The overall unit value can be determined daily by taking the market value of the underlying ADSs and adding the cash position.
The ADSs held within these units carry both voting and dividend rights.
David Brennan is deemed to have a notional beneficial interest in these ADSs, calculated by reference to the fund value and the closing price of ADSs.
Therefore, the number of ADSs in which a notional beneficial interest arises can vary daily as a consequence of stock price movements.
ADSs held at Net ADSs acquired ADSs held Unitised stock plan 1 January 2010 during 2010 at 31 December 2010 AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan 35,906 1,835 37,741 AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan 8,103 420 8,523 No Director or senior executive beneficially owns, or has options over, 1% or more of the issued share capital of the Company, nor do they have different voting rights from other shareholders.
2 Share Awards granted in 2007 vested in 2010 at 78% based on the outcome of the performance conditions and targets which are set out in the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan section from page 125.
3 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 49,264 Ordinary Shares.
4 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, Simon Lowth became beneficially interested in a net number of 5,944 Ordinary Shares.
5 Cash payments equivalent to dividends accruing over the vesting period are made at the date of vesting and are included in Other payments and allowances in the Directors remuneration tables from page 129.
AstraZeneca Investment Plan The interests of Directors at 31 December 2010 in Shares that are the subject of Share Awards under the AZIP are not included in the table on the previous page but are shown below: Number of Award price 1 1 1 shares pence Grant date Vesting date Performance period David Brennan 2010 Share Award 21,253 2861 07.05.10 01.01.18 01.01.10 31.12.13 Total at 31 December 2010 21,253 Simon Lowth 2010 Share Award 8,668 2861 07.05.10 01.01.18 01.01.10 31.12.13 Total at 31 December 2010 8,668 1 UK date convention applies.
Deferred Bonus Plan As described in the Bonus share deferral requirements section on page 125, there is a requirement for Executive Directors and SET members to defer a certain proportion of any short-term bonus payments into Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
The proportion of bonus currently deferred into Ordinary Shares or ADSs is one-third of the pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors and one-sixth for all other SET members.
2 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 7,088 Ordinary Shares.
3 Cash payments equivalent to dividends accruing over the vesting period are made at the date of vesting and are included in Other payments and allowances in the Directors remuneration tables from page 129.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Directors Remuneration Report 133 Directors Remuneration Report Share option plans The interests of Directors who served during 2010, in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares, granted under the SOP and, where indicated, the Zeneca Plan, are included in the following table.
None of the Directors in the table below hold options under the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan.
There were no grants of options made under any of the plans in 2010.
Number of Exercise Ordinary price per Market price Shares under Ordinary on date First day Last day 1 2 3,4 3,4 option Share of exercise exercisable exercisable David Brennan At 1 January 2010 options over Ordinary Shares 592,975 2375p 24.03.09 26.03.19 market price above option price Ordinary Shares 505,244 2271p 19.05.09 26.03.19 market price at or below option price Ordinary Shares 87,731 2975p 24.03.09 23.03.16 At 31 December 2010 options over Ordinary Shares 592,975 2375p 24.03.09 26.03.19 market price above option price Ordinary Shares 505,244 2271p 19.05.09 26.03.19 market price at or below option price Ordinary Shares 87,731 2975p 24.03.09 23.03.16 At 1 January 2010 options over ADSs 355,246 $45.22 16.03.03 23.03.15 market price above option price ADSs 210,255 $42.91 26.03.07 23.03.15 market price at or below option price ADSs 144,991 $48.58 29.03.04 27.03.12 5 Exercised 2 March 2010 32,727 $44.00 $44.35 16.03.03 26.03.19 At 31 December 2010 options over ADSs 322,519 $45.35 29.03.04 23.03.15 market price above option price ADSs 110,987 $40.35 24.03.08 23.03.15 market price at or below option price ADSs 211,532 $47.97 29.03.04 25.03.14 Simon Lowth At 1 January 2010 153,934 2090p 16.11.10 26.03.19 market price above option price 153,934 2090p 16.11.10 26.03.19 market price at or below option price n a n a n a Exercised 17 November 2010 18,665 2210p 3048p 16.11.10 15.11.17 At 31 December 2010 135,269 2074p 28.03.11 26.03.19 market price above option price 135,269 2074p 28.03.11 26.03.19 market price at or below option price n a n a n a 1 Vesting is subject to satisfying the relevant performance conditions set out in each of the relevant share option plans.
Further information on the performance conditions applicable to the SOP is set out in the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan section on page 127.
As a Save As You Earn scheme, the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan is not subject to any performance conditions.
Awards granted under the Zeneca Plan are no longer subject to any performance conditions.
2 Exercise prices are weighted averages.
3 First and last exercise dates of groups of options, within which period there may be shorter exercise periods.
5 Option granted under the Zeneca Plan.
Gains by Directors on exercise of share options The aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year and the two previous years are set out below.
Gains made by Directors Gains made by the on the exercise of share options highest paid Director Year $ $ 2010 260,182.40 11,454.45 2009 2008 1,764.96 During 2010, the market price of Ordinary Shares or ADSs was as follows: Ordinary Share ADS market price Range of the Ordinary Share Stock Exchange at 31 December 2010 ADS market price during 2010 London 2922p 2732p to 3385p Stockholm 309.3 SEK 309.3 SEK to 382.2 SEK New York $46.19 $40.91 to $53.50 On behalf of the Board A C N Kemp Company Secretary 27 January 2011 134 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
