Directors remuneration report The Board presents the following report on Directors remuneration and the work and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration Committee This Committee has been established for many years and operates under terms of reference agreed by the Board and which can be found on the Group website: www.
The Committee comprised Mr G Bullock Chairman, Dr K Rajagopal and Mr C G Watson.
Each Committee member is an independent Non-Executive Director.
They bring independence to all aspects of Board remuneration and in the application of professional advice to matters of remuneration.
The Committee is responsible for determining, on behalf of the Board, the Companys remuneration policy, the employment conditions and remuneration packages comprising salary and benefits of individual Executive Directors and the fees for the Chairman.
The Committee also administers and determines the grant of options under the Groups share option schemes for senior employees and administers and determines the grants of awards under the Performance Share Plan.
The Committee obtains independent professional advice from Towers Watson to ensure that the Companys remuneration policy is appropriate and competitive.
Mr W H Whiteley, the Company Chairman, and Mr M E Vernon, the Chief Executive, attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee to provide information requested by it.
However, the invitees do not participate in any discussions involving their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee consulted with Towers Watson in arriving at the remuneration packages paid to Directors during 2010.
The Company has throughout the year complied with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2008 the Combined Code with regard to Directors remuneration.
The Committee has given full consideration to the Combined Code in establishing the remuneration policy and packages for Directors.
Policy on Executive Directors remuneration The Companys policy is to reward Directors competitively and on the broad principle that their remuneration should be comparable with remuneration in other similar public companies.
Consideration is also given to the benefits of senior management and other employees throughout the Group to ensure a common sense of purpose and sharing of success.
Further, the total remuneration package is designed in a way which is appropriate and necessary to attract, retain and motivate Directors of the calibre required to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
It is anticipated that this policy will continue to govern the Companys approach to Executive Directors remuneration in subsequent financial years.
In order to align the interests of Directors and shareholders, the Committee has structured the total remuneration package to provide a material performance-related element through the annual bonus and the Groups Performance Share Plan.
The structure of the Directors remuneration package has been established, subject to appropriate modifications, for many years and has regard to pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration and the structure of their remuneration package are kept under review to ensure the Directors overall package remains competitive and shareholders will be informed of any resulting change.
The remuneration package comprises: Basic salary The Committee obtained independent professional advice from Towers Watson using published information for comparable public companies.
Salaries are reviewed annually as at 1st January taking into account the experience, responsibility and performance of the individual.
Benefits The Company operates company car, life assurance and private health insurance schemes in which the Executive Directors are eligible to participate.
These benefits are reviewed annually to ensure they remain comparable with benefits provided by other similar public companies and to ensure they are purchased by the Company at a competitive market rate.
Annual bonus The Company operates a non-pensionable annual bonus scheme for Executive Directors.
The bonus is determined as a percentage of salary.
For 2010, maximum available bonus remained at 100% of salary as in prior years.
The bonus for Mr M E Vernon and Mr D J Meredith was made up as follows: i A component of up to 65% of salary was determined on a sliding scale by reference to the operating profit of the Group including the Groups associate company in India and ii A component of up to 35% of salary was determined on a sliding scale by reference to the return on capital employed ROCE.
The bonus for Mr N H Daws, Mr M E Gibbin and Mr A J Scrivin was made up as follows: i A component of up to 65% of salary, split so that 35% of salary was paid based on Group operating profit and 30% of salary was paid based on their respective divisional profit performances and ii A component of up to 35% of salary was determined on a sliding scale by reference to the return on capital employed ROCE.
36 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The application of this formulae for 2010 resulted in a bonus equal to 100% of salary being payable to Mr M E Vernon, Mr D J Meredith and Mr N H Daws.
A bonus equal to 93% of salary was payable to Mr M E Gibbin and a bonus equal to 98% of salary was payable to Mr A J Scrivin.
The auditors confirmed the calculations were made in line with the rules of the bonus scheme.
For 2011, the Committee plans to base the bonus for Executive Directors on the same measures with the same relative weight as in 2010 and the maximum bonus payable will remain a sum equal to 100% of base salary.
The Committee has offered to Executive Directors in a UK defined benefit scheme a cash alternative to pension contributions equal to 25% of pensionable salary.
The level of this cash alternative was confirmed by Towers Watson.
The cost of the alternative to the Company would be no greater than the cost of the pension contributions.
The cash alternative has not so far been adopted by any of the Executive Directors in any such scheme.
Options Spirax-Sarco Engineering 1992 UK and global share option schemes Spirax-Sarco Engineering approved and global share option schemes The Company operates share option schemes administered by the Committee which determines the grant of options under the schemes, usually once per year.
These are designed to align the longer term interests of participants with those of shareholders by giving an incentive linked to added shareholder value.
Following the introduction of the performance share plan in 2005, it is intended that, ordinarily, Executive Directors are granted awards under that plan rather than be granted options.
Executive Directors, senior executives and management hold options granted in previous years.
Options granted to each Director from 1997 are subject to a performance condition which is described below.
Performance condition for share option schemes In accordance with market practice, options granted are normally specified to be exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant and, for grants from 1997, only if a specified performance condition is satisfied.
In line with the then established market practice, the performance condition for options granted from 1997 up to 2001 requires an increase in earnings per share EPS of more than 6% greater than the increase in the UK retail prices index over a period of three consecutive years between grant and ten years from grant.
For options granted from and including 2002 the performance condition requires an increase in EPS of more than 9% greater than the increase in the UK retail prices index over a period of three consecutive years between grant and ten years from grant.
For grants from and including 2005, the performance condition will, ordinarily, need to be met over the three-year period from the 1st January prior to the date of grant in order for the option to become exercisable.
If the condition is not met at the end of the three-year period, the option will lapse.
The same performance condition applies to each Director.
The performance condition chosen was considered appropriate because it ensured increases in the EPS were achieved having taken account of UK inflation.
The auditors are asked to confirm whether the performance condition has been met.
The method of assessment is considered appropriate to confirm compliance with the condition.
The performance condition requires a comparison with a factor external to the Company, namely the growth in the UK retail prices index over the performance period.
Details of total share options outstanding are set out in note 24 on page 65.
The above performance conditions apply to other relevant options granted to all other participants in the share option schemes.
Spirax-Sarco performance share plan PSP The PSP for Executive Directors, senior executives and management was adopted at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Following the introduction of this PSP no further option grants have been made to Executive Directors.
Details of options that were awarded prior to this and which remain outstanding are provided on page 41.
The PSP allows for awards to be made each year with a market value of up to 150% of base salary although in practice the market value of awards has been limited in previous years to 100% of base salary.
The market value of awards made to Executive Directors in 2010 was limited to 100% of base salary.
Details are set out on page 42.
Awards take the form of contingent rights to acquire shares, subject to the satisfaction of performance targets.
To the extent they vest, awards may be satisfied in cash, in shares or an option over shares at the discretion of the Company.
Options which are granted to satisfy vested awards will lapse if not exercised within seven years of grant.
The performance target applied to awards granted in 2007 and 2008 was based on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to the TSR of other companies included in the FTSE All-Share Industrial Engineering Index over the three-year periods commencing with effect from 1st January 2007 and 1st January 2008.
For awards made in 2009 and 2010, the Committee decided to amend the comparator group of companies against which the Companys TSR would be measured to encompass a group of the 27 companies within the overall Industrial Goods and Services super sector of FTSE 350.
TSR was chosen as the measure of performance as the Committee felt that this achieved an appropriate alignment of the interests of the Directors with those of the Companys shareholders.
For full vesting, the Companys TSR must be at or above the upper quartile, with 25% of the shares subject to an award vesting if the Companys TSR is at the median relative to the comparator group.
Awards vest on a straight line pro-rata basis between median and upper quartile performance.
In respect of the awards made in 2008, the Companys relative TSR performance resulted in 100% of the TSR element of the awards vesting.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 Directors remuneration report continued Following a review of the operation of the PSP and the market competitiveness of awards, the Committee decided in 2008 to adopt a second performance measure to determine vesting under the PSP.
Although relative TSR was retained as one of the measures to determine the vesting of part of the award, a second, separate element of the award was based upon EPS growth.
The decision to adopt EPS as a specific measure to determine the vesting of part of the future awards was a reflection of the importance the Company gives to continuing growth in earnings.
In respect of the awards made in 2008, the Companys EPS growth resulted in 100% of the EPS element of the awards vesting.
Specifically, for awards made in 2010, the award was split into two separate parts amounting to 60% and 40% of award respectively.
The vesting of each part of the overall award will be subject to the satisfaction of separate performance targets as follows: i Vesting of the first part, amounting to 60% of salary, will be based on the TSR measure as described above and ii Vesting of the second part, amounting to 40% of salary, will be subject to achievement of a target based on aggregate EPS growth over the whole of the three-year performance period, with growth measured relative to EPS in the year prior to that in which the award is made.
For the awards made in 2010, 25% of this element of the award will vest if the compound annual growth in EPS over the three-year period 2010 to 2012 is equal to 5%: and 100% of the award will vest if the compound annual growth in EPS is equal to or exceeds 11%: there will be pro-rata vesting for actual growth between these two rates.
No award will vest if the Companys TSR is below the median.
TSR calculations are performed by Towers Watson.
The auditors are asked to confirm whether the EPS performance condition has been met.
The Committee reviews the measures annually and is maintaining the same measures and the same performance standards for awards made in 2011.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc employee share ownership plan the plan The Executive Directors, with the exception of Mr M E Vernon, participate in the plan, as described on page 42.
Participation in the plan is open to all eligible UK employees.
No employees entitlement under the plan is subject to performance conditions, as the aim of the plan is to encourage increased shareholding in the Company by all eligible UK employees.
There are no other long-term incentives or share-based arrangements provided to Directors.
Share ownership policy It is the policy of the Board that Executive Directors should have a significant shareholding in the Company.
The Board expects that Executive Directors will accumulate, following appointment to the Board, a shareholding equivalent to at least 100% of basic salary and should retain a shareholding of at least this amount whilst remaining on the Board.
To achieve this level of share ownership the Board expects that Executive Directors will retain shares acquired under the Companys share-based incentive schemes after sales of such shares as are needed to settle relevant tax and national insurance charges until the required level of shareholding is achieved.
Any shares held in trust for an Executive Director or in the name of a connected person, eg spouse, will be considered as part of an Executive Directors shareholding.
The Board will exercise discretion in implementing this policy where the personal circumstances of an individual Executive Director make that appropriate.
The policy does not require any shareholdings by Non-Executive Directors.
Pensions The UK Executive Directors, other than Mr M E Vernon and Mr M E Gibbin, are members of an HMRC-registered, contributory defined benefit pension scheme based on 1 60th of pensionable salary, for each year of pensionable service.
Up to 31st March 2010, the maximum pension was two-thirds of pensionable salary.
Mr N H Daws and Mr D J Meredith accrue pro-rata additional service at a rate which gives a further two and a half years of service at age 62 although their normal retirement age is 65.
This additional service provision does not apply to Mr A J Scrivin who has a normal retirement age of 65.
Mr M E Vernon and Mr M E Gibbin both have a normal retirement age of 65.
In April 2010 the terms of the defined benefit pension scheme changed in that the scheme was no longer non-contributory.
The change allowed members to choose to: i Continue to build up future benefits as previously in return for sharing some of the cost by way of making member contributions.
Under this option members retained the 1 60th rate of accrual and contributed 3% of their pensionable salary from 1st April 2010 to 31st March 2011 and then 6% of their pensionable salary from 1st April 2011 onwards or ii Build up future benefits at a lower rate of 1 80th accrual without having to make contributions.
The UK scheme also provides lump sum death-in-service benefit of four times pensionable salary and spouses pensions are payable where death occurs in service or in retirement.
Mr M E Vernon, in addition to membership of the Spirax Sarco Inc. defined benefit scheme, has a defined contributions pension scheme as set out on page 43.
In total, pension contributions at the rate of 25% of pensionable pay were payable from 12th June 2007.
A lump sum death-in-service benefit of four times salary is also provided for Mr M E Vernon.
Mr M E Gibbin has a defined contributions pension scheme as set out on page 43.
From 1st January 2010 to 30th November 2010, contributions at the rate of 25% of pensionable pay were payable.
With effect from 1st December 2010 Mr M E Gibbin received a cash alternative payment equivalent to 25% of pensionable pay.
A lump sum death-in-service benefit of four times salary is also provided for Mr M E Gibbin.
38 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Non-Executive Directors The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is approved by the full Board within the limits set out in the Companys articles of association.
Their remuneration reflects the amount of time spent on the Companys business.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the bonus, share option or share ownership schemes and do not participate in the Performance Share Plan.
Non-Executive Directors appointments are non-pensionable.
Service contracts The Committee applies a policy on Directors contracts reflecting established practice and reviews the content from time-to-time on professional advice.
The Executive Directors have rolling service contracts with no fixed expiry dates which are subject to 12 months notice.
Notice period Date of contract M E Vernon 10.12.08 12 months N H Daws 28.05.03 12 months M E Gibbin 17.04.09 12 months D J Meredith 30.12.92 12 months A J Scrivin 15.03.05 12 months The service contract of Mr M E Vernon was amended on 4th March 2009.
Pursuant to the amendment, the Company agreed to pay on behalf of Mr M E Vernon any UK or US tax liabilities which arise on his earnings under his service contract over and above the amount of UK tax liabilities which would have been payable had Mr M E Vernon only been liable to pay UK tax on such earnings.
The Company also agreed to pay the reasonable costs incurred by Mr M E Vernon of obtaining full tax advice in respect of his employment with the Company for the duration of his employment and, save in certain bad leaver circumstances, for a period of two years after termination of employment.
Executive Directors contracts may be terminated without notice and without payment of compensation on the occurrence of certain events, such as gross misconduct.
If, however, the Company were to terminate an Executive Directors contract without cause and without due notice, it would pay a sum equal to the value of the salary and benefits to be received during the notice period, but taking into account the Directors duty to mitigate his loss.
Any rights to pensions would be dealt with under the rules of the pension scheme applicable to the Director and any rights under the Companys share plans would be dealt with in accordance with the rules of each plan.
Any additional termination payments will reflect the circumstances leading to termination of employment and excessive compensation will not be paid.
Professional advice will be obtained by the Committee to ensure legal obligations and good practice are followed.
The Executive Directors contracts contain no provisions regarding material non-statutory redundancy payments, rights to compensation on change of control of the Company or entitlement to early retirement benefits.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, Mr W H Whiteley, do not have service contracts.
They have appointment letters for three-year periods, and re-appointment is not automatic.
No compensation for loss of office is payable to Non-Executive Directors under their appointment letters.
Date of Notice period appointment letter W H Whiteley 30.06.09 1 month G Bullock 30.06.09 1 month K Rajagopal 21.01.09 1 month C G Watson 16.07.09 1 month Policy on senior executive remuneration The Committee determines the philosophy, principles and policy of remuneration which shall apply to the Groups senior executives.
The responsibility for determining the precise package to meet local practice and performance lies with the Chief Executive and the responsible Executive Director.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39 Directors remuneration report continued Total shareholder return The performance graph illustrated shows the Companys total cumulative shareholder return for the five-year period ended 31st December 2010 compared with the total cumulative shareholder return for the FTSE 350 Industrial Goods and Services super sector.
This comparison is selected as being the most appropriate sector for the Companys operations.
Information subject to audit The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the remaining sections of the Report.
Directors emoluments No Directors have waived, or agreed to waive in future, any emoluments.
Mr N H Daws, Mr M E Gibbin, Mr A J Scrivin and Mr M E Vernon received a cash allowance in lieu of a company car with effect from 1st January 2010, 15th March 2010, 1st August 2010 and 13th December 2010 respectively.
Mr M E Gibbin received a cash allowance in lieu of a pension contribution with effect from 1st December 2010 as described on page 43.
40 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Long-term incentives i Spirax-Sarco Engineering 1992 UK and Global Share Option Schemes Spirax-Sarco Engineering Approved and Global Share Option Schemes The interests of Directors are set out below: Exercise Exercised price per Date from 2 3 Expiry 01.01.10 in year 31.12.10 share which 4 1 4 date No.
1 Options shown on line A relate to options granted to members of the Board, whereas options shown on line B relate to options granted to individuals prior to their appointment to the Board.
2 Mid market price on 2010 the date 2010 2009 Option Options options Gain arising Gain arising exercise exercised exercised on exercise on exercise price No.
3 This is the exercise price for the ordinary shares under option at 31st December 2010.
The exercise price shown is lower than the mid-market price of the Companys ordinary shares on 31st December 2010.
4 This is the range of dates between which the option may be exercised.
No options were granted to Directors during the year and no options held by Directors lapsed during the year.
The mid-market price of the ordinary shares on 31st December 2010 was 1934.0p.
During the period from 1st January 2010 to 31st December 2010 the ordinary mid-market share price ranged between 1224.0p and 1987.0p.
The performance conditions are described on page 37.
100% of the awards has vested as the performance conditions applicable to those awards were met, namely that the TSR performance of the Company during the period 1st January 2007 to 31st December 2009 placed the Company within the upper quartile of the TSR performance of the companies in the FT 250 All-Share Industrial Engineering Index over the performance period.
The awards vested on 2nd March 2010 and the mid-market price of the shares on that date was 1315.0p.
2 The mid-market price of the shares on 12th March 2008 was 994.5p.
The period over which performance conditions are measured is 1st January 2008 to 31st December 2010.
3 The mid-market price of the shares on 11th March 2009 was 758.0p.
The period over which performance conditions are measured is 1st January 2009 to 31st December 2011.
4 The average mid-market price of the shares on the three days from 23rd to 25th March 2010 was 1366.0p.
This was applied in determining the number of shares subject to the award granted on 26th March 2010.
The mid-market price of the shares on that date was 1390.0p.
The period over which performance conditions are measured is 1st January 2010 to 31st December 2012.
The performance conditions are described on pages 37 and 38. iii Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc employee share ownership plan the plan The Company operates the plan in which all the Executive Directors, with the exception of Mr M E Vernon, participate on the same basis as all other eligible UK employees.
For the plan period the individual Directors contributions are limited to a maximum of 1,500 per annum under HMRC rules.
The trustee of the plan provides a matching share for each share purchased under the plan on behalf of the Director which is the same basis as for other participating employees.
Dividends paid on the partnership and matching shares, up to a maximum of 1,500 per tax year, are reinvested and held by the trustee as dividend shares.
Matching shares and dividend shares may generally only be released three years after they were purchased by the trustee.
Period of Partnership Matching Dividend qualifying Interest at shares shares shares Interest at 3 1 1 2 conditions 01.01.10 purchased awarded awarded 31.12.10 N H Daws 4,860 144 144 100 5,248 3 years M E Gibbin 333 144 144 10 631 3 years D J Meredith 4,860 144 144 100 5,248 3 years A J Scrivin 2,015 144 144 53 2,356 3 years 1 Partnership shares were purchased, at a price of 908.8p, and matching shares were awarded on 8th October 2010.
The mid-market price of the shares on that date was 1816.0p.
2 A total of 216 dividend shares were awarded on 21st May 2010, on which date the mid-market price of the shares was 1372.0p, and a total of 47 dividend shares were awarded on 12th November 2010, on which date the mid-market price of the shares was 1731.0p.
3 Partnership shares are not subject to qualifying conditions.
No matching shares or dividend shares were released from the plan or forfeited during the year.
Directors pensions The UK Executive Directors, other than Mr M E Vernon and Mr M E Gibbin, are members of a UK defined benefit pension scheme.
Mr M E Vernon is a member of a defined benefit scheme provided by Spirax Sarco Inc. Mr M E Gibbin is a member of the UK defined contributions pension scheme.
The following information is consistent with the presentation used last year and sets out the disclosures under the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act 2006.
42 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The following is additional information relating to UK Executive Directors defined benefit pensions: i Dependants pension On the death of a Director in service, a spouses pension equal to one-half of the Directors pension based on pensionable service to the date of death is payable.
On the death of a Director after payment of the pension commences, a spouses pension of one-half of the Directors pension entitlement at the date of death, ignoring commutation and any early retirement actuarial reduction, is payable: in addition Directors pensions are guaranteed to be paid for five years from retirement.
ii Early retirement rights After leaving the service of the Company, a Director has the right to draw his accrued pension at any time after his 60th birthday with no reduction, with the exception of Mr A J Scrivin.
iii Pension increases Pensions are subject to annual increases in line with the annual rise in the retail prices index subject to a maximum of 5% per annum.
The Trustees and the Company have the discretion to apply a greater increase.
iv Other discretionary benefits There are no discretionary practices which are taken into account in calculating transfer values on leaving service.
Mr M E Vernons defined benefit pension arrangements are as follows: Transfer Transfer Change in Change in Transfer value of value of Change accrued accrued value of Accrued change in accrued in total Accrued pension pension accrued Age pension at accrued pension at transfer pension at during during pension at 1 1 attained at 31.12.09 pension 31.12.09 value 31.12.10 the year the year 31.12.10 31.12.10 pa pa pa pa M E Vernon 57 12,078 14,779 2,701 2,563 19,574 95,509 112,870 17,361 1 Net of inflation at a rate of 1.1% per annum.
The following is additional information relating to Mr M E Vernons pension: i Dependants pension On the death of Mr M E Vernon in service, a spouses pension equal to one-half of his pension based on pensionable service to the date of death is payable.
After payment of the pension commences the accrued pension shown has no attaching spouses pension.
However at retirement Mr M E Vernon has the option to reduce his own pension to provide for a spouses pension after death.
ii Early retirement rights After leaving the service of the Company, Mr M E Vernon has the right to draw his accrued pension at any time after his 65th birthday with no reduction.
Mr M E Vernon has the right to commence his pension upon retirement for which he now meets the age and service requirements, with the pension being reduced.
The annual reductions for early retirement are 3% for each year from age 65 to age 60 and 5% for each year from age 60 to earliest retirement age.
iii Pension increases The pension has no guaranteed increases.
Spirax Sarco Inc. has the discretion to provide increases.
iv Other discretionary benefits Additionally, Mr M E Vernon benefited from an amount in lieu of contributions to a UK defined contributions pension scheme.
The total amount made by the Group was 98,014.
The following is additional information relating to Mr M E Gibbins pension: i Dependants pension On the death of Mr M E Gibbin in service, the total plan value of his UK defined contributions pension scheme will become payable.
ii Other discretionary benefits Mr M E Gibbin benefited from contributions made into a UK defined contributions pension scheme for the period 1st January 2010 to 30th November 2010.
The total made by the Group was 39,292.
With effect from 1st December 2010 Mr M E Gibbin benefited from a payment in lieu of contributions to a UK defined contributions pension scheme.
The total amount paid by the Group was 4,270.
Signed by G Bullock Chairman of Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board 8th March 2011 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43
