67 Introduction to SSE Corporate governance continued Directors report Remuneration Report Remuneration explained Financial statements Shareholder information Executive Directors salary and incentive plans 2009 10 Performance measure Purpose link to strategy Policy and decisions Base salary Reflects market data, role, business and Following the annual review in November individual performance measured against 2009, the decision on any change was SSEs strategy as set out on pages 8 to 10 deferred until March 2010, when the salary of this Report.
for the Chief Executive was left unchanged, and the salary of the other three directors was increased by 2.5%.
Short term Annual Bonus 59% awarded The Annual Bonus is determined by the The performance targets are clearly linked Maximum award of up to 100% of base Remuneration Committees assessment to SSEs strategy in three key ways: financial salary: 75% in cash non-pensionable : of the performance of SSE during the year, performance: teamwork: and personal 25% compulsorily deferred into shares based on three key areas.
objectives relating to the Companys priorities.
which only vest, subject to continued service, after three years.
Financial performance 60% Financial performance 60% Financial performance max 60% Group financial performance is measured Adjusted profit before tax is a key means During 2009 10, SSE delivered a 2.9% by adjusted profit before tax, which reflects of achieving SSEs first responsibility to increase in adjusted profit before tax the underlying profits of SSEs business.
shareholders: sustained real growth in resulting in a target payment of 50% the dividend.
Teamwork 20% Teamwork 20% Teamwork max 20% Teamwork is measured by performance SSE believes it will only be successful Safety: Total Recordable Injury Rate against the SSE SET of core values: financially if it exercises a wider corporate improved.
Service: Top-ranking performance Safety: Service: Efficiency: Sustainability: responsibility to others, such as customers in principal independent surveys.
Performance and employees, on whom its success Efficiency: Top-ranking performance in against these values is assessed through ultimately depends.
Its core values electricity distribution measured by Ofgem.
Sustainability: Additional 150MW of renewable energy capacity in operation.
Excellence: Sector leadership shown in key areas, eg establishment of Centre of Excellence in Renewable Energy.
Teamwork: Independent Board review confirmed Executive Directors work very well together.
The Committee awarded an above target payment of 80% of maximum.
Personal objectives 20% Personal objectives 20% Personal objectives max 20% In keeping with its Teamwork value, Personal objectives set during the year Overall, the Remuneration Committee and to avoid setting Executive Directors include: management of political and concluded that progress was made in each potentially conflicting personal objectives, regulatory issues Ian Marchant : major of these areas during 2009 10 and that SSE believes personal objectives should project construction Colin Hood : financing individually and collectively the Executive form a part of the Annual Bonus.
They are to support investment programme Gregor Directors delivered good performance designed to support achievement of SSEs Alexander : and energy trading and fuel during the year resulting in an above strategy and reinforce its values.
target payment of 65% of maximum.
Long term Performance Share Plan 16.19% awarded For awards granted in 2007 performance The two elements of TSR and EPS Maximum award of 150% of base salary each is measured against the following two reflect relative and absolute measures year.
Awards are released to the extent elements over a three-year period.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The relative TSR measure is dependent TSR max 50% k 100% vests at or above 75th percentile on SSEs relative long-term share price Out-turn below 50th percentile of the k 25% vests at median performance and dividend return sustained FTSE 100, 0% of TSR element awarded.
k straight-line basis between median real growth is SSEs first responsibility and 75th percentile to shareholders.
Further vesting of this k no vesting of award if median element requires the Remuneration performance not achieved Committee to be satisfied with SSEs underlying financial performance.
Adjusted Earnings per Share EPS Adjusted EPS is used to monitor SSEs EPS max 50% k 100% vests where EPS is 9% above RPI performance over the medium term because Out-turn growth at 3.6% per annum, k 25% vests where EPS is 3% above RPI it is straightforward: it defines the amount 32.4% of EPS element awarded.
k straight-line basis between 3% and 9% of profit after tax that has been earned for above RPI each Ordinary Share.
k no vesting if EPS minimum growth of RPI 3% is not achieved Scottish and Southern Energy 68 Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Report Remuneration explained continued Agenda 2009 10 Regular items Other items May Directors Remuneration Report.
Approval of Performance Share Awards, Vesting and New Awards.
Approval of the Annual Bonus awards.
Review and confirmation of Short-Term Incentive targets.
Utility Company comparator group review.
November Review of Total Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
Strategic Director Salary Review Policy.
February Bonus and Share Awards.
March Review of Directors Senior Executives Salaries and Total Employment Contracts.
Long-Term Incentive salary increase policy.
Approval of the 2009 10 Bonus awards.
Establishment of the 2010 11 Bonus Performance targets.
The Remuneration Committees composition, responsibilities and operation comply with Section B of the Corporate Governance Code.
In forming remuneration policy, the Committee has given full consideration to the best practice provisions set out in the Code.
This report sets out the Companys policy Advisors Remuneration Agenda, the Committee on Executive Directors remuneration k The Chief Executive and the Director discussed the following: for the year ended 31 March 2010 and of Human Resources advised the complies with the regulations made under Committee on matters relating to k Strategic Review of Executive the Companies Act 2006.
The report will the appropriateness of awards for remuneration in SSE: be presented at the AGM on 22 July 2010 the Executive Directors and Senior k Investment Return on Executive Director for approval and shareholders will be able Executives although they were not Remuneration for shareholders: to ask questions on the report at the AGM.
present for discussions on their k Senior Executive Total Remuneration: own remuneration.
k talent management: and k In addition the Director of Human k employment contracts.
How the Remuneration Resources advised on HR strategy and the application of policies across During the year, the Committee completed Committee works the organisation.
a strategic review of the remuneration policy to assess its appropriateness k The Company Secretary advised the Members and meetings and the extent to which objectives and Committee on corporate governance Attendance Membership at meetings principles of the policy are being met.
The Board, the Executive Directors and k Deloitte, Towers Watson and People Lady Rice Committee Chairman 5 5 selected Senior Managers participated, Innovation Ltd all appointed by the Nick Baldwin 5 5 with the results discussed at a dedicated Committee provided market information Richard Gillingwater 5 5 meeting in September and subsequently.
drawn from published surveys and Lord Smith of Kelvin 5 5 advice on appropriate awards of The principles bonuses, long-term incentives, and Informal consultation takes place outwith The core principles of the Companys comparator group pay and performance.
the scheduled meetings as necessary.
remuneration policy are outlined in k Bank of Americ a Merrill Lynch provided the At a Glance section as shown on advice on shareholder views and, Ernst Terms of reference page 66 together with policy details and and Young provided financial policy k sets the total remuneration policy diagrams which illustrate the degree updates.
They were appointed by the on behalf of the Board: of stretch in the target and maximum Committee for these services.
k approves the detailed remuneration values of the packages.
terms of the Executive Directors including their service contracts and The policy comprises base salary, benefits Total Remuneration the impact on senior management including a defined benefit pension plan, Policy remuneration across the organisation: and both short-term incentive and longk approves the remuneration of the term incentive plans.
The current shortChairman: Total Remuneration Policy is integral to and long-term incentive plans are shown k approves the design and performance overall HR Strategy and the SSE values in the chart on page 67. targets of incentive schemes: are supported in the objectives, plan k grants awards under the Companys design and application of the policy.
Total Remuneration Policy Long-term Incentive Plans: and The Executive Directors total remuneration k monitors the total remuneration of the What was new in 2009 10?
policy is to remain below median of the Senior Executives below Board level.
In addition to the customary items of the FTSE 20-50 excluding financial services.
69 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information SSEs policy is to retain Executive Base salary For 2009 10, the total Annual Bonus paid to Directors who are motivated by the The Committee is mindful of the the Executive Directors was 59% of salary, long-term success of the Company, rather remuneration increases for the different compared with 60% in the previous year and than short-term remuneration.
For peer groups of employees and considers other with the maximum payable of 100%.
Around group comparison, the Committee takes relevant external indices such as RPI or half of the bonus was payable in respect account of total remuneration in specific CPI in the process of reviewing base of financial performance and around half in UK Utility companies and their reported salary for the Executive Directors.
respect of teamworking and performance financial results.
Executive The Committee conducted its regular Directors salary and incentive plans This reflects SSE culture in which review of salaries for Executive Directors 2009 10, on page 67, sets out performance Executive Directors and Senior Managers in November 2009 and deferred its metrics used in the assessment of the are motivated by developing the Company decision until March 2010.
It considered Annual Bonus for 2009 10. for the future, and explains why long-term the following factors in the light of recent growth and sustainability of the business market and governance trends: For 2010 11, the structure of the Annual are of such importance when determining Bonus will remain the same as in 2009 10. remuneration policy.
k Total remuneration and basic salary, The maximum bonus payable will be when benchmarked where relevant 100% of salary, split between financial Certain institutional shareholders were to FTSE 20-50 excluding Financial performance 60%, teamworking 20% consulted on the implications of some Services, are behind market median and personal objectives 20%.
In any changes proposed for tax efficiency for the Executive Directors.
single year, it is expected that the Annual purposes to bonus and deferred bonus k The Executive Directors have Bonus paid will be around 50% of payment dates for the year ending 2009 10 delivered again a strong financial Executive Directors salary for on-target only.
The Committee decided to permit performance with significant performance.
The Annual Bonus is paid relevant employees to accelerate part results to shareholders in a difficult 75% in cash, and 25% deferred into shares of the short-term incentive payment to trading year as dividend growth has which vest after three years, subject to March and the Deferred Bonus Shares exceeded inflation for the eleventh continued service.
Bonus Shares do not have performance k Other salary reviews in the Group Long-term incentives Performance Share Plan criteria and will be retained at least until included the main collective The Performance Share Plan is the main their maturity date.
scheme to reward Executive Directors Management salaries increased and other senior executives over a threeThe balance of fixed and by an average of 3%.
year period for the continued profitable variable remuneration growth of SSE as measured, up to Taking into account the SSE business Taking into account these points, the 2009 10, by Earnings per Share and profile, the Remuneration Committee Committee recommended a salary increase the Total Shareholder Return compared believes that around 50% of the total for the Executive Directors of up to 2.5%.
to the FTSE 100. remuneration should be performanceThe Chief Executive elected not to accept related, increasing up to 66% for a salary increase for the current year.
In 2006, awards were equivalent to 100% exceptional performance as shown of salary for the Executive Directors and in the table on page 66.
The Committee Any salary increase will be effective from this out-turn in 2009 was reported last believes that this overall remuneration 1 April 2010, fifteen months since the year.
Since 2007, awards equivalent to structure is reasonable and rewards previous increase in January 2009.
150% of salary have been made to performance sufficiently without causing Executive Directors and at lower rates undue risk taking.
Executive Directors salaries 2010 11 to other senior executives.
It is planned that for the next year PSP Awards should Senior executives, managers Ian Marchant 840,000 be on a similar basis.
and employees Colin Hood 645,750 The Committee is aware of the importance Gregor Alexander 495,075 Awards will be released after three years of an appropriate relationship between Alistair Phillips-Davies 495,075 subject to the meeting of demanding the remuneration levels of the Executive performance conditions relating to the Directors, senior executives, managers Current incentive plans Companys relative total shareholder and other employees within the Group.
Short-term incentive return TSR performance and the Annual Bonus Plan Companys adjusted EPS growth.
Further There are a number of senior The purpose of the Annual Bonus details of the performance targets are in executives just below Board level who Plan is to reward Executive Directors the table on page 67. have a significant influence on Group performance during the year, based on an performance.
Full details of their total analysis of financial results, teamworking The TSR performance measure is remuneration, benchmarked to the and personal objectives.
Performance dependent on the Companys relative longrelevant market place using the same is considered in the context of targets term share price performance within the methodology as for the Executive set in each of the areas at the start FTSE 100 bringing a market perspective Directors, were reviewed by the of the financial year.
In addition, the to the plan.
The vesting of this element Committee.
The conclusion was the Remuneration Committee considers requires the Committee to be satisfied with remuneration package is sufficiently Executive Directors management of, the underlying financial performance of the attractive to reward this key group and performance in, all of the business Company.
The TSR measure is balanced of executives and is consistent with issues that arose during the year.
by a key internal measure, adjusted EPS the overall policy approach.
Scottish and Southern Energy 70 Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Report Remuneration explained continued growth, which is critical to the Companys and Dividend per share growth of RPI plus All the Executive Directors remain long-term success and ties in with the 2% threshold vesting to 6% full vesting.
members of either the Southern Electric Groups strategic goals.
Pension Scheme or the Scottish Hydro The Remuneration Committee considered Electric Pension Scheme and their plan The Committee considered that the that the added criteria were appropriate membership predates their Board achievement of real annual adjusted EPS when rebalancing the mix of performance appointments.
These are both funded growth of 9% above RPI per annum was a criteria in that TSR performance final salary pension schemes and the demanding target for maximum vesting in compared to a dedicated peer group terms of these schemes apply equally light of the regulatory regime applicable of UK and other European utilities the to all members.
Further details of this MSCI Europe Utilities provided a sector scheme are set out on page 67. emphasis whilst continuing to bring The Directors service contracts provide a market perspective to the plan and for a possible maximum pension of two The first PSP award made in 2006 vested the Dividend per share growth target thirds final salary at age 60.
In relation in full in May 2009 as both elements of reflected the Companys objective to to Executive Directors who are subject to the performance condition relating to deliver strong real dividend growth in the the scheme-specific salary cap which TSR and EPS performance respectively future while maintaining a dividend cover mirrors the provisions of the previous HM were met.
TSR out-turn was in the upper consistent with its established range.
Revenue and Customs cap arrangements the Company provides top-up unfunded quartile of the FTSE 100 and EPS growth The Committee will review all targets arrangements which are designed to was 10.7% above inflation per annum.
to ensure that they remain both relevant provide an equivalent pension on Achievement of these performance and stretching in line with the prevailing retirement at age 60 to that which they conditions was independently verified.
business and economic environment, would have earned if they had not been when considering future awards.
subject to the salary cap.
The 2007 award will vest shortly after the preliminary announcement of results for Pensions policy Overall the Executive Directors have no 2009 10 in May 2010.
The TSR out-turn Pension Plan membership is a very right to any special or preferential pension was below median for FTSE 100 so this important part of the remuneration benefit terms upon leaving.
However, in part of the PSP will not vest.
EPS growth strategy because of the long-term common with all members of the pension was 3.6% above inflation per annum, and goals and horizons of the business schemes who joined at the same time accordingly 32.4% of the EPS element in coupled with the need to build longas the Directors, the following provisions the 2007 award will vest.
term commitment to the Company relating to leaving the Company apply: from employees key to the success The Remuneration Committee has of the Company.
Consequently it is SSE k For retirement through ill-health an reviewed the performance criteria of the remuneration policy to invest for the unreduced pension based on service PSP.
It is anticipated that for awards in future pay of each employee once to expected retirement is paid.
2010 11 there will be four performance their working life is completed.
Each k In the event of any reorganisation or criteria of 25% each as follows: relative employee is encouraged to join the redundancy an unreduced accrued TSR performance compared to FTSE 100: relevant plan.
pension is paid to a member who is relative TSR performance compared to aged 50 or above, with at least five a dedicated peer group of UK and other Full details of the Executive Directors years service or, for a member who European utilities: EPS growth of RPI plus pension plans can be found in Table B has not yet reached that age, it will 2% threshold vesting to 8% full vesting : of the audited information on page 72. be payable with effect from 50. k From the age of 55, a scheme member is entitled to leave the Company and receive a pension, reduced for early SSE TSR performance: 31 March 2005 to 31 March 2010 payment, unless the Company gives consent and funds this pension being 200 SSE paid on an unreduced basis.
FTSE 100 180 Previous HM Revenue & Customs limits 160 have ceased to apply to benefits provided 140 by the pension schemes.
If a members accrued fund exceeds the new lifetime 120 allowance LTA, the benefits payable by the scheme from that excess will be subject to 100 a higher rate of income tax.
The Company 80 is maximising the use of the new allowance thereby providing Executive Directors Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 with more of their existing benefits via registered schemes.
In the case of Colin The graph above charts the cumulative TSR Total Shareholder Return of SSE since 1 April 2005, Hood, who was not subject to the previous compared to the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 100 earnings cap but is now limited by the and it was considered to be the most relevant benchmark for comparison purposes.
For the LTA, further accrual is via an unfunded purposes of defining the constituents of the FTSE 100, companies removed from the FTSE as a result of a business transaction will be valued at the date of removal and then indexed to the FTSE arrangement.
There are no arrangements 100 annual out-turn.
Those companies acquired by another FTSE constituent will be disregarded to compensate members for any change as the acquiring company is a FTSE 100 participant.
in their personal tax liability.
71 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Share ownership policy Service contract key items Employee share ownership is a key part of Provision Detailed terms total Remuneration policy and is designed to help maintain long-term commitment Notice period k 12 months by either Company or Director and business understanding, offering the Retirement date k Age 60 opportunity to benefit from any growth in shareholder value.
Termination k Up to 12 months salary excluding any bonus or other enhancement payment k Payment in lieu of notice in staged payments subject to the k The interests of the Executive Executive gaining new employment Directors and other senior executives k No special change of control provisions are closely aligned with those of other k Obligation on departing Executives to mitigate loss shareholders.
The Performance Share Remuneration k Salary, pension and benefits Plan, the deferral of 25% of the Annual k Company car or cash allowance Bonus award and employee share k Participation in bonus scheme, employee share schemes schemes facilitate this alignment.
and Executive incentive plans k The Executive Directors and certain k Private Health Insurance other senior executives are required to maintain a shareholding equivalent Non competition k During employment and for six months after leaving to one years salary which is built up Contract dates k All four contracts dated 11 March 2005 within a reasonable timescale.
Consent to sell shares is not normally given Length of service unless in exceptional circumstances Industry service Length of Board service or to fund a connected tax liability until this level of shareholding is reached.
Ian Marchant 18 14 years k It is also expected that all non-Executive Gregor Alexander 19 7 years Directors should hold a minimum of Colin Hood 32 9 years 2,000 shares in the Company.
Alistair Phillips-Davies 13 8 years Including two years as Finance Director of Southern Electric plc.
The percentage shareholdings of the Executive Directors against the guidelines are shown below.
k The long service award scheme which The Company may at its discretion Directors shareholdings as purchases 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 shares terminate any Executive Directors percentage of annual salary on behalf of an employee on the contract by making a payment in lieu occasion of the employee reaching % of salary of notice equal to the basic salary which 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 years service would have been received during the Ian Marchant 286 respectively with the Group.
notice period excluding any bonus and Colin Hood 221 any other emolument referable to the Gregor Alexander 191 Funding of share schemes and dilution employment.
Payment may be made in Alistair Phillips-Davies 210 Shares are purchased in the market to staged payments, and will either reduce Based on a share price at 31 March 2010 satisfy the exercise of awards under the or cease completely where the departing of 11.01.
Deferred Bonus Plan, the Performance Executive Director gains new employment.
Share Plan, and the Share Incentive Plan.
All-employee share schemes If an Executive Director retires or is The Companys Sharesave Scheme uses Executive Directors are eligible to made redundant, the PSP shares will unissued shares to satisfy the exercise of participate in the Companys all-employee be reduced to reflect the point during the share options.
As at 31 March 2010, there share schemes on the same terms as other three year performance period when the were approximately 4.6 million share employees.
These schemes comprise: Director leaves.
If the Executive Director options outstanding under this scheme, and leaves for any other reason, PSP share if all the outstanding options were exercised k The Sharesave Scheme which allows awards will lapse.
this would amount to 0.5% of the issued employees options to acquire shares share capital of the Company at that date.
using the proceeds of a monthly savings In the event of a change of control of the contract of up to 250 per month.
Company, performance in the PSP will be Exercise of the options is not subject to measured to that date and will normally Service contracts satisfaction of any performance target.
be scaled down to the period prior to the The option price is set at a discount change of control.
It is the Companys policy that maximum of 20% to market value.
Executive Directors should have service k The Share Incentive Plan the SIP Outside appointments contracts with the Company which can which allows employees to allocate Executive Directors are entitled to accept be terminated on 12 months notice given part of their pre-tax salary to purchase a non-Executive appointment outside the by either party.
shares up to a maximum of 125 per Company with the consent of the Board, month.
Participants receive two free as such appointments can enhance The current Executive Directors service matching shares monthly for each Directors experience and value to the contracts contain the key items shown share purchased up to a maximum Company.
Any fees received are retained in the table above.
