65 Introduction to SSE Corporate governance continued Directors report Remuneration Report Introduction Financial statements Shareholder information in all those operational areas which link a review of external benchmarks within the to the Companys core values is set out UK and within Europe, with an assessment on pages 20 to 46 of this Report.
of the various elements of the bonus and long-term incentive.
It is always the The Executive Directors are committed Remuneration Committees goal to ensure to adding to the 11 successive years that the shareholders are receiving value of above-inflation dividend growth by for money.
continuing to provide the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way SSEs Remuneration Committee the Companys core purpose.
understands the external environment in which the Company operates.
The Principles Committee endorses a key point made The Committee is governed by the by the Investment Committee of the Lady Rice CBE principles of the Companys remuneration Association of British Insurers ABI last Remuneration Committee policy and, in particular, by the importance December that performance-related Chairman of reinforcing the culture and the teamwork remuneration should seek to reward essential to delivering the long-term growth business performance in line with and sustainability of SSE.
This reduces any corporate strategy which should aim at chance of misguided incentives leading sustainable, long-term value creation.
to inappropriate risk-taking one of the key objectives of the Committee.
Sustainable Remuneration is an area of great Sustainable is an important word used sensitivity and plays a critical role in The Committee considered a range frequently at SSE.
It refers to that part of the sustained, long-term growth of the of reports and analyses of executive our strategic focus which is on sustainable dividend and the success of any business.
remuneration which confirmed that this energy.
It encompasses our corporate The reputation of a company, the morale years package of salaries, benefits and commitment to customers: our aim is to of its employees, the ongoing support of bonuses remains below relevant median keep these relationships for the long term.
its shareholders and the enthusiasm of market levels, consistent with our practice It includes as well our commitment to its customers, can all be shaped to some over many years.
The Committee also deliver sustained real growth in the extent by the strength of its remuneration confirmed that remuneration for the shareholder dividend, a principal source policy.
The Remuneration Committee is Chairman and non-Executive Directors of an investors long-term return.
determined that SSE should have as is also below market median.
robust a remuneration policy as possible.
SSE is one of just seven companies in the Long-term FTSE 100 to have delivered above-inflation The spotlight in 2009 10 focussed on The Committee and the Executive increases in the dividend every year since executive remuneration across the Directors welcome the accountability the foundation year in 1998.
Additionally, corporate world with reports and new regarding executive remuneration in SSE ranks fourth amongst FTSE 100 guidance, mainly for financial services companies listed on the London Stock companies in terms of compound annual companies.
To the extent that these offered Exchange.
Indeed, accountability is a growth rate in dividend over that same a different framework for best practice, we key part of the culture at SSE.
Throughout this time, the four assessed SSE remuneration policy against Executive Directors held either Board or these guidelines.
As SSE evolves and grows senior management positions, and have The Remuneration Report clearly as a business, embarking on major capital led the Company to these achievements.
sets out our agenda in 2009 10 and it investment programmes, we wanted Their total Board service is 38 years with demonstrates that SSE remuneration to be sure that the remuneration policy total Company service of over 80 years is integral to the Companys purpose, continues to be fit for purpose, so we which includes their stewardship of the strategy and values.
Most importantly, also initiated a major review of nearly predecessor companies Southern Electric the Committee believes that it represents all aspects of executive remuneration.
good value for shareholders over the long term.
In 2010 11, we will complete the Review SSEs Remuneration Committee believes strategic review of remuneration by Important factors in this review included that sustained performance over the determining whether the long-term the linkages between remuneration for medium and long term counts more than incentive plan is appropriately aligned Executive Directors, other senior executives performance in any single year, which to the Companys future strategic plans.
and managers and other employees.
may be affected by unusual or exceptional Moreover, we explored new ways of issues.
Sustained performance is what In the course of this years review, a comparing SSEs Executive Directors the Executive Directors continue to deliver number of shareholders were consulted performance to their peers, such as relative and we take pride in this record.
who have already given views on the performance of the Company in relation to long-term incentives as well as other the money invested through remuneration Performance aspects of remuneration.
I will in the Executive Director team.
We also At the same time, and at a time of welcome such feedback in the future tested the external benchmarks typically extraordinary economic challenge, SSE and welcome feedback now on this used for comparisons.
delivered growth in adjusted profit before Remuneration Report or remuneration tax as well as in the dividend.
The review comprised a detailed survey in strategic objectives such as safety of Executive Directors and some others to performance and customer service Lady Rice CBE Chairman understand their views about remuneration, strengthened again.
