42 43 REMUNERATIoN REpoRT governAnce AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 the remunerAtion committee the committee Composition of the Committee: peter read COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR gerald corbett GROUP CHAIRMAN richard Adam NON-ExECUTIvE DIRECTOR peter Johnson NON-ExECUTIvE DIRECTOR Gerald Corbett was considered independent by reference to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance upon his appointment as Chairman.
dear shareholder All members served throughout the year.
The Company Secretary acts i am very pleased to submit the directors remuneration as secretary to the Committee.
report for the year ended 31 march 2010. the remuneration committees the committee Advisers to the committee aim is to maintain a remuneration framework which The Chief Executive, Company Secretary and Group Human Resources incentivises the senior team to outperform against Director, who are generally invited to attend Committee meetings, challenging targets, which are set to drive sustainable provide advice and or services to the Committee.
the link between the achievement participates in any discussion concerning his or her own remuneration.
of the groups goals and the reward of our talented senior The Committee receives advice from independent management team smt is a continuing key factor in the consultants.
During the year, the Committee received advice from the outstanding performance of the group.
the committee following consultants: reviews this approach annually.
the committee believes that the policy described in this report contributes consultant Advice provided to the committee towards the success of the ssl group and does not hewitt On the structure of the Groups encourage the executives to take undue risks.
new Bridge street mediumand long-term incentive the smt has delivered exceptional returns to arrangements shareholders, as is shown by the five-year tsr chart on ernst & young llp On the operation of the Groups share page 51. over this period, an initial 100 investment in ssl schemes shares would be worth around 290 at 31 march 2010. this compares with around 140, if the money had been invested in the ftse350.
we have progressed in the ftse Ernst & young LLP provides advice and services to the Company in and at the time of writing, ssl sits within the top 130 uk relation to taxation.
During the year, they also provided services in listed companies.
At the same time, the geographical size relation to working capital reviews and transaction support.
The and complexity of the group has increased significantly, Committee is satisfied that the provision of advice to the Committee which has led to a very material change to the scope and does not result in a conflict of interest.
complexity of the smts roles.
ssl has significant ambition for further growth in Activities of the committee the next few years driven by the energy, experience and The Committee, which meets at least four times a year, has a schedule drive of the executive team that we now have in place.
the of the principal items to be discussed at each meeting.
The purpose of committee wishes to recognise this with motivational the schedule is to ensure that all material matters are considered at the rewards for achievement of the ambitious targets as well appropriate time.
Such matters include: as to ensure that, as ssl grows, our talented team is retained and adequately rewarded in a competitive An annual review of remuneration policy and framework: environment.
therefore, the committee has determined that there should be a material adjustment to the Consideration of Executives remuneration packages: and remuneration of the executive directors and certain Determination of performance measures for the Groups members of the smt.
details of the increases for executive incentive schemes.
directors are described in this report.
the companys major institutional shareholders The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the principal matters have been consulted regarding changes to remuneration.
discussed at the Committee meetings.
Copies of Committee minutes are available to all Directors subject to there not being a conflict of peter reAd interest.
CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, can be viewed at the Companys website, www.
remunerAtion policy BASE SALARy: Salaries are reviewed annually and are The main objective of the policy is to attract, retain and motivate those determined by individual performance and responsibilities and by people of the highest calibre who have the skills needed to lead the reference to market salary levels obtained from independent sources.
Group to achieve its objectives year on year.
This is the only element of remuneration which is pensionable.
The base The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration policy does salaries of the Executive Directors were frozen during the year ended not in any way encourage the SMT to take inappropriate business risks.
In 31 March 2010 and in prior years the level of any increases has tended particular the Committee considers that there is an appropriate balance to be relatively modest compared to the increase in scope and between performance and non-performance linked elements of pay responsibility of the individuals roles.
and a complementary blend of different financial performance metrics, For the year commencing 1 April 2010, the base salaries of the with performance measured over annual and longer-term periods.
This Executive Directors have been increased, recognising their outstanding ensures that there is encouragement for sustained and significant performance and their increased value in the employment market and improvement in overall financial performance.
to reflect the expanded scope of their roles and responsibilities.
The principles of the policy are: Accordingly, the base salaries of Garry Watts, Ian Adamson and Mark Moran have increased to 675,000, 400,000 and 375,000 Providing a truly motivational incentive scheme which drives respectively previously 575,000, 315,000 and 290,000. individuals to work to realise the Companys ambition for growth in the Pay and conditions in the workforce are taken into account short and long term: when considering the Executive Directors salaries.
Whilst the material Ensuring that there is an appropriate balance between short-term and increases to base salary levels of Executive Directors have not been long-term targets, with a significant proportion of the remuneration replicated wholesale throughout the Group, salary reviews across the subject to carefully considered long-term performance conditions: Group are similarly structured to take into account significant increases in responsibility and outstanding performance.
Otherwise, salary Aligning the interests of Executives with those of shareholders: increases are, in the main, generally in line with market norms or if Effectively using the Companys equity for the purposes of reward and greater salary inflation in the countries in which the Group operates.
retention: and ANNUAL BONUS: This is a cash plan, with performance targets that are designed to drive growth and complementary behaviours within Encouraging Executives to build and maintain a meaningful the wider executive population, aligned to the sustainable achievement shareholding in the Company.
In making the changes to the remuneration levels this year, the The maximum potential bonus payable is 175 per cent of Committee considers that it has acted fully in line with the policy and in base salary for the Chief Executive and 150 per cent for the Executive the best interests of shareholders and the Company.
The Committee is Directors previously 125 per cent and 115 per cent respectively.
satisfied that the remuneration is no more than could be earned by the No specific targets are set for the Executive Directors relating to Executive Directors if they were to pursue their executive careers environmental, social and governance ESG performance.
The elsewhere within the industry in which they operate.
Companys performance in relation to ESG matters is robustly The structure of remuneration for Executive Directors is monitored and the Committee would consider any failure in these areas illustrated in the charts below.
This shows the proportionate breakdown when determining any payment of bonus.
The increase in annual bonus of the package at target and maximum remuneration showing the target potential is appropriate, recognising the highly challenging targets set levels of the annual bonus and Performance Share Plan as a proportion from a level of profitability at a five-year high and the fact that the sliding of the maximum: scale of performance has been increased very significantly from 102.5 per cent to 107.5 per cent of target in order for maximum bonus to be payable.
Proportion of fixed vs performance-related remuneration % As the performance measures have served the Company well CHIEF EXECUTIVE to date, they are unchanged from the previous year.
One-third of the annual bonus is based upon Economic value Added EvA targets, and TARGET two-thirds is based on earnings per share EPS targets.
MAXIMUM EvA which is calculated as normalised operating profit after tax less the cost of all capital employed to produce those earnings captures the three basic generic strategies for creating value: OTHER DIRECTORS TARGET To increase economic return for capital employed: MAXIMUM To grow by investing in new products whose return more than 020406080 100 compensates for the risk taken: and Salary Pension Annual Bonus Performance Share Plan To curtail investment and divert capital from uneconomic activities.
The potential payment of the annual bonus for both EvA and EPS parts This shows that a significant proportion of the package comprises of the annual bonus will be as shown in the following table: shortand long-term performance linked elements, with the proportion increasing at the higher level of performance.
performance vs target 97.5% 100% 107.5% % of salary for Chief Executive 17.5% 87.5% 175.0% % of salary for Executive Directors 15.0% 75.0% 150.0% 44 45 REMUNERATIoN REpoRT CONTINUED governAnce AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 The threshold of 97.5 per cent of target represents an increase over Subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, the 2009 10 EPS and an improvement in EvA over the prior year.
determined annually by the Committee, awards vest on the third No bonus would be payable on results below the threshold.
bonus would be paid upon the achievement of 107.5 per cent of target Details of outstanding awards are shown on page 49.
To incentivise the Executive Directors to realise the Companys The Committee has increased the scale of performance versus ambition to create significantly more shareholder value, the Committee maximum to reflect the Companys significant ambition for further has determined that the annual award made to Executive Directors be growth and recognising the increase to the annual bonus potential.
increased from 100 per cent to 200 per cent of salary.
Awards made to The annual bonus is designed to drive complementary certain other key executives will also increase but will be at a lower behaviours across the senior executive population as well as to align with multiple of base salary.
The vesting of these awards continues to be the Groups goals and with shareholders interests.
The table below subject to the achievement of a combination of EPS one-third and EvA illustrates the cascade of targets for the year ended 31 March 2010 for two-thirds targets.
The continued policy of basing the performance the Business Driver Group.
The Business Driver Group has historically conditions on the Companys financial performance creates a very consisted of 35 employees.
To reflect the expansion of the Company, effective incentive.
The Committee monitors performance targets to the Business Driver Group has now increased to approximately 60 ensure that such targets remain sufficiently stretching and aligned to employees and in addition to the Executive Directors, comprises the the interests of shareholders.
Executive Committee and certain other senior executives.
This Due to the financial nature of the performance conditions it is expanded population also reflects the Groups widening geographical not possible to calculate an expected value using an option valuation spread.
Typically, individuals will be incentivised on two to three of model.
these targets: The vesting schedule for the proposed award is as follows: performance measure employee level eps 1 3rd evA 2 3rds 1 2 3 compound annual Aggregate growth rate cAgr over generated over the eps Executive Directors the three financial three financial years including Chief years ending march 2013 ending march 2013 Executive Percentage of Performance Percentage of Performance evA Executive Directors Executive award vesting scale award vesting scale including Chief Committee Below threshold Nil 14.8% Nil 183.5m Executive Threshold 5% 14.8% 10% 183.5m strAtegic personAl Executive Certain Group, Maximum 33.3% 17.9% 66.7% 195m performAnce Committee Commercial and oBJectives Manufacturing and Logistics roles A sliding scale of payment will operate between the points in the target group BrAnd Executive Group contriBution Committee Management range.
Despite EPS and EvA also being used for the annual bonus plan, the Committee is satisfied that there is little overlap between the two group: operAting Group plans.
Under the PSP, performance is measured over three years, cAsh flow Management mAnAgement compared to a single financial year for the annual bonus, thus requiring operAting profit sustained high performance for targets to be achieved.
regionAl Regional EPS and EvA will be calculated by the Company and operAting Commercial achievement of the targets will be independently verified before the cAsh flow awards vest.
The Committee is satisfied that the target range for both regionAl BrAnd Regional measures is sufficiently stretching and that their achievement would contriBution Commercial result in significant shareholder value creation.
In particular, it is regionAl sAles Regional recognised that a relatively low by market standards proportion of Commercial the award vests at the initial vesting threshold.
customer service Manufacturing Awards will not confer shareholder rights until the awards have and Logistics vested and participants have received their shares.
Participants will be cAtegory BrAnd Manufacturing entitled to receive a payment in cash and or shares on, or shortly contriBution and Logistics following, the vesting of their awards, of an amount equivalent to the total dividends that would have been paid on those shares between the time when the awards were granted and the time when they vest.
Overall, the Committee is satisfied that the annual bonus has created an Shares to satisfy awards may be purchased in the market via excellent link between reward and Company performance.
the Companys Employee Benefit Trust or by newly issued shares.
Dilution for all schemes is held within the Association of British Insurers performAnce shAre plAn psp ABI limits.
The dilution levels compared to ABI limits as at 31 March All Executive Directors and the Business Driver Group participate in the 2010 were: PSP, which is the Groups only long-term incentive plan.
As previously explained, the Business Driver Group has increased from 35 employees ABi limit ssl dilution to approximately 60 employees.
Under the PSP, conditional awards of shares are granted each year.
10% over 10 years for all share schemes 3.92% 5% over 10 years for discretionary schemes 3.22% shAreholding guidelines service contrActs All participants in the PSP are required to retain a proportion of the It is Company policy that the notice period in Executive Directors contracts shares net of tax that vest to them until a shareholding measured by should not exceed one year.
However, the Committee retains the discretion reference to their base salary is achieved.
All Executive Directors will be to offer a notice period to an Executive Director in excess of one year, expected to retain at least 50 per cent of shares net of tax which vest in exceptional circumstances, where this is considered necessary.
to them under the PSP until a shareholding equivalent to 100 per cent of The Executive Directors contracts have no fixed term but base salary is achieved.
All Executive Directors hold shares in excess of provide that either the Director or the Company may terminate the this amount.
Other participants will be expected to build shareholdings employment by giving one years notice.
ranging from 25 per cent to 50 per cent of base salary.
director date of contract employee sAvings relAted shAre option scheme garry watts The Company operates a HMRC approved employee savings related Chief Executive 5 February 2001 share option scheme SAyE Scheme.
The previous scheme expired in July 2006.
The final grant was made under this scheme on 28 January ian Adamson 2005 offering threeand five-year savings contracts, with a 237 pence Executive Director 17 June 1996 option price.
The final options under the five-year contract matured on mark moran 1 April 2010.
A new HMRC SAyE scheme was approved by shareholders Executive Director 28 May 2004 at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
The first invitation to all eligible UK employees will be made during 2010.
As is the case with all savingsrelated share option schemes open to employees, there are no There are no express provisions for compensation payable in the event performance criteria.
of termination except that Garry Watts contract provides that, if the Company terminates Mr Watts appointment with immediate effect, other shAre plAns in addition to his contractual notice period, Mr Watts shall be entitled Shareholder approval is being sought at the 2010 Annual General to a payment equivalent to the average of any bonus paid within the Meeting to establish two new HMRC approved share plans, a Share three-year period prior to the date of termination.
The Committee is Incentive Plan and a Company Share Option Plan.
satisfied that the inclusion of an award in respect of annual bonus is appropriate, as this incorporates a performance-related element pensions to any compensation payment.
The Company operates a number of retirement benefit programmes If the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, the throughout the world.
Such benefits reflect local competitive conditions Committees policy is to apply mitigation to compensation payments at and legal requirements.
a level determined by reference to the individual circumstances of the In the UK, the Company operates three defined benefit Executive Director.
Appropriate external and human resource advice schemes and a contracted-in defined contribution scheme, the SSL UK would be obtained in each case.
Pension Scheme the SSL Scheme for UK employees.
All UK defined benefit schemes are closed to new entrants and future pension accrual.
non-executive directors Ian Adamson and Mark Moran participate in the SSL Scheme and Save as disclosed below, none of the Non-Executive Directors has a contribute 5 per cent of their base salary.
They receive 25 per cent of base service contract.
salary in respect of retirement provision.
Any contributions that are not Gerald Corbett was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of made in respect of retirement provision are paid as a salary supplement.
the Company on 1 August 2005 for an initial term of three years.
The Ian Adamson is also a member of the Seton Healthcare Group appointment has been renewed for a further three years and is Plc and Life Assurance Scheme, one of the defined benefit schemes terminable upon 12 months notice by either party.
Mr Corbett receives referred to above.
an annual fee of 195,000 increased from 180,000 with effect from Garry Watts, Chief Executive, is not a member of the SSL Scheme 1 April 2010 and a company car.
but operates a personal pension plan.
Garry Watts receives 25 per cent of The basic annual fee for Non-Executive Directors is 45,000 base salary in respect of retirement provision.
Any contributions that are increased from 40,000 with effect from 1 April 2010.
Committee not made in respect of retirement provision are paid as a salary supplement.
Chairmen receive an additional fee of 10,000 p. a.
The Senior Independent Director receives a further 5,000 p. a. other Benefits Details of the appointments of the other Non-Executive The Company provides other benefits to all Executive Directors and Directors are as follows: certain other Executives, in line with the benefits generally provided in their country of employment, namely a company car or car allowance, life assurance, income protection and private medical insurance.
The value of all taxable benefits of the Executive Directors is disclosed in the Directors emoluments table on page 46. non-executive director Appointment letter date of appointment initial term comments peter read 28 February 2002 21 March 2002 One year Renewed annually.
Currently expires on 21 March 2011 richard Adam 21 October 2003 13 November 2003 Three years Renewed for a further three years with effect from 13 November 2009 peter Johnson 3 July 2008 1 October 2008 Three years 46 47 REMUNERATIoN REpoRT CONTINUED governAnce AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 externAl Appointments director non-executive directorship fee 000 p. a.
The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to garry watts Stagecoach Group plc 44 become Non-Executive Directors of other companies.
These appointments can be beneficial to both the individual and the Company in providing further experience and knowledge, but the Companys consent is required before an Executive Director can accept such an appointment.
Fees are normally retained by the Director.
All Directors served throughout the year.
Benefits include all taxable benefits arising from employment with the Company.
For the 2009 10 financial year, the performance targets for the annual bonus were: 4.
During the year any contributions in respect of retirement provision target threshold stretch Actual that were not made were paid as a salary supplement.
The amounts EPS 32.5p 31.7p 33.3p 33.6p paid in the year which are included in the Directors emoluments EvA 50.0m 48.8m 51.3m 53.0m table above under benefits were as follows: This represented another year of outstanding profitability by the G. Watts 143,750 Company.
The target EPS of 32.5 p represents an increase of 36 per I. Adamson 54,117 cent over the target set in the previous year 23.81p.
M. Moran nil Therefore, the cash bonus payments made to Directors are: G. Watts 718,750 I. Adamson 362,250 M. Moran 333,500 directors pensions AUDITED INFORMATION The following Directors received contributions as detailed below: 2010 2009 company Company contribution contribution 000 000 g. watts i. Adamson 25 25 m. moran 73 73 In addition, as noted, Ian Adamson is a member of Seton Healthcare Group Plc and Life Assurance Scheme, a defined benefit scheme.
Details of the change to the pension entitlement and corresponding transfer value are given overleaf: Gross increase Increase in Total accrued value of net Total change in value of accrued value of accrued in accrued accrued pension pension at increase in accrual value during pension at pension at pension net of inflation 31 March 2010 over period period 31 march 2010 31 March 2009 000 p. a.
Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid 4.
The change in the transfer value includes the effect of fluctuations in annually on retirement based on service to the date the scheme the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company closed to future accrual 31 August 1995 and based on current and Directors, such as stock market movements.
pensionable salary as at the end of the year.
5. voluntary contributions paid by Directors and resulting benefits are 2.
The transfer values at the beginning of the year have been calculated not shown.
using the transfer value basis set by the Trustees, as from 1 October 2008 GN11 ceased to apply.
The value of net increase represents the incremental value to the Director of his service during the year.
As the scheme closed to future accrual of benefits in 1995 this increase is zero.
directors interests in shAres AUDITED INFORMATION shAreholdings The following table shows the beneficial interests of the Directors who held office at the end of the year and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company: shareholdings Shareholdings as at as at 31 march 2010 31 March 2009 directors As At 31 mArch 2010 R. Adam 1,553 1,530 I. Adamson 168,144 74,666 G. Corbett 32,500 32,500 P. Johnson 10,000 10,000 M. Moran 137,255 48,489 P. Read 5,185 5,106 G. Watts 227,548 104,613 notes: 1.
No Director held a non-beneficial interest in any shares.
Included in the 31 March 2010 shareholdings for I. Adamson, M. Moran and G. Watts are the awards of shares made under the PSP that were modified to Restricted Share Awards RSA on 29 March 2010.
Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share during earnings per share figures for the financial years ended 2002, 2003 the performance period exceeding the retail price index RPI.
In light of the rise in the share price during targets for each grant are as follows: the year to 31 March 2008, the Committee agreed that the earnings per share figures for the financial year 2001 be rebased.
The 1.1 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for not calculations to determine all figures were independently checked by less than three years commencing on 1 April 2001 exceeding the Ernst & young LLP, although Ernst & young LLP expressed no opinion growth in RPI by at least an average 2 per cent p. a.
This condition has on the accuracy of the base data and the appropriateness of the been met.
1.2 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for 3.
On 9 June 2009, Garry Watts, Ian Adamson and Mark Moran three years commencing on 1 April 2002 exceeding the growth in RPI respectively exercised options over shares in the Company as by no less than 2 per cent p. a.
This condition has been met.
follows: 98,305 granted at 295.0 pence per share, 54,915 granted at 1.3 Exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for 295.0 pence per share and 145,630 granted at 309.0 pence per three years commencing on 1 April 2004 exceeding the growth in RPI share.
The market price on 9 June 2009 was 507.5 pence per share.
by no less than 3 per cent p. a.
On 25 November 2009, Garry Watts exercised options over 72,260 shares in the Company, granted at 506.5 pence per share.
The 1.4 Exercise is subject to performance conditions that must be satisfied market price on 25 November 2009 was 733.0 pence per share.
All over initially a three-year period although this may be extended up to exercises were in respect of the SSL International 1996 Executive five years.
The exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings Share Option Scheme.
per share exceeding the growth in RPI by at least an average of 3 per cent p. a. and TSR of the Company when compared to TSR of 4.
There are no performance criteria for exercise of options under the companies of the FTSE 250 reaching sixth decile for 50 per cent of SAyE scheme.
the option to become exercisable, between sixth and eighth decile 5.
The market price of the Companys shares was 813.0 pence on for a pro-rata between 50 per cent and 100 per cent of the option to 31 March 2010 and ranged from 426.8 pence to 813.0 pence during become exercisable and eighth decile and above for 100 per cent of the year.
the option to become exercisable.
Both the earnings per share and TSR conditions have been met.
No options were granted in the period.
Following the disposal of the Groups medical business and the 7.
On 6 April 2010, Ian Adamson and Mark Moran exercised options resultant reduction in earnings, the Committee reviewed the over shares in the Company, granted at 237.0 pence per share performance conditions attaching to options granted under the 2,091 shares and 6,972 shares respectively.
The market price on SSL 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme.
It was agreed that the 6 April 2010 was 841.5 pence per share.
Both exercises were in performance criteria should be rebased to fairly compare historical respect of the SSL Sharesave Scheme an employees share earnings with those in the ongoing business, but the rebased figures scheme.
should be no less stretching than the previous targets.
The aggregate gross gains made by Directors on the exercise of share share price at the time of grants which was in excess of 480 pence, options during the year were 778,336.95 2009:22,596.37. the Committee determined that only earnings since the financial The gains are calculated based on the market price at the date of year ended 31 March 2002 would be reviewed.
Consequently, the exercise, although the shares may have been retained and no gain realised.
On 29 March 2010, the awards of shares that had been granted on 25 June 2007 to the Directors were modified to Restricted Share Awards RSA in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
The number of shares under the RSA is net of the income tax and employee National Insurance that becomes payable at the date of modification.
All performance and employment conditions remain unchanged.
Details of the RSA are shown in the note to the Shareholdings table on page 47.
50 51 REMUNERATIoN REpoRT CONTINUED governAnce AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 The vesting of awards is subject to the satisfaction of performance targets over a three-year period.
The award price is the average of the middle market quotations for an SSL share derived from the Official List of the UKLA for the five consecutive dealing days preceding the date of the award.
These awards vested in full on 9 June 2009.
Over the period, RPI has grown by 8.0 per cent.
The aggregate gross gains made by cent, therefore, the award will vest in full.
Directors on the vesting of awards under the Performance Share Plan 3.
The vesting of these awards are subject to the satisfaction of during the year were 1,843,970.80 2009: 1,526,623.56.
The gains performance targets over the three-year period commencing on are calculated based on the market price at the date of vesting of share 1 April 2008.
To the extent to which these targets are met, 50 per cent awards, although the shares may have been retained and no gain of the total shares calculated above will vest on the fourth anniversary realised.
Under the awards, executives are entitled to a cash payment of the date of grant and the remaining 50 per cent of the total shares equivalent in value to the dividends payable on the vested shares over calculated above will vest on the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the vesting period.
The value of the dividend equivalent was: G Watts assuming the Director is still employed by SSL on those dates.
44,672.74: I Adamson 20,861.20: and M Moran 20,861.20. performAnce grAph The graph shows the Companys Total Shareholder Return performance compared with that of the FTSE 350 Index.
This index was selected as an appropriate comparator index because it is a broad equity market index of which SSL is a constituent.
FTSE 350 Index TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN SSL International 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 The graph looks at the value by 31 March 2010, of 100 invested in SSL International plc on 31 March 2005 compared with 100 invested in the FTSE 350 index.
The other points plotted are the values at the intervening financial year-ends.
For and on behalf of the Board peter reAd CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 17 MAy 2010
