46 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report and report on remuneration and other matters This is achieved by a combination of: Introduction related to the Groups employees generally.
a basic salary package, including benefits TheCompany Secretary acts as Secretary in kind, which recognises the responsibilities The Board considers that the totheCommittee.
of individual Directors: structure and levels of the The Committee met formally twice during the year.
the Annual Bonus Scheme, which provides remuneration of the Groups It also communicated informally between meetings rewards which reflect the performance of executive Directors and other as appropriate.
Its activities during theyear included the Group and the contribution of individual members of its senior management discharging its following responsibilities: Directors in a particular year: are key to the Group successfully to determine the appropriate remuneration long-term incentives, which incentivise achieving its strategic aims.
ofexecutive Directors: executives to deliver sustained improvement The Board has a specific Remuneration to consider and approve the grant of awards in financial performance and shareholder Committee the Committee to handle ofthe Companys shares: returns over a period ofyears: and these remuneration related matters on its to review the remuneration of other members a pension contribution, which funds behalf.
This Committee sets the strategy, of senior management: and retirement benefits.
structure and levels of remuneration fortheexecutive Directors, and reviews to determine the fee level of the The aim of the policy is to set total remuneration theremuneration of other members GroupsChairman.
appropriately for the Company linked to its market ofseniormanagement.
In calculating The fees of non-executive Directors are the market benchmark, the Committee uses a This Directors Remuneration Report determined by the Board itself.
conventional approach of referring to the group outlines the membership and workings In its work, the Committee is assisted by Ernst of 60 companies in the FTSE 350 ranked by ofthe Committee.
It also provides an &Young LLP Ernst & Young, who provide capitalisation in which the Company is at the median explanation of the components of the independent external advice to the Committee excluding investment trusts.
This is consistent Groups remuneration policy, together with inmatters related to the remuneration of Directors.
with the approach taken in previous years.
This details of Directors remuneration in respect Ernst & Young has performed this role since analysis is supplemented with reference to the of the year ended 31 December 2010, and theirappointment by the Committee in 2007.
FTSE 350 Software and Computer Services ofhow this policy is being applied in the Ernst & Young provides advice to the Group only subsector and the re-analysed constituents of yearending 31December 2011.
In addition, in respect of Directors remuneration, does not the peer group used in the prior year benchmark.
itdescribes how the Board has applied the advise the Group on any other matters and complies This approach was, as in prior years, recommended principles of the 2008 Combined Code and with the voluntary code of conduct in relation to by Ernst & Young for this years review, and the will comply with the 2010 UK Corporate executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
analysis was prepared and provided by them.
Governance Code in so far as these relate Thisensures that their independence as advisors Theup to date Market Benchmark reflects the toDirectors remuneration.
to the Committee is preserved.
In 2010, the work substantial growth of the Group over the past of Ernst & Young included the review of the year.
The remuneration of the executive Directors market benchmarks for remuneration of both is reviewed in the context of the remuneration of theexecutive and non-executive Directors of other senior management in the Group.
The Remuneration Committee theCompany referred to later in this report.
The Committee is comprised solely of non-executive Long-term incentive arrangements Directors and is chaired by John OReilly.
The other Remuneration policy and benchmarking TelecityGroup currently operates two long-term members of the Committee are John Hughes and The Committees policy is to ensure that the incentive plans, details of which are given below, Simon Batey.
John Hughes was appointed as a Company offers a competitive, and not excessive, as are details of the plan under which awards member of the Committee in accordance with listed company remuneration package which will were granted only at the time of the Companys theCombined Code which permits the Chairman support achievement of the Groups strategic aims, IPO in 2007. of a Company, where he is deemed independent including the responsibilities of risk management TelecityGroup on appointment as Chairman, to be a member and internal control, so as to maximise shareholder Performance Share Plan PSP ofthe Remuneration Committee.
Its key policy objective The PSP is the Companys main long-term is to secure and retain high calibre executive Whilst the Chief Executive Officer may at the incentive arrangement.
It permits the Directors with the skills, experience and motivation invitation of the Committee Chairman attend grantoftwo different types of incentive: necessary to direct and manage the affairs of Committee meetings, the other executive Directors performance-related awards ofshares theGroup to achieve these strategic aims.
The do not normally attend, and no Director has any atnilcost performance shares and Committee considers this key to TelecityGroups involvement in decisions regarding his own performance-related grants of options to ongoing success.
The Groups head of Human acquire shares at fair market value share Resources is periodically invited to attend meetings options.
Awards aregenerally made on Untitled-1 11 25 02 2011 10:24:17 Jan 11 Oct 10 Jul 10 May 10 Feb 10 Nov 09 Aug 09 Jun 09 Mar 09 Dec 08 Sep 08 Jul 08 Apr 08 Jan 08 Oct 07 47 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Review of the Year Governance Financial Statements anannual basis.
Ex ecutive Directors and strategy and delivers value to shareholders The TelecityGroup IPO employees of the Company and its subsidiaries over the medium to long term.
Awards vest Share Option Plan the SOP are eligible to participate in the PSP.
Participation tothe extent of 25% for median performance The SOP enabled the Company to grant options is at the discretion of the Remuneration and then on a sliding scale to fullvesting for to acquire ordinary shares at the offer price at the Committee which decides whether to grant upper quartile performance.
Ernst & Young time of the IPO of the Company in October 2007 performance options or award performance analyse the extent towhich theperformance toeligible key employees.
The purpose of the SOP shares, the level of each tobe issued and measure has been metperiodically during, and was to provide an incentive to key employees theperformance conditions to which they at the end of the vesting period.
which would vest at appropriate dates in the aresubject.
period priortothe vesting of the first awards The Remuneration Committee considers that under the PSP in March 2011.
All have now P erformance shares may be awarded to this approach gives executives the potential to vested.
Further details of the SOP were given executive Directors in any one year up to a earn rewards that are both fair and capable of inthe Annual Report andAccounts for the year value of the shares equivalent to 100% of the incentivising them to increase shareholder ended 31 December 2007.
Directors basic annual salary at the date of value over the longer term.
Any awards of options would be limited This was the only grant of options to be made Sharesave scheme so that the aggregate price payable on the under the SOP and no further grants will be Under the sharesave scheme, which has been exercise of all options granted to an executive made under it in the future.
Options granted approved by HM Revenue & Customs, employees Director in any one year would not exceed 150% under the SOP willbe satisfied using ordinary may be granted an option to acquire ordinary of the Directors basic annual salary at the date shares issued for this purpose to the Groups shares ata fixed exercise price.
Awards of performance shares or options Employee Benefit Trust at admission to the made periodically, the most recent award to an executive Director would only ever exceed Official List of the London StockExchange.
Subject to certain this level in exceptional circumstances where conditions, all employees are eligible to To the extent that new ordinary shares are to the Remuneration Committee determined participate.
Participating employees are beissued to satisfy performance share awards atits discretion that it was necessary and required to save each month into a savings under the PSP or sharesave scheme described appropriate to do so.
Either, and not both, account for a period of either three or four above, noawards may be issued if it would cause performance shares or performance options years, the proceeds of which they may use the aggregate number of ordinary shares capable would be awarded under the PSP to any one either to exercise the option or have repaid of being exercised under those schemes together individual in the same year.
Subject to taxprovisions in the relevant with anynew schemes in the future during the jurisdiction, atax-free bonus is payable to the Since 2009, the Committee has chosen to grant preceding ten years to exceed 10% of the Companys employee onthe savings in the savings account performance shares, rather than share options, share capital at the proposed date of issue.
on completion of the relevant savings contract.
within the limit of 100% of salary.
Awards have At31December 2010, following the third full year The maximum amount that an employee may a vesting period of three years.
Total shareholder of operation of the PSP, there were, subject to save each month over the three year or four year return relative to the FTSE 250 excluding vesting, a total of 4,917,441 shares capable of period is 250.
The option exercise price may investment trusts is used as the performance being exercised, or becoming capable of being be set at a discount of up to 20% of the market measure for PSP awards.
The Committee believes exercised, under the PSP andsharesave scheme, value ofthe ordinary shares at the time of this is a fair and objective method of measuring representing 2.49% ofthe then share capital of grant as was done for the award in 2009. performance which supports the business the Company.
Total shareholder return TSR The graph to the right shows the TSR for 300 Telecity Group plc theCompany compared with the FTSE 250 FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts excluding investmenttrusts.
250 The TSR of the FTSE 250 Index excluding 200 investment trusts is the performance measure under the Performance SharePlan see Long-Term Incentive 150 Arrangementsabove.
100 50 0 Return index 48 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Key elements of remuneration for 2011 The key elements of the remuneration of the executive Directors for 2011, and a review of the way in which the remuneration policy has been applied indetermining these, are set out below.
Having determined the proposed remuneration of the executive Directors for 2011, the Committee consulted shareholders with combined interests inover50%oftheCompanys issued share capital regarding this.
The finally determined remuneration below reflects the results of that consultation.
Basic salary Whilst the Group continues to perform in the upper quartile in terms of shareholder returns, the The Committee has sought to ensure that Committee determined that the salary of Michael Tobin, asChief Executive, for 2011 should be thebase salaries of the executive Directors set above the median of the Market Benchmark, though belowthe upper quartile.
The Company arecompetitive in light of the latest Market has delivered very significant growth in revenue, profitability and shareholder returns since its IPO Benchmark referred tounder remuneration in2007, and Michael Tobin has not only made asignificant contribution to this, but remains very policy and benchmarking.
This reflects the important to the business moving forwards.
Anabove median salary reflects his strategic importance substantial level of growth of the Company tothe Company and his standing intheGroups industry.
Accordingly, the Committee determined asit continues to effectively implement its asalary of 515,000 for MichaelTobin for2011, representing an 8.4% increase over his salary of strategy of controlled expansion in its core 475,000 in 2010. data centre markets, and the stewardship responsibilities associated with this.
It also The Group Finance Director, Brian McArthur-Muscrofts salary was slightly below the median reflects the respective contributions and forcompanies of TelecityGroups size in 2010.
For 2011, the Committee determined that it was importance oftheexecutive Directors in appropriate for Mr McArthur-Muscrofts salary to be at the median level of the Market Benchmark thedelivery oftheCompanys strategy.
toreflect his significant contribution to the Group in ensuring that it is appropriately financed to meetthe available growth opportunities and in overseeing the Companys very considerable capitalinvestment programme.
His salary was accordingly increased to 305,000, which representsa15.1%increase above his salary of 265,000 for 2010.
Annual bonus The potential annual bonus for each of the The Committee has also decided to retain the significant element of deferred shares in the annual executive Directors will remain at 110% of bonus payment.
As in the prior year, of the total bonus that becomes payable, the first 30% will be annual base salary and will only be payable paid in cash and any bonus payable above this level will be satisfied 40% in cash and 60% in restricted tothe extent that stretching corporate shares which generally only vest after two years.
performance targets set by the Remuneration This maintains the policy adopted in 2008 which the Committee believes helps to motivate and Committee are achieved or exceeded.
The retain the executive Directors, augments shareholder alignment and provides the Directors with Remuneration Committee discloses these ameaningful incentive to meet challenging short-term targets for the business.
Long-term incentive The Committee intends again to grant The performance share awards will be on the same terms as the awards made in prior years, performance shares to the executive Directors including vesting after threeyears subject to the level of achievement of the performance under the PSP up to a maximum value condition linked to total shareholder return.
The Committee continues to believe this to be the equivalent to 100% of basic annual salary.
most appropriate measure forthe Company in building long-term value for shareholders by linkingexecutive awards with the level of returns toshareholders.
Pensions and benefits Executives are entitled to pension schemes, Company contributions to the executive Directors pension schemes have been maintained at 18% of basic aswell as life assurance, medical, and salary for Michael Tobin and 16% for Brian McArthur-Muscroft, andthe executives receive a car allowance permanent health insurance.
equivalent to approximately 4% 2010: 4% of salary, all to be in line with market practice in comparable companies.
The estimated values for 2010 of these provisions are included in the summary of Directors remuneration in table 1 on page 50.
Untitled-1 13 25 02 2011 10:24:18 49 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Review of the Year Governance Financial Statements Details of the numbers ofshares held by the executive Directors are shown on page 36.
The Groups policy is to provide payment on For 2011, the Committee has selected the same Terms of employment termination by the Company of the employment three financial measures used in 2010, although Details of the executive Directors service agreement of any executive Director of no more ithas adjusted the balance among these measures contracts, which are in terms customary for a UK than one years salary and benefits, and no amount for this year and it has narrowed the range for the public company, are set out below: in respect of unearned bonus.
In accordance with adjusted EBITDA target.
Each executive Director this policy, each executive Directors employment will be entitled to an annual bonus of up to 110% Date of contract Effective date is terminable on six months notice by the ofbasic salary based on the level of actual Michael Tobin 5 October 5 October executive Director and 12 months notice by the performance achieved as compared with the 2007 2007 Company.
The Company may elect to terminate targets, which have again been determined at Brian 5 October 5 October the employment of an executive Director by stretching levels, on the following bases: McArthur-Muscroft 2007 2007 making a payment equal to 12 months basic for achievement of below 90% of target salary, Company pension contributions, and 95%for adjusted EBITDA, zero payment: contractual benefits.
No payment is due to be Executive Directors are required to act with integrity made in these circumstances for any element of for achievement of 90% to 100% of target and in accordance with rules, regulations and bonus not then earned by the executive Director.
95%to 100% for adjusted EBITDA, payment on requirements of any relevant professional body, a sliding scale from 30% to 80%: authority or organisation applicable to the Annual bonus schemes for 2010and2011 activities of the Director or the Group.
for achievement of 100% to 105% of target Annual bonus payments are based on the extent 100% to 102.5% for adjusted EBITDA, Executive Directors are required to hold shares to which the corporate or individual performance payment on a sliding scale from 80% to inthe Company with an aggregate value of at targets set by the Remuneration Committee themaximum of 110%: and leasttheir annual salary at that time based on areachievedor exceeded in the relevant year.
theCompanys share price on the London Stock These performance targets are determined for achievement of over 105% of target Exchange.
Details of the numbers of shares held bythe Committee prior to or shortly after the 102.5% for adjusted EBITDA, payment by the executive Directors are shown on page 36. beginning of the relevant year, to be aligned ofthemaximum of 110%.
It is considered that these shareholdings withachievement of the Groups objectives Proportion significantly align the interests of the executive forthat year within its overall strategic objectives.
of total potential Directors with those of shareholders.
For 2010, each executive Director was entitled Performance target bonus Executive Directors are permitted to accept external toan annual bonus of up to 110% of annual basic 1 Adjusted EBITDA 40% appointments with the prior approval of the Board salary for maximum performance against targets 1 Adjusted earnings per share 40% and where there is no impact on their role within on sliding scales up to 105% of the targets.
The 1 2 Adjusted net debt 20% theGroup.
Any fees arising from such appointments targets for payment of the 2010 annual bonus, may be retained by the executive Director where which were determined at levels considered to 1 Subject to adjustments approved or that may be approved by the Remuneration Committee.
the appointment is unrelated to the Groups bestretching at the time they were set, and the business.
Fees from external appointments are results achieved against these are shown in the 2 Calculated as year end net debt adjusted for approved changes to capital expenditure in the year.
If the published accounts of the Group are restated This performance results in total bonuses These payments will be satisfied by the payment for any reason after they have first been published, payable equivalent to 110% of basic salary.
These of cash and the issue of shares as detailed under and if such restated accounts would have resulted payments will be satisfied by the payment of cash Annual bonus on page 48. inan executive Director receiving a lesser amount and the issue of shares as detailed under Annual in terms of annual bonus, awards of shares or bonus on page 48.
The bonus is not pensionable.
options over shares or other remuneration, then the executive Director is required to immediately repay the balance to the Company.
2010 Annual bonus outcome Proportion of total potential % of target Performance target bonus Target Actual achieved Adjusted EBITDA 35% 79.3m 83.4m 105.2% Adjusted diluted earnings per share 35% 18.2p 21.1p 115.7% 1 Adjusted net debt 30% 109.4m 56.8m 148.1% 1 Calculated as target year end net debt adjusted for approved changes to capital expenditure in the year.
Untitled-1 14 25 02 2011 10:24:18 50 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued consultancy.
This data was reported separately success of the Company, and Mr Hughes key role Chairman and non-executive Directors tothe Remuneration Committee and Board as in these, his fees remain slightly below the median Fees payable to the Chairman are determined by appropriate ensuring that noDirector received point of the Market Benchmark.
the Remuneration Committee in the absence the data, nor participated in the discussions, ofthe Chairman.
Fees payable to non-executive The Board also reviewed the remuneration of the regarding their own remuneration.
Directors are determined by the Board.
These independent non-executive Directors with reference fees are reviewed periodically.
Following this review, and having taken account to the market data it received on their respective ofthe market data it received, the Remuneration roles.
Following this review, the Board adjusted The fees of the Chairman and independent Committee increased the fees payable to the fees payable to the independent non-executive non-executive Directors are intended to reflect JohnHughes asChairman from 145,000 to Directors with effect from 1 January 2011 to the the time commitment and responsibilities of the 165,000 with effect from 1 January 2011.
Whilst following amounts, which are slightly below the roles oftheindividual non-executive Directors this increase reflects the substantial growth and median of the Market Benchmark.
and are set with reference to the Market Benchmark referred to under the section of this report entitled Fees for non-executive Directors Remuneration policy and benchmarking on page 46.
This is toensure that individuals of the necessary calibre and experience are recruited and retained.
2011 2010 The Chairmanand non-executive Directors do 000 000 not accrue any other benefits in addition to their Base fee 42.5 40 annual fee and do not participate in the Groups Fee for chairing the Audit Committee 9 5 pensionor share schemes.
No fees are payable Fee for chairing the Remuneration Committee 7.5 5 tothe non-independent non-executive Director, Fee for acting as the Senior Independent Director 6 7.5 RobertMorse.
During the year, the fees payable to the Chairman The Group has letters of appointment with each on one months written notice.
The appointment and independent non-executive Directors were of the non-executive Directors which set out, letter of John Hughes as Chairman is terminable reviewed with reference to the Market Benchmark amongst other things, their duties and expected by either him or the Company on six months forthese roles in comparable companies time commitment.
The appointment letters of notice.
All these letters of appointment are dated provided by Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys the non-executive Directors other than the 5 October 2007, other than that for Simon Batey remuneration advisors, supplemented by data Chairman are for an initial period of three years which is dated 16 October 2007. from a leading independent remuneration but may be terminated at any time by either party Table 1 Remuneration audited Directors remuneration in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 was as follows: Basic Annual Benefits 2010 2009 1 salary fees bonus in kind Pension Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Michael Tobin 475.0 522.5 17.2 85.5 1,100.2 931.9 Brian McArthur-Muscroft 265.0 291.5 12.0 42.4 610.9 565.4 Non-executives Directors John Hughes 145.0 145.0 120.0 Simon Batey 52.5 52.5 50.0 John OReilly 45.0 45.0 42.5 Robert Morse Total 982.5 814.0 29.0 127.9 1,953.4 1,709.8 1 In accordance with the Groups policy detailed on page 48, the first 30% of the bonus is payable in cash with the balance being paid in cash and restricted shares.
These options are not subject to performance conditions, other than continued employment, for the reasons set out in the explanation of that plan.
2 Options granted under the TelecityGroup PSP.
The performance conditions attaching to these options are set out in the description of that plan.
3 Options granted under the approved appendix to the TelecityGroup PSP.
4 Performance Share Awards awarded under the TelecityGroup PSP.
The performance conditions attaching to these awards are set out in the description of that plan.
The share awards granted in 2010 were valued at 288p per share as set out in note 29 to the accounts.
The highest, lowest and year end prices for the Companys shares for 2010 were 532.5p, 360.0p and 470.4p respectively.
Table 3 Restricted share awards in respect of prior year deferred The auditors are required to report to shareholders annualbonusamounts audited regarding Directors remuneration, descriptions of the Groups Long-Term Incentive Arrangements and the information contained in tables 1, 2 and 3 The share awards in respect of the annual bonuses of the executive Directors for the year ended inthis report the auditable parts, and to state 31December 2009, reported in last years Directors Remuneration Report, are shown below: whether, in their opinion, these parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with At At 1 January 31 December Normal the Act.
2010 Awarded 2010 vesting 000 000 000 date As required by the Companies Act 2006, anadvisory resolution to approve this report Michael Tobin 50 50 Feb 2012 willbeproposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Brian McArthur-Muscroft 30 30 Feb 2012 On behalf of the Board Total 80 80 Fees from external appointments Basis of preparation and approval Neither of the executive Directors received ofreport anyfees in the year ended 31 December 2010 This report has been prepared in accordance John OReilly inrespect of non-executive directorships with Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Chairman of the Remuneration unconnected with the Groups business Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts Committee 2009:nil.
and Reports Regulations 2008 and the Listing 8 February 2011 Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
