Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder, Contents The detail of this remuneration report is set out over the following sections: I am pleased to present the report by the Remuneration Committee on directors remuneration for 2010 and Page 35 Remuneration Committee Governance plans for 2011.
I joined the Autonomy board this year Page 36 Overview of Remuneration Philosophy and have taken the permanent chair of the Page 37 Remuneration Elements Remuneration Committee.
My tenure follows the Page 38 Non-Executive Director Remuneration retirement of Barry Ariko from the Board, whom we Page 38 Staff Incentive Schemes warmly thank for his service.
Page 39 Service Contracts Page 39 Other Considerations 2009 and 2010 saw a complete review of Autonomys remuneration policies Page 40 Audited Remuneration Information both at a fundamental level and to ensure compliance with the guidance issued by the FSA and by the ABI, NAPF and RiskMetrics.
The review Remuneration Committee Governance confirmed that the arrangements for the overall structure of remuneration for the executive directors remained broadly appropriate.
Remuneration General Governance policies for 2010 were set at the outset of 2010 and have now been set for The company has complied with the Principles and underlying Provisions 2011.
During 2011 we will continue to review the level and methods of relating to Directors remuneration of the Combined Code and this directors remuneration to ensure it remains competitive and continues to Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the Large & be fit for purpose with a view to any appropriate changes being made for Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Report Regulations 2012.
The company takes significant account of guidelines issued by the ABI and other shareholder bodies such as the NAPF when setting the Throughout Autonomys rise over the past decade, compensation policies remuneration strategy for the company.
It also seeks to maintain an active have limited remuneration to one of the most modest packages in the and productive dialogue with investors on developments in the FTSE 100.
Revisions in 2010 were undertaken after extensive dialog with remuneration aspects of corporate governance generally and any changes shareholders, which continued into 2010 and now into 2011.
As a result, to the companys executive pay arrangements in particular.
revisions for 2011 are evolutionary rather than revolutionary.
The Committee continues to take a cautious position and does not feel it Details of each individual Directors remuneration for 2010 are set out on appropriate to change the basic shape of the remuneration framework.
Information on Directors share and share option interests may be should be noted that Autonomy has very few peers on the London market found on pages 40 and 41. and therefore remuneration has to compete with American and global software companies, the most likely competition for our talent.
The auditor is required to report on the auditable part of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the changes made are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the appropriate particularly in light of the companys performance and historical Regulations.
The information which has been audited can be viewed on pay practices.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the pages 40 and 41.
No other parts of this report have been audited.
remuneration policy detailed in this report will enable Autonomy to recruit the people we need, and retain and motivate those already with us.
The Responsibilities and Role of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee considers that the individual elements of the The committees principal function is to determine the companys policy on remuneration package that apply in 2011 constitute an appropriate balance Board remuneration and to approve the specific remuneration packages for between fixed and variable compensation.
the Executive Directors, including their service contracts.
The committee also has responsibility for making a recommendation to the Board in Salaries have been reviewed and modestly adjusted to bring senior respect of the remuneration of the Chairman.
The committees remit management more in line with market practice, although remain in the therefore includes, but is not restricted to, bottom quartile significantly below peers.
Maximum potential bonus and equity awards have not changed in 2011 from 2010. basic salary: benefits in kind: In addition to its consideration of current arrangements, the Remuneration performance related awards: Committee continues to monitor how well incentive awards made in share options: previous years align with the companys performance.
In this regard, the share awards: Committee is confident that there has been and remains a strong link long-term incentive schemes: between performance and reward.
pension rights: any compensation or termination payments: and The Remuneration Committee has appreciated the dialogue and feedback appointing any consultants in respect of executive directors from investors over the past years and will continue to take an active remuneration.
A resolution to vote for this Directors Remuneration Report will be put to the Annual General Meeting AGM on 24 March 2011.
Terms of Reference I hope that you will support this resolution.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the companys website or on request.
Frank Kelly Chairman, Remuneration Committee 22 February 2011 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Remuneration Report Historically and on a go-forward basis a high proportion of total Meetings and Activities remuneration has been and will be awarded through short term and long The Remuneration Committee had three scheduled meetings during the term performance related remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee year at which all actions were taken, as well as other ad hoc informal believes that incorporating and setting appropriate performance measures meetings, as shown on page 32. and targets in the package is paramount: this will be reflected in an appropriate balance of operational and equity performance.
We believe The main focus of the committees activity comprises managing the various that shareholders support the concept of paying outstanding rewards for aspects of the remuneration package of Executive Directors.
We therefore have designed performancecomprises: annual salary: cash bonus: deferred bonus: shares bonus: and related schemes that offer executives the opportunity to earn significant other benefits available to all similarly situated employees, including remuneration if they produce large increases in long-term shareholder matching pension and healthcare.
Concomitantly, they should not receive significant performance rewards if performance is mediocre.
The main tasks for the Committee in 2010 were: a comprehensive review of the companys remuneration policies: reviewing and approving the This year as in the past remuneration and employment conditions Executive Directors bonuses for 2009: setting targets and rules for elsewhere within the company are taken into account when determining Executive Directors bonuses for 2010: and deciding on the level of pay executive compensation.
The companys highest paid employee earns a increase in the annual salary review.
base salary approximately 5.5 times the base salary of the average employee.
Raises in 2010 generally match increases of compensation Composition throughout the key positions in the group.
Executives are not offered The Remuneration Committee is comprised to exercise independent special contracts or unique benefits: all benefits for executive directors are judgement and consists only of independent non-executive directors.
The the same as those generally available to others in the company such as Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing and approving matching pension contribution limited to 3% of base salary.
general compensation policies and setting compensation levels for executive officers.
The committee also administers incentive compensation Applicability plans.
For further details, a description of the terms of reference can be The remuneration policy applies to executive directors.
Compliance External Advisers The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the During the year, the committee relied on information contained in generally requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups available reports from Deloitte LLP, Towers Perrin and Hewitt.
Deloitte LLP Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
It also describes how the also supplied market data, advice on market practice and governance, principles set out in the Combined Code have been applied in relation to performance analysis and advice on plan design and performance the remuneration for the current and forthcoming financial years.
Deloitte is also the company auditor and its advice in relation to LLP has audited the contents of the report to the extent required by the remuneration has been provided in compliance with the terms of reference Companies Act.
of the Audit Committee and the Ethical Standards of the Auditing Practices Board.
Changes for 2011 For convenience, the table below sets out a summary of changes to the Overview of Remuneration Philosophy individual elements of the remuneration packages which will be effective for 2011 for executive directors, discussed in more detail below.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors The Remuneration Committee again reviewed remuneration and reward Element Changes for 2011 arrangements for the companys executive directors in 2010.
Consistent Base salary......................... No change to the benchmarking policy with the policies of the Combined Code, the companys policy for directors' Benefits............................... No new benefits remuneration is that packages are intended to attract, motivate and retain Pensions............................. No change to 3% capped matching pension directors of the highest calibre.
To maximise the effectiveness of the Annual Cash Bonus............ No change to maximum bonus, but addition remuneration policy, careful consideration is given to aligning the of new non-financial performance target remuneration package with shareholder interests and best practice.
Deferred Bonus................... No change to maximum bonus, but addition of new non-financial performance target The aim is to target an appropriate level of remuneration in order to achieve Deferred Shares Bonus...... No change to maximum bonus the companys growth program but not detract from the goals of good corporate governance.
In setting total remuneration, the Remuneration Committee considers a relevant group of comparators, selected on the basis of the role being considered.
In 2010 the relevant reference point was deemed to be the broader FTSE 100 and practice amongst international sectoral peers.
The FTSE 100 has been chosen as most relevant given the relative lack of comparable technology companies in the UK.
As a result any benchmark of other companies would be overwhelmingly dominated by foreign companies who do not operate under similar corporate governance guidelines.
Thus the main broad index of which the company is a member has been deemed the most relevant reference point.
36 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration Report important measures of business success, while rewarding individuals for Remuneration Elements outstanding performance.
In this way executive bonuses seek to align the The main elements of executive remuneration packages historically and for interests of shareholders and those eligible.
the expected future are: Generally, the outside world places great weight on the performance of the Base Salary company from year to year, and we therefore think it appropriate to have a The Remuneration Committee considers the level of base salary for each significant part of the performance pay linked to annual performance.
The executive director annually, taking into account the performance of the purpose of the Cash Bonus and the Deferred Bonus schemes are to align individual and the companys strategies.
The Remuneration Committee Executive Directors with this performance period and to motivate them to also takes into account salaries in relevant comparable companies, specific meet and beat demanding annual performance targets.
factors relating to the individual, internal relatives and overall affordability.
The appropriate market rate is the rate in the market place from which the The targets for the annual element of bonuses are related to the goals of individual is most likely to be recruited.
the company set by the Board.
Generally, bonuses will start to be earned at performance levels on target and then increase until they reach capped In establishing individual salary levels, the Remuneration Committee is levels, which will generally be significantly above targets.
conscious that it should pay no more than is necessary to retain and motivate the executive, while ensuring business objectives are fulfilled.
Executive directors are eligible for a bonus of 50% of base There is no automatic adjustment in respect of inflation.
Executive salary for basic achievement and up to an additional 50% of base salary for directors base salaries remain low relative to similarly situated companies, over performance against pre-agreed financial targets awarded on a with performance-based incentive compensation forming the most straight-line between the two targets.
The policy remains in place for 2011 important factor in overall compensation.
under the same guidelines, with the addition this year of a second nonfinancial, strategic target to accompany the financial target.
2010 salaries and benefits for the CEO and CFO were approved by the Board in early 2010 based on performance during 2010, which included For 2010, the financial target for basic performance was 2010 earnings per record operating profits adj.
up 14% from the prior year, and the fact that share adj.
IFRS of at least $1.20 per share, which was achieved resulting executive director compensation was amongst the lowest of similarly sized in a bonus of 50% of base salary for each of Dr. Lynch and Mr. Hussain.
The over-performance target of $1.24 per share adj.
IFRS, resulting in an additional bonus of up to 50% of base salary, was not achieved.
The Given the companys significant growth, continued performance in 2010 targets were selected as objective, challenging growth targets designed to against strong comparators from the prior year, market positioning against meet the growth objectives of the company in line with company and UK and US comparators, the lack of generous pension entitlements and shareholder expectations.
In selecting the targets and levels of increase in size of roles, base salary raises for 2011 were approved as compensation the committee reviewed the plans of similarly situated follows: technology companies and analyst consensus forecasts.
Salary for 2011 Raise Deferred Bonus.
For 2010, the Board adopted a new deferred bonus Dr. Michael Lynch............................. 377,685 10% policy for executive directors.
The Board believes that share ownership by Sushovan Hussain............................ 339,916 10% directors and staff aligns their personal interests with those of shareholders.
The policy remains in place for 2011 under the same guidelines, with the The executive directors base salaries remain in the bottom quartile of addition this year of a second non-financial, strategic target to accompany comparable companies.
Increases were generally in line with overall the financial target.
compensation increases throughout the group.
Under the policy executive directors are granted share options following Benefits achievement of prefinancial targets, with vesting over subsequent years.
Limited employment-related benefits are provided, consisting only of Executive directors are eligible for a single annual grant of up to 150,000 company car or car allowance and basic private medical insurance.
share options if the performance levels are achieved.
Grants vest from the Remuneration relatively common amongst peers which is not provided date of award over the subsequent three years, with the maximum number includes: final salary pensions: executive director-specific pensions: tax set as approximately one and a half times base salary based on a Black advice: premium private health care: exit packages other than standard Scholes valuation.
notice periods: guaranteed bonuses: or director-specific equity plans.
For 2010, the financial target for basic performance was 2010 earnings per Pensions share adj.
IFRS of at least $1.20 per share, which was achieved resulting During 2006 the company established a matching pension scheme in the issuance of 75,000 share options for each of Dr. Lynch and Mr. available to all UK employees with more than three years service.
These options vest over the next three years in equal instalments scheme provides for the company to make a matching contribution to an on the three month anniversary of the date of grant and have an exercise individual employees pension, up to 3% of the individuals base salary price of 16.00 equal to the fair market value on the date of approval.
Other than this generally available benefit, the directors The over-performance target of $1.24 per share adj.
IFRS, which would do not have pension, retirement or similar entitlements.
have resulted in an additional award of up to 75,000 share options, was not achieved.
The targets were selected as objective, challenging growth targets designed to meet the growth objectives of the company in line with Bonuses company and shareholder expectations.
In selecting the targets and levels In accordance with common practice amongst the companys peers, the of compensation the committee reviewed the plans of similarly situated company has performance-related bonus remuneration for certain technology companies and analyst consensus forecasts.
Bonuses are intended to encourage the achievement of pre-defined annual financial objectives and to focus on the most Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 Remuneration Report Neither Dr. Lynch nor Mr. Hussain received any other share options in 2010 include adjustments for any dividends, share splits or similar corporate related to performance during the year the sole grant to Mr. Hussain in actions throughout the vesting period.
2010 related to 2009 performance prior to adoption of the 2010 policy.
If a participant resigns or is dismissed before shares are released, they will The Board sets reasonable individual grant limits for all employee share be forfeited.
The Remuneration Committee will have discretion to options across the entire Company.
As a result, at 31 December 2010, the accelerate vesting in compassionate circumstances.
In the event of a Board collectively held options over less than 0.26% of outstanding equity, change of control during the performance period, performance will be and options granted to the Board totalled 0.02% of the companys measured at the latest possible date before the change of control to assess outstanding shares at 31 December 2010.
Options granted to Board the proportion vesting based on performance.
The proportion of the award members during 2010 totalled 0.65% of all share options outstanding at that may be released will then be time prorated.
Committee will have discretion to disapply the impact of time pro rating and to permit up to 100% of awards to vest on a change of control if, due to Share options are always issued at market value.
The maximum number of exceptional business circumstances, returns to shareholders are share options the company is permitted to grant is up to 10% of the considered to be at a superior level.
There has been no departure from this policy during 2010.
Non-Executive Director Remuneration Fees for non-executive directors are determined taking into account Deferred Shares Bonus.
In 2010 the Board approved a new performance expected time commitments and responsibilities, together with comparative share policy as part of the remuneration arrangements.
The policy remains market rates and benchmarking data.
in place for 2011 under the same guidelines.
Non-executive directors are entitled to basic fees only.
For 2010 basic fees The purpose of the Deferred Shares Bonus is to align the interests of were set at 60,000 per annum for all non-executive directors, where they shareholders and management in growing the value of the business over will remain for 2011.
An additional fee of 20,000 is to be paid to the the long term.
It does this by granting shares which vest depending on the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Board earned a extent to which the business meets targets over a three-year period: the fee of 120,000 per annum in 2010, which will remain the same in 2011. value of the incentive to an executive is also heavily dependent on the level of share-price appreciation over the period, which also helps to align the Non-executive directors do not participate in any bonus or performanceinterest of executive and shareholder.
A useful extra feature of the related plans or any of the groups share incentive, option or pension Deferred Shares Bonus is that it works as an extremely effective retention schemes.
tool: the more successful the company is and therefore the more attractive our executives are to other companies, the more difficult it becomes for Staff Incentive Schemes other companies to lure our people away.
Options form the core element of the companys equity program for the broader employee base, and are granted in small amounts from time-toThe maximum annual award level for executive directors for 2010 and 2011 time to a very broad set of the companys employees after achievement of is 100% of base salary.
Vesting of awards is based on meeting stretching stretching performance targets and significant continuing contribution to performance targets over a three year performance period and, subject to value creation.
After grant share option awards are then subject to vesting meeting all relevant conditions, shares will normally be released to periods, with initial vesting after six or 12 months with the remainder vesting participants as soon as possible following the third anniversary of the over a total of 2.5 to 3.5 years.
Executive Directors participated in this award.
Any ordinary shares granted under the policy will be satisfied from scheme in prior years but no longer do so.
the companys Employee Benefit Trust, thus will be non-dilutive to shareholders.
The requirement for individuals to perform prior to granting options has been very effective in motivating performance, achieving targets and most Performance is measured against total shareholder return versus the importantly minimizing reward unconnected to an individuals performance.
constituents of the FTSE 100 at date of grant.
The FTSE 100 has been It enables the company to specifically tailor grants to an individuals role in chosen as most relevant given the relative lack of comparable technology an efficient manner.
This method also keeps individuals continuously companies in the UK.
As a result any benchmark of other companies incentivized as a grantee must remain employed to achieve full vesting of would be overwhelmingly dominated by foreign companies who do not the options.
This method is also designed to ensure that individuals are not operate under similar corporate governance guidelines.
Thus the main unjustly rewarded, which the Board believes is much more likely if large broad index of which the company is a member has been deemed the most option grants are made with broad performance targets.
Under that relevant reference point.
method, an individual who was personally underperforming would undoubtedly be enriched if the company met its own broader performance For 2011, 25% of an award will vest for performance equal to the targets, without making any material contribution, particularly given the FTSE 100s median performance three years hence.
100% of the award companys rapid growth and share price appreciation.
will vest for performance placing the company in the top 75th percentile of the FTSE 100s performance three years hence.
The award will vest on a straight line basis for performance in between the median and the top quartile.
No shares will vest for performance below the median.
The first potential award was provisionally approved in 2010, and thus is still in the first year of its three year performance period.
The Remuneration Committee will in all cases retain discretion to ensure that, as a condition for the vesting of shares, the underlying overall performance of the company has been satisfactory.
Vested awards will 38 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration Report Details of non-executive directors appointment letters as at the date of this Service Contracts report are as follows: Policy Date The Combined Code and guidelines issued by institutional investors Robert Webb, Chairman................................................. 1 May 2009 recommend that notice periods of no more than one year be set as an Jonathan Bloomer........................................................... 1 Aug 2010 objective for executive directors and that any payments to a departing 1 Richard Gaunt.............................................................. 9 July 1998 executive director should be determined having full regard to the duty of Frank Kelly...................................................................... 1 May 2010 mitigation.
The company has achieved these objectives in all respects.
John McMonigall............................................................. 2 July 1998 The companys policies prohibit long-fixed contracts and contractual 1 Mr. Gaunt commenced service as a non-executive director in 2006. termination payments.
The company requires mutual notice periods for directors, but never in excess of 12 months.
All executive directors have Either party may terminate the appointment upon three months notice or service contracts and all non-executive directors have appointment letters.
payment of salary in lieu of notice.
All agreements provide for notice of 12 months or less, although do not have a specified fixed term, and all permit garden leave up to the length of Non-executive directors are entitled to be reimbursed for their reasonable the notice period.
No other amounts are payable on termination.
All terms out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending Board meetings and of appointment are subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 committees thereof.
No directors are entitled to reimbursement of nonand the requirement to retire by rotation on the third anniversary of the business expenses, and all directors are subject to the companys global previous election.
Details of all directors service contracts and appointment letters are available on the companys website.
Other Considerations Executive Directors Contracts External Directorships No director is entitled to any automatic payment by virtue of early Executive directors may hold positions in other companies as nontermination of their contract or a change in control of the company.
In 2010, Dr. Lynch was the only executive director with of executive directors service contracts as at the date of this report are as such a position.
In connection with his services as a non-executive director follows: of the BBC and blinkx Plc, during the year ended 31 December 2010 Dr. Lynch received total remuneration of 35,000 and 35,000 2009: 35,000 and 35,000 from the BBC and blinkx, respectively.
Mutual Notice Date Period Dr. Lynch performs these services independently of his duties to the company and thus is entitled to receive such compensation.
Mr. Hussain Dr. Michael Lynch............................. 9 July 1998 6 months commenced service as a non-executive director of Monetise Plc on 1 Sushovan Hussain............................ 27 June 2001 12 months January 2011 and will also retain any compensation he may receive.
Each executive director is entitled to current benefits generally made available to all employees and any fees or remuneration he is entitled to as Performance Graph a director of Autonomy.
Payment of salary in lieu of notice is permitted on The accompanying graph sets forth the total shareholder return for the last termination.
For a fixed period following the termination of employment, five years of a holding of the companys shares against the corresponding each of Dr. Lynch and Mr. Hussain are prohibited from soliciting the change in a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 companys clients, customers and employees and from competing with the Indexes.
These indexes represent broad equity market indexes in which company in a similar geographic area.
the company, and similar companies, are constituent members.
Non-Executive Directors Contracts Total shareholder return 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2010 The non-executive directors serve under appointment letters with the Autonomy 285% FTSE 100 5%, FTSE 250 31% company.
All non-executive directors including the Chairman are Autonomy share price 280% vs. FTSE 100 and 253% vs. FTSE 250 appointed under the companys Articles of Association, which require that one third of all directors including executive directors shall retire at each 1600 AGM but that all directors must seek re-election at least every three years.
1400 They are also subject to review by the Nominating Committee prior to being 1200 considered for election or re-election by shareholders.
2 Dr. Lynch waived receipt of a bonus for 2009.
3 Appointed 1 May 2009, thus represents pro rata portion of fees of 120,000 per annum.
4 Messrs. Ariko and Perles remuneration was earned in U. S. dollars but has been translated into sterling for this report.
Each of Messrs. Ariko and Perles service as a Director of Autonomy ended on 8 September 2010.
Share Options subject to continued employment.
See pages 37 and 38 for the companys Details of share options granted to executive directors, all granted based on policy for executive director share options for 2011 performance.
performance, are set out below.
No directors' share options were cancelled or lapsed, or changed, during the year.
After the initial tranche vesting, additional tranches vest in equal quarterly instalments over the remainder of the vesting period.
2 First Exercise represents the date of the vesting of the initial tranche when an initial portion of the options become available for exercise.
3 Granted as a bonus following achievement of pre-determined acquisition integration targets.
4 The gain made on exercise of share options during the year was 552,848, net of tax and the employers portion of National Insurance contributions which are paid by the employee gross: 1,298,386 2009: 777,304, net 1,204,753, gross.
No non-executive directors hold share options, and the Board does not Directors and their Interests intend to grant any such options.
The option grants to executive directors The beneficial interests of directors who served during 2010 and their made under prior Board policies remain available for exercise and vesting connected persons in the ordinary shares of the company at the start and in accordance with the rules of the relevant grants.
They were subject to end of the year were as follows: performance conditions prior to grant and vest over a three year period from grant.
1 Jan 2010 31 Dec 2010 Executive Directors Options granted to ordinary employees in the company are on the same 1 Dr. Michael Lynch.......................... 20,028,546 19,798,546 terms and at an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of Sushovan Hussain............................ 5,945 9,978 grant.
The fair market value of the companys ordinary shares as quoted on the London Stock Exchange on 31 December 2010 the last trading day Non-Executive Directors of the year was 15.05 per ordinary share, and the range during the year Robert Webb, Chairman................... 8,109 8,109 ended 31 December 2010 was from 12.71 to 19.75.
Barry Ariko retired during 2010.......... Jonathan Bloomer joined in 2010...... Directors Interests in Contracts Richard Gaunt................................... 2,472,601 2,372,601 None of the current directors had a material interest in any contract of Frank Kelly joined in 2010................. significance to which the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was John McMonigall............................... a party during the financial year.
Richard Perle retired during 2010...... 1 Includes 610,500 ordinary shares which are deemed reportable.
At year end no director had any non-beneficial interests in the shares of the company, other than Dr. Lynch as noted above.
Aggregate holdings above do not include employee share options granted to or held by the directors, which are discussed above.
By order of the Board, Andrew M. Kanter Company Secretary 22 February 2011 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41
