Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 35 DIRECTORS REmUNERATION REPORT the Remuneration committee the committee is responsible for setting the appropriate remuneration for the chairman, the executive Directors and the Group secretary, and recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, being the first layer of management below Board level.
it also oversees the operation of the Groups executive share incentive plans.
A copy of the committees terms of Reference is available on the companys website, www.
the current members of the committee are all the non-executive Directors, namely Jeff Hewitt, peter Hill, Jan Oosterveld, Barry perry and John sussens, who also chairs the committee.
messrs Hewitt, Oosterveld, perry and sussens served as members of the committee throughout 2010. mr Hill joined the committee upon his appointment to the Board on 1 February 2010.
All the members of the committee are deemed to be independent.
the Group secretary acts as committee secretary.
the chairman, chief executive and Group Finance Director are invited to attend committee meetings as appropriate but do not participate in discussions of their own remuneration.
in formulating its policies and deciding individual remuneration levels, the committee was advised during the year by the chief executive and the Group secretary, by the external advisers Kepler Associates Kepler, Hewitt new Bridge street HnBs and towers Watson towers, and the law firms clifford chance LLp cc and mcDermott Will & emery uK LLp mWe.
Kepler, HnBs and mWe were appointed directly by the committee and cc and towers were appointed by the company on the committees behalf.
towers advice to the committee related specifically to the provision of remuneration data for the role of ceO, ceramics division.
in addition, towers provides remuneration advice to the ceramics division.
HnBs provides share award valuation advice to the company and cc provides legal advice to the company.
mWe and Kepler provide no other services to the company.
REmUNERATION POLICY FOR ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS the remuneration policy of the company aims to establish a remuneration structure for executive Directors and other senior managers in the Group which: attracts and retains high calibre executives: aligns managements interests with those of shareholders, by incentivising management to enhance shareholder value: and fosters a high performance culture, linking a substantial portion of remuneration to performance by providing management with the opportunity to earn competitive remuneration through variable based pay.
in formulating remuneration policy, the committee has regard to the international scale and nature of the Groups operations and takes into consideration the requirements of the code and guidelines issued by its leading shareholders and bodies such as the Association of British insurers ABi and the national Association of pension Funds.
the committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions of other Group employees when determining Directors remuneration, particularly when determining base salary increases.
the committee is cognisant of the need to ensure that the remuneration policy is firmly linked to the Groups strategy, including its risk management philosophy.
the Board has set a strategy with the objective to grow earnings in both the short-term and longer-term with the intention of delivering above average shareholder returns in the medium to long-term.
this is set out on page 5. this strategy is underpinned by the three-year plan which translates the strategy into operational targets.
the remuneration policy incentivises and rewards executives to deliver their contribution to the achievement of the Groups strategy through the combination of short-term incentives targeted at business and Group performance and long-term incentives targeted at Group performance.
more than half of the executive Directors total remuneration is based on the variable, performance-related elements of the Annual incentive and the Longterm incentive plan Ltip where the targets focus on key business imperatives such as Headline earnings represented by Headline profit attributable to owners of the parent, as shown on page 74, relative total shareholder Return tsR, defined as the increase in the value of a share, including reinvested dividends, and Headline earnings per share Headline eps, as defined on page 61. these targets are objective, auditable and transparent and as such are considered to be appropriate performance measures for management.
to ensure that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, executive Directors are required to build a significant stake in the company in accordance with the companys share retention guidelines.
At the year-end, all executive Directors substantially exceeded this shareholding guideline.
the following illustrates the balance between fixed and variable remuneration for the executive Directors based on the remuneration policy for 2011: ExECUTIVE DIRECTOR PAY mIx % of total remuneration nick salmon target Variable portion 55% 45% 22% 33% nick salmon maximum Variable portion 83% 17% 26% 57% mike Butterworth and Franois Wanecq target 45% 23% 32% Variable portion 55% mike Butterworth and Franois Wanecq maximum 19% 19% 62% Variable portion 81% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% salary Annual incentive Ltip cooksongroup.
com 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Our Financials Our Governance Our Business www.
co. uk 36 DIRECTORS REmUNERATION REPORT continued the committee evaluates the efficacy of the Groups executive remuneration policy each year and commissions more formal reviews as it considers appropriate.
As part of its most recent review of the Groups remuneration strategy for executive Directors and in order to reinforce the Groups risk management controls, the committee has introduced clawback arrangements for the executive Directors, divisional ceOs and Group secretary.
in the event that a misstatement is identified in the Groups consolidated financial statements which requires the restatement of a prior years accounts in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of international Financial Reporting standards, then any variable executive remuneration resulting from the misstatement would be subject to clawback provisions at the discretion of the committee.
these arrangements are to be applied in respect of the 2011 Annual incentive, the 2011 Ltip awards, and their respective equivalents in future years.
in addition, to align the Ltip even more closely with the Groups strategy the committee has decided, following consultation with the companys major shareholders, to amend the eps performance condition for future Ltip awards, including the 2011 award.
instead of a uK inflation adjusted percentage growth target the committee will set an actual Headline eps performance target for each three-year performance period.
For the 2011 award the company reported Headline eps at the end of the period year ending 31 December 2013 must be 82.0 pence for any payout to be achieved and 98.5 pence for the maximum payout to be made.
these targets are equivalent to a 10%17% annual eps compound growth range, or 33%60% over the three-year period.
there is pro rata vesting on a straight-line basis where Headline eps is between 82.0 pence and 98.5 pence.
the committee concluded that there was very little justification for continuing to utilise a uK-based inflation factor given the very small level of Group activity in the uK and that an absolute eps target expressed in pence would give a clearer line of sight to management.
SUmmARY OF KEY FEATURES OF THE ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS REmUNERATION Element of Purpose and link to remuneration Remuneration policy maximum Award Key Features Base salary Helps to recruit and retain key n a paid in cash.
normally reviewed by the Reflects the individuals experience, committee annually.
role and contribution within the Group.
Annual incentivises executives to achieve 150% of base salary for the entire bonus amount payable in cash incentive specific, pre-defined annual targets.
to the Group Finance Director and the For 2011 annual incentives are 100% of base salary for the Group ceO of the ceramics division.
based on Group Headline earnings Finance Director and the ceO of Any bonus award in excess of 100% performance.
Half of the Annual incentive the ceramics division.
of base salary earned by the chief for the ceO of the ceramics division is executive is deferred into shares for based on divisional trading profit with a three years.
Long-term Aligns executives interests with those performance shares: executive participants are eligible to receive incentive plan of shareholders through the delivery Directors are eligible to receive annual allocations of performance and Ltip of shares.
a conditional annual allocation matching shares.
Rewards growth in shareholder value of shares worth up to 100% of these awards are eligible to vest three and earnings.
years after their award date subject to Aids retention of key executives over matching shares: executive the achievement of specified performance a three-year performance period.
Directors can elect to invest in conditions.
company shares all or part of their Vesting of half of awards is subject to Annual incentive otherwise payable the Groups tsR performance versus in cash, in return for which they the Ftse 250 excluding investment receive a conditional allocation trusts.
of shares worth up to 2.25 times Vesting of the remaining half of awards the pre-tax equivalent of the is subject to the growth in the Groups Annual incentive so invested.
note: the chief executives maximum prior to any vesting the committee investment in the matching share has also stipulated that, as an element of the Ltip is capped at an additional hurdle, it needs to annual bonus equivalent to 100% be satisfied that vesting has been of base salary.
justified by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 37 DIALOGUE wITH SHAREHOLDERS the company is committed to open and transparent dialogue with its shareholders on remuneration as well as other matters.
As a matter of course the committee consults with key institutional shareholders and various representative bodies about any proposed changes to the incentive arrangements of the companys executive Directors.
Following the 2010 AGm and as part of the ongoing commitment to maintain open dialogue, the chair of the committee met with major shareholders to obtain detailed feedback on the remuneration policy and to provide an opportunity to discuss any matters arising.
the committee will carefully consider the views expressed when reviewing, setting and communicating future policy.
KEY FEATURES OF THE ExECUTIVE DIRECTORS REmUNERATION ANNUAL EmOLUmENTS salary levels are reviewed annually and set to reflect individual contribution, experience and Group financial performance.
the committee takes account of the pay environment for employees within the Group.
consideration is also given to levels paid in similar companies.
Following the salary freeze applied in 2009, the executive Directors were awarded salary increases of 2% in 2010.
With effect from 1 January 2011, messrs salmon and Wanecq were awarded increases of 2.5% in line with increases paid to other Group executives.
As a result, messrs salmons and Wanecqs current salaries are 540,105 and 632,528 respectively.
the salary paid to mr Butterworth has historically been below the market median.
in recognition of his personal performance and the strong Group financial results, the committee considered it to be an appropriate time to increase his salary towards the median.
Accordingly, mr Butterworth has been awarded an increase of 4.5% in respect of 2011 taking his annual salary to 334,160.
Benefits in kind receivable by messrs Butterworth, salmon and Wanecq principally comprise company car allowances, life assurance and medical insurance.
these benefits are similar to those provided to other Group executives in the uK.
ANNUAL INCENTIVE in line with the Groups other senior executives, the executive Directors are eligible to receive an Annual incentive calculated as a percentage of base salary and based on achievement against specified financial targets.
each year the committee establishes the financial performance criteria for the forthcoming year.
these criteria are set by reference to the Groups financial budget and prior year actual financial results.
the target range is set to ensure that maximum bonuses are only paid for significantly exceeding market expectations.
the committee considers that the setting and attainment of these targets is important in the context of achievement of the Groups longer-term strategic goals.
For the financial year 2010, the executive Directors Annual incentives were based on Group Headline earnings performance, the calculation of which is shown in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
messrs Butterworths and salmons Annual incentives were assessed solely against this criterion, whilst half of mr Wanecqs Annual incentive was assessed against this criterion and the remainder based upon the divisional trading profit of the ceramics division adjusted for performance against a key operating cash flow target.
As stated in last years Directors Remuneration Report, the maximum annual bonus potential for mr salmon was increased from 100% to 150% of salary in 2010. the percentage of salary paid for target performance remained unchanged at 50% ensuring that increased bonus payments are only made for above target performance.
Any payout over 100% of salary will be payable in deferred shares under the rules of cooksons Deferred share Bonus plan further information about this plan is given on page 40. these shares would vest on the third anniversary of their award date, although they will lapse if mr salmon ceases employment with the company before the end of the three-year period other than in certain circumstances permitted under the plan rules, such as retirement.
the maximum annual bonus potential remained at 100% of salary for messrs Butterworth and Wanecq in 2010 with 50% of salary payable at target.
in 2010, the Groups performance exceeded the maximum Headline earnings target and the ceramics divisions performance exceeded the maximum trading profit target as adjusted for cash flow performance and so annual bonuses equivalent to 100% of base salary will be paid to messrs Butterworth and Wanecq for 2010, and equivalent to 150% of base salary will be paid to mr salmon.
mr salmon will receive a payment equivalent to 100% of his base salary in cash and will receive a deferred share award equivalent to 50% of his base salary.
these annual bonus payments are reported in the Directors remuneration table on page 42. the committee has determined that for 2011 messrs Butterworths and salmons Annual incentives will again be based on Group Headline earnings and mr Wanecqs Annual incentive will be based 50% on Group Headline earnings and 50% on the ceramics divisions trading profit adjusted for cash flow performance.
their maximum bonus potential will remain unchanged at 150% of salary for mr salmon and 100% of salary for messrs Butterworth and Wanecq.
co. uk 38 DIRECTORS REmUNERATION REPORT continued LONG-TERm INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP AND OTHER SHARE INCENTIVE PLANS the Ltip rewards executives for delivering superior tsR, defined as the increase in the value of a share, including reinvested dividends, and from 2007 onwards Headline eps growth over a set period of time, and as such is intended to align executive remuneration with shareholders interests.
the Ltip has two elements: firstly, executive Directors are eligible to receive a conditional annual allocation of shares worth up to 100% of base salary performance shares : secondly, executive Directors can elect to invest all or part of their Annual incentive in ordinary shares of the company investment shares in return for which they receive a conditional allocation of shares worth up to 2.25 times the pre-tax equivalent of the Annual incentive so invested matching share Award.
the chief executives maximum investment in the matching share element of the Ltip is capped at an annual bonus equivalent to 100% of base salary.
in 2010, each executive Director received an allocation under the Ltip equal to 100% of salary, as shown on page 43. in accordance with the rules of the Ltip, messrs Butterworth, salmon and Wanecq chose to use their Annual incentive award to purchase investment shares and received additional matching shares in respect of this investment.
t hese matching shares may vest after three years, conditional upon the achievement of the performance targets described below.
During the year, the Remuneration committee reviewed the use of tsR and Headline eps as the basis for the Ltip performance conditions.
it remained satisfied that they continue to be the most appropriate measures of long-term performance for the executive Directors at this point.
many investors regard tsR as an important indication of both earnings and capital growth relative to other Ftse 250 companies.
the committee has considered using a sector comparator group for measuring tsR performance, but given the lack of direct competitors deems it to be inappropriate.
use of tsR ensures that the value of awards vesting reflects improvement in the companys performance over the relevant period.
Headline eps is a key indicator of long-term financial performance and value creation.
Following the most recent review, the criterion applicable to the Headline eps element of the performance condition has been changed.
the new condition is that the Group will have to achieve an actual eps performance target for the three-year performance period.
For the 2011 award the company reported eps at the end of the period year ending 31 December 2013 must be 82.0 pence for any payout to be achieved and 98.5 pence for the maximum payout to be made.
the committee will continue to review the measures as it sees fit to ensure that the Ltip rewards true value creation and sustainable performance going forward.
the rules of the Ltip allow shares purchased by executives under a rights issue to be designated as investment shares and qualify for a matching share Award.
the value of the matching share Award relating to shares purchased under a rights issue is, as with any other matching share Award, increased as if the executive had invested a pre-tax amount in shares under the rights issue.
in respect of the 2009 Ltip awards, the committee specified that the total annual maximum value of investment shares however sourced that could qualify for a matching share Award was subject to an overall limit of 100% of base salary.
subject to this limit, shares purchased by executives using any Annual incentive could continue to count as investment shares and qualify for a matching share Award in addition to any shares purchased in the rights issue which were designated as investment shares.
in addition to the overall limit, the committee decided in consultation with major shareholders that only 63% of shares taken up under the 2009 rights issue could be designated as investment shares under the Ltip in recognition of the significantly discounted price of the shares issued in the rights issue.
Finally, the committee further specified that the executive Directors be required to retain all of the cookson shares that they held at the time of the 2009 rights issue for a period of 36 months after the rights issue in order for a matching share Award based on shares purchased in the rights issue to be able to vest.
the committee has the discretion to award participants the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares that vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the award date and the date of vesting.
performance shares and matching share Awards made in 2008, 2009 and 2010 vest after three years.
the proportion of shares vesting is based on the companys performance against specified performance conditions.
Vesting of 50% of shares awarded is based upon the Groups three-year tsR performance relative to that of the companies of its comparator group, the Ftse 250 excluding investment trusts, and 50% on Headline eps the calculation of which is shown in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements growth over a three-year period.
the two measures operate independently.
the committee is proposing to grant future Ltip awards, including for 2011, to some participants as nil-cost options.
these options would become exercisable, subject to the achievement of the applicable performance conditions, three years after their award, and would then remain exercisable until the fifth anniversary of their award.
this would allow each participant the flexibility to decide when to exercise their awards rather than the shares being subject to a one-off vesting date on the third anniversary of their award.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 39 Vesting of 50% of performance shares and matching share Awards under the 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 Ltip awards is based on tsR performance in accordance with the following schedule: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Performance Shares matching Shares Vesting Ratio excluding Investment Trusts Vesting Percentage matching Shares: Investment Shares Below median 0% 0 median 12.5% 0.25 : 1 upper Quintile top 20% 50% 1.125 : 1 Between median and upper Quintile pro rata between 12.5% and 50% pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1 Vesting of 50% of performance shares and matching share Awards under the 2008, 2009 and 2010 Ltip awards is based on Headline eps growth, as compared with the compound annual growth in the Retail prices index Rpi, in accordance with the following schedule: Annual Compound Headline Performance Shares matching Shares Vesting Ratio EPS Growth above RPI Vesting Percentage matching Shares: Investment Shares Below 3% 0% 0 3% 12.5% 0.25 : 1 At or above 10% 50% 1.125 : 1 Between 3% and 10% pro rata between 12.5% and 50% pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1 Vesting of 50% of performance shares and matching share Awards under the 2011 Ltip awards will be based on Headline eps growth in accordance with the following schedule: Performance Shares matching Shares Vesting Ratio EPS for 2013 financial year Vesting Percentage matching Shares: Investment Shares Less than 82.0 pence 0% 0 82.0 pence 12.5% 0.25 : 1 98.5 pence or more 50% 1.125 : 1 Between 82.0 pence and 98.5 pence pro rata between 12.5% and 50% pro rata between 0.25 : 1 and 1.125 : 1 matching share Awards will only vest if the investment shares originally purchased have been retained.
the committee obtains independent external advice to assess whether the company has met the tsR performance condition at the end of the relevant performance period and to confirm that the companies which make up the index and the measurement of the companys performance are both in accordance with the rules of the Ltip.
measurement of the Groups tsR takes place over a performance period commencing on the first day of cooksons financial year in which the award is granted.
tsR is measured as the percentage increase in a return index for cookson and each comparator company between the beginning and end of the performance period.
the return index at the beginning of the performance period is the average of the return index on each weekday in the three-month period prior to the start of the performance period.
the same three-month averaging method is used to ascertain the return index at the end of the performance period.
the companies are then ranked, in descending order, according to their tsR.
if cookson is ranked at or above the median of the comparator group then a proportion of the awards is eligible to vest.
the Groups Headline eps is calculated on a consistent basis and the committee has the discretion to adjust for exceptional items as it deems appropriate.
Growth in Headline eps is the annualised percentage growth over the performance period.
Headline eps for the base year i. e. the calendar year prior to the award date is compared with the final year i. e. the calendar year three years after the base year.
For the 2008, 2009 and 2010 Ltip awards this was expressed as compound annual growth, above the compound annual growth in Rpi.
the performance period applicable to the awards made in 2008 ended on 31 December 2010. the companys tsR performance during this threeyear performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the companys performance was below median.
the portion of the 2008 Ltip awards that was based on tsR will therefore lapse on the vesting date of 31 march 2011.
However, the company did meet the eps performance condition: the companys annual compound Headline eps growth was assessed for the three-year performance period as being more than 10% above Rpi.
prior to the vesting of any award, the committee stipulates that, as an additional hurdle, it needs to be satisfied that vesting has been justified by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
Having carefully considered the Groups performance over the three-year period, and taking into account the significant improvement in the Groups financial results during the past year, the committee concluded that the vesting of the Headline eps element of the 2008 Ltip awards is justified by the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Accordingly, 100% of the portion of the 2008 Ltip awards that was based on Headline eps performance will vest on 31 march 2011. cooksongroup.
co. uk 40 DIRECTORS REmUNERATION REPORT continued in 2009 the committee adjusted the performance conditions applicable to the companys outstanding Ltip awards to take account of the companys 2009 rights issue.
the adjustments made to the calculation of tsR, reflecting the actual behaviour of the majority of shareholders, and aligned with the executive Directors own investments, were based upon the assumption that all available rights under the companys rights issue, and any rights issues carried out by members of the comparator group during the performance period, were taken up in full by eligible shareholders.
the adjustments made to the calculation of the Headline eps performance conditions were based upon the assumption that the rights issue had taken place, on a pro forma basis, at the beginning of the base year, including an adjustment for notional interest on the rights issue funds received in the base year.
in addition to the executive Directors, senior divisional and corporate executives are allocated performance shares under the Ltip and members of the Groups executive committee and senior corporate executives are also given the opportunity to participate in the matching share element.
in 2007, the company implemented a Deferred share Bonus plan DsBp in place of the Ltip for certain senior managers.
under this plan, executives receive an allocation of deferred shares to the value of a percentage of their annual bonus.
these shares, which will be sourced from existing shares, vest after three years, although an executives allocation may lapse if he or she ceases employment in certain circumstances before the end of the three-year period.
Following the companys rights issue in 2009, the Directors approved adjustments to the number of shares granted under all outstanding options or awards and to any associated exercise price.
Adjustments were made in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan and where required by plan rules, adjustments were made with the prior approval of HmRc and or the companys Auditor.
under the rules of the Ltip and executive share option schemes, the company has the discretion to satisfy the majority of awards either by the transfer of existing shares or by the allotment of newly-issued shares.
the decision on how to satisfy awards is taken by the Board, which considers the most prudent and appropriate sourcing arrangement for the company.
under the executive share option schemes the company granted share options, with an option exercise price fixed by reference to the market price prevailing at the time of grant, the exercise of which were subject to an eps performance condition.
the last executive share option grant was made in 2003 and the company does not intend to make any further grants under the schemes.
Any awards that vest under the DsBp are met from the transfer of existing shares.
Further details of the awards and options outstanding under these share plans are given in note 39 to the consolidated financial statements and note 18 to the company financial statements.
SHARE USAGE As at 31 December 2010, 234,619 shares were held in the companys employee share ownership trust esOp.
the trustee of the esOp purchases shares in the open market or can subscribe for newly-issued shares as required, to meet liabilities for the provision of shares to satisfy options and awards that vest.
cookson share plans comply with the current ABi guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% over a ten year period in relation to the companys issued share capital, with a further limitation of 5% in any ten year period on discretionary schemes.
in the last ten years less than 1% of the companys current issued share capital has been allotted to settle obligations arising from the exercise or vesting of executive and all employee share incentives and thus the company remains well within the limits.
Details of the awards outstanding under the companys share plans as at 31 December 2010 and where granted as options, the associated exercise prices, are given in note 39.2 to the consolidated financial statements and note 15 to the company financial statements.
PERFORmANCE GRAPH the graph below compares cooksons tsR over the last five years with the return on the Ftse 250 index excluding investment trusts.
this index has been chosen as the comparator index to reflect the size, international scope and diversity of the Groups businesses and is the comparator group against which cooksons performance is measured for the tsR performance condition of the Ltip.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN Total Shareholder Return 180 160 this graph shows the value by 31 December 2010 of 100 140 invested in cookson Group plc on 31 December 2005 120 compared with the value of 100 invested in the Ftse 250 100 index excluding investment trusts.
the other points plotted 80 are the values at intervening financial year ends.
60 40 20 cookson Group plc 0 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 Ftse 250 index excluding investment trusts This graph shows the value by 31 December 2010 of 100 invested in Cookson Group plc on 31 December 2005 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
The ohter points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Cookson Group plc FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 41 SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES the committee encourages executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the company equivalent in value to at least one times salary.
to this end, executive Directors will normally be expected to retain at least 50% measured as the value after tax of any performance or matching share Awards vesting under the Ltip, until this criterion has been met.
DIRECTORS CONTRACTS the following paragraphs summarise the main terms and conditions of the contracts of the Directors: Executive Directors in line with the policy of the committee, messrs Butterworth and salmon have uK service contracts which have 12 month unexpired terms and provide for 12 months notice being given.
mr salmons contract was dated 14 June 2004 and mr Butterworths 25 may 2005. each contract provides for compensation to be paid on early termination by the company based on one times salary, pension allowance and benefits payable half in a lump sum and the balance in six separate monthly instalments commencing six months after leaving, mitigated by any salary earned from any new paid occupation.
mr Wanecq is contracted to Vesuvius Group nV sA, under a Belgian services agreement dated 1 march 2006 for which his remuneration is in the form of fees.
His appointment to the cookson Group plc Board is subject to a separate appointment agreement for which no fee is payable.
His termination arrangements are structured to effectively mirror messrs Butterworths and salmons arrangements including the notice period and mitigation obligations.
none of the executive Directors contracts contain any change of control provisions and they all contain a duty to mitigate should the Director find an alternative paid occupation in any period during which the company must otherwise pay compensation on early termination.
Other than as described for mr Wanecq, no Directors had any material interest in a contract of significance other than service agreements with the company or any subsidiary company during the year.
Non-executive Directors in accordance with the code, each non-executive Director is appointed for an initial fixed term of three years subject to their election at the companys first Annual General meeting following their appointment and re-election at intervening Annual General meetings.
thereafter, subject to approval of the Board and their re-election by shareholders, they are appointed for a further three-year term.
Annual General meeting at which Date of current term Unexpired appointment is expected to expire notice period Non-executive Directors Jeff Hewitt 1 June 2005 2012 not required peter Hill 1 February 2010 2013 not required Jan Oosterveld 15 June 2004 2013 not required Barry perry 1 January 2002 2011 not required John sussens 1 may 2004 2013 not required the chairman, mr Harris, was appointed as a non-executive Director on 1 April 2010 and succeeded mr Beeston as chairman at the conclusion of the 2010 Annual General meeting.
mr Harris was appointed for a fixed period which is due to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General meeting in 2016.
During the first year of his appointment to the role of chairman he is entitled to 12 months notice from the company: thereafter he is entitled to 6 months notice from the company.
Any compensation for loss of office would be based upon his fee.
mr Beeston was appointed on 1 April 2003 for a fixed period which was due to expire at the conclusion of the AGm in 2008. this was extended in 2007 and was due to expire at the conclusion of the AGm in 2011. mr Beeston retired from the Board at the conclusion of the AGm in 2010.
He waived his entitlement to any notice from the company.
non-executive Directors are not entitled to receive compensation for loss of office at any time.
All Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the companys Articles of Association.
the Board sets the remuneration of the non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the practice of other companies.
the non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions on their own remuneration.
the chairmans remuneration is set by the committee with reference to the fees of non-executive chairmen within two Ftse 250 comparator groups, the first focusing on sector comparators and the second on companies of similar size.
co. uk 42 DIRECTORS REmUNERATION REPORT continued ExTERNAL APPOINTmENTS executive Directors are permitted to hold positions as non-executive directors of other companies provided that these do not lead to conflicts of interest.
the Board sanctions each such request on a case-by-case basis.
Fees received are retained by the executive Director concerned.
in 2010, mr salmon received fees of 64,000 for his role as senior independent non-executive director of united utilities Group plc.
mr Butterworth received fees of 12,833 for his role as non-executive director of st ives plc.
PENSION ARRANGEmENTS messrs Butterworth and salmon are not entitled to participate in any of the Groups pension arrangements.
in accordance with their contracts they received pension allowances of 30% of their base salaries in 2010 to enable them to make their own pension provision.
mr Butterworths pension allowance in 2010 amounted to 95,931 2009: 78,375, whilst mr salmons pension allowance in 2010 amounted to 158,080 2009: 154,980. mr Wanecq is entitled to a pension allowance of 30% of his base salary.
this amounted to 145,505 in 2010. this comprised his participation in two Group pension arrangements, the us 401K savings plan and a Belgian defined contribution plan operated by external providers to the maximum level and a salary supplement.
the following information is audited by the companys Auditor.
DIRECTORS REmUNERATION the following table details the remuneration payable to each Director in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010, together with comparative totals in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009.
Benefits in kind comprise mainly the assessed benefits arising from the contractual payments of medical insurance, life assurance and company car allowances.
2. the Annual incentive bonuses awarded to messrs Butterworth, salmon and Wanecq for 2010 were based on the Groups achievement of an above-maximum level of performance in respect of Group Headline earnings for 2010 and for mr Wanecq, the achievement of an above-maximum level of performance in respect of the ceramics Divisions operating profit target as adjusted for cash flow performance.
One-third of mr salmons Annual incentive bonus equivalent to 50% of his base salary will be paid in deferred shares.
these shares will vest on the third anniversary of their award date although they will lapse if mr salmon ceases employment with the company before the end of the three-year period other than in certain circumstances permitted under the DsBp Rules, such as retirement.
Appointed 1 February 2010. mr Wanecqs remuneration details are translated into sterling at the average euro:sterling exchange rate for the year.
Details of the annual fees payable to non-executive Directors can be found on page 31.
8. in addition to the above, ex gratia pensions of 14,026 2009: 11,879 were paid to former Directors in 2010.
9. the information in the above table is audited by the companys Auditor.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 43 LTIP ALLOCATIONS Details of the executive Directors allocations of shares under the Ltip are shown in the table below: total Total share share market allocations performance matching allocations price of outstanding shares shares shares outstanding shares as at allocated allocated lapsed as at on day 31 Dec during during during 31 Dec before 1 1,2 1,2 1,5 1 1 Director, grant date and 2009 the year the year the year 2010 award performance Vesting type of award no.
2. in 2010 messrs Butterworth, salmon and Wanecq received potential maximum allocations of performance shares worth one times their respective base salaries.
under the matching share award element of the Ltip they used their 2009 Annual incentive payments to purchase 13,631, 22,462 and 16,221 shares respectively, and received maximum allocations of matching share Awards based on these amounts which had a maximum potential value on the date of award equivalent to circa one times their respective base salaries for messrs Butterworth and salmon and circa two-thirds of base salary for mr Wanecq.
the allocations were made to messrs Butterworth, salmon and Wanecq on 7 April 2010 and the allocations were calculated based upon the closing mid-market price of cooksons shares on the day before the awards were made.
cooksons mid-market closing price on the 7 April 2010 was 586p.
3. the mid-market closing price of cooksons shares ranged between 367.4p and 659.5p during 2010 and on 31 December 2010 was 658.5p.
4. the performance criteria which apply to the vesting of share allocations under the Ltip are summarised on pages 38 to 40.
5. the performance period for the Ltip awards made in 2007 ended on 31 December 2009. the companys tsR performance during the three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the companys performance was below median.
in addition, the companys annual compound Headline eps growth over Rpi was assessed as being below 3% during this period.
Accordingly, the 2007 Ltip awards lapsed on the third anniversary of their award.
6. the performance period for the Ltip awards made in 2008 ended on 31 December 2010. the companys tsR performance during the three-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the companys performance was below median.
the companys annual compound Headline eps growth over Rpi was assessed as being above 10% during this period.
the Remuneration committee has confirmed that it is satisfied that the vesting of awards under the 2008 Ltip is justified by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
Accordingly, 100% of the half of the 2008 Ltip awards that was based on Headline eps performance will vest on the third anniversary of their award.
7. the information in the above table is audited by the companys Auditor.
co. uk 44 DIRECTORS REmUNERATION REPORT continued DIRECTORS INTERESTS the beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the company as at 31 December 2010 were as shown below.
31 Dec 31 Dec 2010 2009 1 Ordinary shares 1 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares No.
mike Butterworth 147,507 133,876 Jeff Harris 20,000 Jeff Hewitt 14,275 14,275 peter Hill 5,000 Jan Oosterveld 15,206 15,206 Barry perry 7,741 7,741 nick salmon 335,409 312,947 John sussens 26,000 26,000 Franois Wanecq 378,528 362,307 notes 1. there were no changes to the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the company in the period from 1 January 2011 to 1 march 2011.
Full details of Directors shareholdings and share allocations are given in the companys Register of Directors interests, which is open to inspection at the companys registered office during business hours.
3. none of the Directors, nor their spouses nor minor children, held non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the company during the year.
4. the information in the above table is audited by the companys Auditor.
On behalf of the Board John G Sussens chairman, Remuneration committee 1 march 2011 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19
