Governance Directors remuneration Dear Shareholder Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is comprised to exercise independent judgement and This year the work of the Remuneration Committee took place against a background consists only of independent non-executive directors.
For further details, the terms of very challenging business conditions in the global economy.
In this environment of reference can be found on page 53. the Committee maintained its focus on ensuring that the Companys remuneration policies in general, and the packages of the executive directors in particular, were Remuneration Committee designed to allow the Company to recruit, retain and motivate its talented people and Chairman Luc Vandevelde to ensure those people were fully incentivised to maximise shareholder value.
Committee members Simon Murray Anthony Watson At the start of the year a key focus for the Company was the generation of cash flow.
Philip Yea This was reflected in the weighting applied to this measure in the short-term plan.
As the focus now moves more to growing revenue and market share the weightings have been modified for the coming year to appropriately reflect this change.
Management attendees Chief Executive Vittorio Colao The structure of the long-term plan has also been reviewed and the Committee Group HR Director Ronald Schellekens believes that the current design remains appropriate with its strong continued focus Group Reward Director Tristram Roberts until 31 October 2009 on both cash flow and total shareholder return.
Head of Group Reward Adam Parsons 1 November 2009 to 31 March 2010 As well as considering the current package, the Remuneration Committee continues External advisors to monitor how well incentive awards made in previous years align with the During the year Towers Watson supplied market data and advice on market practice Companys performance.
In this regard, the Committee is confident that there is a and governance.
 LLP provided performance analysis and strong link between performance and reward.
advice on plan design and performance measures.
Both advisors were appointed by the Remuneration Committee in 2007.
The Remuneration Committee has appreciated the dialogue and feedback from investors and has taken account of their views when reviewing the incentive designs.
The advisors also provided advice to the Company on general human resource and This has been seen in two ways: i in the alignment of the senior leadership population compensation related matters.
In addition,  LLP also with the Board and the Executive Committee through the cascading down of the free provided a broad range of tax, share scheme and advisory services to the Group cash flow performance condition in the long-term plan: and ii in the greater during the 2010 financial year.
differentiation that has been built into both short and long-term plans with individual performance being more rigorously measured and directly affecting award sizes.
The As noted in his biographical details on page 49 of this annual report, during the year Committee will continue to take an active interest in investors views and the voting Philip Yea joined an advisory board for  LLP.
In light of their on the remuneration report.
As such, it hopes to receive your support at the AGM on role as advisor to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration matters, this 27 July 2010. appointment was considered by the Committee and it was determined that there is no conflict or potential conflict arising.
Meetings Luc Vandevelde The Remuneration Committee had five meetings during the year.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 May 2010 Contents The detail of this remuneration report is set out over the following pages, as follows: Page 57 Remuneration Committee Page 58 Overview of remuneration philosophy Page 59 The remuneration package Page 61 Awards made to executive directors during the 2010 financial year Page 61 Amounts executive directors will actually receive in the 2011 financial year Page 62 Other considerations Page 63 Audited information for executive directors Page 66 Non-executive directors remuneration Page 66 Audited information for non-executive directors serving during the year ended 31 March 2010 Page 67 Beneficial interests Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 57
