Governance Governance 65 Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance across the Group.
The terms of reference role, their performance and salary levels in with the Companies Act 2006 the Act of the Committee are available on the the wider market.
The remuneration policy and Schedules 5 and 8 of the Large and Groups website www.
com described below will be kept under review, but Medium-Sized Companies and Groups or on request from the company secretary.
the current intention is that the policy should Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 continue to apply in future financial years.
A resolution to approve The Committee appointed, and continued the report will be proposed at the to use, Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS A.
Salary and other benets Companys AGM at which the Financial to provide advice on structuring executive The Committee reviews the salary of Statements will be presented for approval.
the executive directors, members of the HNBS does not provide any other services Group Executive and senior managers This report has been divided into separate to the Group.
Legal advice with respect annually to ensure they remain appropriate sections for unaudited and audited to remuneration matters is provided by and competitive.
In doing so the Committee information.
The Regulations require Linklaters LLP.
Linklaters also provides legal also considers salary levels in all Group the independent auditor to report to our services to the Company.
A wide range of data is utilised shareholders on the audited information remuneration, the Committee also consults by the Committee, together with assistance section of this report and to state whether, the chief executive, Keith Clarke, the Group from HNBS as appropriate.
in its opinion, that part of the report has HR director, Alun Grifths, and, where been properly prepared in accordance required, the company secretary, Richard Consistent with the approach taken for with the Act and the Regulations.
No director or all Group employees, the annual salaries of senior manager participates in discussions the executive directors were not reviewed Unaudited information about their own remuneration.
However, in light of the economic circumstances at that time, each Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy of Keith Clarke, Alun Grifths and former The Remuneration Committee at The objectives of the Groups remuneration Group finance director Robert MacLeod 31 March 2010 comprised Sir Peter Williams, policy are to attract, retain and incentivise requested that 10% of their basic salaries Lord Boyce, Fiona Clutterbuck and management with the appropriate for the financial year ended 31 March 2010 Raj Rajagopal.
Fiona Clutterbuck joined the professional, managerial and technical be waived.
This waiver did not affect the Committee on 15 June 2009.
All members expertise to realise our business objectives underlying reference salary used to calculate are independent non-executive directors.
and to align their interests with those of our related benets such as bonus, long term James Morley and Ed Wallis were both shareholders.
The Group endeavours to link share incentives and pension entitlement.
members of the Committee until their The waivers expired on 31 March 2010 and, total remuneration to performance and retirements on 30 June 2009 and 31 January thereby create a performance culture.
More accordingly, the salaries of Keith Clarke and 2010 respectively.
Ed Wallis, the former Alun Grifths reverted to the pre-waiver than half of the executive directors total Company chairman, was considered remuneration is linked to performance salaries of 425,000 and 200,000 independent on appointment.
The respectively with effect from 1 April 2010. through participation in the performance Committee is chaired by Sir Peter Williams.
bonus plan and long term share incentives.
Details of attendance at Committee Heath Drewett, who was appointed as a meetings can be found in Table 1 of the To ensure that we offer the best available director on 15 June 2009, and succeeded Corporate Governance Report page 58.
Robert MacLeod as Group finance director incentives to enhance shareholder value, the Committee continued to assess the on 19 June 2009, was appointed with an The Committee reviews the remuneration annual salary of 250,000.
His salary had following constituent elements of the policy for the chairman and executive remuneration of the executive directors and been adjusted downwards by 10% on his directors and, more generally, the joining the Company to reect the waivers review the same elements for members of remuneration policy of the Group.
It the Group Executive and senior managers: which his fellow directors had put in place.
determines the level of remuneration, Following the cessation of the salary waivers incentives and other benets, compensation A. salary and other benets for Keith Clarke and Alun Grifths, Heath payments and terms of employment of the Drewetts salary was increased to 275,000 B. performance bonus payments chairman and each executive director.
The C. long term share incentives with effect from 1 April 2010.
This increased Committee seeks to provide appropriate salary is within the range for peers in D. all-employee share plan incentives to enhance performance and align E. retirement benets.
the interests of the executive directors with those of shareholders.
It also reviews the In determining remuneration, consideration Other benets for executive directors include salaries and benets of members of the a car allowance or a car and payment of its is given to reward levels throughout the Group Executive, the company secretary and organisation as well as in the external operating expenses, life assurance and other senior managers reporting directly to entitlement to a non-contributory private employment market.
The Committee aims the chief executive.
The Committee also to reward all employees fairly based on their healthcare scheme.
has oversight of remuneration matters WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 66 Governance Remuneration Report continued B.
Performance bonus payments Executive directors are required to take Dividends declared on shares subject to The Companys bonus and long term one-third of any bonus in the form of an LTIP awards are rolled up and delivered incentive plans seek to provide executive award over shares under the terms of the to executives in cash on release of the directors, members of the Group Executive Atkins Deferred Share Plan Deferred Share underlying award.
and senior managers with the opportunity Plan.
The Deferred Share Plan is designed to to increase overall remuneration levels to the aid retention, with the awards to executive The Committee believes that EPS growth upper quartile for comparable businesses directors being subject to forfeiture on provides a closer line of sight between but only following demanding performance resignation within three years of grant.
management performance and reward targets being achieved.
There are no further performance conditions than can be achieved via TSR alone.
once the award has been made.
Dividends Executive directors were eligible to declared on Deferred Share Plan awards are This year the Committee intends to make receive bonuses of up to 90% of their rolled up and delivered to participants in LTIP awards at around 100% of salary to salary for achieving Group financial targets cash on release of the award to align their the executive directors following the in respect of the year ended 31 March 2010. interests further with those of shareholders.
announcement of the Groups preliminary The Committee also reviews individual results.
As in previous years, the number of performance, and Group performance Bonus awards are non-pensionable and shares subject to the awards will be based on a share price on 1 April 2010.
The upper in respect of health and safety and staff non-contractual.
retention, when considering bonus payments.
limit for awards under the LTIP is 150% of salary.
The Committee has considered the In addition, the Committee had the discretion C. Long term share incentives to increase the bonus to pay out up to 100% The Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP impact of the expiry of a letter of credit in respect of the Metronet enterprise and the of salary in exceptional circumstances.
The seeks to motivate and retain the executive Committee has resolved to pay a bonus of directors, members of the Group Executive release of a related provision giving rise to a one-off, non-cash pre-tax credit of 25.0m 90% of salary to Keith Clarke, Heath Drewett and other senior managers.
Under the LTIP, and Alun Grifths having each exceeded awards to executive directors and members in the Groups income statement for the year.
It has concluded that the non-trading challenging pre-set financial targets.
Heath of the Group Executive are made on the Drewetts bonus will be pro rated to reect following basis: nature of this benefit is not a fair reection of underlying earnings.
Excluding this item, his period of employment.
s 50% of the award is subject to the normalised basic EPS for the year ended 31 March 2010 was 79.4p.
This lower The Committee conducted a thorough review Companys total shareholder return TSR of remuneration during the year ended performance relative to the constituents of EPS gure has been used to calculate the vesting of awards made under the LTIP 31 March 2009 to determine what changes, the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment if any, should be made to both the levels trusts on the date of award.
Full vesting in 2007 and will also be used as the base for the 2010 awards.
and structure of the total reward package of is achieved if the Company ranks in the each executive director and concluded that upper quartile, 30% for a median ranking, A full summary of the performance any changes should be deferred in light of and pro rata vesting for intermediate the challenging economic circumstances.
No vesting occurs for a conditions attaching to existing share plan awards can be found in note 32 to the The Committee considered the position ranking below median again during the financial year ended s 50% of the award is subject to the Groups Financial Statements page 115.
31 March 2010 and concluded that it would real growth in normalised earnings per be appropriate to increase the maximum share EPS over the performance period.
The LTIP allows for the use of market purchase, new issue and treasury shares to bonus to 100% of salary.
Consistent with An increase in EPS of more than 10% per the existing policy, 90% of salary will be paid annum above the UK Retail Price Index RPI satisfy awards.
To date all vested LTIP awards have been satisfied using shares purchased for meeting challenging financial objectives.
over the three-year performance period Consideration is also given to the Groups enables the shares to vest in full: an in the market.
Awards under other share plans are satisfied using shares purchased performance in respect of health and safety increase of 4% per annum above the UK and staff retention.
In addition, 10% of salary RPI will result in 30% of the shares vesting: in the market.
The Committee reviews the method by which outstanding awards under will be paid for the delivery of stated personal no shares vest for an increase of less than objectives for each director.
4% per annum above the UK RPI.
Pro rata the LTIP and other discretionary share plans are satisfied on a regular basis and it is vesting operates for growth in EPS between 4% and 10% above the UK RPI.
currently intended to satisfy outstanding awards under the LTIP using market Awards made to other participants may purchase or treasury shares.
be subject solely to the EPS condition as set out above.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Governance 67 The executive directors are encouraged External appointments The chairman and the non-executive to hold shares in the Company either The Board recognises the benefit Atkins directors are not eligible for pensions, directly or through share awards made in can obtain if its executive directors serve as share incentives, annual bonus or any connection with annual bonuses equivalent non-executive directors of other companies.
similar payments other than out-ofto the level of their annual salary, based Subject to review in each case, the Boards pocket expenses in connection with the on the value of such shares at the time of general policy is that each executive director performance of their duties.
The chairman their acquisition or award, or their current may accept one non-executive directorship and the non-executive directors do not market value from time to time, whichever with another FTSE 350 company from which participate in any meeting at which is the higher.
any fees received may be retained.
Robert discussions in respect of matters relating MacLeod was a non-executive director to their own position take place.
D. All-employee share plan of Aggreko plc during his directorship The Companys Share Incentive Plan, and retained the fees payable, receiving Executive directors as approved by HM Revenue & Customs, 48,000 in respect of its financial year The service agreements of the executive continues to be offered to all eligible UK ended 31 December 2009. directors are summarised in Table 3 employees, including the executive directors.
Directors contracts E. Retirement benets Chairman and non-executive directors In the event of unsatisfactory performance, Pension and retirement benets provided The chairman and non-executive directors the notice period for the executive directors to the executive directors are comparable have letters of appointment stating their is reduced to three months.
Their service to those provided by other companies.
annual fee and that their appointment agreements include a duty to mitigate loss is initially for a term of three years subject where the agreement is terminated and any Performance graph to satisfactory performance and their payment in lieu of notice may be reduced to The Companys performance, measured by re-election at forthcoming AGMs.
Their take account of such mitigation.
No service TSR, is compared with the performance of appointment may be terminated with agreement provides for predetermined the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment six months written notice at any time.
amounts of compensation in the event trusts over the past five years using Table 1 page 69 summarises the dates of of early termination of service contracts.
industry standard methods to determine appointment and most recent re-election performance.
This is considered the most dates for the chairman and each of the The service agreements will terminate when appropriate index against which to measure non-executive directors.
the director reaches the retirement age as performance as the Company has been a determined by the Board, and are otherwise terminable on giving 12 months notice.
member of the FTSE 250 for the whole of Copies of the letters of appointment will the five-year period.
This is illustrated in be available for inspection prior to and Copies of each directors service agreement will be available for inspection prior to and Figure 1 page 69. during the AGM and are also available for inspection at the Companys registered during the AGM and are also available for inspection at the Companys registered TSR is dened as the return shareholders ofce during normal business hours.
would receive if they held a notional number ofce during normal business hours.
of shares and received dividends on those The remuneration of the chairman is shares over a period of time.
Assuming determined by the Committee.
The Audited information dividends are reinvested into the Companys remuneration of the non-executive directors Directors emoluments shares, it measures the percentage growth is determined biennially by the Board on the The remuneration of each director, excluding in the Companys share price together with recommendation of the executive directors long term incentive awards and pensions, the value of any dividends paid.
within the limits set out in the articles of during the year ended 31 March 2010 is set association and on the basis of independent out in Table 4 page 70. advice and the level of fees paid to nonexecutive directors of comparator Retirement benets companies.
Mindful of salary constraints Keith Clarke has a contractual entitlement within the Group the Board, on the to receive an amount equivalent to 25% of recommendation of the chief executive, his salary as a pension payment.
He elected resolved to postpone the 2010 biennial to receive this entitlement as an additional review until October.
The annual fees are emolument and this is reported in Table 4 specic to each director reecting their page 70. individual commitments to the Board and various Board Committees.
The current fee structure is shown in Table 2 page 69.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 68 Governance Remuneration Report continued Heath Drewett has a contractual entitlement The executive directors receive life assurance to receive an annual amount equivalent to cover equal to four times their salary.
25% of his basic salary towards his pension Alun Grifths, consistent with other benets.
During the year the Company employees with a dened benefit made payments of 49,760 2009: 0 arrangement under the Atkins Pension Plan, into his personal pension plan.
Robert will additionally receive life assurance equal MacLeod had the same contractual to three times his salary from 1 October 2010. entitlement.
During the year the Company made payments of 17,692 2009: 76,875 Directors interests into his personal pension plan.
The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of 0.5p Alun Grifths is 55 and was a member each in the Company as at 31 March 2010 of a dened benefit arrangement until are shown in Table 5 page 70.
30 September 2007 when the scheme was closed to future accrual.
As at that date he Details of directors share options and long had completed 21.5 years pensionable service.
term incentives as at 31 March 2010 are Since 1 October 2007 he has participated in given in Table 6 page 71. a dened contribution arrangement on the same terms as other UK-based staff.
The value Directors share options and long term of his accrued benefit under the final salary incentives arrangement at the start of the financial year Directors emoluments disclosed in Table 4 was 69,990 per annum with a transfer value page 70 do not include any amounts for of the total accrued benefit of 886,420. the value of options to acquire ordinary His accrued annual pension did not increase shares in the Company granted to or held by during the year.
This sum will increase in line the directors, which are set out in Table 6 with increases in Aluns salary.
The increase in page 71. the transfer value of his accrued benets was 107,833.
As at 31 March 2010, the value of For each share under option that had his accrued benefit was 69,990 per annum, not expired at the end of the financial year, with a transfer value of the total accrued the mid-market price on 31 March 2010 benefit of 994,253.
Under the dened was 620p and the highest and lowest contribution arrangement he receives an mid-market prices during the financial year annual amount equivalent to 13% of his were 669p and 494.25p respectively.
This consists of a 10% ordinary employer contribution and a transitional Approved by the Board and signed on its employer contribution of 3% payable behalf by until 30 September 2010.
The transitional contribution is payable to all members of Sir Peter Williams the Atkins Pension Plan affected by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee closure of their dened benefit accrual.
During 16 June 2010 the year the Company made payments of 26,000 2009: 26,000 under Aluns dened contribution arrangement and a further 1,792 2009: 1,792 in respect of National Insurance contributions the Company would have paid had he not chosen to contribute 14,000 to his dened contribution pension via salary exchange.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Governance 69 Figure 1: Total shareholder return 220 200 180 FTSE 250 160 140 120 Atkins 100 80 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Table 1: Dates of appointment and most recent re-election dates for the chairman and each of the non-executive directors Date of appointment as a Date of last non-executive re-election Name of director director at AGM Lord Boyce 05 05 04 09 09 09 1 Fiona Clutterbuck 13 03 07 05 09 07 2 Allan Cook 10 09 09 n a Joanne Curin 10 02 09 09 09 09 Raj Rajagopal 24 06 08 03 09 08 1 Sir Peter Williams 05 05 04 05 09 07 1.
Fiona Clutterbuck and Sir Peter Williams will stand for re-election as directors at the AGM to be held on 9 September 2010.
Allan Cook will stand for election as a director at the AGM to be held on 9 September 2010.
Table 2: Chairman and non-executive directors fees 1 Chairman fee 160,000 Basic annual fee 37,000 Committee chair annual fee 6,000 2 Committee annual fee 3,000 1.
In addition to this fee a taxable expense allowance up to a maximum of 10,000 per annum is also permitted, subject to the production of receipts, for travel in connection with visits to the Groups London and Epsom ofces.
No fee is paid in respect of membership of the Nomination Committee.
Table 3: Executive directors service agreements Notice Effective Unexpired period Contract date of term of months date contract contract Keith Clarke 12 12 09 03 01 10 03 Rolling contract Heath Drewett 12 17 04 09 15 06 09 Rolling contract 1 Alun Grifths 12 18 04 07 13 03 07 Rolling contract 1.
Alun Grifths will stand for re-election as a director at the AGM to be held on 9 September 2010.
Heath Drewett was appointed as a director on 15 June 2009.
Robert MacLeod resigned as a director on 19 June 2009.
Allan Cook was appointed a non-executive director and chairman-elect on 10 September 2009.
He succeeded Ed Wallis as chairman on 1 February 2010.
James Morley resigned as a director on 30 June 2009.
Ed Wallis resigned as a director and chairman on 31 January 2010.
Ed Wallis requested that 10% of his fees for the financial year to 31 March 2010 be waived, reducing the annual fee payable for the year ending 31 March 2010 to 150,000.
Bonus payment of 90% of salary as at 1 April 2010 pro rated to reect Heath Drewetts period of employment.
Other benets include such items as company cars or allowances, fuel and medical insurance for the executive directors and expenses chargeable to income tax for the chairman and non-executive directors.
Keith Clarke is entitled to a pension payment equivalent to 25% of his salary.
He elected to receive this entitlement as a taxable payment.
In addition, he received a payment of 31,640 equal to the dividends declared on shares subject to awards made to him under the terms of the Companys share plans following the vesting and exercise of the underlying awards.
Payment equal to the dividends declared on shares subject to awards made to Alun Grifths under the terms of the Companys share plans following the vesting and exercise of the underlying awards.
Keith Clarke, Heath Drewett and Alun Grifths are required to take a minimum of one-third of their bonus payment in the form of a right to acquire shares under the Deferred Share Plan the Plan.
Awards of shares to these values will be made following the announcement of the preliminary results pursuant to the rules of the Plan to Keith Clarke, Heath Drewett and Alun Grifths.
These awards will be disclosed in the directors share options and long term incentives table in the 2011 Remuneration Report.
Fiona Clutterbuck elected to waive her fee in favour of a charity of her choice until 30 June 2008.
Raj Rajagopal and Joanne Curin were appointed as non-executive directors on 24 June 2008 and 10 February 2009 respectively.
At the date of his resignation he was interested in 27,917 ordinary shares of 0.5p each in the Company.
At the date of his resignation he was interested in 2,500 ordinary shares of 0.5p each in the Company.
Changes in directors interests of Keith Clarke and Alun Grifths between 31 March and 16 June 2010 relate to shares acquired via the Atkins Share Incentive Plan.
Plan names: LTIP Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan DBP Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan 2.
Subject to performance criteria described in note 32 to the Financial Statements.
Following the exceptional write down in relation to Metronet, the Companys EPS for the financial year ended 31 March 2007 was 56.8 p. The consequence of this was that any LTIP awards made in 2007 would never be capable of vesting.
Pursuant to the rules of the plan, the Remuneration Committee considered that it was appropriate to remove profit in respect of discontinued operations and the exceptional loss in respect of Metronet and that the EPS for the financial year ending immediately before the commencement of the performance period for the 2007 awards be deemed to be 57.3p.
In 2009 the Remuneration Committee considered the impact of the 7.0m tax benefit from the purchase of prior year consortium relief from the Metronet companies and concluded that the non-trading nature of this benefit was not a fair reection of underlying earnings.
Pursuant to the rules of the plan, the Remuneration Committee considered it was appropriate to remove the benefit of this item and that the EPS for the financial year ending immediately before the commencement of the performance period for the 2009 award was 76.4p.
The awards granted under the terms of the LTIP and the DBP are structured as options, for which the exercise price is nil.
Robert MacLeods awards lapsed on the date of his resignation.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
