Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 119 Remuneration report Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Willy Strothotte and its Xstratas remuneration policy is designed to attract, retain and other members are David Rough and Dr. Con Fauconnier, all of motivate the highly talented individuals needed to deliver its business whom are non-executive directors.
The Board recognises that Willy strategy and to maximise shareholder value creation.
Strothotte is not an independent non-executive director as defined The policy for 2011 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years, will by the Combined Code or the new UK Corporate Governance be framed around the following principles for the Executive Committee: Code, which will replace it for accounting periods beginning after 28 June 2010.
However, Willy Strothotte will retire from the Board Q remuneration arrangements will be designed to support and from the Remuneration Committee effective from the end of the Xstratas business strategy and to align it with the interests Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2011. of Xstratas shareholders: The Remuneration Committee reviews the structure of remuneration Q total reward levels will be set at appropriate levels to reflect the for executive directors on an ongoing basis and has responsibility for competitive global market in which Xstrata operates, with the the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of specific intention of positioning such levels within the top quartile for remuneration packages for executive directors and other members of outstanding performance when measured against a peer group the Executive Committee, including salaries, retirement benefits, of global mining companies and the FTSE 100: bonuses, long-term incentives, benefits in kind and any compensation Q a high proportion of the remuneration should be at risk, with payments.
The Remuneration Committee is also aware of the level performance-related remuneration making up at least 50% of and structure of remuneration for senior management and advises the total potential remuneration for Executive Committee on any major changes in employee remuneration and benefit members: and structures throughout the Group, including the continuous review of incentive schemes to ensure that they remain appropriate for Q performance-related payments will be subject to the satisfaction the Group.
The Remuneration Committee commits to bringing of demanding and stretching performance targets over the short independent thought and scrutiny to the development and and long term, which are designed to promote the long-term review process of the Group with regards to remuneration.
These performance targets will be set in the context of the prospects of the Group, the prevailing The Remuneration Committee met twice during 2010 and was economic environment in which it operates and the relative attended on both occasions by all members.
The Chairman will performance against that of competitor companies.
continue to ensure that the Group maintains contact, as necessary, with its principal shareholders about remuneration.
The purpose and The Remuneration Committee considers that a successful function of the Remuneration Committee in the future will not differ remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account materially from this year and its terms of reference which have of future changes in the business environment and in remuneration recently been reviewed to take account of changes introduced in the practices.
Consequently, the remuneration policy and the new UK Corporate Governance Code can be found on the Groups Remuneration Committees terms of reference for subsequent years website www.
will be reviewed annually in the light of matters such as changes to corporate governance best practice or changes to accounting The remuneration of non-executive directors, other than for the standards or business practices among peer group mining Chairman, will be considered by the Chairman and the Chief companies.
This will help to ensure that the policy continues to Executive and will not be considered by the Remuneration provide Xstrata with a competitive reward strategy.
In doing so, the Committee.
The Chairmans remuneration will be determined by Remuneration Committee will take into account the UK Listing Rules, the Remuneration Committee while the Chairman is absent.
the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and associated The Chief Executive attends the Remuneration Committee meetings guidance attached to it, as well as the guidance provided by a by invitation and assists the Remuneration Committee in its number of institutional investor representative bodies on the design considerations, except when issues relating to his own remuneration of performance-related remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is provided with The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that Xstratas pay and national and international pay data commissioned from external employment conditions for both directors and non-Board employees survey providers.
around the world are appropriate to the various markets in which During the year, Hay Group provided independent advice to the Xstrata operates.
The Remuneration Committee has liaised with the Remuneration Committee on executive remuneration.
The Group Groups Human Resources function in order to have regard to pay also uses the Hay Group to provide market information on and employment conditions across the Group in setting directors remuneration for positions below Executive Committee level.
The remuneration but it does not consider a ratio comparison between Hay Group provided no other services to the Group during 2010. executive directors and non-Board employees to be a useful way of assessing the fairness and balance of Xstratas remuneration practices.
The vastly different costs of living in the countries where Xstrata has operations, and fluctuations in exchange rates, mean any | 120 Governance Remuneration report continued such analysis would not be appropriate and would limit flexibility of $4.2 billion Las Bambas copper project in Peru, the development linking remuneration to performance.
The Remuneration Committee of the $1.1 billion Ulan West underground thermal coal mine in continues to operate a policy under which there is a balance of a the central west of New South Wales, Australia, the $1.1 billion coherent overall reward philosophy with empowerment of business Ravensworth North project and the AUD274 million George units and an emphasis on incentivising exceptional performance Fisher Mine expansion through arrangements appropriate to the level of responsibility.
Q Xstratas ongoing positive momentum in developing its industryleading pipeline of organic growth projects resulted in the Linking reward to performance successful commissioning of major Nickel Rim South, Blakefield The Remuneration Committee considers that reward should be South coal and Goedgevonden coal growth projects in the first commensurate with performance.
In reviewing and determining base half of 2010 and completion of construction of a magnetite pay, payments of annual bonuses and the award and vesting of plant at Ernest Henry mine, part of the operations $542 million long-term incentives, the Remuneration Committee examines the transformation into a major underground copper-gold mine Groups underlying safety, financial and sustainable development performance.
The Remuneration Committee is able to justify high Q Xstratas share price during 2010 rose by 34.3% compared reward when there is exceptional performance.
to 27.8% for the FTSE 350 Mining Index and by 9% for the FTSE 100 index over the same period The following achievements during 2010 evidence exceptional performance and have supported the Remuneration Committees Elements of remuneration approach when setting current remuneration levels: The total remuneration package for executive directors comprises Q By the end of the year, the Groups total recordable injury the following elements: frequency rate, lost time injury frequency rate and disabling injury Q base salary: severity rate had improved by 20%, 10% and 11% respectively compared to 2009 Q annual bonus plan including a deferred element: Q Whilst any fatality whatsoever is regarded as unacceptable by the Q participation in long-term incentive arrangements: Group, there was a reduction in the number of fatalities at Q retirement benefits: and managed operations from nine in 2009 to three in 2010 Q other benefits including housing allowance where essential for Q Xstrata managements emphasis on operational excellence, the performance of duties, permanent health, life and private including cost improvements, has enabled record cost efficiencies of medical insurance, provision of short-term interest-free loans to $541 million to be achieved across the Group in 2010: savings were assist with funding double taxation liabilities where appropriate achieved in all of the Groups businesses and represent an unbroken and, in the case of the Chief Executive, limited private use of the record of annual real cost savings since Xstratas IPO in 2002 Companys leased aircraft.
Q EBITDA increased by 53% to $10.4 billion in 2010, with pre-exceptional attributable net profit of $5.2 billion which was Base salary 86% higher than in 2009 The base salary of the executive directors is subject to annual review by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee Q Xstrata management demonstrated excellent operational and reviews external pay data to ensure that the levels of remuneration fiscal management throughout 2010.
Xstratas working capital remain competitive in line with Group policy.
The Remuneration increased by only 6% despite upward pressure on receivables Committee is also responsible for ensuring that the positioning of balances and purchased inventory from higher commodity prices the Groups remuneration relative to its peers does not result in during 2010 increases in remuneration without a corresponding increase in Q In 2010, Xstrata was named Mining Sector Leader for the performance or responsibilities.
When setting base salaries, the fourth consecutive in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Remuneration Committee also considers the impact on retirement and was awarded PwCs Building Public Trust award for its benefits contributions and associated costs.
As disclosed in the 2009 sustainability reporting Remuneration report, base salary increases for Mick Davis, Trevor Reid and Santiago Zaldumbide with effect from 1 January 2010 Q The successful acquisition of Sphere Minerals has provided Xstrata were 3%, 3% and 3.1% respectively.
Respective base salaries, with a meaningful entry into the iron ore market effective 1 January 2011, will be 1,430,000, 750,000 and Q Xstrata continued to execute its organic growth strategy by 1,040,000, representing increases of 5.9%, 10.3% and 4% approving a number of major projects during the year which will respectively.
This is broadly in line with the treatment of base salary significantly increase production capacity.
These included the reviews for other Group staff, except that the increase for Trevor Reid $672 million ZAR4.9 billion development of the second phase was determined by the Remuneration Committee in the context of of the Lion ferrochrome complex expansion in South Africa, his outstanding contribution to the performance of the business and a $1.47 billion investment to develop the Antapaccay copper to bring him in line with his peers in other companies of comparable project as a major long-life, low cost brownfield expansion to market size.
the Tintaya copper mine in southern Peru, the low cost, long-life Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 121 The deferred elements take the form of an award of Xstrata shares Executive Committee Bonus Plan granted either on a net or gross basis subject to conditions or an Executive directors and the other members of the Executive award of a nil-cost option over Xstrata shares.
Committee are eligible to participate in the Executive Committee Bonus Plan the Bonus Plan.
The Bonus Plan focuses on the In respect of a net deferred award, the appropriate amounts of tax achievement of annual objectives that align the short-term financial and social security are deducted from the deferred portion of the performance of the Group with the creation of shareholder value.
bonus and remitted to the relevant tax authority.
The remainder or net amount is invested in Xstrata shares acquired in the market The bonus is based on Xstratas operational performance as which are held by the trustees on behalf of the executive director, measured by return on equity and net profit.
Specific targets for subject to transfer restrictions and forfeiture conditions.
The removal return on equity and the proportion of net profits that make up the of transfer restrictions and forfeiture conditions is subject to the bonus pool are determined each year by the Remuneration Committee.
executive director remaining in employment throughout the deferral Before the pool is finalised, the Remuneration Committee actively period.
If the net deferred award shares are forfeited, the executive considers whether the pool is appropriate in light of the other key director must reimburse the tax and social security paid.
Net deferred financial and non-financial drivers of future shareholder value, awards may be transferred with the consent of the Remuneration including the Companys health, safety, environment, and Committee and on such terms and to such persons or categories of community performance.
Such transfers will normally only be permitted For both 2008 and 2009, despite the Groups robust return on equity where there will be no immediate realisation of economic benefit by and net profits, the available bonus pool was not fully utilised.
This means of a sale to an unconnected third party.
was in recognition of the general market conditions and the impact Awards made on a gross basis are a conditional right to receive of the global financial crisis.
Despite exceptional performance in Xstrata shares.
The number of shares awarded is determined by 2010, the Remuneration Committee has exercised active discretion reference to the price at which concurrent awards under the Xstrata and taken a holistic view of performance against a backdrop of plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP are made.
The vesting of the gross ongoing market recovery from the global financial crisis and, as such, deferred awards is also subject to the executive director remaining will again not utilise the entire bonus pool available.
in employment with Xstrata throughout the deferral period.
Tax and Any payment under the Bonus Plan is subject to a performance social security will be payable by the executive director upon vesting.
hurdle: for the financial years ending 31 December 2010 and 2011 Gross deferred awards are not transferable.
it will be set such that the Groups return on equity will be at least A nil-cost option award is structured on the same basis as a gross equal to the Groups average cost of borrowing.
If this hurdle is not deferred award except that the executive director may call the shares reached, the bonus pool will be zero.
The Remuneration Committee under option following vesting at any time during the exercise has the discretion to vary the basis of calculation and the period.
The number of shares awarded under option is determined performance targets for subsequent years.
by reference to the price at which concurrent awards under the LTIP The amount of the bonus pool that is distributed in any one year, are made.
The vesting of an option is subject to the executive and the relative proportions payable to each participant or, at the director remaining in employment with Xstrata throughout the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, to a trust for his her deferral period.
The Remuneration Committee may determine the benefit will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
life of the option up to a maximum of 10 years.
The option is not Individual performance criteria have been agreed with each transferable and is equity settled following exercise.
Tax and social participant and include health, safety, environmental, community, security will be payable by the executive director upon exercise of the employee development, operational, financial and other criteria.
option or such earlier date as relevant local tax law may provide.
The Performance against these individual criteria will be evaluated by executive director must reimburse his employer to the extent that the Remuneration Committee in determining individual allocations any social security liability payable by his employer in respect of the from the bonus pool.
exercise of the option exceeds the social security liability that would have been payable had the option been exercised on the vesting The maximum bonus payable under the Bonus Plan for executive date at the then prevailing share price.
The highest level of bonus will only be available for truly outstanding performance.
Bonuses will be payable There is no intention to use newly issued ordinary shares for the in up to three tranches, as follows: Bonus Plan and any shares required for the satisfaction of deferred bonus awards will be acquired by market purchase.
Deferred bonus Q the maximum bonus a participant is eligible to receive in cash awards are not pensionable.
will be limited to 100% of the individuals base salary: Q any additional bonus up to a further 100% of base salary will Long-term incentive arrangements be deferred for a period of one year: and All equity-based awards are subject to an overall limitation on the number of shares issued, transferred from treasury, or that remain Q any remaining bonus up to the further maximum 100% of base issuable pursuant to awards of 10% within any 10-year period after salary will be deferred for a period of two years.
| 122 Governance Remuneration report continued Added Value Incentive Plan At the end of the Phase 2 performance period, the calculation will The Added Value Incentive Plan AVP was designed to incentivise the be carried out in the same way as at the end of Phase 1, but only to Chief Executive by providing a share of the long-term value he creates the extent that performance exceeds the applicable cap.
Neither the for shareholders over and above the value created by Xstratas peer 2006 nor the 2007 plan cycles entered Phase 2.
It is not expected companies and to create alignment with shareholders by means of that the 2008 plan cycle will enter Phase 2. share ownership.
The Remuneration Committee recognises that the absolute value During 2010, the AVP terminated in respect of the grant of new received by shareholders is higher when outperforming a rising awards with the consequence that no further awards will be granted market than outperforming a market which is static or falling.
The last award under the AVP was made in 2009 and, as modifiers are therefore applied.
First, the Phase 1 and Phase 2 base from 2010, the Chief Executive has participated in the LTIP.
Only the rewards are increased or decreased in line with the Xstrata share plan cycles commencing in 2008 and 2009 remain open under the price index measured against the comparator group.
The 2005 plan cycle, which vested in 2008, did not proceed to reduction is made for lower levels of absolute performance, by Phase 2 and the 2006 and 2007 plan cycles, in each case, neither applying a multiplier to the indexed base rewards to calculate the vested nor proceeded to Phase 2.
The Chief Executives participation final rewards.
For the 2008 and 2009 plan cycles, for absolute TSR in any open plan cycle of the AVP is contingent on his maintaining of 25% and above, a multiplier of 1 will be applied: and for absolute a holding of at least 350,000 ordinary Xstrata shares.
TSR of -25% or below, a multiplier of 0.5 will be applied.
Between -25% and 25% straight-line interpolation will apply.
Provided Payments under the AVP are based upon the growth in the Xstratas TSR is at least equal to the Xstrata TSR Index, the Companys total shareholder return TSR over the relevant Phase 1 final reward under each plan cycle will be at least $1 million.
performance period relative to an index of global mining companies, which form the Xstrata TSR Index.
Performance is assessed over 50% of the final reward for a phase of a plan cycle shall be payable periods of both three years Phase 1 and five years Phase 2 from in cash or in shares, as determined by the Remuneration Committee, the date of award.
as soon as practicable following determination of the final reward for that phase by the Remuneration Committee.
Of the remaining 50% At the end of a Phase 1 performance period, Xstratas TSR is of a Phase 1 final reward, 25% shall be deferred for a period of one calculated and compared to the Xstrata TSR Index which determines year and 25% shall be deferred for a period of two years.
Phase 2 is the added value created over the performance period.
calculated over a five-year period, with 50% of any additional award If this figure is positive, it is multiplied by a participation percentage paid at the end of that period and the remaining 50% deferred for a which is 0.5% for the 2008 plan cycle and 0.3% for the 2009 plan further year.
Deferred awards are indexed to the Xstrata share price cycle to calculate the Phase 1 base reward.
No payments will be over the period of deferral.
made if Xstrata underperforms against the Xstrata TSR Index.
The Xstrata TSR and share price indices will be weighted by market There is a cap which applies to the calculation at the end of the capitalisation.
The comparator group for the 2008 and 2009 open Phase 1 performance period.
If the cap has been applied then the plan cycles comprises relevant global mining firms.
This group is Chief Executive will become eligible for Phase 2 of a plan cycle.
identical to that used for the LTIP described below: The comparator group for the TSR and share price indices 2008 2009 2010 2011 Alcoa Inc Alcoa Inc As for 2009 As for 2009 Anglo American plc Anglo American plc Arch Coal Inc Arch Coal Inc BHP Billiton plc BHP Billiton plc Coal & Allied Industries Ltd Eramet SA Eramet SA Freeport McMoran Copper & Gold Inc Grupo Mexico SA fide CV Grupo Mexico SA fide CV Korea Zinc Inc Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd Lonmin plc Korea Zinc Inc Norddeutsche Affinerie AG MMC Norilsk Nickel Peabody Energy Corp Norddeutsche Affinerie AG Rio Tinto plc Peabody Energy Corp Teck Cominco Ltd Rio Tinto plc Umicore SA Teck Cominco Ltd Companhia Vale do Rio Doce Vale Vedanta Resources plc Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 123 In the event of one or more constituents undergoing a takeover, influence shareholder value.
In addition, the LTIP further aligns merger, dissolution, variation in capital or any other event that will the interests of shareholders and management by encouraging materially affect calculation of an index, the Remuneration executives to build a shareholding in the Group.
Committee shall determine how this should be reflected in the index An award under the LTIP comprises a conditional award of shares calculation.
The Remuneration Committee may add other relevant Free Shares and a grant of market value share options.
The two competitors to the index if required.
elements are complementary and ensure that the cyclical nature of In the event of a change of control, all open plan cycles will vest the industry does not have an excessively adverse effect on employee immediately, subject to and to the extent of satisfaction of the remuneration in circumstances where the performance of the Group vesting criteria at that time.
The final reward under each open plan has otherwise been good, relative to that of competitors.
cycle will be calculated as if the performance period terminated on The LTIP provides for the form of award to be varied in jurisdictions the date of the transaction, save that the Remuneration Committee where this is desirable for tax or regulatory reasons.
For example, has discretion to disapply the cap that would otherwise apply in the in some countries, Free Shares are structured as nil-cost options or calculation of the Phase 1 return.
In the event of the Chief Executive bonus options.
ceasing to be an Xstrata employee as a result of death, ill health or disability, all open plan cycles will vest immediately, subject to and to The Free Share awards are subject to stretching performance the extent of satisfaction of the vesting criteria at that time.
The final conditions and will ensure that where the Group has performed well reward under each open plan cycle will be calculated as if the over the specified performance period of three years, participants performance period terminated on the date of cessation of will be rewarded even if there is no substantial share price growth employment.
In the event of the Chief Executive ceasing to be an due to external factors, such as commodity prices or general Xstrata employee other than in the circumstances described above, economic conditions.
The option element will only provide a benefit all plan cycles will lapse and no payments will be made unless the to participants when shareholders also benefit from future share Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion determines price growth.
The options will be subject to stretching performance otherwise.
In the event of a variation in the capital of Xstrata, the targets to ensure that windfall growth in the share price as a result participation percentages may be adjusted in such a way as the of external factors does not deliver rewards that are not justified by Remuneration Committee determines.
the performance of the Group, relative to its peer group.
The policy regarding performance targets is discussed in more detail below.
2008 AVP cycle As at 31 December 2010, the decrease of Xstratas TSR was 46.44%, In determining the value of Free Share awards the value of the the decrease of the Xstrata TSR index was 1.2% and the decrease of underlying shares will be used.
The value of the option at grant will the Xstrata Share Price Index was 7.16%, as calculated under the be based on a Black-Scholes valuation of the option or a similar AVP for the 2008 plan cycle.
If this is the outcome at the end of the approach, which the Remuneration Committee considers represents three-year period on 26 March 2011, no payment will be made both the cost to Xstrata of providing the benefit and the value of the under the plan.
option itself as a component of the total remuneration package.
The option value at grant will be subject to a lower and upper limit as 2009 AVP Cycle determined by the Remuneration Committee from time to time.
This As at 31 December 2010, the increase of Xstratas TSR was valuation will be used to determine the number of shares over which 210.77%, the increase of the Xstrata TSR index was 160.58%, an option will be granted.
and the growth of the Xstrata Share Price Index was 152.01%, as calculated under the AVP for the 2009 plan cycle.
The determination Using the method above, the value ratio of Free Share awards to of any award under the 2009 plan cycle will be made at the end of share options for awards made during 2010 was in general 1:1, the Phase 1 performance period on 17 April 2012 and, if appropriate, based on the value at the time of grant.
The Remuneration at the end of the Phase 2 performance period on 17 April 2014.
Committee has determined that this 1:1 ratio should be maintained for the 2011 LTIP awards but may change the ratio for future awards Vested awards under the AVP can be settled in cash.
The if it is thought appropriate.
Remuneration Committee has discretion, however, to settle deferred awards in shares if it considers this to be appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that awards will be made annually under the LTIP to minimise the impact of share price Long Term Incentive Plan volatility and to reflect existing best practice.
The rules of the LTIP Executive directors are eligible to participate in the LTIP.
The LTIP is provide that the aggregate value of options and Free Share Awards designed to promote the long-term success of the Group as it aims made to an individual in any one year may not exceed an amount to focus managements attention on continuous and sustainable equal to two times base salary in normal circumstances although, improvements in the underlying financial performance of the Group in exceptional circumstances, the limit may be up to, but may not and on the delivery of superior long-term returns to Xstratas exceed, four times base salary.
It provides executives with the opportunity to earn superior levels of reward but only for outstanding performance.
The current LTIP will expire in May 2012.
Participation in the LTIP is targeted at those employees with ability to | 124 Governance Remuneration report continued Summary of performance conditions relevant year, as detailed above.
The Remuneration Committee may, During 2008, 2009 and 2010, executive directors were granted at its absolute discretion, vary, add, remove or alter the companies market value options and Free Share awards under the LTIP.
The making up the peer group when events happen that cause the Remuneration Committee to consider that such a change is vesting of both the options and Free Share awards is subject to the satisfaction of stretching performance conditions over a three-year appropriate to ensure that the performance condition continues to represent a fair measure of performance.
This is with the provision performance period.
Half of the options and Free Share awards are or on the condition that the Remuneration Committee reasonably conditional on Xstratas TSR relative to a peer group and half are considers such a varied or amended performance condition is not conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set materially easier or more difficult to satisfy.
on a stretching scale over the three-year period, as set out below.
In calculating the TSR, the common currency of US dollars will be For the awards conditional on TSR, 25% of the combined award will used and the share price of a notional parcel of shares of the Group vest if TSR growth is at the median of the specified peer group, the and the companies in the specified peer group will be averaged over full 50% of the combined award will vest for TSR growth at or above a period preceding both the start and end of the relevant the second decile, with straight-line vesting between these points.
The Remuneration Committee has resolved that No vesting will occur for TSR growth below median performance.
averaging over a three-month period eliminates the volatility in spot For the remaining award, vesting is conditional on the Groups real share prices that could otherwise distort the assessment of whether cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale: 5% of the the target has been met.
combined award will vest for 1% cost savings, 35% for 2% cost The TSR of the Group and each member of the peer group over savings and 50% for 3% or more cost savings, with straight-line any performance period is calculated by taking the growth between vesting between these points.
No vesting will occur for cost savings the closing value and the base value of 100 shares expressed as a that are less than 1%.
Real cost savings will be measured in relation percentage of the base value, on the assumption that any net to operating costs after adjusting for the effects of inflation, dividend per share paid by any company during the relevant exceptional events items such as natural disasters, excluding performance period is reinvested in shares on the last day of the depreciation, commodity price-linked costs, effects of currencies on month during which the relevant shares go ex-dividend.
This translation of local currency costs and planned life of mine adjustments.
calculation is subject to such adjustments to closing value and base Since the Groups share price and those of its peers are significantly value as the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate to influenced by the cycle in commodity prices, the Remuneration reflect any variation of share capital or any merger, takeover, Committee considers TSR relative to a peer group to be an reconstruction, demerger or change in listing status by any member appropriate performance measure as it rewards relative success in of the peer group or upon any other events that the Remuneration growing shareholder value through the development and execution Committee considers may materially distort the calculation.
The Remuneration Committee is also 2008 LTIP award satisfied that TSR will be a genuine reflection of the Groups At 31 December 2010, the Group was ranked 13th out of the peer underlying financial performance.
The use of the second measure, group of 15 companies including Xstrata in terms of TSR for the Group real cost savings relative to targets, reflects the Groups 2008 award.
If this is the outcome at the end of the three-year strategic initiative to add shareholder value through productivity and performance period on 4 April 2011 then no part of the 2008 award cost efficiencies.
The Remuneration Committee is also mindful of the linked to TSR will vest although up to 50% of the overall combined Groups commitment to ethical and sustainable practices and that a award could vest depending on the extent to which the cost saving positive approach in this area should support solid TSR performance.
The performance targets are not capable of being retested at the 2009 LTIP award end of the performance period, so that any proportion of a Free As at 31 December 2010, the Group was ranked sixth out of the Share award or option that does not vest after three years will lapse, peer group of 17 companies including Xstrata in terms of TSR for although vested options will remain exercisable for a maximum of the 2009 award.
If this is the outcome at the end of the three-year seven years or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee performance period on 12 March 2012 then 77.78% of each may specify after which they will lapse.
executive directors 2009 award linked to TSR will vest i. e. 38.89% In the event of a change of control, all Free Share awards and of the overall combined award, and a further 50% of the overall options will vest in full or in certain circumstances may be combined award could vest depending on the extent to which the exchanged for equivalent options or LTIP awards over shares in cost saving targets are met.
2010 LTIP award The peer group of global mining companies used to determine the As at 31 December 2010, the Group was ranked 10th out of the vesting of the options and Free Share awards conditional on TSR peer group of 17 companies including Xstrata in terms of TSR for under the LTIP, comprises the same comparator group used to form the 2010 award.
If this is the outcome at the end of the three-year the Xstrata Share Indices for the Chief Executives AVP for the performance period on 18 February 2013 then no part of the 2010 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 125 award linked to TSR will vest although up to 50% of the overall benefits scheme FURBS.
From 6 April 2006, contributions have been combined award could vest depending on the extent to which the made through a combination of payments to a registered retirement cost saving targets are met.
benefit plan and cash sums to each executive, having regard to the tax limits on contributions and benefits from registered UK retirement benefits It should be noted that these amounts are based on the Groups plans with only cash payments being made after 2007.
No employee results at this provisional stage and do not necessarily reflect the contributions are currently payable by Mick Davis and Trevor Reid.
As noted below, Santiago Zaldumbide receives no retirement benefits Performance graph under the terms of his professional services agreement.
Xstrata Plc Total shareholder return FTSE 100 Index value of investment Other benefits Many of the Groups operations are located in areas not well served by commercial flight routes and therefore a company-leased aircraft 300 is provided for the purposes of business travel by Group executives.
250 The Remuneration Committee has approved the private use of the company-leased aircraft for the Chief Executive for an agreed 200 maximum number of hours per annum, subject to the aircraft not being required for work purposes by other Xstrata executives at the 150 relevant time s. 100 Company policy permits the provision of short-term interest free loans to any eligible employee, including executive directors, to cover 50 periods where employees suffer double taxation on any employment 0 income because they are required to work in multiple jurisdictions and are unable to claim repayments or credits for such double 05 06 07 08 09 10 taxation until a later point in time.
The performance graph set out above shows the value at 31 December 2010 of 100 invested in Xstrata shares on External appointments 31 December 2005 compared with the value of 100 invested in No executive directors held external directorships or offices as at a hypothetical holding of shares of the same kind and number as 31 December 2010. those by reference to which the FTSE 100 index is calculated.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Non-Executive Directors The Board considers that the FTSE 100 currently represents the most The level of fees for non-executive directors is set at the level appropriate of the published indices for these purposes.
considered necessary to obtain the services of individuals with the relevant skills and experience to bring added depth and breadth to The value shown is based on TSR, which has been calculated assuming the composition of the Board.
that dividends are invested in additional shares.
Benefits receivable in the form of shares are also added to the relevant holding.
Non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually by the Chairman and the Chief Executive in the light of fees payable to non-executive Retirement benefits directors of comparable companies and the importance attached to Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have participated in targeted money the retention and attraction of high-calibre individuals as nonpurchase retirement plans from their respective dates of joining the executive directors.
The plans are designed having regard to the taxation and Non-executive directors are eligible to forego all or part of their employment status of each executive.
directors fees to acquire shares in Xstrata, after deduction of Group contributions are reassessed at regular intervals and are based on applicable income tax and social security contributions.
actuarial advice, with the objective of accumulating sufficient funds over The non-executive directors do not, and it is anticipated that they the working lifetime of each executive to provide an overall target retirement benefit that is currently intended to be equivalent to will not in the future, participate in the Bonus Plan or LTIP or any other form of performance-related incentive arrangement or approximately 60% of final salary at normal retirement age for executives who begin participating in the plans at the age of 40.
The financial retirement benefit that may be introduced from time to time.
dynamics of the arrangement therefore have similarities to a defined benefit scheme at the point of contribution.
The actual benefits payable Entitlements under service contracts from the retirement benefit plans will be based on the amount that has Executive Directors Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have employment agreements with accumulated in that members money purchase accounts.
Prior to 6 April 2006, these contributions were paid to a combination of an approved Xstrata Services UK Limited XSL effective from 1 February 2002. money purchase retirement plan and a funded unapproved retirement Their services as Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, | 126 Governance Remuneration report continued respectively, are provided to the Group under a secondment On termination of his professional services agreement, other than agreement entered into between the Group and XSL on 19 March on his voluntary termination or termination for gross negligence, 2002.
Mick Davis and Trevor Reid were both seconded to the Group Santiago Zaldumbide is entitled to be paid a sum equal to 100% of for a fixed term of two years, with XSL and the Group subsequently his annual salary and other benefits and his previous years bonus renewing for further two-year fixed periods.
plus any accrued basic salary and expenses.
Pursuant to a letter of appointment dated 18 March 2002 and subject to the continuing The employment of Mick Davis and Trevor Reid may be terminated existence of his agreement with Asturiana, Santiago Zaldumbide is by at least 12 months notice being given by XSL or the director engaged as a director of Xstrata.
Santiago Zaldumbide receives no concerned or by a payment in lieu of notice by XSL.
On termination additional remuneration for his position as director of Xstrata and is of their employment by XSL in breach, or on a change of control, or not entitled to any compensation in respect of the termination of his if Mick Davis or Trevor Reid resigns in circumstances where they office as a director of Xstrata.
cannot in good faith be expected to continue in employment, each director is entitled to be paid a sum equal to 100% of his annual Non-executive directors salary plus retirement benefits and other benefits and his previous Willy Strothotte is engaged by the Group as a non-executive director years bonus plus any accrued basic salary and expenses and to and Chairman on the terms of a letter of appointment.
He will retire have all entitlements under his retirement benefit plans paid in from the Board and from the Remuneration Committee at the end accordance with the plan rules.
As both Mick Davis and Trevor Reid of the AGM on 4 May 2011. participate in money purchase arrangements, it is not expected that David Rough is engaged by the Group as the Senior Independent any significant additional liability would arise in respect of retirement Director and Deputy Chairman on the terms of a letter of plan entitlements beyond that already accrued in the Groups appointment.
The appointment may be terminated by six months accounts.
For the purposes of calculating termination payments, notice by David Rough.
The Group may terminate David Roughs annual bonus is capped at 300% of annual salary which is in any appointment at any time and on such termination David Rough will event the maximum allowable under the Bonus Plan.
The terms of not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
The term of Mick Davis's and Trevor Reids contracts are considered to be in line his appointment may be renewed by the Board.
However, in with those operated by other global businesses listed in London.
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors In addition, each of the executive directors is eligible to participate will retire at the forthcoming AGM and all directors, other than Willy in the Bonus Plan which provides that deferred amounts up to an Strothotte, will offer themselves for re-election.
aggregate ceiling of 200% of salary remain payable in the event of Ivan Glasenberg, Dr. Con Fauconnier, Peter Hooley, Sir Steve Robson, cessation of employment by reason of death, injury, ill health or Ian Strachan and Claude Lamoureux are each engaged by the Group disability in which case they are payable immediately or retirement as a non-executive director on the terms of a letter of appointment.
in which case they are payable on the normal vesting date.
No Each appointment may be terminated by six months notice by the deferred amounts are payable in the event of cessation by dismissal non-executive director.
In the case of termination by reason of death, injury, ill health or disability before the date the bonus is awarded for a Dr. Con Fauconniers appointment commenced on 5 May 2010. financial year, or if the Remuneration Committee in its discretion so Paul Hazen retired as a non-executive director of the Board at the resolves, a proportion of the annual bonus pool may still be awarded Annual General Meeting AGM in May 2010. subject to the normal discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The Group may terminate each non-executive directors appointment Executive directors are entitled to any outstanding LTIP awards on at any time and on such termination the non-executive director will cessation of employment by reason of death, injury, ill health or not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
Each term of disability in which case they vest immediately in full or retirement his appointment may be renewed by the Board.
in which case they are payable on the normal vesting date to the extent they vest for performance at that time.
There is no arrangement under which a director has agreed to waive future emoluments nor have there been any such waivers during the Santiago Zaldumbide provides his services to the Group under a financial year.
professional services agreement entered into between him and Asturiana on 23 July 2007, pursuant to which Santiago Zaldumbide There are no outstanding loans or guarantees granted or provided agreed to act as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Xstrata Zinc.
by any member of the Group to or for the benefit of any of the This agreement continues indefinitely unless terminated by one of the non-executive directors.
parties on at least six months written notice.
The annual gross fee No significant awards have been made in the financial year to any payable to Santiago Zaldumbide for the year ended 31 December 2010 past director.
This annual fee is subject to review in line with the other executive directors.
Santiago Zaldumbide receives no retirement benefits under the terms of his professional services agreement but is eligible to participate in the Bonus Plan and the LTIP.
com 127 The information in the tables set out on pages 127 to 129 has been subject to audit.
Salary and fees includes non-executive directors fees which may be paid in shares.
In 2010, Mick Daviss and Trevor Reids salaries were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
The salary figures above have been converted to US dollars based on the average $ exchange rate for the year of 1.546 2009: 1.566 and therefore reflect the impact of the exchange rate fluctuations during the year.
In 2010, Santiago Zaldumbides base salary and benefits were set and paid in Euros.
The figures above have been converted to US dollars based on the average $ exchange rate for the year of 1.326 2009: 1.394 and therefore reflect the impact of the exchange rate fluctuations during the year.
All non-executive director fees except those for Ian Strachan and Claude Lamoureux were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
Ian Strachans fees were set in UK pounds sterling, and paid in US dollars.
Claude Lamoureuxs fees were set in UK pounds sterling and paid in Canadian dollars.
The figures above have been converted to US dollars based on the average $ exchange rate for the year of 1.546 2009: 1.566 and therefore reflect the impact of the exchange rate fluctuations during the year.
Paul Hazen resigned and Con Fauconnier was appointed at the AGM on 5 May 2010.
Bonuses awarded in February 2011 in relation to the 2010 performance year.
The bonuses were awarded in UK pounds sterling and converted at a rate of 1.590, the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the award.
The bonuses were awarded in Euros and converted at a rate of 1.364, the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the award.
In 2010, Mick Daviss housing allowance was awarded and paid in US dollars.
In 2010, Trevor Reids housing allowance was awarded in US dollars and paid in UK pounds sterling.
In 2010, Mick Daviss benefits were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
The benefits have been converted to US dollars based on the average $ exchange rate for the year of 1.546 2009: 1.566 and therefore reflect the impact of the exchange rate fluctuations during the year.
This includes an amount for life insurance of 90,234.
In 2010, Trevor Reids benefits were set and paid in UK pounds sterling.
This includes an amount for life insurance of 10,796.
In order to facilitate travel to the Groups operations, many of which are located in remote locations not served by commercial flight routes, Xstrata leases private aircraft to be used from time to time for business travel by Xstrata executives.
The Remuneration Committee has approved the private use of the company leased aircraft for Mick Davis, subject to any private usage not conflicting with company requirements, for a limited number of hours per annum.
The benefit shown above has been calculated based on marginal flight costs for the hours used and converted to US dollars at the average $ exchange rate for the year of 1.546 2009: 1.566 and therefore reflects the impact of the exchange rate fluctuations during the year.
No consideration has been paid to or is receivable by third parties for making available the qualifying services of any directors during the year or in connection with the management affairs of Xstrata.
Deferred bonus payable in shares.
The number of shares awarded pursuant to deferred bonuses payable in shares is determined by reference to the market value of the shares at the date concurrent awards under the LTIP are made.
The amount also includes $11,757 in respect of dividend equivalents accrued during the year in respect of prior years' deferred bonus awards which will vest on the date of the underlying award for Santiago Zaldumbide.
The deferred bonus awards made to Mick Davis and Trevor Reid in 2010 were structured as net deferred awards and therefore dividends rather than dividend equivalents were paid.
Details of performance conditions are described on pages 123 to 125.
The market value of a share on the date of award under the LTIP and the Bonus Plan on 18 February 2010 was 10.86.
These shares were awarded on 26 February 2008 when the closing market price was 23.15.
The closing market price on the date of vesting was 10.30.
These shares were awarded on 2 March 2009 when the closing market price was 3.41.
The closing market price on the date of vesting was 10.98.
These shares were awarded on 15 March 2007 when the closing market price was 13.76.
The closing market price on the date of vesting was 11.57.
On 16 March 2010, following approval by the Remuneration Committee, Mick Davis surrendered his subsisting award in relation to the AVP 2005 cycle which was originally intended to be cash settled in exchange for an award of Xstrata shares calculated net of income tax and NIC liability with such shares to be held by a trustee subject to transfer restrictions and forfeiture until expiry of the deferral period.
In the event of forfeiture prior to expiry of the deferral period, Mick Davis was liable to repay an amount equal to the tax remitted.
On 9 May 2010, the deferral period expired and the net deferred Xstrata shares were released.
The deferred bonus awards made to Mick Davis and Trevor Reid in 2010 were structured as net deferred awards as detailed on page 125.
2005 2008 AVP Amounts due under the Xstrata AVP may be settled in cash or shares on vesting.
For the performance period from 9 May 2005 to 9 May 2008, Xstratas total shareholder return TSR was 404.26%, representing outperformance of 166.1% over TSR performance of 238.16% for the Xstrata TSR Index of global mining companies.
On 9 May 2010, the two-year deferral period for the award made in respect of Phase 1 of the Xstrata AVP 2005 cycle expired and, as stated in note 6 above, the net deferred Xstrata shares were released.
Mick Davis received 179,106 on the vesting date in respect of dividend equivalents accrued during the deferral period.
No payment was made under Phase 2 of the AVP 2005 cycle.
For the AVP 2005 cycle the participation percentage was 0.5% and the market capitalisation on the date of award was 6,026,084,544.
2006 2009 AVP No payment was made under Phase 1 of the AVP 2006 cycle and it did not proceed to Phase 2.
2007 2010 AVP No payment was made under Phase 1 of the AVP 2007 cycle and it did not proceed to Phase 2.
Subsequent periods For the AVP 2008 cycle the participation percentage was 0.5% and the market capitalisation on the date of award was 38,029,287,854.
For the AVP 2009 cycle the participation percentage was 0.3% and the market capitalisation on the date of award was 14,697,000.
The LTIP options are subject to performance conditions as described on pages 123 to 125.
Mick Daviss and Trevor Reids LTIP options may be settled in cash at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The highest and lowest prices of the Companys shares during the year were 15.35 and 8.46 respectively 2009: 11.48 and 2.98.
Retirement Benefits Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have participated in targeted money purchase retirement plans.
During the year retirement benefit related payments were made as follows: 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$ Mick Davis Mick Davis Trevor Reid Trevor Reid Total Total Retirement benefit related payments 4,022,301 3,284,947 2,227,267 1,800,839 6,249,567 5,085,785 Notes: 1.
Further details of the retirement benefit arrangements are explained on page 125.
Santiago Zaldumbide received no retirement benefits under the terms of his fixed cost remuneration arrangement which is detailed on page 125.
Based on the average $ exchange rate for the year of 1.546 2009: 1.566.
Payments for Mick Davis and Trevor Reid in both years were made in UK pounds sterling.
| 130 Financial statements Financial statements Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 131 In this section 132 Statement of directors responsibilities 133 Independent Auditors report 134 Consolidated income statement 135 Statement of comprehensive income 136 Consolidated statement of financial position 138 Consolidated cash flow statement 139 Statement of changes in equity 140 Notes to the financial statements 219 Independent Auditors report 220 Balance sheet 221 Notes to the financial statements 228 Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements IBC Shareholder information
