67 Remuneration report This Remuneration report has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Remuneration Committee.
The Board considers that in all its activities the Remuneration Committee has adopted the principles of good governance as set out in the Combined Code and complies with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the relevant schedules of the Companies Act and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
The report is divided into audited and unaudited information.
The Regulations require the Companys auditors to report that the Audited information in this report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
Committee members The Committee members each of whom served throughout the year and is an independent Non-Executive Director were and continue to be: Director Meetings attended in the year to 31 March 2010 Justin Crookenden Chairman 6 out of 6 Nigel Essenhigh 6 out of 6 John Rennocks 5 out of 6 David Omand 6 out of 6 Dipesh Shah who retired as a Director of the Company on 9 July 2009 and retired from the Committee on 31 March 2009 served on the Committee throughout the year to 31 March 2009.
Matters relating to remuneration in and for the year to 31 March 2010 were discussed in that prior period as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2009, in which Mr Shahs attendance at its meetings was also reported.
Biographical details of the members are set out on pages 50 and 51.
The Remuneration report will be submitted for shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 8 July 2010.
How the Committee operates The Committee now meets formally at least four times a year.
The Committee also meets on an ad hoc basis as necessary.
The Company Secretary attends meetings as secretary to the Committee.
The Group Chairman and the Chief Executive attend formal meetings by invitation of the Committee, but are not present when their own remuneration is being discussed.
The Deputy Chairman attends some meetings as an observer.
During the year, the Committee received advice from Kepler Associates Kepler.
Kepler was appointed by the Committee at its meeting held on 18 December 2008 after a formal selection process conducted by the Committee.
Kepler is formally retained, on the Committees behalf, by the Company acting through the Company Secretary.
Kepler attends most of the Committees meetings and provides, both during those meetings and directly to the Committee Chairman and or Committee members, information, advice and guidance on all aspects of executive remuneration.
That assistance has included the devising and structuring of overall total remuneration packages and of shortand long-term incentive plans including the setting of targets and the scaling of vesting that meet the objectives and policy set by the Committee.
Kepler has also advised on and provided analysis and data for specific aspects of remuneration packages, market developments, emerging and best practice and the views of institutional shareholders.
Apart from providing such advice, guidance and assistance in connection with remuneration proposals for review by the Committee, Kepler provides no other services to the Company.
During the year to 31 March 2010, the Committee undertook the following: Conducted the normal annual review of the basic salaries of Executive Directors and senior managers effective 1 April 2010: Set or discussed the terms of annual bonus schemes for each of the financial years to 31 March 2010 and 2011: Agreed with the Board new Terms of Reference for the Committee, reflecting best practice: Considered the extent to which remuneration packages for Executive Directors and senior managers might encourage undue risk-taking and the extent to which they are sensitive to risk: Assured itself that it has general oversight of the terms for those individuals within its remit, as defined in the Committees Terms of Reference: Considered whether risk or compliance functions are appropriately remunerated: Approved the process for authorising the payments of the expenses of the Chairman and the Chief Executive:
