Governance Our remuneration report Performance graph Remuneration report 200 From the Remuneration Committee Chairman I, Joachim Eberhardt, am pleased to be able to 150 present the Remuneration Committees yearly report.
I confirm that this report has been prepared in 100 accordance with the requirements of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 50 Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
This is my final remuneration report as I will be 0 handing over the chairmanship of the Remuneration Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Committee to Tim Bunting following our forthcoming 05 06 07 08 09 10 Annual General Meeting.
I will also step down Yell Group from the Committee at that point.
It has been FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts a privilege to serve on the Committee for the past Publishing Sector Comparator Group seven years and, in Tim, the Committee has an excellent new Chairman.
The graph above shows our performance relative to the FTSE 250 index.
The Remuneration Committee appropriate comparison as Yell was a constituent Members of the index for the majority of the reporting year.
The members of the Committee for the year ended The graph also shows our performance relative to 31 March 2010 were Tim Bunting, Toby Coppel, quoted media companies in the publishing sector.
Bob Wigley and me, Joachim Eberhardt.
Tim, We consider this to be an appropriate comparison Toby and I are independent non-executive directors as Yell is a classied advertising publisher.
Bob Wigley, the Chairman of the Company, was independent on his appointment We have prepared the performance graph in as Chairman.
Bob Scott, formerly Chairman of the accordance with the The Large and Medium-sized Company, resigned as a member of the Committee Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports on 24 July 2009.
The performance graph is not an indication of the likely vesting of awards granted John Condron, Yells Chief Executive Ocer, is invited under any incentive plans.
to attend Remuneration Committee meetings but is not present when his remuneration is discussed.
Executive Remuneration Review The Remuneration Committee is responsible for Yells Following the successful conclusion of the Companys executive director remuneration.
The Committees renancing, the Remuneration Committee initiated terms of reference are available on Yells website a comprehensive review of executive director www.
com or from Howard Rubenstein, remuneration.
The review was carried out in the Company Secretary.
consultation with our larger shareholders.
The review was designed to ensure that, going forward, We met on eight occasions during the year and executive director and senior executive packages: received advice from: Operate to align the interests of executives The Chief Executive Ocer with and provide an incentive to grow value The Head of Human Resources for, our shareholders.
The Company Secretary Take account of shareholder sentiment.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte Enable Yell to retain talented executives and motivate outstanding performance.
Deloitte were appointed by us to provide advice on remuneration and also provided tax and risk Result in the minimal dilution of the Companys management services to the Company during share capital.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 45 Our remuneration report continued As a result of the review, total package value has 2.
The executive directors been substantially reduced at the lower end of Individual elements of their remuneration the performance scale in comparison with previous John Condrons and John Davis remuneration years.
The new remuneration policy, supported packages comprise the following xed and by our larger shareholders, delivers a median variable elements: remuneration package for On Target performance.
For performance that may be regarded as upper Fixed remuneration quartile, the projected value of remuneration Salary packages is between median and upper quartile levels.
The opportunity to earn packages at the Pension upper quartile level is only available for performance Benets that, in the opinion of the Committee, is clearly above this level.
Variable remuneration Annual and deferred bonus Remuneration structure 2010 Performance shares under the LTIP Following the Remuneration Review, the broad basis of our remuneration structure is illustrated The variable elements of remuneration are subject by the diagram below: to the achievement of predetermined performance targets.
We believe that there is an appropriate balance between xed and variable remuneration.
Excluding pensions and benets, for on-target Executive directors and performance, variable pay makes up approximately senior executive group LTIP 40% of the total remuneration package.
This increases to approximately 79% for maximum Management Capital performance.
group Accumulation Plan All employees UK ShareSave and Base salary US Stock Purchase Plan Base salaries are set taking account of the individuals: Role and responsibility All employees Annual Bonus Plan Experience For our executive directors the annual bonus operates Long-term contribution with an element of deferral.
This is described in detail Market positioning on page 48.
Salaries are reviewed annually using benchmark All of the Companys share plans incorporate data for companies of a similar size and complexity dilution limits that are consistent with ABI guidelines.
to Yell, taking account of market capitalisation and enterprise value.
Following this years remuneration review, and for the second consecutive year, we felt it appropriate that there should be no increase in base salaries.
Accordingly, Mr Condrons and Mr Davis base salaries from 1 April 2010 are the same as in the previous year as detailed in the table on page 51.
46 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Our remuneration report continued Pension John Davis John Condron and John Davis participate in the John Davis is a member of Section 3 of the Yell Yell Pension Plan which is a plan approved by Pension Plan.
Until 5 April 2006, he was also a HM Revenue & Customs HMRC.
Under the applicable member of Section 1.
Under each of those Sections terms of the Yell Pension Plan, they will receive he accrued an annual pension of 160th of his Final retirement benets on a dened benefit basis.
Pensionable Earnings up to the HMRCs Earnings Cap for each year of Pensionable Service, giving a total John Condron accrual of 130th each year.
He was contractually John Condron is a member of Section 2 of the Yell entitled to a pension based on uncapped pensionable Pension Plan and prior to 5 April 2006 he accrued salary for each year of service under the Yell Pension an annual pension of 180th of his Final Pensionable Plan.
As he was subject to the Earnings Cap, the Earnings for each year of Pensionable Service.
In excess over the approved benefit conferred under addition, he accrued a one-o cash sum of 380ths John Davis contractual arrangement was provided of his Final Pensionable Earnings for each year of on an unfunded, unapproved basis.
He was not subject to HMRCs As a result of changes in the taxation of pensions Earnings Cap for pension purposes due to his prior after 5 April 2006, John Davis chose to move his membership of the BT Pension Scheme and was unapproved and Section 1 benets into Section 3 entitled to an enhancement of his Pensionable of the Yell Pension Plan and then cease accruals Service under the Yell Pension Plan by reference in the Yell Pension Plan after that date, although to the BT Pension Scheme, which was intended to his pension remains linked to his Pension Scheme continue until 13 November 2009.
Under the terms Salary at leaving, retirement or death.
Since 5 April of this enhancement, since 1 July 1996, he has been 2006, he has received cash payments of 48% of granted an additional 71 days of Pensionable Service Basic Salary per annum.
We have carefully for each actual year of Pensionable Service in the BT considered the position and are satisfied that this Pension Scheme or the Yell Pension Plan.
The eect rate is broadly equivalent to the cost to Yell of his of the enhancement is that if he had continued future benets had he continued accrual in the Yell accrual in the Yell Pension Plan until his normal Pension Plan.
The result is, therefore, cost-neutral retirement date, John Condrons forecasted total for the Company.
Pensionable Service at age 60 would have been forty years.
Further details of John Condrons and John Davis pension benets can be found on page 52.
As a result of changes in taxation of pensions after 5 April 2006, John Condron chose to cease accruals in the Yell Pension Plan after that date, although his pension and one-o cash sum remain linked to his Final Pensionable Earnings at leaving, retirement or death.
Since 5 April 2006, he has received cash payments of 27% of Basic Salary per annum: a rate calculated to be broadly equivalent to Yells cost of his future benets had he continued accrual in the Yell Pension Plan.
The result is, therefore, costneutral to the Company.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 47 Our remuneration report continued Annual bonus The 2010 award is subject to a relative TSR Yells annual bonus arrangements for 2010 were performance condition, measured against the FTSE based on three performance measures revenue, 250 Index.
As discussed with our major shareholders, EBITDA and cash.
In relation to the latter, the the Committee considered that the best measure primary measure used by Yell is cash conversion.
of performance at the present time is shareholder value, represented by a relative TSR measure.
The maximum bonus payable is 150% of base This measure best aligns with our desire to focus salary.
This was reduced from 180% as a result on growing shareholder value.
Given Yells current of the remuneration review.
A proportion of size it was felt that the FTSE 250 represented any bonus awarded is deferred into shares.
the best comparator group for this measure.
The proportion of the deferral increases as the The amount of the award that ultimately vests level of bonus earned increases.
The deferral is dependent on where Yell is positioned within period is three years.
The value of bonus awards increase on a Yell Group plcs performance % vesting straight-line basis between the various performance Below median 0% levels.
A Threshold level arises at 90% of At median 15% Target performance.
At upper quartile 50% For 2010, revenue performance was between At upper decile 100% Threshold and Target and triggered a bonus payment.
EBITDA performance was below If Yell is ranked between any of these points within Threshold and therefore no bonus was earned the comparator group, the percentage of the award in relation to this measure.
Cash conversion that vests will be determined on a straight-line signicantly exceeded the maximum level basis between the relevant points.
To calculate the with operating cash ow performance also TSR performance, we use an average share price exceeding budget.
from the six-month period prior to the start of the measurement period and an average share price The Remuneration Committee noted that, during based on the six-month period which ends on the the reporting year, the performance of the wider last day of the measurement period.
The measurement economy had been signicantly worse than had period runs for three years from 1 April 2009. been assumed when the annual budget and performance targets were originally set.
This had Further, any vesting is subject to the Remuneration the eect of adding further stretch to these targets Committee being satisfied that underlying and potentially distorting underlying performance.
performance eg EBITDA, EPS, Revenue, Cash Notwithstanding this, no adjustments were made warrants the proposed level of vesting.
to bonus targets set at the beginning of the year.
In November 2009, awards made in 2006 to Taking account of performance against each John Condron and John Davis under the LTIP became individual measure, and applying the Companys due for vesting.
Vesting of 50% of the 2006 award bonus formula, it was calculated that a bonus Tranche 1 was subject to the achievement of a of 34% of the maximum was payable for 2010.
TSR performance condition relative to a FTSE 100 76% of the 2010 bonus will be paid in cash and comparator group with the other 50% Tranche 2 24% will be paid in deferred shares.
subject to the achievement of a performance condition based on EPS growth relative to RPI.
At the end of Share options the performance period, the TSR analysis showed For the financial year ended 31 March 2010, and that Yell was ranked 82nd out of 100 and therefore following the Remuneration Review, no options Tranche 1 lapsed.
The EPS analysis showed that Yells under the Yell Group plc Executive Share Option EPS over the period increased by 25%.
As a result, Scheme were granted to John Condron or John 64.56% of Tranche 2 vested.
Further details of the awards made to John Condron and John Davis are shown on pages 53 and 54.
Long-term Incentive Plan In March 2010 John Condron and John Davis received awards under the Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP, to the value of 175% of base salary.
The quantum of this Award was agreed as part of the review process and recognises that, unlike previous years, no stock option grants were made to the executive directors.
48 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Our remuneration report continued Other remuneration Service contracts The other elements of remuneration that our Both John Condron and John Davis have a rolling executive directors receive are as follows: twelve-month service contract.
The key terms of their service contracts are shown in the following table: Participation in the ShareSave Plan Life assurance Aspect Policy Private health cover Date of Contract 10 July 2003 Long-term disability insurance Notice period Twelve calendar months Provision of a car on termination by the Company or the director Telecommunications services Health club membership Termination payments Payment if the notice if contract is terminated period is served: Allowance for personal tax and financial advice without cause Pro-rated bonus paid on Our executive directors also receive reimbursement the greater of on-target from the Company for reasonable expenses incurred performance and in the carrying out of their duties.
projected performance determined by the Board.
Minimum shareholding requirement Payment if employment Executive directors are expected to maintain a is terminated by the minimum shareholding requirement equivalent Company without notice: to 200% of base salary.
New directors will have 95% of annual salary, a five-year period in which to build up such a benets, pension holding.
At the year end, John Davis shareholding contributions and was below this threshold.
The Committee consider on-target bonus plus all that no specic action is needed in this regard given: conditional awards of The volatility surrounding Yells share price.
shares and share options vest immediately on Mr Davis substantial shareholding and long-term termination.
incentives ensure his interests continue to be fully aligned with those of our shareholders.
On 18 May 2010, John Condron gave notice of his Mr Davis participation in Yells recent intention to retire from Yell and John Davis gave equity raising.
notice of his resignation from Yell.
External directorships John Davis remained a non-executive director of Informa plc.
He does not hold any other external directorships.
During their financial year ending 31 December 2009, he received 50,000 in fees from Informa plc.
He acquired a further 4,000 shares in Informa plc, pursuant to a rights issue that was held in May 2009, giving him a total shareholding of 14,000 shares.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 49 Our remuneration report continued Individual elements of their remuneration 3.
The non-executive directors The Company aims to pay non-executive directors Letters of appointment a market competitive rate.
Non-executive directors each have a letter of In the year ended 31 March 2010, non-executive appointment setting out the details of their directors fees were as follows: appointment.
Each has an initial term of twelve months and a three-month notice period.
The date Bob Wigley as non-executive director and of appointment of each of the non-executive Chairman, 250,000 per annum.
directors is shown below: Richard Hooper as Senior Independent Director, 60,000 per annum.
Director Date of appointment All other non-executive directors, 50,000 Bob Wigley 24 July 2009 per annum.
Tim Bunting 18 May 2007 John Coghlan 1 July 2003 A further fee of 10,000 per annum was paid to each Toby Coppel 12 October 2009 non-executive director who chaired a committee Joachim Eberhardt 1 July 2003 and 5,000 per annum was paid for ordinary Carlos Espinosa 18 May 2009 membership of committees.
Bob Wigley has waived Richard Hooper 13 March 2006 his fee as member of the Remuneration Committee Lord Powell of Bayswater 1 July 2003 and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
resigned 24 July 2009 Non-executive directors are not eligible to Bob Scott 1 July 2003 participate in the Companys share plans and resigned 24 July 2009 the Company does not make any benets available to them under any other employment benefit arrangements or make any contributions to their personal pension plans.
Bob Wigleys terms of appointment provided for a discretionary adjustment to his annual directors fee in the event he was required to commit significant additional time in support of the Companys recent re-nancing.
Notwithstanding his significant role in the process, Mr Wigley has not requested and does not intend to request such an adjustment.
Accordingly, his fees for the reporting year reect his regular terms without adjustment.
50 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Our remuneration report continued Audited information Remuneration in the years ended 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 Performance b c d Salary Salary fees related bonus Other benets Total at 1 April a 000 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Executive directors John Condron 885 885 451 310 315 1,646 1,200 885 John Davis 525 525 267 304 295 1,096 820 525 Non-executive directors Bob Wigley appointed 24 July 2009 172 5 177 Tim Bunting 55 55 55 55 John Coghlan 65 65 65 65 Toby Coppel appointed 12 October 2009 23 23 Joachim Eberhardt 65 65 65 65 Carlos Espinosa appointed 18 May 2009 43 43 Richard Hooper 69 55 69 55 Lord Powell of Bayswater resigned 24 July 2009 17 55 17 55 Bob Scott resigned 24 July 2009 49 155 49 155 a Comprises cash bonus of 76% of total bonus payment and a further 24% of total bonus payment payable in shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
b Executive directors benets mainly comprise company cars, life assurance, private health cover, long-term disability insurance, health club membership, security and allowances for personal tax and financial advice.
c With eect from 5 April 2006, the executive directors elected to cease accruing benets in the Yell Pension Plan.
Accordingly, since that date they have instead received cash payments calculated to be broadly equivalent to Yells cost of their future benets had they continued accrual in the Yell Pension Plan.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 51 Our remuneration report continued Retirement benets at 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2009 Change in Change in Change in Transfer Accrued benefit Accrued benefit accrued benefit accrued benefit transfer value of 2010 2009 during year net of ination Transfer Transfer value change Annual One-o Annual One-o Annual One-o value at value at during Annual One-o in a 000 pension cash sum pension cash sum pension cash sum 2010 2009 year pension cash sum benefit b John Condron 395 1,184 395 1,184 9,403 9,271 132 c John Davis 97 97 1,450 1,350 100 a Net of member contributions.
With eect from 1 March 2005, both John Condron and John Davis participated in SMART pensions.
This is an option available to all members of the Yell Pension Plan, whereby members accept a reduction in their pay, in return for non-contributory membership.
The reduction in each members pay is equal to the contributions that the member would otherwise have paid.
Yells contributions are increased by a corresponding amount.
b John Condron is a member of Section 2 of the Yell Pension Plan and prior to 5 April 2006 he accrued a pension of 180th of his Final Pensionable Earnings for each year of Pensionable Service.
In addition, he accrued a one-o cash sum of 380th of his Final Pensionable Earnings for each year of Pensionable Service.
As a result of changes in the taxation of pensions after 5 April 2006, John Condron chose to cease accrual in the Yell Pension Plan after that date, although his pension and cash sum remain linked to his Final Pensionable Earnings at leaving, retirement or death.
Since 5 April 2006, he has received cash payments of 27% of Basic Salary per annum, a rate calculated to be broadly equivalent to Yells costs of his future benets had he continued accrual in the Yell Pension Plan.
c John Davis is a member of Section 3 of the Yell Pension Plan.
Until 5 April 2006, he was also a member of Section 1.
Under each of those Sections, he accrued an annual pension of 160th of his Final Pensionable Earnings up to the HM Revenue and Customs Earnings Cap for each year of pensionable service total accrual of 130th each year.
As he was subject to the Earnings Cap, John Davis also received part of this pension through an unfunded, unapproved pension promise.
This increased his overall entitlement to 130th of his Pension Scheme Salary for each complete year of Pensionable Service and in proportion for a part year.
To determine the transfer value of the unapproved pension we have used the standard cash equivalent transfer basis adopted by the Yell Pension Plan.
As a result of changes in the taxation of pensions after 5 April 2006, John Davis chose to move his unapproved and Section 1 benets into Section 3 of the Yell Pension Plan and then cease accrual in the Yell Pension Plan after that date, although his pension remains linked to his Pension Scheme Salary at leaving, retirement or death.
Since 5 April 2006, he has received cash payments of 48% of basic salary per annum: this rate has been calculated to be broadly equivalent to Yells cost of his future benets had he continued accrual in the Yell Pension Plan.
52 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Our remuneration report continued Share options The information summarised in the table below shows the directors share options under the existing share option schemes.
b Yell Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
These options were granted on otation.
Options granted over shares with a value of three times salary will only be exercisable if the adjusted Earnings Per Share EPS over an initial three-year period is at least equal to RPI 3% per annum at the end of the period.
If the target is not met, it may be retested at the end of the fourth year.
Options granted over shares with a value of two times salary will only be exercisable if the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR at the end of a three-year period exceeds the growth in the TSR of the companies making up the FTSE 100.
Options will be exercisable in full if the growth in the Companys TSR would put the Company at the 25th position or higher taken from the top of the FTSE 100.
The proportion of options which may be exercised will be reduced on a straight-line basis to the 50th position of the FTSE 100, at which point 25% of the options may be exercised.
If the Companys TSR at the end of the three-year period would place the Company below the 50th position, no options will be exercisable.
c Yell Group plc ShareSave Plan.
d Yell Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
The options shall become exercisable if at the end of the three-year performance period the ratio of Net Debt to adjusted EBITDA is less than or equal to four.
The closing market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2010 was 40 pence.
During the year the highest and lowest market prices were 86 pence and 12.5 pence respectively.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 53 Our remuneration report continued Long-term Incentive Plan The information summarised in the table below shows the directors long-term incentive plan options.
The extent to which the awards will vest will depend upon the Companys TSR performance relative to the TSR performance of the FTSE 100 constituents excluding investment trusts over a three-year period.
To the extent that the performance condition is not satisfied, the award will lapse and there will be no opportunity to retest the condition further.
For an award to vest, the Companys TSR performance must not be less than that of the median company in the comparator group.
If the Company is ranked at the median level, 30% of the award will vest, rising to 100% vesting at the upper quartile level.
The extent to which the awards will vest will depend upon the Companys EPS growth in relation to RPI, as follows: 0% of the ordinary shares subject to the Award if the EPS growth is less than growth in RPI plus 3% per annum 30% of the ordinary shares subject to the Award if the EPS growth exceeds the growth in RPI by 3% per annum 100% of the ordinary shares subject to the Award if the EPS growth exceeds the growth in RPI by 7% per annum The number of shares over which the Trustee may grant an option in respect of this Award shall increase between 30% and 100% for the performance levels set out in the table above on a straight-line basis.
d The closing market share price on vesting date was 48 pence.
The extent to which the awards will vest will depend upon the Companys TSR performance relative to the TSR performance of an international comparator group of quoted publishing companies, over a three-year period.
The extent to which the awards will vest will depend upon the Companys TSR performance relative to the Comparator Group, as follows: Below median Nil At median 15% At upper quartile 50% At upper decile 100% and between any of these points on a straight-line basis.
54 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Our remuneration report continued Deferred Bonus Plan The information summarised in the table below shows the directors awards made under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
b A proportion of annual bonus is compulsorily deferred into shares for a period of three years.
Awards made under the Deferred Bonus Plan are granted as nil cost options and will lapse to the extent they are not exercised by the date of expiry.
Directors interests The directors beneficial and non-beneficial interests in shares in the Company at 31 March 2010 and at 8 June 2010, the date of this document, are shown below.
