Directors Report: Governance Remuneration report The Remuneration report is structured as follows: Remuneration Committee report Remuneration Committee report Page 96 Members Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee Carl Symon Chairman report Page 99 Roberto Quarta Remuneration reporting: Nick Rose Remuneration strategy, policy and service Pages 100 Responsibilities contracts for executive directors to 112 Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, Chairmans appointment, term and fees Page 112 executive directors, members of the Executive Committee Non-executive directors appointment, EC, the Company Secretary and other senior executives.
term and fees Page 113 Within the agreed policy, determining individual remuneration Tabular information on directors shareholdings, share-based incentives, Pages 114 packages for the Chairman, executive directors and EC members.
emoluments and pensions to 119 Agreeing the policy on terms and conditions to be included in service agreements for the Chairman, executive directors, EC members, the Company Secretary and other senior executives, including termination payments and compensation commitments, where applicable.
Approving any employee share-based incentive schemes and any performance conditions to be used for such schemes.
Determining any share scheme performance targets.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Carl Symon Remuneration Committee Chairman 96 www.
com Governance attendance at all meetings unless specifically requested The members of the Committee are independent non-executive otherwise by the Committee.
During the year, the Committee also received material Dick Olver, the Companys Chairman who was deemed to be assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the Groups independent on his appointment as Board Chairman on 1July Human Resources Director, Alastair Imrie, and the Human 2004, also served as a member of the Committee until Resources Director, Remuneration and Benefits, Graham 17February 2010.
Nick Rose was appointed to the Committee Middleton.
Dick Olver, Chairman, and Ian King, Chief Executive, with effect from 17 February 2010. also provided advice that was of material assistance to the Committee.
The Chief Executive and the Companys Chairman, subsequent to his resignation from the Committee, attend Committee Legal advice to the Committee has been provided by Linklaters meetings by invitation only.
They do not attend where their who are appointed by the Company, and who also provided individual remuneration is discussed and no director is involved services to the Company during the year.
The Committee is in deciding his own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts satisfied that the services provided to it by Linklaters are of a as secretary to the Committee.
technical nature and did not create any conflict of interest.
If a conflict of interest were to arise in the future, the Committee In 2010, the Committee met seven times and details of would appoint separate legal advisers from those used by the attendance at these meetings are provided in the Corporate Company.
 PwC, who are appointed by the The Committee appointed Kepler Associates as its Independent Company and also provided services to the Company during the Adviser in 2007 to provide advice to the Committee and its year, provided detailed information on market trends and the individual members on all aspects of the Committees remit.
Hewitt New Bridge Street, Kepler Associates will not undertake any work for the Company who are appointed by the Committee, provided advice on the whilst they are retained as the Committees Independent total shareholder return figures for assessing the performance Adviser.
Representatives from Kepler Associates have attended condition under the Performance Share Plan.
each of the Committee meetings during 2010 and will be in annual timetable of Committee aCtivities Directors and EC Annual bonus Share plans Miscellaneous members remuneration Quarter 1 Shareholder consultation Review prior year Approve Group Review Remuneration on remuneration review performance against All-Employee Free Shares Committee Terms of financial and non-financial Plan payments Reference and output of Approve remuneration for performance.
Where the Remuneration EC members Grant of Spring awards to applicable, agree bonus Committee performance directors and executives amounts payable evaluation Set directors and EC Review Remuneration members performance Report for recommendation targets and objectives for to the Board current year Quarter 2 Review pay review for senior executives below the EC Quarter 3 Review directors actual Review progress of Grant of Autumn awards to pay and bonus for previous directors and EC members directors and executives year against comparator performance against targets group actuals Set basis for annual remuneration review Quarter 4 Review market position Review share-based reward Review market position of including pensions considering market trends, package including and review status of pensions for senior Set bonus levels and share performance conditions, executives below the EC plan grant levels dilution levels and usage Set directors salaries for following year Agree grant policy for Spring awards Approve Group AllEmployee Free Shares Plan for following year BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 97 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Remuneration report continued Activities and highlights the growth of EPS over the three-year performance period for BAE Systems is one of the worlds largest and most the 2008 awards under the long-term incentive plans was geographically diverse defence and security companies.
We approximately 10.6% pa. Consequently: operate with a clearly defined strategy to deliver sustainable the awards of matching shares granted under the Share growth in value to shareholders, operating in a highly Matching Plan SMP in 2008 vest in full: and technologically complex market, with a presence in five key home markets.
The Group faces a more challenging trading of the 50% of the awards of shares granted in Spring 2008 environment as governments look for cost savings to address under the EPS portion of the Performance Share Plan PSP, budgetary pressures.
Our remuneration strategy is intended to recognise this the Companys TSR for the 50% of awards of shares granted business environment whilst fostering a Total Performance inMarch 2008 under the TSR portion of the PSP was below culture at all levels of the Company, taking into account seniority the median position when compared against the comparator and local market practice.
In addition, it reinforces our drive to group of 18 other defence and aerospace companies, and the continue to embed high levels of business conduct and our related awards accordingly lapsed: commitment to safety across the business.
the structure of our annual incentive and long-term incentives The Committee is sensitive to the levels of the remuneration were left substantially unchanged including the clawback packages of other employees within the Group.
In some areas, arrangements established last year see pages 101 and 108 our workforce is heavily unionised.
Many of our employees work for details : at the very leading edge of technology.
We have a diverse we retained the requirement for one-third of executive workforce operating in many countries.
Employee remuneration directors annual incentives 25% for EC members and other packages are therefore determined locally to meet local needs, senior executives to be compulsorily deferred into the SMP: whilst respecting our culture and Values.
In 2010, general salary increases for our two largest employee populations in the UK our requirement for executive directors to build up a and US typically averaged 2.4% and 2.5%, respectively.
shareholding of 200% of salary over time, remains unchanged.
Both the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director In determining the levels of executive reward, the Remuneration comfortably exceed this level: at 31 December 2010, the Committee also continues to place considerable emphasis on President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. ensuring a strong link between actual remuneration received, held shares representing approximately 144% of salary, and achievement of our strategic and business objectives.
reflecting her more recent appointment: and In 2010, our performance against targets was good.
We slightly we are seeking shareholder approval to introduce a Restricted exceeded our profit target, and exceeded our stretch cash Share Plan see page 102, principally to enable us to address targets.
However, our Total Shareholder Return TSR key executive retention issues for US-based executives.
The performance reflects the sustained under-performance of our Plan would permit awards to executives in other countries, but share price.
Our Earnings per Share EPS was 40.5p.
We also specific Remuneration Committee approval will be required on started to experience significant executive retention issues in each occasion.
The President and Chief Executive Officer of North America.
BAE Systems, Inc. will be included in the Plan, but other Board Against this performance background, the main aspects of our members will not be included without further consultation with remuneration policy and practice for the year were as follows: shareholders.
having been unchanged in 2009, the salaries of the Chief The Companys remuneration strategy, policy and details of Executive and Group Finance Director were increased by 3.9% executive remuneration are set out on pages 100 to 112 of this and 2.5%, respectively: report.
the salary of the President and Chief Executive Officer of Following the announcement of the retirement of George Rose BAE Systems, Inc. Linda Hudson, has been increased by as Group Finance Director, effective 31 March 2011, the 12.2% to bring her nearer to market median.
She was Committee also agreed the package for Peter Lynas on his appointed in October 2009 having been promoted to that appointment as Group Finance Director and an executive position from within the business.
In setting her initial salary director of BAESystems plc, effective 1 April 2011. the Remuneration Committee was aware that she would be On behalf of the Remuneration Committee operating at a significantly higher level than was previously the case, and, whilst this salary was a clear step-up from her previous position, there was scope for future increases to Carl Symon bring her closer to market median provided her performance Remuneration Committee Chairman merited this.
The increase awarded by the Remuneration Committee recognises where her initial salary was set in 2009 and that she is performing on a level which justifies a more market competitive package.
This salary change was made with effect from 1 January 2011: annual bonus payouts for the executive directors under the annual incentive plan ranged from 69.1% to 89.1% of maximum: 98 www.
com Governance Non-Executive Directors Fees The Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee has delegated Committee report authority from the Board to agree fees payable to non-executive directors on its behalf.
Members Dick Olver Chairman Activities Philip Bramwell The Board has approved the following guidelines to be used by Linda Hudson the Committee when discharging its responsibilities: Ian King fees shall be sufficient to attract and retain individuals with Responsibilities the necessary skills, experience and knowledge required to Reviewing the fees payable to non-executive directors ensure that the Board is able to discharge its duties excluding the Chairman and making changes to such effectively: fees as deemed appropriate.
in setting fees the Committee shall have regard to the amount of time individual non-executive directors are required to devote to their duties, and also the scale and complexity of the business, and the responsibility involved: fees payable to non-executive directors shall be paid in cash and shall not be performance-related: and non-executive directors shall not participate in the Companys share-based incentive schemes or pension scheme.
The Committee meets each year to consider the fees paid to the non-executive directors.
Having reviewed the increasing time commitments expected of non-executive directors and the market competitive positioning of existing fee levels, the Committee agreed in January 2011 to increase the basic fee from 66,000 to 75,000 per annum.
All other fees remain unchanged as detailed on page 113.
On behalf of the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee Dick Olver Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee Dick Olver Chairman Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee Chairman BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 99 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Remuneration report continued Remuneration strategy, policy and packages Following the annual review in November 2010, the Committee concluded that the current remuneration strategy remains generally appropriate, but the following changes have been introduced: to further emphasise the importance of business growth, order intake is being incorporated as one of the financial elements in the annual incentive plan targets see page 101.
Other elements of the Plan remain unchanged: and to address retention issues principally in our North American business, shareholder approval is being sought at the AGM to implement a Restricted Share Plan see page 102.
Other than these changes, the Committee intends to continue with the executive remuneration policy as detailed in this report in 2011 and subsequent years for executive directors and EC members, and this policy will be flowed down to the most senior executives within the Group globally approximately 280 to create a consistent global approach to reward.
The principles of the remuneration strategy are applied consistently across the Group below this level, taking account of seniority and local market practice.
The Committee will continue to consult on material changes with principal shareholders.
The Committee has considered the new UK Corporate Governance Code requirement regarding remuneration incentives being compatible with risk policies and systems, and is satisfied that the Company is well placed to meet this requirement as profit recognition on long-term programmes is intrinsically linked to risk reduction.
RemuneRation stRategy RemuneRation PoliCy The Companys remuneration strategy is to provide a To achieve the strategy, the remuneration policy for executive remuneration package that: directors and EC members is to: helps to attract, retain and motivate: set base salary at around median of the relevant market competitive level: is aligned to shareholders interests: reward stretching superior performance with upper quartile is competitive against the appropriate market: reward: encourages and supports a Total Performance culture provide an appropriate balance between: aligned to the achievement of the Companys strategic objectives: short-term and long-term reward: and is fair and transparent: and fixed and variable reward can be applied consistently throughout the Group.
with the balance becoming more long term and more highly geared with seniority: directly align short-term and long-term reward through compulsory deferral of annual incentive into the Share Matching Plan: and provide a competitive package of benefits.
elements of PaCkage PuRPose Base salary Recognise market value of role and individuals skills, experience and performance.
Annual incentive Drive and reward annual performance of individuals, teams and the Company on both financial and non-financial metrics, including behaviours.
Share Matching Plan Directly align short-term and long-term reward through compulsory deferral of annual incentive into shares, and drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS performance through co-investment aligned to the interests of shareholders.
Performance Share Plan Drive and reward delivery of sustained long-term EPS and TSR performance aligned to the interests of shareholders.
Restricted Share Plan Provide long-term reward and address retention issues, through time-vesting awards principally in the Companys US market.
Pension provision Provide competitive retirement benefits which reward long-term performance through seniority, and loyalty through long service.
Other benefits Provide competitive cost effective benefits package through leveraging the Companys size and scale.
Global all-employee incentive plan Reward all employees globally for Group performance, encouraging employee share ownership aligned to the interests of shareholders.
Appointment of new Group Finance Director The Company announced on 10 December 2010 that George Rose would be retiring as Group Finance Director with effect from 31March 2011 and that Peter Lynas would be appointed as Group Finance Director with effect from 1 April 2011.
The salary packages for both George Rose, the outgoing Group Finance Director, which had been agreed as part of the 2010 remuneration review, and for Peter Lynas, the incoming Group Finance Director, which was agreed by the Committee subsequent to the 2010 remuneration review, are included in this report.
com 2010 remuneration review The 2010 review not only considered the Companys executive remuneration packages against the market, but also the Companys performance to date and its corporate strategy for the next five years.
Information on the market for comparable management positions was provided by PwC so that the Committee could form a view as to where to position the various elements of the package relative to comparable companies.
The methodology used was to construct appropriate comparator groups for the individual positions, taking account of company size, scale of operations and breadth of role.
The comparator group for the UK executive directors comprised the FTSE 50 companies excluding financial services and retail with market capitalisation nearest to that of BAE Systems.
The Committee believes that using market capitalisation creates alignment between the value placed on the Company and the value placed on the executives who manage it.
The six largest companies were also excluded as were several others to arrive at a comparator group of 20 companies 11 larger and 9 smaller which the Committee believed appropriate for benchmarking UK executive directors packages.
For the President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. the comparator group was drawn from companies in the US aerospace, defence and general industry sector, adjusted as appropriate, to produce market figures consistent with the size, scale and relative independence of the US business, and adjusting where necessary to reflect the extra responsibility for her plc Board role.
The base salary, total cash reward base salary plus annual incentive, total direct reward total cash reward plus long-term incentives and total reward total direct reward plus pension were analysed at the lower quartile, median and upper quartile for the relevant posts in the comparator group companies.
This gives the Committee a view on the competitiveness of the individual elements of the package as well as the package as a whole.
The Committee also reviewed market trends around the individual elements of remuneration to ensure that the structure of the package stays in line with market practice.
The remuneration structure overall also takes account of the performance of the individual, the Company as a whole, and the pay and conditions of Group employees.
Overall, while the review indicated that the structure is broadly in line with the market, some minor adjustments were deemed necessary to ensure that it remained so.
In addition, the base salaries for both the Chief Executive and the President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. were behind their respective benchmarks.
Base salary The Committee reviewed base salaries, taking into account the current economic climate, the challenges facing the business, their respective positions against benchmark, the pay environment for employees in general and that their salaries had been unchanged since 2009.
In particular, the salary of the President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. has been increased to maintain the competitiveness of the package and bring her salary closer to market median.
Further information on the rationale for this increase is provided on page 98.
The annual base salary levels of executive directors with effect from 1 January 2011 are as follows: Name 2010 salary 2011 salary Increase Ian King 900,000 935,000 3.9% George Rose 622,500 638,000 2.5% Linda Hudson $900,000 $1,010,000 12.2% Incentives The Groups strategy is set out on page 14 along with the Group Strategic Framework.
This explains how the Groups mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through its commitment to Total Performance Customer Focus, Programme Execution, Financial Performance and Responsible Behaviour.
Underpinning the drive for Total Performance are the Groups Values Trusted, Innovative and Bold.
The Groups strategy focuses on delivering growth in the three market segments of Services, Electronic Systems and Platforms, in existing and new home markets, and in export markets.
The six Strategic Actions, which translate the strategy into operational plans, are underpinned by the Integrated Business Plan IBP, which sets out a five-year strategic and financial plan.
Each year, the Board agrees the Executive Committees top ten objectives which are those key to delivering the Groups strategy.
For 2011, these are set out on page 13, and are used as the basis to set the individual objectives for the executive directors and EC members which are agreed by the Chairman, Dick Olver, and the Committee.
These then flow down to the senior leadership team to ensure that all businesses within the Group are aligned with the overall Group strategy.
The remuneration strategy incentivises and rewards executives to deliver their contribution to the achievement of the Groups strategy through the combination of short-term incentives targeted at business performance, Group performance, personal performance and leadership behaviours, and long-term incentives targeted at Group performance.
To directly align short-term and long-term reward, executive directors will be required to invest at least one-third of their net 2011 annual incentive into the SMP when the annual incentive is paid in 2012.
Further investment can be made on a voluntary basis up to a maximum investment of half their net annual incentive, except in the case of the US executive director who will participate in the Restricted Share Plan subject to its approval by shareholders at the 2011 AGM further detail is provided on page 102.
Annual incentive plan The annual incentives for 2011 continue to focus on a combination of in-year financial performance, and longer-term performance and risk management both business risk and reputation risk.
Two-thirds is driven off in-year financial performance, and one-third based on driving performance and improvement in business conduct and safety reinforcing the importance of key aspects of the Groups corporate responsibility agenda combined with the other non-financial objectives supporting the Groups strategy.
No changes to this structure are proposed for 2011.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 101 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Remuneration report continued The financial targets are derived from the IBP, and are based on earnings and cash targets and, for 2011, also order intake.
The relative proportions of the financial targets for profit, cash and order intake are 40:40:20.
These are seen as the key indicators of both short-term and long-term financial performance and value creation, and are supported by the Companys major shareholders.
1 At Group level, EPS is used whereas EBITA is used to measure earnings performance at a business level.
To incentivise improved phasing of cash generation throughout the year, a combination of year-end and average quarterly net cash debt was introduced for 2009 and 2010, and will continue for 2011.
Due to the stretching nature of the plan, the Committee introduced for 2010 a threshold paying 20% of maximum for the profit element.
The payout for on-target performance is 50% of maximum.
Payout for performance between targets is calculated on a straight-line basis.
The table below summarises the overall structure of the annual incentives for executive directors.
Proportion of annual incentive Performance measure 2010 2011 In-year financial 66.6% 66.7% Business conduct and safety 15.0% 15.0% Other objectives 18.4% 18.3% The Committee believes that the annual incentive targets for the executive directors are stretching but achievable.
The structure of the 2011 annual incentive plan for executive directors is summarised in their individual sections on pages 103 to 106.
Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs The Company operates two LTIPs having ceased awards of share options in 2008 the Performance Share Plan PSP and the Share Matching Plan SMP.
The structure of these plans remain unchanged.
Full details of the PSP and SMP are contained on pages 108 and 109.
The combination of the annual incentive plan, SMP and PSP provides a balance between short-term cash reward and longer-term share-based reward as shown below.
The proportion of the incentive package delivered through longer-term performance is significantly higher at stretch payout than at on-target payout, demonstrating that the package supports the achievement of superior long-term performance and strongly aligns the interests of executives to those of shareholders through long-term reward being delivered in shares.
The second graph shows which performance metrics are driving the value of the incentives.
This shows that, at on-target performance, the higher influence of the annual incentive means that in-year measures drive almost 40% of the package value, with long-term EPS which underpins the SMP and half the PSP awards accounting for a similar proportion.
But, at stretch performance, the influence of the annual incentive is reduced, and the SMP and PSP account between them for nearly three-quarters of the value of the incentive package, with the most important drivers of value becoming long-term EPS and share price.
This shows that achieving strong performance on the in-year measures is important but, to maximise the value of their incentive package, executives need to drive growth in long-term EPS and share price.
PROPORTION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVES INCENTIVE PACKAGE PERFORMANCE DRIVERS OF CHIEF EXECUTIVES DELIVERED BY THE VARIOUS INCENTIVE PLANS % INCENTIVE PACKAGE % Stretch Stretch performance performance On-target On-target performance performance 0 20 40 60 80 100 0 20 40 60 80 100 Proportion of incentive package % Proportion of incentive package % Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP In-year measures Long-term EPS Relative TSR Share price Restricted Share Plan RSP Within the Companys US peer group, our research indicates that performance-based LTIP awards only typically make up around a third of the overall long-term incentive package for a US executive.
In comparison, the BAE Systems LTIP plans are 100% based on performance conditions, which provides much less retention value for senior US executives and can be bought out by a competitor for a small cost.
Our US business is a fundamentally important part of the Group, and it is essential we are able to attract and retain high calibre staff.
We do not wish to provide a completely different reward structure in the US compared to our global approach: nor will we increase the overall value of the Inc. reward package.
However, the retention issue is sufficiently serious and potentially damaging to the business to require action.
Consequently, the Committee is proposing to introduce a time-vesting LTIP element within the overall US executive package.
This will be achieved by introducing a Restricted Share Plan RSP without performance conditions other than time vesting.
The Restricted Share Plan will provide 35% of the expected value of the total LTIP package, and will vest after three years.
This Plan will require the approval of shareholders at the AGM in May 2011.
The expected value of the total LTIP package for US executives including the RSP will be maintained at its current level.
Subject to shareholder approval of the RSP, this will be achieved by reducing existing LTIP award levels for participants as follows: removing the voluntary matching element of the SMP.
This will apply to voluntary investment in the SMP in respect of the 2010 annual incentive plan payment, and onwards: and reducing overall PSP award levels.
Subject to shareholder approval, participants awards of restricted stock will be confirmed after the AGM.
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense.
com Whilst the Plan is primarily aimed at our US executives, the Plan would permit awards to executives in other countries, but specific Remuneration Committee approval will be required on each occasion.
The President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. will be included in the Plan, but other Board members will not be included without further consultation with shareholders.
Personal shareholding policy The Committee has agreed a policy whereby all executive directors are required to establish and maintain a minimum personal shareholding equal to 200% of base salary.
As a minimum, a holding equal to 100% of base salary must be achieved as quickly as possible using shares vesting or options exercised through the executive share option schemes or long-term incentive schemes, by using 50% of the shares that vest or 50% of the options which are exercised on each occasion.
Thereafter, executive directors are required to increase their personal shareholding gradually, on each occasion using 25% of the shares that vest or 25% of the options exercised each year, until a personal shareholding equal to 200% of annual base salary is achieved and maintained.
These limits are reviewed periodically.
A similar arrangement applies to senior executives eligible for share-based long-term incentives with limits aligned to the levels of awards made under these plans.
Details of the directors personal shareholdings are shown in Table A on page 114.
Pension provision No changes to the pension arrangements for executive directors were made in 2010.
A review of UK executive pension arrangements has been undertaken in the light of the changes announced to the taxation of members of UK registered pension arrangements from 6 April 2011.
The underlying principles for this review were that the aggregate level of benefits provided to members under the new arrangements should be cost neutral to the Company compared to the existing arrangements.
The approach addresses tax inefficiencies arising for existing employees as a consequence of the pensions tax changes, and members will be given the choice to remain in the current arrangements and pay the increased tax.
Further detail is provided on page 111. stRuCtuRe of individual exeCutive diReCtoRs PaCkages 2011 2010 Ian King Chief Executive Base salary 935,000 pa 900,000 pa Annual incentive Maximum on-target % of salary 225% 112.5% Structure % of salary On-target Stretch On-target Stretch Group EPS 30% 60% 36% 90% Group cash 30% 60% 24% 60% Order intake 15% 30% Not applicable Safety Up to 16.875% Up to 16.875% Business conduct Up to 16.875% Up to 16.875% Other objectives Up to 41.25% Up to 41.25% 1 Deferral into SMP 3 compulsory plus voluntary up to total of 50% of net annual incentive SMP Gross match 2:1 Performance condition EPS growth of 5% 11% pa PSP Grant % of salary 250% 1 Performance condition 2 on relative TSR against 18 other global aerospace and defence companies, and 1 2 on EPS growth of 5% 11% pa Pension accrual 1 30th of three-year final average salary from age 62 for 8% members contributions The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package delivered through fixed and variable reward.
VALUE OF PACKAGE 000 PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH FIXED AND PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD % Stretch Stretch performance performance On-target On-target performance performance 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 14,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 Value of package 000 Proportion of overall package % Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 103 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Remuneration report continued stRuCtuRe of individual exeCutive diReCtoRs PaCkages continued 2011 2010 George Rose Group Finance Director Base salary 638,000 pa 622,500 pa Annual incentive Maximum on-target % of salary 150% 75% Structure % of salary On-target Stretch On-target Stretch Group EPS 20% 40% 24% 60% Group cash 20% 40% 16% 40% Order intake 10% 20% Not applicable Safety Up to 11.25% Up to 11.25% Business conduct Up to 11.25% Up to 11.25% Other objectives Up to 27.5% Up to 27.5% 1 Deferral into SMP 3 compulsory plus voluntary up to total of 50% of net annual incentive SMP Gross match 2:1 Performance condition EPS growth of 5% 11% pa PSP Grant % of salary 250% 1 Performance condition 2 on relative TSR against 18 other global aerospace and defence companies, and 1 2 on EPS growth of 5% 11% pa Pension accrual 1 30th of three-year final average salary from age 60 for 9.29% members contributions The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package delivered through fixed and variable reward.
VALUE OF PACKAGE 000 PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH FIXED AND PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD % Stretch Stretch performance performance On-target On-target performance performance 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 Value of package 000 Proportion of overall package % Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP As announced by the Company on 10 December 2010, George Rose will retire with effect from 31 March 2011.
The 2011 salary package details and graphs above set out the position had he continued in his role throughout 2011.
Details of his retirement arrangements are provided on page 112.
com stRuCtuRe of individual exeCutive diReCtoRs PaCkages continued 2011 2010 Linda Hudson President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. Base salary $1,010,000 pa $900,000 pa Annual incentive Maximum on-target % of salary 225% 112.5% Structure % of salary On-target Stretch On-target Stretch Group EPS 10% 20% 12% 30% Group cash 10% 20% 8% 20% Order intake 5% 10% Not applicable 1 Business EBITA 20% 40% 24% 60% Business cash 20% 40% 16% 40% Business order intake 10% 20% Not applicable Safety Up to 16.875% Up to 16.875% Business conduct Up to 16.875% Up to 16.875% Other objectives Up to 41.25% Up to 41.25% 1 1 Deferral into SMP Compulsory 3 of net annual 3 compulsory plus voluntary incentive.
No voluntary up to total of 50% element of net annual incentive SMP Gross match 2:1 Performance condition EPS growth of 5% 11% pa PSP Grant % of salary 160% 250% 1 Performance condition 2 on relative TSR against 18 other global aerospace and defence companies, and 1 2 on EPS growth of 5% 11% pa RSP % of salary 65% Not applicable Pension accrual Cash sum at retirement of 14.1% of career pay salary plus bonus up to maximum of 150% of salary for a contribution of 1.5% of pay, plus an 85% Company 401 k match on contributions to a maximum of 6% of salary Linda Hudson will be granted an award under the RSP in 2011, subject to shareholder approval of the RSP at the 2011 AGM, and will thus not be permitted to make any voluntary investment in the SMP in 2011 in relation to her 2010 net annual incentive payment.
The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package delivered through fixed and variable reward.
VALUE OF PACKAGE $000 PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH FIXED AND PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD % Stretch Stretch performance performance On-target On-target performance performance $0 $2,000 $4,000 $6,000 $8,000 $10,000 $12,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 Value of package $000 Proportion of overall package % Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP RSP Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP RSP 1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 105 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Remuneration report continued stRuCtuRe of individual exeCutive diReCtoRs PaCkages continued Effective 1 April 2011 Peter Lynas Group Finance Director designate Base salary 520,000 pa Annual incentive On-target maximum % of salary 75% 150% Structure % of salary On-target Stretch Group EPS 20% 40% Group cash 20% 40% Order intake 10% 20% Safety Up to 11.25% Business conduct Up to 11.25% Other objectives Up to 27.5% 1 Deferral into SMP 3 compulsory plus voluntary up to total of 50% of net annual incentive SMP Gross match 2:1 Performance condition EPS growth of 5% 11% pa PSP Grant % of salary 250% 1 Performance condition 2 on relative TSR against 18 other global aerospace and defence companies, and 1 2 on EPS growth of 5% 11% pa Pension accrual 1 30th of three-year final average salary from age 62 for 8% members contributions The graphs below show the value of the package at on-target and stretch performance together with the proportion of the package delivered through fixed and variable reward as if Peter Lynas had been in post as Group Finance Director with effect from 1January2011.
VALUE OF PACKAGE 000 PROPORTION OF PACKAGE VALUE DELIVERED THROUGH FIXED AND PERFORMANCE-RELATED REWARD % Stretch Stretch performance performance On-target On-target performance performance 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 Value of package 000 Proportion of overall package % Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP Base salary Pension Cash bonus Deferred bonus SMP PSP 106 www.
com Performance in 2010 The structure of the 2010 annual incentive plan was set out in last years Remuneration report and is summarised in the individual sections for each of the executive directors on pages 103 to 106 of this report.
Financial performance: 2010 was a robust year in terms of financial performance following the Groups strong performance of recent years.
At the Group level, EPS performance was above threshold, but well short of stretch performance.
Stretch performance was achieved on both cash targets.
At the operating group level, Programmes & Support exceeded its profit target but did not hit its stretch target, and achieved its stretch cash targets.
International and BAE Systems, Inc. achieved stretch on all their financial targets.
Non-financial performance: Page 12 sets out the Executive Committees top ten objectives for 2010 and the assessment of performance against these, whilst page 46 provides more detailed information on the performance against the specific objectives relating to business conduct and safety.
business conduct: The Group targeted the successful implementation of the suite of revised policies and processes which had been updated as part of the Woolf implementation programme.
All businesses are on target with their stated plans.
safety: The Group has continued to drive improvement of safety management, using its Safety Maturity Matrix SMM as the mechanism to measure and drive performance.
Sites with more than 150 personnel other than those acquired during 2010 have now progressed to Level 4 on the SMM.
In addition, the Group achieved an overall 31% reduction in the Lost Work Day Case Rate, exceeding a target 20% reduction, compared with performance during 2009.
Some individual businesses did not achieve this target.
other objectives: Of the remaining top ten Group objectives most have been successfully achieved, giving a result of 90% of maximum.
This sets the starting point with further adjustment, up or down, depending on the assessment of overall performance and leadership behavioural performance of the individual executive.
Accordingly, the Committee determined the payout under the 2010 annual incentive plan as follows: 2010 annual incentive payout Ian King Linda Hudson George Rose % of stretch 71.0% 89.1% 69.1% % of base salary 159.7% 200.5% 103.7% Amount 1,437,075 $1,804,275 645,533 In addition: the growth in EPS over the three years to 2010 was approximately 10.6% pa. Consequently: the awards of matching shares granted under the SMP in 2008 vest in full: and of the 50% of the awards of shares granted in Spring 2008 under the EPS portion of the PSP, 94.55% vest.
the Companys TSR for the 50% of awards of shares granted in March 2008 under the TSR portion of the PSP was below the median position when compared against the comparator group of 18 other defence and aerospace companies, and the related awards accordingly lapsed.
VALUE AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 OF 100 INVESTMENT VALUE AT 31 DECEMBER 2010 OF 100 INVESTMENT AT 31 DECEMBER 2005 200 200 150 150 100 100 50 50 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 BAE Systems FTSE 100 BAE Systems Aerospace and defence comparator group FTSE 100 UK executive director pay review comparator group This graph, which has been produced in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the The graph above shows the value shareholders have achieved by their investment in Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, BAESystems over recent years as compared to i the FTSE 100 index: ii the companies shows the value by 31 December 2010, on a total shareholder return basis, of 100 invested in forming the sectoral peer group for the Performance Share Plan: and iii the companies forming BAE Systems on 31 December 2005 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 the comparator pay group for the 2010 executive pay review.
The graph depicts the value for index.
The FTSE 100 is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a BAESystems and the comparators at the end of 2010 of a single 100 investment made at the broad equity index.
As BAE Systems is a constituent member of the FTSE 100, it was deemed to beginning of each of the last five years.
be the most appropriate general UK equity index.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 107 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Remuneration report continued Summary of Long-Term Incentive Plans Plan provisions Performance conditions for grants of awards to be made under the Performance Share Plan and the Share Matching Plan in 2011 are detailed below.
Performance conditions for grants of awards made prior to 2011 are detailed on pages 115 and 116.
Clawback arrangements operate in respect of these two plans from the 2010 awards onwards.
The arrangements are intended to cover situations, for example, where results are restated or otherwise turn out to be materially inaccurate or where the executives employment can be terminated for cause.
PeRfoRmanCe shaRe Plan PsP Key features for PSP awards in 2011: awards of shares are granted based on a percentage of salary and share price at the date of grant: the shares are subject to satisfaction of three-year performance conditions: TSR half the PSP award will be based on a Total Shareholder Return TSR performance condition PSP and the other half on an EPS Earnings per Share PSP performance condition: TSR in addition, there is a further test on the PSP element to ensure that the TSR performance is supported by the underlying performance of the Company: shares under award after satisfaction of the performance condition vest in three equal tranches at the end of years three, four and five: and shares under award attract dividends prior to vesting.
how the PsP oPeRates 50% of award based on TSR One-third available immediately growth relative to a sectoral comparator at the end of year three group of companies over the three-year performance period, subject to a secondary financial measure PSP award paid in shares PSP amount varying The second third available at the end of year four award according to performance achieved 50% of award based on actual annual EPS growth over the The final three-year performance period third available at the end of year five Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year 0 1 2 3 3 4 5 6 7 For the US executives, the awards are automatically delivered at the end of years three, four and five, subject to the performance condition achieved.
ePs PeRfoRmanCe Condition PsP The proportion of the award capable of exercise is determined by the rate of annual actual EPS growth over the three-year 100 performance period, with nil vesting at annual actual EPS growth of 5% and 100% vesting at 11% growth as set out opposite 15% 75 to 33% growth over three years.
50 The rationale for the EPS performance measure is that major investors consider EPS to be a key indicator of long-term 25 financial performance and value creation.
0 Summary of EPS performance to 31 December 2010 2010 EPS was 40.5p, and is approximately 10.6% greater per 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 annum than the 2007 EPS of 30.7p.
This is near the top of the performance range of 5% to 11% growth per annum.
Accordingly, Annual actual EPS growth % 94.55% of the EPS portion of the Spring 2008 PSP awards vest.
com % of total award vesting tsR PeRfoRmanCe Condition PsP TSR PSP sectoral peer group The proportion of the award capable of exercise determined by: Boeing General Dynamics Raytheon i the Companys TSR share price growth plus dividends Cobham GKN Rockwell Collins ranking relative to a comparator group of 18 other Dassault Aviation Goodrich Rolls-Royce international defence and aerospace companies as shown in EADS Honeywell International Smiths Group the table opposite.
There has been no change to the comparator group.
None of the shares vest if the Companys Embraer PN Lockheed Martin Thales TSR is outside the top 50% of TSRs achieved by the sectoral Finmeccanica Northrop Grumman United Technologies comparator group and 100% vest if it is in the top quintile tsR PeRfoRmanCe Condition PsP i. e. top 20% as set out opposite: and 100 ii whether there has been a sustained improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance and whether it is 75 appropriate to release some or all of the awards.
In taking such a view, the Committee may consider but not exclusively 50 1 the following financial metrics: net cash debt: EBITA : order book: turnover: risk: and underlying project performance.
25 The rationale for TSR performance measures is that major 0 investors regard TSR as an important indication of both earnings and capital growth relative to other major companies in 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 the same sector and to ensure that awards only vest if there has been a clear improvement in the Companys performance over Performance relative to comparator group percentile the relevant period.
summaRy of tsR PeRfoRmanCe to 31 deCembeR 2010 TSR PERFORMANCE UNDER THE PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN The chart opposite summarises the position on the TSR 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% vesting vesting vesting vesting vesting vesting vesting vesting element for all outstanding awards under the PSP as at 31December 2010.
100 The coloured box shows the range of TSR required for 25% 75 vesting to full vesting, and the diamond shows BAE Systems TSR.
The proportion that would vest is shown in the boxes at the 50 top of the chart.
This shows that the TSR portion of the 2008 PSP award lapsed 25 as the Companys TSR return was below that of the comparator group.
0 -25 -50 26 March 2 April 8 September 10 November 24 March 7 September 23 March 7 September 2008 2008 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 Median to top 20% TSR BAE Systems TSR shaRe matChing Plan smP PeRfoRmanCe Condition smP 2011 2:1 Key features for grants of awards in 2011: stand-alone share investment plan with the investment linked to the award under the annual incentive plan: 1:1 participants are granted a conditional award of matching shares against the gross value of the annual incentive invested: matching shares attract dividends during the three-year 0 deferral period, released on vesting of any matching shares: 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 executive directors are required to invest one-third of their 2010 net annual incentive into the SMP: and Annual EPS growth % maximum level of investment will be 50% of the net annual incentive.
Match and performance condition 2008 SMP award Nil match for actual EPS growth of 5% per annum with nil The 2008 SMP awards were based on nil match for actual EPS vesting below that level increasing uniformly to a 2:1 match at growth of 5% per annum increasing uniformly to a 1:1 match at 11% per annum growth 15% to 33% growth over three years.
2010 EPS was 40.5p, and is approximately 10.6% greater per annum than the 2007 EPS Rationale for performance measure: major investors consider of 30.7p.
Accordingly, the 2008 SMP award vests in full.
EPS to be a key indicator of long-term financial performance and value creation.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 109 Match Total Shareholder Return % % of total award vesting Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Remuneration report continued Restricted Share Plan RSP Key features of awards in 2011: conditional awards of shares are granted based on a percentage of salary and share price at the date of grant: the shares are subject only to the condition that the participant remains employed by the Group at the end of the vesting date three years after the award date : and shares under award attract dividends prior to vesting.
The RSP is not subject to a performance condition as it is designed to address retention issues principally in the US, as detailed on page 102.
Clawback arrangements will operate in respect of this Plan.
Introduction of the RSP is subject to shareholder approval at the 2011 AGM.
Share Incentive Plan SIP During 2010, the UK executive directors were eligible to participate in the all-employee free shares element of the Share Incentive Plan.
As a result of the Companys performance in 2010, all eligible employees including the UK executive directors will be entitled to receive shares worth 391.50.
A similar arrangement operates for non-UK employees on a cash or shares basis depending on local tax and security laws.
The Company operates a share purchase arrangement Partnership Shares under the Share Incentive Plan.
Under this arrangement, UK-based employees including executive directors may purchase ordinary shares in BAE Systems by either monthly investments of between 10 and 125 a month, or lump sum investments of between 10 and 1,500 in a tax year, both limited to 10% of salary if less.
The Partnership Shares attract matching shares.
As the plan is an all-employee plan, the matching shares are not subject to performance conditions in accordance with legislation.
One free matching share is awarded for each Partnership Share up to a maximum of 63 per month.
Dividends paid in respect of the shares in the Share Incentive Plan for UK-based employees are reinvested as Dividend Shares.
Share usage for employee share schemes Number The Committee has agreed that, in respect of new issue or of shares treasury shares, shares representing no more than 1% and no Total issued share capital as at 31 December 2010 3,587m more than 0.5% for the executive schemes of the Companys All schemes: issued share capital will be used in any one financial year for 10% in any consecutive years 358.7m thegrant of incentives under all of the Companys employee Remaining headroom 212.8m share schemes.
The table opposite sets out the available Executive schemes: dilution capacity for the Companys employee share schemes 5% in any consecutive ten years 179.4m onthis basis.
Remaining headroom 90.6m The Company currently intends to use new issue shares to satisfy future share awards under the executive long-term incentive plans up to the 0.5% annual dilution limit, and to use treasury shares to satisfy awards of free shares and matching shares under the all-employee Share Incentive Plan.
For outstanding options it is intended that new issue shares will beutilised for the Executive Share Option Plan.
Post-retirement benefits uk pension benefits UK executive directors are members of the BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme the ExPS and members of the underlying employee pension plans.
As such, they are subject to the same contribution rates payable by employees of the underlying plans, and the benefit changes introduced in 2006 for post-April 2006 service including the introduction of the Longevity Adjustment Factor, a reduction in the maximum level of pension increases and a change in the definition of Pensionable Pay.
The ExPS tops up the underlying employee plan to provide a target benefit for executive directors payable from normal retirement age of 1 30th of Final Pensionable Pay FPP for each year of ExPS pensionable service subject to a maximum of two-thirds of FPP.
FPP is defined as annual base salary averaged over the last 12 months prior to leaving service in respect of service accrued to 5 April 2006 and 36 months prior to leaving in respect of service from 6 April 2006.
The ExPS also provides a lump sum death-inservice benefit equal to four times base salary at date of death, and a spouses death-in-service pension equal to two-thirds of the prospective pension at normal retirement age.
Childrens allowances are also payable, usually up to the age of 18.
Spouses pensions and childrens allowances are also payable upon death in retirement and death after leaving the Companys employment with a deferred pension.
Once in payment, pensions are increased annually by the rise in the Retail Price Index subject to a maximum increase of 5% per year in respect of pre-6 April 2006 service and 2.5% per year in respect of service from 6 April 2006.
As a result of the 2006 age discrimination legislation, executive directors default retirement age is 65 but they retain any previous rights they had to retire and draw their pensions without actuarial reduction for early payment at an earlier age.
Following the changes made to take account of the Pensions Simplification tax changes which came into effect from April 2006, UK executives reaching the Lifetime Allowance LTA were given a number of choices as previously reported.
These were: remain in the pension scheme and pay any additional tax charge: or opt out of the pension scheme and so earn no further pension benefits in respect of future service and instead receive a taxable salary supplement.
This supplement will be 30% of salary and 20% of salary for those senior executives with a two-thirds salary target after at least 20 years and 30 years service, respectively: or 110 www.
com restrict scheme benefits to the value of the LTA with the remainder being provided directly from the Company as an unfunded promise.
At retirement, the unfunded Company benefits can be either taken as pension or commuted in full for a taxable lump sum.
The Committee reviews these arrangements each year in the light of developing market practice, and believes they remain appropriate as they provide executives with competitive pension benefits and choices for dealing with the LTA which may better suit their needs whilst being broadly cost neutral to the Company, are in line with market practice and do not compensate executives for changes in taxation.
During the year, an additional review of UK executive pension arrangements has been undertaken in the light of the changes announced to the taxation of members of UK registered pension arrangements from 6 April 2011.
The underlying principles for this review were that the aggregate level of benefits provided to members should continue to be cost neutral to the Company.
The review concluded that the new arrangements should be based on the Companys registered pension schemes and that, in appropriate circumstances, the Company will continue to have the option to offer an unfunded pension promise so as to mitigate the impact of the Lifetime Allowance introduced in 2006 and the impact of the reduced Annual Allowance with effect from 6 April 2011.
This new arrangement addresses tax-inefficiencies arising for existing employees as a consequence of the pension tax changes although members will be given the choice to remain in the current arrangement and pay the increased tax.
The Committee has decided that in cases where the Company is to pay an unfunded promise, executives will be given the choice to commute some or all of the benefit for a taxable lump sum, or take it as pension.
Ian King, George Rose who retires from the Company on 31 March 2011 and Peter Lynas already have an unfunded promise from the Company arising from the 2006 changes: for Ian King and Peter Lynas, this will be extended to cover the reduced Annual Allowance at no additional cost to the Company.
Ian King and Peter Lynas Group Finance Director designate are both members of the BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan the 2000 Plan, applicable to former employees of Marconi Electronic Systems MES, and members of the ExPS with a normal retirement age of 62.
The 2000 Plan provides a pension of 1 50th of Final Pensionable Earnings FPE for each year of pensionable service, payable from a normal retirement age of 65 and members pay contributions of 8% of Pensionable Earnings.
FPE under the 2000 Plan is the best consecutive three-year average of base salary and bonus in the ten Plan Years prior to leaving, less an offset for State pensions.
The Company decided in 2006 to limit pensionable bonuses in the 2000 Plan in the 2006 07 Plan Year to 20% of base salary and to 10% of base salary for the 2007 08 Plan Year and thereafter.
However, there is a guarantee that the FPE figure for benefits in respect of service prior to 6 April 2007 will not be less than the FPE figure at 5 April 2007 to ensure that employees do not lose the benefit of contributions paid on past bonuses.
Ian King and Peter Lynas joined the ExPS in 1999 following the BAe MES merger.
Therefore their individual total pensions are the sum of their 2000 Plan benefits plus the top up from the ExPS.
George Rose is a member of the BAE Systems Pension Scheme paying contributions of 9.29% of base salary, and is a member of the ExPS with a normal retirement age of 60.
George Rose was affected by the previously applicable Inland Revenue earnings cap on approved pensions and has an unapproved i. e. non-tax qualified pension arrangement to top up his benefits from the approved schemes.
This was designed so that the total pension from all sources would be broadly in line with the pension he would have received from the Group pension schemes had he not been subject to the earnings cap.
The Pension Simplification tax changes allowed the flexibility to remove the earnings cap for George Rose in respect of service from April 2006, although some of his benefits will remain to be provided by means of an unfunded promise from the Company.
No further contributions will be paid into his funded unapproved top up arrangement.
On leaving the Company, George Rose has been granted consent from the Company to early retirement and his pension benefits will therefore become payable from 1 April 2011, one year early.
His pension is subject to the normal actuarial reduction for early payment that would be applied to any other member of the Executive Pension Scheme in these circumstances.
us pension benefits Linda Hudson is a member of the 2006 Plan and a Non-Qualified Plan which provide a cash sum at retirement equal to a percentage of career average pay salary plus bonus subject to a maximum bonus of 150% of salary.
The cash accrual rate of the combined plans from 1 January 2010 is 14.1% of career average pay.
Executive directors pay contributions at the same rates as other employees in the plan, being 1.5% of earnings.
Linda Hudson also receives a company match on her contributions to her 401 k plan up to a maximum contribution of 6% of salary, up to regulatory limits $245,000 in 2010.
From 1 January 2010, the company match was 85%.
Details of post-retirement benefits for each of the executive directors who served during 2010 are shown in Table D on page 119 and are calculated in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Other benefits Other benefits provided to executive directors include a car allowance, the private use of a chauffeur-driven car and a cash allowance for medical examination.
On his appointment as Group Finance Director on 1 April 2011, Peter Lynas will be provided with Company support to establish a second home in London as the Committee believed this to be a more cost-effective option for the Company than requiring full relocation of his principal residence from outside London.
This support is in accordance with Company policy, and consists of a lump sum of 22,200, together with a monthly allowance totalling 33,300 in year one declining on a uniform basis to 6,660 in year five such monthly allowances over the five-year period totalling 99,900, and zero thereafter.
Clawback provisions operate during the first two years of this arrangement whereby he would be required to repay these monies on a pro-rata basis should he leave the Company in certain circumstances, e. g. resignation or termination.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 111 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Remuneration report continued Executive directors service contracts It is the Committees policy that executive directors should normally have service contracts that provide for the Company to give the individual 12 months notice of termination.
This policy has been chosen because it provides a reasonable balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals and the need to limit the liabilities of the Company in the event of the termination of a contract.
The executive directors have service contracts with Group companies and details of these are shown below.
Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period Linda Hudson 26 October 2009 amended 8 January 2010 31 December 2011 90 days either party Ian King 27 June 2008 No fixed term 12 months either party George Rose 16 November 1998 amended 3 December 1999, No fixed term ends 12 months from the Company, 15 January 2004 and 17 October 2005 31March 2011 6 months from the individual Peter Lynas 16 February 2011 effective 1 April 2011 No fixed term 12 months either party Subject to automatic renewal for one-year periods each year unless either party gives notice of non-renewal.
In the event of the termination of an executive directors contract it is the Committees policy to seek to limit any payment made in lieu of notice to a payment equal to the amount of one years base salary.
The service contracts for two of the executive directors Ian King and George Rose, and that for Peter Lynas which comes into effect on 1 April 2011, contain specific provisions to the effect that the Company has the right to pay a sum equivalent to 12-months salary in lieu of notice.
Linda Hudsons contract of employment automatically renews for one-year periods from 31 December each year, unless one party gives notice of non-renewal.
Separately, there is a 90-day termination provision.
If the employment is a terminated by the Company other than for cause as defined in the contract or in the event it is not extended following her 65th birthday or b she resigns for a Good Reason as defined in her contract, she is entitled to a termination payment equal to i one years base salary, ii a pro-rated bonus for the relevant financial year, and iii the continuation of 18-months medical benefits, plus a further 18-months subsidy of a portion of the premiums or a cash payment in lieu of this benefit.
George Rose will retire from the Company, and as a director, with effect from 31 March 2011.
No termination payments will be made.
All outstanding long-term incentive awards and share options will vest in accordance with the rules of the respective share plans, i. e. subject to the attainment of the related performance conditions and pro-rating in accordance with the length of his service against the relevant performance period.
He will not be required to defer one-third of his 2010 annual incentive, payable in 2011, into the SMP.
He will receive a normal early retirement pension as described on page 111.
No executive director has provisions in his or her service contract that relate to a change of control of the Company and neither does the Chairman nor the non-executive directors in their letters of appointment.
Policy on external board appointments The long-standing policy of allowing executive directors to hold external non-BAE Systems-related non-executive directorships with the prior approval of the Committee will continue.
The Committee considers that external directorships provide the Companys senior executives with valuable experience that is of benefit to BAE Systems.
It is also considered appropriate for BAE Systems to contribute to the pool of non-executive expertise available for the benefit of the wider business community, thereby reciprocating the benefit that it in turn has received from other organisations which have permitted members of their senior management teams to serve on the BAE Systems Board.
The Committee believes that it is reasonable for the individual executive director to retain any fees received from such appointments given the additional personal responsibility that this entails.
Such fees retained by executive directors in 2010 were as follows: Ian King 43,333 in respect of his non-executive directorship of Rotork plc and George Rose 78,500 in respect of his non-executive directorship of National Grid plc.
Chairmans appointment, term and fees Dick Olver was appointed Chairman on 1 July 2004.
His appointment was for an initial fixed three-year term with effect from 17 May 2004 the date that he was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director and was subsequently extended in 2007 for a second term of three years to 16 May 2010.
Following the approval of the Board under the chairmanship of Sir Peter Mason, Senior Independent Director, it was extended again in 2009 for a third term to 16 May 2013 unless terminated earlier in accordance with the Articles of Association or with either party giving the other not less than six months prior written notice.
The Chairmans appointment is documented in a letter of appointment which is not a contract of employment and he is required to devote no fewer than two days a week to his duties as Chairman.
His appointment as Chairman will automatically terminate if he ceases to be a director of the Company.
His fee, which was set by the Committee at 600,000 per annum for the duration of his second three-year term, was reviewed in 2010 and the Committee decided that his fee should remain unchanged at that time.
His current fee will be subject to review in 2011.
com Non-executive directors appointment, term and fees The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but do have letters of appointment detailing the basis of their appointment.
The dates of their original appointment were as follows: Non-executive director Date of appointment Expiry of current term Paul Anderson 08.10.2009 07.10.2012 Harriet Green 01.11.2010 31.10.2013 Michael Hartnall 10.06.2003 09.06.2012 Sir Peter Mason 22.01.2003 21.01.2012 Roberto Quarta 07.09.2005 06.09.2011 Nick Rose 08.02.2010 07.02.2013 Carl Symon 11.06.2008 10.06.2011 Ravi Uppal 02.04.2008 01.04.2011 Subject to re-election at the AGM following their appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more than three years in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The non-executive directors are normally appointed for two consecutive three-year terms subject to review after the end of the first three-year period and with any third term of three years being subject to rigorous review and taking into account the need progressively to refresh the Board.
They do not have periods of notice and the Company has no obligation to pay compensation when their appointment terminates.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, they are subject to re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more than three years.
Having completed a three-year term of appointment, Andy Inglis retired from the Board on 9 July 2010 having originally been appointed to the Board on 13 June 2007.
Phil Carroll, who had originally been appointed to the Board on 7 September 2005, also retired from the Board on 5May 2010 on the expiry of his term.
Ravi Uppal will retire from the Board at the end of his current term on 1 April 2011.
In compliance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code, all members of the Board will submit themselves for re-election on an annual basis from the 2011 AGM onwards.
Non-executive directors are proposed by the Nominations Committee and are appointed by the Board on the basis of their experience to provide independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
Following publication of the new UK Corporate Governance Code in 2010, the time commitment expectations for non-executive directors were reviewed and, with their agreement, their Letters of Appointment were amended to reflect that they need to commit approximately two days for each of the Board meetings scheduled during the year, to cover attendance and preparation for the meeting.
Additional time commitments will include attending scheduled Board committee meetings, strategy review meetings and ad hoc meetings of the Board or sub-committees of the Board that may be called from time to time.
The non-executive directors are aware that it is not possible to be specific as to exact time commitments as this will vary according to the nature of the matters that the Board is required to deal with at any point in time.
Newly appointed non-executive directors will also have to dedicate additional time to induction activities.
The level of their fees is set by the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee to reflect this time commitment and responsibility, and after reviewing practice in other comparable companies.
Having undertaken its review in January 2011, the Committee decided that the non-executive directors fees for 2011 will be as follows: 2010 fee 2011 fee Base fee 66,000 75,000 Additional fee for chairing committees: Audit Committee 20,000 20,000 Corporate Responsibility Committee 20,000 20,000 Remuneration Committee 20,000 20,000 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 20,000 20,000 Travel allowance per meeting 4,000 4,000 The travel allowance of 4,000 per meeting is paid on each occasion that a non-executive directors attendance at a Board meeting necessitates air travel of more than five hours one-way to the meeting location, subject to a maximum of six travel allowances per year.
The table below summarises the fee structure for 2010 and 2011: Non-executive director 2010 fee 2011 fee Chairman Audit Committee 86,000 95,000 Chairman Corporate Responsibility Committee 86,000 95,000 Chairman Remuneration Committee 86,000 95,000 Senior Independent Director 86,000 95,000 Other non-executive directors 66,000 75,000 Excludes the travel allowance of 4,000 per meeting referred to above.
On behalf of the Board Dick Olver Chairman 16 February 2011 BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 113 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Remuneration report continued Tabular information on directors shareholdings, share-based incentives, emoluments and pensions table a: diReCtoRs inteRests As at 1 January 2010 As at 31 December 2010 Executive Share Executive Share Ordinary Share Matching Performance Ordinary Share Matching Performance shares Option Plan Plan Share Plan shares Option Plan Plan Share Plan P M Anderson 10,000 1 H Green M J Hartnall 20,000 20,000 L P Hudson 224,957 133,740 99,908 390,549 253,390 133,740 196,291 685,355 I G King 678,327 1,132,008 527,437 1,325,953 873,422 1,132,008 912,728 1,712,771 Sir Peter Mason 25,283 25,283 R L Olver 40,000 40,000 R Quarta G W Rose 806,114 369,554 227,699 951,739 859,694 369,554 357,099 1,132,368 2 N C Rose 55,000 C G Symon 10,000 10,000 R K Uppal or upon appointment.
1 Appointed as a director on 1 November 2010.
2 Appointed as a director on 8 February 2010.
The table above gives details of the interests in ordinary shares in BAE Systems plc held by directors and their connected persons for those individuals who were directors of the Company as at 31 December 2010.
There have been no changes in the interests of the current directors listed in the table above between 31 December 2010 and 16 February 2011 with the exception of the interests in the ordinary shares of Ian King and George Rose who have acquired an additional 107 and 106 ordinary shares, respectively, since 31December 2010 under the partnership and matching shares elements of the Share Incentive Plan so that their beneficial shareholdings at the date of this report stood at 873,529 and 859,800, respectively.
The Companys register of directors interests which is open to inspection contains full details of directors share interests.
Information subject to audit The Auditors are required to report on the information contained in Tables B, C and D on pages 115 to 119.
The market price on vesting was 3.87.
Note: Performance conditions for the options and awards set out above are detailed in the notes to Table B on pages 115 and 116.
1 Subject to a performance condition that has been met.
2 Date exercisable refers to the date on which the portion of the option exercised during the year became exercisable.
The option over shares remaining at the year end is exercisable on the fifth anniversary of grant.
4 The award lapsed during the financial year under review having not met the performance condition.
5 The outstanding award lapsed after the end of the financial year having not met the performance condition.
6 Subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested.
PeRfoRmanCe shaRe Plan PsP A full description of the PSP is set out on pages 108 and 109.
PSP awards granted since 2008 attract dividends prior to vesting.
TSR PSP nil vesting if the Companys TSR at the end of the three-year performance period is outside the top 50% of TSRs achieved by a sectoral comparator group: 25% vesting if TSR is at median 50% : and 100% vesting if TSR is in the top 20%, with vesting on a straight-line basis between these two points.
EPS PSP proportion of the award exercisable is determined by the rate of annual actual EPS growth over the three-year performance period, with nil vesting at annual actual EPS growth of 5% or less, 100% vesting at 11% growth, and vesting on a straight-line basis between these two points.
Awards that satisfy the performance conditions at the end of year three are exercisable in three tranches at the end of years three, four and five.
exeCutive shaRe oPtion Plan exsoP No options have been granted under this Plan since 2007 and it is intended only to be used in future in exceptional circumstances.
Options granted under this Plan are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of grant.
The maximum duration of an option is ten years.
i 2005-2007 grants 33.33% of each option grant is exercisable if the Company achieves on average real EPS growth pa of 3% but less than 4% over the three-year performance period: 66.67% for real EPS growth pa of 4% but less than 5%: and 100% for real EPS growth of 5% or more.
ii 2004 grant as in i but performance is retested at the end of year five against the full period from grant.
iii 2003 grant as in i but performance is retested at the end of years four and five against the full period from grant.
shaRe matChing Plan smP matChing shaRes A full description of the SMP, under which awards are subject to a three-year performance period, is set out on page 109.
SMP awards attract dividends prior to vesting.
2009 and 2010 awards nil match for actual EPS growth of less than 5% pa increasing uniformly to a 2:1 match at 11% pa growth.
2008 award nil match for actual EPS growth of 5% pa or less, increasing uniformly to a 1:1 match for 8% pa growth.
2007 award nil vesting for real EPS growth pa of less than 3% over the three-year performance period, with one-third of the matched award vesting on average real EPS growth pa of 3% but less than 4%, two-thirds vesting with a growth rate of 4% but less than 5%, and full vesting at growth of 5% or over.
shaRe PRiCe infoRmation The mid-market price for the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2010 was 330.0p 2009 359.5p.
The range during the year was 294.7p to 388.8p.
aggRegate amount of gains made by diReCtoRs The aggregate amount of gains made by directors from the exercise of share options in 2010, as calculated at the date of exercise, was 655,392 2009 1,268,104.
The net aggregate value of assets received by directors in 2010 from Long-Term Incentive Plans, as calculated at the date of vesting, was 198,770 2009 247,044.
Rationale foR key PeRfoRmanCe measuRes foR PsP, exsoP and smP EPS importance to major investors as a key indicator of long-term financial performance and value creation.
TSR and secondary financial measure importance to major investors as an indication of both earnings and capital growth relative to major companies in the same sector, and to ensure that awards only vest if there has been a clear improvement in the Companys performance over the relevant period.
1 The award lapsed during the financial year under review having not met the performance condition.
2 The outstanding award lapsed after the end of the financial year having not met the performance condition.
3 Subject to a performance condition that has been met.
4 Subject to a performance condition that is yet to be tested.
Note: Awards granted to Linda Hudson a US national under the PSP are technically characterised as long-term incentives rather than options as, subject to the attainment of the performance condition, they are delivered automatically on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of grant without the need to exercise an option.
They are shown in the top portion of the table for ease of comparison.
All emoluments and compensation paid to the directors during the year are shown above.
Where the individual was appointed during the year the amount is shown from appointment.
The benefits received by the UK-based executive directors include, where appropriate, the provision of a car allowance and the private use of a chauffeur-driven car.
The benefits received by the Chairman, Dick Olver, include the private use of a chauffeur-driven car.
The benefits received by the US-based executive director include a cash allowance for a car, medical examination, dental benefits, and insured life and disability benefits.
In addition, the benefits received by Linda Hudson also include $1,955 1,265 in respect of private use of a company aeroplane 2009 $8,455.
The other pay received by the non-executive directors represents the travel allowance of 4,000 per meeting as set out on page 113.
Sir Richard Evans retired as a director and Chairman on 30 June 2004.
He remained employed in a part-time customer relationship role and ceased to be an employee on 29 February 2008.
He subsequently became a member of the Companys Home Market Advisory Board for Saudi Arabia of which he ceased to be a member on 28 February 2010 upon the expiry of his contract.
His consultancy fees in 2010 for the period of time he spent in the role of a member of the Home Market Advisory Board were 47,000 2009 246,954.
A payment of 7,884 was made to Mike Turner in January 2010, due in relation to the tax payable in respect of his private use of a chauffeur-driven car in the 2008 09 tax year, the amount of which was agreed with HM Revenue and Customs.
There were no other payments to former directors during the year other than the Company pension payments to Sir Richard Lapthorne and Sir Peter Gershon referred to on page 119.
com table d: Post-RetiRement benefits Change in Accrued Accrued accrued Transfer Transfer Increase in benefit at benefit at pension after value at value at value less 1 January 31 December allowing for 1 January 31 December Directors directors 1 1 2 2010 2010 inflation 2010 2010 contributions contributions Age NRA pa pa pa 3 L P Hudson 60 65 347,088 514,438 167,350 242,180 389,262 2,379 144,703 4 I G King 54 62 509,944 585,228 75,284 6,780,197 8,174,403 79,200 1,315,006 5 G W Rose 58 60 366,564 388,568 22,004 6,840,222 7,374,857 57,663 476,972 Normal Retirement Age 1 Accrued benefits may be reduced if they are taken before the normal retirement age of the scheme.
In addition, a longevity adjustment factor applies to UK pension accrued after 5 April 2006.
2 Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
For UK-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used in the calculation of cash equivalents from the schemes.
For US-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used for accounting disclosures.
The increase in transfer value arising from the change in assumptions is: Linda Hudson: 5,113: Ian King: 166,128: George Rose: 104,428.
3 Linda Hudson is a member of a US retirement plan which provides a cash sum at retirement equal to a percentage of career average pay.
The accrued benefit shown above is a cash lump sum amount payable at normal retirement age.
This benefit comprises 61,457 from a contributory Qualified Plan and 452,981 from Non-Qualified Plans.
In addition, Linda Hudson participates in a Section 401 k defined contribution arrangement set up for US employees in which the Company will match employee contributions up to a limit.
In 2010, the Company paid contributions of 8,087 into this 401 k arrangement.
Linda Hudson is paid in US dollars.
Of the change in the accrued benefit and the transfer value 15,932 and 12,055, respectively, is due to currency movements.
4 Ian King has an unfunded unapproved retirement arrangement for benefits in excess of the Lifetime Allowance.
The pension and transfer value figures shown are in respect of his total benefit.
5 George Rose has a funded unapproved retirement arrangement for pensionable service before 6 April 2006.
No Company contributions have been made to this arrangement during the year.
In addition, George Rose has an unfunded unapproved retirement arrangement for pensionable service before 6 April 2006 and for benefits in excess of the Lifetime Allowance.
Sir Peter Gershon and Sir Richard Lapthorne, both former directors, have unfunded pension arrangements.
In 2010, the Company paid Sir Peter Gershon a pension of 109,280 2009 109,230 and Sir Richard Lapthorne a pension of 102,382 2009 100,058 in respect of these arrangements.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 119 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
