Unite 41 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 For awards made to Executive Directors under the 2005 LTIP in 2010 as was the case for awards made in previous years, performance conditions were based on growth in NAV and the relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance of the Company, each applying to 50% of an award.
These performance measures were considered appropriate to capture both the performance of the Companys asset base NAV and the Companys relative performance against companies operating in the real estate sector.
For that element of an award based on growth in NAV, a target NAV for the end of the three-year measurement period is set by the Remuneration Committee and lodged with the Companys auditors.
However, for reasons of commercial sensitivity, the target is not publicly disclosed.
At the end of the measurement period, if the actual NAV is less than 80% of the target value, none of the shares the subject of that element of the award will vest.
If the actual NAV is 116% or more of the target value, then all the shares the subject of that element of the award will vest.
If the actual NAV is equal to or greater than 80% of the target value, but less than 116%, the number of shares that will vest is calculated on a straight line basis.
Under awards made prior to 2009, 45% of the total number of shares the subject of that element of the award will vest if the actual NAV is 80% of the target value, with 100% of such shares vesting if the actual value is 116% or more of the target value.
However, for awards made in 2009 and subsequently, only 30% of an award will vest if 80% of the target value is achieved.
In relation to that element of an award referable to TSR, the performance of the Company is measured over a three year measurement period, against the performance of a comparator group of companies.
For the awards made in 2010, the comparator group was those companies comprising the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index at the beginning of the measurement period and which are still quoted at the end of that period.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the constituents of that comparator group provide an appropriate comparison for the Companys performance.
For the achievement of median-ranked performance, 33% of that part of the award vests.
If the Company is ranked in the top 25% of the comparator group, then all the shares the subject of that element of the award will vest, whilst no such shares will vest if UNITE is ranked below the median.
If the Company is ranked between median and the upper quartile, the number of shares that will vest will be between 33% and 100% of the total number of shares the subject of that element of the award, calculated on a straight line basis.
The same vesting scale applies to the TSR elements of awards made prior to 2010.
Irrespective of the NAV and TSR performance, no shares will vest under either element of an award unless the  is satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Company over the performance period is satisfactory.
New option and LTIP proposals Following a review of the Companys long-term incentive arrangements by Kepler Associates, the Committee proposes the introduction of a new HMRC approved Company Share Option Scheme and a new long-term incentive plan.
Full details of the new option and long-term incentive arrangements will be circulated to shareholders prior to, and will be considered at, aGeneral Meeting of the Company to be held on the same day as, and immediately following, the Annual General Meeting.
executive Director service contracts In accordance with general market practice, each of the Executive Directors has a rolling service contract requiring 12months notice of termination on either side.
Such contracts contain no specific provision for compensation for loss ofoffice, other than an obligation to pay for any notice period waived by the Company.
The dates of the current Executive Directors service contracts are as follows: M C Allan 31 October 1999 J M Tonkiss 22 June 2001 J J Lister 28 March 2002 Chairman and non-executive Director remuneration Each of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors has a specific letter of engagement, the dates of which are set out below: P M White 10 January 2009 N P Hall 6 March 2003 S R H Beevor 20 February 2004 R S Walker 3 November 2005 R J T Wilson 1 December 2010 Subject to annual re-election by shareholders, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of approximately three years.
Subsequent terms of three years may be awarded.
Current appointments will expire at the Annual General Meeting in 2012 in the case of Messrs N P Hall and P M White: at the Annual General Meeting in 2013 in the case of Mr S R H Beevor: and at the annual general meeting in 2014 in the case of Mr R S Walker and Sir Tim Wilson.
The appointment and re-appointment and the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors are matters reserved for the full Board.
Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review
