Unite 39 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2010 introduction The Board reports to shareholders on Directors remuneration as set out below.
In preparing this report, the Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee has complied with the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008.
The Report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance in relation to directors remuneration.
A resolution to approve the Report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Certain sections of this report are subject to audit and these have been clearly marked.
The unaudited section of the report deals with the remuneration policy that is to be followed in 2011 and describes arrangements which applied during 2010.
Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee consisted of Mr S R H Beevor who chaired the Committee, Mr P M White, Mr N P Hall, Mr R S Walker and as from 1 December 2010, Sir Tim Wilson, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors other than Mr White who is Chairman of the Board.
Mr M C Allan is invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
The Committee is required annually to approve the remuneration policy and rewards for the Executive Directors and tomonitor the structure and level of remuneration for other senior management.
Mr Allan takes no part in the discussions concerning his own remuneration, nor does he attend those parts of the meetings of the Committee which discuss thatissue.
The Committee is able to obtain independent professional advice from external consultants in order to carry out its duties.
During the year, such advice was received from Hewitt New Bridge Street and Kepler Associates, neither of whom provided any other services to the Company during the course of the year.
During 2010 some of the key issues addressed by the Committee were as follows: reviewing the Company's policy on Executive Directors' remuneration to ensure it remained appropriate: finalising bonus payments in respect of the 2009 performance period: reviewing the base salaries of the Executive Directors for 2010: setting performance targets in line with the Company's strategy for the annual bonus plan for 2010 and determining the amounts potentially payable: and reviewing the current long-term incentive arrangements.
The members of the Committee attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and are available to answer shareholders questions about the Directors remuneration.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website.
Policy on remuneration of executive Directors and senior executives The policy in respect of Directors remuneration is to ensure that the Companys remuneration packages are competitive and designed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and senior executives of an appropriate calibre.
"Performance-related reward policies are operated which are designed to provide a significant element of ""at risk pay, which is only available when strong results are achieved."
The annual bonus scheme is seen as an essential part of total reward and incentivisation for Executive Directors.
Annual bonus targets include elements for performance against financial and non-financial criteria and personal objectives.
The targets focus on the key issues facing the business over the coming year, but are also designed to be for the long-term benefit of the Company.
The targets are set taking account of relevant risks.
The Committee views long-term incentives as key elements in aligning the interests of Executive Directors and other senior executives with shareholders and the Company's corporate goals.
The Committees policy is to pay base salaries at or around the median level for companies of a similar size taking account of individual experience and performance, and to provide the opportunity for Executives to achieve total remuneration at the upper quartile level through performance-linked incentives when justified by very strong performance against clearly defined measures.
In determining the remuneration of Executive Directors and other senior executives, the Committee also takes account of the level of remuneration and pay awards made generally to employees of the Group.
During 2010, a benchmarking review of the current market positioning of the Groups executive remuneration was undertaken on behalf of the Committee using a comparator group of other FTSE 350 Real Estate companies and a comparator group of companies of similar size to the Company.
However, in using comparative pay survey data, the Committee treats the data with caution, recognising the risk of an upward pay ratchet.
The main components of the Executive Directors remuneration packages are: Basic salary The basic salary of each Executive Director is reviewed each year.
Basic salaries are determined taking account of advice received from the Committees independent advisors on the rates of salary for similar roles in selected groups of comparable companies and the individual performance and experience of each Executive.
Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review Unite 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2010 continued The Committee approved the following base salaries with effect from 1 March 2011.
Base salary from Base salary from 1 March 2010 to 1 March 2011 to Percentage 28 February 2011 29 February 2012 increase M C Allan 385,000 393,000 2.1% J M Tonkiss 240,000 245,000 2.1% J J Lister 220,000 230,000 4.5% The Committee is mindful that the salaries of Messrs Tonkiss and Lister are below median, but considered the broader context within which the business is operating and considered that salary increases below 5% were appropriate.
The Committee will continue to review the competitiveness of salaries with a view to moving towards median dependent on the Committees view of individual and Group performance.
Benefits in kind include a company car or car allowance and private health insurance.
Only basic salary is pensionable.
Pension In 2010, the Company contributed an amount equivalent to 2.1% of Mr Allans salary to a self-investing pension plan of MrAllan and paid Mr Allan a pension allowance equivalent to 8.3% of his salary.
In 2011, it is anticipated that Mr Allan will receive a cash pension allowance equivalent to 11% of his salary, with no contribution being made by the Company to his self-investing pension plan.
Messrs Lister and Tonkiss are members of The UNITE Group Personal Pension Scheme, which is a money purchase scheme.
TheCompany contributes 12.5% of salary into the scheme.
Performance related bonus The Group operates an annual performance related bonus scheme which is designed to encourage the achievement of targeted levels of performance over the short term and reward outstanding contributions.
Under the scheme, Executive Directors basic bonus entitlements for 2010 have been calculated by reference to performance targets set in relation to Net Portfolio Contribution NPC : increases in Net Asset Value NAV : the year-end free cash balance: customer satisfaction and employee satisfaction.
Subject to minimum targets being achieved in relation to those performance criteria, basic bonus entitlements have been calculated on a sliding scale of amounts equivalent to between 50% and 120% of base salary, in accordance with which on target performance would have resulted in a basic bonus entitlement of an amount equivalent to 75% of base salary.
To determine the actual bonus payment to an Executive Director, a multiplier, ranging between 0.5 and 1.2 is applied against the basic bonus entitlement of the relevant Executive Director.
That multiplier is determined following the Performance Development Programme review of each Executive Director which is carried out at the start and end of the year, and reflects the strength of that Directors individual performance over the course of the bonus plan year.
As a result of the above, 2010 bonus payments for Executive Directors could have ranged in amounts up to 144% of base salary.
However, bonus payments at the higher end of that range would only have been made subject to the achievement of extremely stretching performance targets by the Company and exceptional individual performance bythe relevant Director.
The performance related bonuses awarded in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 reflect basic bonus entitlements calculated in accordance with the sliding scale referred to above, of 58.41% of basic salary.
That percentage was arrived at as a result of the Group having achieved bonus entitlements in relation to NPC, NAV, year-end free cash balance and employee satisfaction.
Bonus entitlements were not achieved in relation to customer satisfaction.
After application of the individual performance multiplier, the above has resulted in the actual performance related bonus payments awarded to Messrs M C Allan, J M Tonkiss and J J Lister in respect of the year ending 31 December 2010 ranging between 50.8% and 62.5% of their respective basic salaries.
Bonus payments to the Executive Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009 ranged in amounts equivalent to between 49.2% and 60.5% of base salary.
In accordance with the Companys Guidance for Executive Directors Shareholdings see below, 100% of the bonus payable to each of Messrs Allan, Tonkiss and Lister will be paid in cash as each already complies with the Companys Guidance on Executive Directors Shareholdings.
For the 2011 bonus scheme, performance targets have been set in relation to the same measures as applied in 2010 outlined above, save that the cash measure is by reference to operating cash flow, rather than the year-end free cash balance.
Long-term incentives The Group seeks to encourage and reward long-term performance by providing incentives linked to the long-term performance of the Companys shares.
Prior to the adoption in 2005 of The UNITE Group plc Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2005 LTIP, these incentives were provided in the form of share options and details of the subsisting options awarded to the Directors are set out in the auditable part of this Report.
The 2005 LTIP Under the 2005 LTIP, Executive Directors and senior managers may receive conditional awards of shares in the Company each year, with vesting being dependent on the extent to which performance conditions selected by the Remuneration Committee are satisfied over a three-year measurement period.
The maximum limit for individual awards under the 2005 LTIP is 100% of base salary per annum.
