Unite 39 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2010 introduction The Board reports to shareholders on Directors remuneration as set out below.
In preparing this report, the Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee has complied with the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008.
The Report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance in relation to directors remuneration.
A resolution to approve the Report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Certain sections of this report are subject to audit and these have been clearly marked.
The unaudited section of the report deals with the remuneration policy that is to be followed in 2011 and describes arrangements which applied during 2010.
Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee consisted of Mr S R H Beevor who chaired the Committee, Mr P M White, Mr N P Hall, Mr R S Walker and as from 1 December 2010, Sir Tim Wilson, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors other than Mr White who is Chairman of the Board.
Mr M C Allan is invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
The Committee is required annually to approve the remuneration policy and rewards for the Executive Directors and tomonitor the structure and level of remuneration for other senior management.
Mr Allan takes no part in the discussions concerning his own remuneration, nor does he attend those parts of the meetings of the Committee which discuss thatissue.
The Committee is able to obtain independent professional advice from external consultants in order to carry out its duties.
During the year, such advice was received from Hewitt New Bridge Street and Kepler Associates, neither of whom provided any other services to the Company during the course of the year.
During 2010 some of the key issues addressed by the Committee were as follows: reviewing the Company's policy on Executive Directors' remuneration to ensure it remained appropriate: finalising bonus payments in respect of the 2009 performance period: reviewing the base salaries of the Executive Directors for 2010: setting performance targets in line with the Company's strategy for the annual bonus plan for 2010 and determining the amounts potentially payable: and reviewing the current long-term incentive arrangements.
The members of the Committee attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and are available to answer shareholders questions about the Directors remuneration.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website.
Policy on remuneration of executive Directors and senior executives The policy in respect of Directors remuneration is to ensure that the Companys remuneration packages are competitive and designed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and senior executives of an appropriate calibre.
"Performance-related reward policies are operated which are designed to provide a significant element of ""at risk pay, which is only available when strong results are achieved."
The annual bonus scheme is seen as an essential part of total reward and incentivisation for Executive Directors.
Annual bonus targets include elements for performance against financial and non-financial criteria and personal objectives.
The targets focus on the key issues facing the business over the coming year, but are also designed to be for the long-term benefit of the Company.
The targets are set taking account of relevant risks.
The Committee views long-term incentives as key elements in aligning the interests of Executive Directors and other senior executives with shareholders and the Company's corporate goals.
The Committees policy is to pay base salaries at or around the median level for companies of a similar size taking account of individual experience and performance, and to provide the opportunity for Executives to achieve total remuneration at the upper quartile level through performance-linked incentives when justified by very strong performance against clearly defined measures.
In determining the remuneration of Executive Directors and other senior executives, the Committee also takes account of the level of remuneration and pay awards made generally to employees of the Group.
During 2010, a benchmarking review of the current market positioning of the Groups executive remuneration was undertaken on behalf of the Committee using a comparator group of other FTSE 350 Real Estate companies and a comparator group of companies of similar size to the Company.
However, in using comparative pay survey data, the Committee treats the data with caution, recognising the risk of an upward pay ratchet.
The main components of the Executive Directors remuneration packages are: Basic salary The basic salary of each Executive Director is reviewed each year.
Basic salaries are determined taking account of advice received from the Committees independent advisors on the rates of salary for similar roles in selected groups of comparable companies and the individual performance and experience of each Executive.
Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review
