assessment to identify and quantify the risks that The Committees principal responsibilities are to: their departments face or pose to the Group and Consider risk management best practice and the adequacy of the controls in place to mitigate or recommend its inclusion within the risk reduce those risks.
Reports are produced showing management strategy and policy adopted by the most signifi cant risks identifi ed and the controls the Board in place.
Internal Audit and the Compliance Ensure that the risk management policy functions use the risk registers to plan their approved by the Board is implemented programme of audits around the most signifi cant effectively throughout the UK operations risks to the Group to ensure that the controls Identify and monitor any UK regulatory issues described are actually in place.
and ensure that their resolution and action is The RMC and other UK and overseas Committees appropriately recorded: and receive reports setting out key performance and Assess and monitor reinsurance protection risk indicators and considers possible control The relevant UK and overseas management issues brought to their attention by early warning Committees discharge similar responsibilities for mechanisms that are embedded within the the Groups other UK and overseas operations.
The RMC, the Groups other UK and overseas Committees and the Audit The Committee has formal terms of reference that Committee also receive regular reports from their are reviewed on an annual basis.
The Committee respective Internal Audit functions, which include meets around eight times a year and each recommendations for improvement of the control Committee member receives an agenda and and operational environment.
The Board undertakes papers in a timely manner allowing the Committee periodic structured reviews of the Groups risk to make informed decisions and take appropriate map, focusing on the principal assessed exposures actions.
and the effectiveness of the mitigation strategies The Committee develops policies to ensure adopted.
It receives reports from the Chairman of compliance with regulation and determines that the Audit Committee as to its activities, together appropriate action is taken by the management with copies of the minutes of both the RMC and team to implement compliant systems and the Audit Committee.
In February 2011 the Board procedures.
carried out the annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls for the Internal Audit 2010 year by considering documentation from the The Internal Audit functions assist management by Audit Committee, taking account of events since providing them with timely, independent assurance 31December 2010, which includes the Internal that the controls established are operating Audit Annual Report prepared by the Groups effectively.
This includes regular reviews of internal Head of Internal Audit.
control systems and business processes, including compliance systems and procedures, and The Audit Committees ability to provide the identifi cation of control weaknesses and appropriate assurance to the Board depends recommendations to management on on the provision of periodic and independent improvements.
confi rmation, primarily by Internal Audit, that the controls established by management are operating Going concern effectively and where appropriate provides a The fi financial statements have been prepared high-level challenge to the steps being taken to on a going concern basis.
In considering the implement the risk management strategy.
appropriateness of this assumption, the Board has reviewed the Groups projections for the next The Board confi rms that there were no signifi cant twelve months and beyond, including cash fl ow issues arising during the year under review.
forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
The The Risk Management Committee UK Car Group has no debt.
Insurance As a result of this review the Directors have satisfi ed The Committees members include the three themselves that it is appropriate to prepare the Executive Directors, the Head of Compliance fi financial statements on a going concern basis.
who chairs the meetings, the Risk Offi cer, and senior management representatives.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 47 Remuneration report Scope of report report, and the Committee Chairman attends This remuneration report has been prepared the Annual General Meeting AGM to answer according to the requirements of the Companies questions from shareholders on the activities Act 2006 the Act, the Listing Rules of the UK of the Committee and its remuneration policies.
Listing Authority and under Regulation 11 of and The members of the Committee do not have any Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium Sized personal fi financial interests, or any confl icts from Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports cross-directorships, that relate to the business of Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
In addition, the the Committee.
The members do not have any Board has applied the principles of good corporate day-to-day involvement in the running of the Group.
governance set out in the Combined Code the Code and has sought, where applicable, to apply During the year, in order to enable the Committee the principles of the UK Corporate Governance to reach informed decisions on executive Code the Governance Code which will come remuneration, the Committee purchased consultancy into effect for fi financial years beginning on or after services, including external research on market data 29June 2010.
The purpose of this report is to set and trends, from independent consultants, Kepler out the Groups remuneration policy and particularly Associates.
In addition, the Committee received its application with respect to the Directors.
advice on the structure of the Groups share schemes from PwC.
The Company Secretary also Remuneration Committee circulates market survey results as appropriate.
The Board sets the Groups remuneration policy and, through the authority delegated to it by the Remuneration Policy Board, the Committee is responsible for making The Group is committed to the primary objective recommendations to the Board on the structure of maximising shareholder value over time whilst at and implementation of the remuneration policy the same time ensuring that there is a strong link across the Group.
The Committee is appointed between performance and reward.
This is refl ected by the Board and comprises only Non-Executive in the Groups stated remuneration policy of paying Directors.
The Committee is chaired by John competitive, performance linked and shareholder Sussens, the Senior Independent Non-Executive aligned remuneration packages comprising basic Director, with the other members being Martin salaries coupled with participation in performanceJackson, Margaret Johnson and Colin Holmes, who based share schemes to generate competitive total was appointed to the Committee on 3 December reward packages for superior performance.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are invited Board is satisfi ed that the adoption of this policy to meetings where the Committee considers it continues to meet the objectives of attracting and appropriate to obtain their advice on Group retaining executives of the highest quality across strategy and performance and Senior Executive pay the Group.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, The Committee reviews the framework and the Committee met on eight separate occasions.
remuneration packages of the Executive Directors Its remit includes recommending the remuneration and the most senior managers.
The main principles of the Chairman, the Executive Directors, and the underlying the remuneration policy are: Company Secretary: review of the remuneration of senior management: and review of the composition Competitive The Group aims to combine of and awards made under the performance-related salaries with attractive performance-related incentive schemes.
incentives, which provide individuals with the potential for competitive total reward packages The Committees terms of reference, which are for superior performance.
Accordingly, base reviewed at least annually and approved by the salaries refl ect the role, job size and responsibility Board, are available on the Groups corporate together with individual performance and website and are summarised in the Corporate effectiveness.
Prevailing market and economic Governance Report.
The Committee reviewed them conditions and governance trends are also on 14 December 2010. considered, as are general salary levels The Committee presents a summary of its principal throughout the organisation activities to shareholders through this remuneration Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 48 Performance linked A signifi cant part of the The EPS targets are such that for full vesting of Executive Directors excluding Henry Engelhardt shares to occur, the average EPS growth over the and David Stevens and Senior Managers three-year performance period would have to be reward, remains shareholder aligned given that approximately 12% per annum assuming LIBOR it is determined by the Groups earnings growth averages 2% over the period.
Only 10% of shares versus LIBOR.
Failure to achieve threshold levels vest for matching LIBOR over the three-year period.
of growth in the Groups earnings results in There is then a linear relationship up to full vesting reduced or no payout under the Groups longof the award whereby 2.5% of the award vests for term incentive plan.
Executive Directors have each point over LIBOR.
agreed to retain a minimum shareholding equal Following shareholder approval at the Groups to at least 100% of base salary, which can be 2010 AGM, the plan allows for a maximum award built up over a period of fi five years from the date of 1,000,000 or 600% of basic salary if lower.
of appointment Transparent All aspects of the remuneration For the Chief Financial Offi cer, all share awards structure are clear to employees and openly are subject to the above performance criteria.
communicated For staff below Group Board level, awards will be The Group operates the following benefi ts: split: 50% of the award will be subject to the above Death in Service scheme, paying three times performance criteria.
The other 50% will have no salary available to all employees following performance criteria attaching other than the completion of their probationary period requirement that the recipient is an employee of Group Personal Pension Plan, matching the Group at the date of vesting.
The change was employee contributions up to a maximum 6% of made in order to assist the Group in attracting high base salary with maximum employer contribution calibre staff by providing more certainty over the of 4,800.
This is available to all employees outcome of vesting awards.
following completion of their probationary period In addition, the Group pays a bonus to all holders Henry Engelhardt and David Stevens have of DFSS shares.
The bonus equates to the dividend declined to be included in the Plan.
payable on an equivalent number of the ordinary Private Medical Cover and Permanent Health shares of the Group.
The Committee feels that Insurance, available to approximately 120 having a Group-wide bonus equivalent to the management level staff dividend fl ow received by investors further aligns Approved Free Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP the incentive structure with shareholders.
is available to all UK staff Henry Engelhardt and David Stevens have declined to be included in The Group has controls in place to ensure that the Plan.
The maximum annual award under shares awarded under both schemes operated by the SIP is 3,000 per employee.
Shares awarded the Group within any rolling ten-year period do not under the SIP are forfeited if the employee leaves exceed 10% of the number of ordinary shares in the within three years of the award.
Awards are made capital of the Group in issue at the time of each twice a year, based on the results of each award.
Overseas staff receive an award under Executive Directors are allowed, although the Discretionary Free Share Scheme equivalent none currently do, to accept appointments as to the SIP award made to UK employees Non-Executive Directors of companies with prior Discretionary Free Share Scheme DFSS.
Awards approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only be under the DFSS are distributed on a wider basis given where the appointment does not present a than is the case for most plans of this type.
The confl ict of interest with the Groups activities and Committee believes that as the DFSS develops, the wider exposure gained will be benefi cial to and awards continue to vest, it will have the effect the development of the individual.
Where fees of reducing staff attrition and further are payable in respect of such appointments these strengthening the alignment of the interests of would be passed to the Company.
staff and shareholders Executive Directors remuneration Of the Groups current Executive Directors, only Two of the three Executive Directors Henry Kevin Chidwick Chief Financial Offi cer participates Engelhardt and David Stevens are founding in this scheme, as Henry Engelhardt and David Directors.
They and the Committee continue to Stevens have declined to be included.
hold the view that the signifi cant shareholdings The performance criterion to determine how held by them, as set out below, provide a suffi cient many shares vest under the DFSS is the growth alignment of their interest in the performance of the in earnings per share EPS in excess of a risk free Group with the interests of other shareholders.
return, defi ned as average three-month LIBOR, over a three-year period.
The Committee feels that this is a good indicator of long-term shareholder return with which to align staff incentivisation.
The Committee recommends for approval by the Board awards to the Chief Financial Offi cer and other employees under the DFSS.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 49 Remuneration report continued In light of this, their remuneration packages consist increased responsibilities taken on during the year only of a modest base salary compared to market and his wider contribution to the Group justifi ed rates as assessed by the Committee and benefi ts such an increase.
such as private medical cover, permanent health Kevin Chidwick received an award of 45,010 DFSS insurance and death in service cover.
The Group shares on 30 April 2010 with a value at the date of does not contribute to any pension arrangements the award of 598,182 and an additional award of on behalf of these Executive Directors, and they 3,000 DFSS shares on 15 December 2010 with a have not participated, nor is it intended that they value at the date of award of 46,530.
The awards participate, in any Group share schemes.
Their represent the maximum number of shares that remuneration was reviewed during the year.
Henry could vest after a three-year period and are subject Engelhardt was awarded a rise of 4.5% taking his to the performance criteria described above.
salary to 350,000 with effect from 1 April.
David Stevens was awarded a rise of 3.1% to 330,000 Directors service contracts with effect from 1 April.
The following table summarises the notice periods relating to the service contracts of the Executive The Committee aims to ensure that the overall Directors serving at 31 December 2010. remuneration of the Chief Financial Offi cer, Notice Notice Kevin Chidwick, is a fair refl ection of his role Director Company and responsibilities, and is designed to reward months months achieving increases in shareholder value.
Kevin Chidwick 12 12 Henry Engelhardt 12 12 In addition to benefi ts such as private medical David Stevens 12 12 cover, permanent health insurance, death in service cover and eligibility for the Groups Personal There is no provision in the Executive Directors Pension Plan, there are two main elements to the contracts for compensation to be payable on early Chief Financial Offi cers remuneration package: termination of their contract over and above the notice period element.
Basic annual salary Awards under the DFSS The Company has entered into letters of appointment with its Non-Executive Directors.
With effect from 1 October 2010 Kevin Chidwicks Summary details of terms and notice periods are base salary was increased by 11.1% to 400,000. included below.
Whilst the increase in Kevin Chidwicks base salary is above infl ation the Committee felt that the Term and notice Alastair Lyons 3 years commencing 1 July 2010, terminable by either party giving thr ee months written notice.
Manfred Aldag Indefi nite terminable on one months notice from either party automatically terminates should he cease employment with Munich Re.
Colin Holmes 3 years commencing 3 December 2010, terminable by either party giving one months written notice.
Martin Jackson 3 years commencing 1 December 2009, terminable by either party giving one months written notice.
Keith James 3 years commencing 1 December 2009, terminable by either party giving one months written notice.
Margaret Johnson 3 years commencing 4 September 2009, terminable by either party giving one months written notice.
Lucy Kellaway 3 years commencing 4 September 2009, terminable by either party giving one months written notice.
John Sussens 3 years commencing 1 December 2009, terminable by either party giving one months written notice.
Given the short notice periods applicable, mitigation issues are unlikely to arise.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee decides the remuneration of the Chairman after consultation with the Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors, including the remuneration of the Committee Chairmen, is decided by the full Board.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in meetings when Non-Executive Director fees are discussed.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 50 The fee structure for Non-Executive Directors was reviewed and amended in 2010 and the revised fee structure is set out below: Base fee 45,000 Plus: Member of Audit Committee 12,000 Senior Independent Director 5,000 Chair of Audit Committee 20,000 Chair of Nominations Committee 5,000 Chair of Remuneration Committee 5,000 Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to bonus payments or pension arrangements, nor do they participate in the Groups long term incentive plans.
The fee payable to Alastair Lyons in respect of his appointment as Chairman of the Board in 2010 is 180,000 pa which is reviewed annually.
The appointment may be terminated by the Chairman on three months notice to the Company.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but each has a letter of appointment.
The letters of appointment all require a period of one months notice should the Non-Executive Director wish to resign.
These letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered offi ce during normal business hours and at the AGM.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The following graph sets out a comparison of Total Shareholder Return for Admiral Group plc shares with that of the FTSE 100 Index, of which the Company is a constituent.
The graph measures the period from 1January 2006 up to 31 December 2010.
TSR is defi ned as the percentage change over the period, assuming reinvestment of income.
The Directors consider this to be the most appropriate index against which the Company should be compared.
450 Admiral Group plc FTSE 100 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 Source: Factset 50 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Directors shareholdings Audited Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below: Ordinary shares of 0.1p 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Executive Directors Kevin Chidwick 50,067 38,822 Henry Engelhardt 40,490,720 40,490,720 David Stevens 10,234,000 10,234,000 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Alastair Lyons 562,152 562,152 Manfred Aldag Colin Holmes Martin Jackson Keith James 44,500 44,500 Margaret Johnson Lucy Kellaway John Sussens 8,000 8,000 Includes 1,403 shares within the Groups SIP details of which are shown overleaf.
Of these, 546 have reached their three-year maturity date.
Include amounts held by family members.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 51
