R&A Text 13 01 2011 08:30 Page 33 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 33 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the of the Company and the Group and enable them to Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law ensure that the financial statements and the Directors and regulations.
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Company law requires the directors to prepare Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also financial statements for each financial year.
Under that responsible for safeguarding the assets of the law the directors have elected to prepare the Group Company and the Group and hence for taking and Parent Company financial statements in reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of accordance with International Financial Reporting fraud and other irregularities.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve Statement of Directors Responsibilities under the financial statements unless they are satisfied that DTR 4.1.
12 they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Each of the directors, who are listed on page 19 the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by select suitable accounting policies and then apply the European Union, give a true and fair view of them consistently: the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of make judgements and accounting estimates that the Group: and are reasonable and prudent: the Report of the Directors in this Annual Report state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the includes a fair review of the development and European Union have been followed, subject to any performance of the business and the position of the material departures disclosed and explained in the Group, together with a description of the principal financial statements: and risks and uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume For and on behalf of the Board that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate R D Brewster accounting records that are sufficient to show and Chairman explain the Companys transactions and disclose with 17 January 2011 The financial statements are published on the www.
com website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, Henderson Group plc Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Henderson or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of Henderson.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
