The rights granted during the year On 31 January 2010, the rights to 18,679 Deferred compensation schemes refer to awards made in respect of 2009 fund units held by Hugh Willis, 18,679 fund Directors rights to fund awards calendar year which mirrors BlueBays units held by Mark Poole, 1,194 fund units The executive directors had the following Compensation Year.
For Compensation held by Nick Williams and 10,235 fund rights to deferred cash awards under Year 2009 awards, the vesting schedule units held by Alex Khein vested.
The fair the deferred compensation scheme is a three-year bullet due to vest in 2013 value on vesting date was $131.19 per unit.
and the funds are subject to forfeiture provisions.
In common with this sector, The bonus deferral programme is only Fund awards were invested in a variety the right to the award on vesting is not available to employees of BlueBay and of BlueBay funds.
Fund awards are rights conditional on achieving any pre-set is therefore not available to the nonto deferred units and so do not give rise performance criteria.
to any immediate entitlement on grant.
55 Directors Review Audited section of Remuneration Report Exercise Rights Rights Held at price of Earliest Latest UAO Date of Held at granted exercised 30 June outstanding exercise exercise Exercise Scheme grant 1 July 2009 during year during year 2010 rights date date date Executive directors Hugh Willis Mark Poole Nick Williams UAO 27.04.06 1,000,000 1,000,000 22.26p 30.01.07 26.04.16 25.03.10 Alex Khein No changes have been made as at 15 September 2010 Directors rights to plc shares All options were granted before Listing at The market price of BlueBays shares at the under option nil cost and therefore the right to exercise end of the financial year was 288.50 pence.
These rights to shares do not give rise to Unapproved UAO options is not The highest and lowest daily closing share any immediate entitlement on grant and conditional on achieving pre-set price during the financial year was 390.00 are subject to forfeiture provisions.
Outstanding restricted Outstanding restricted shares at 1 July 2009 25% vesting in year shares at 30 June 2010 Executive directors Hugh Willis 1,240,000 620,000 620,000 Mark Poole 1,240,000 620,000 620,000 Nick Williams 1,050,000 525,000 525,000 Alex Khein 3,000,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 Equity settled share award scheme The executive directors were eligible and 22 November 2010.
The fair value of formerly D shares to purchase shares which were subject shares on subscription was 23.68 pence.
The executive directors had the above to forfeiture provisions and only vest The market value of the shares on the third rights to equity settled share awards: unconditionally as follows: 25% on vesting date 22 November 2009 was or after each of 22 November 2007, 350.00 pence.
22 November 2008, 22 November 2009 56 BlueBay Asset Management plc Free, matched and dividend Dividend shares granted Free, matched and dividend shares held as at 1 July 2009 during the year shares held as at 30 June 2010 Executive directors Hugh Willis Mark Poole Nick Williams 4,048 174 4,222 Alex Khein 4,048 174 4,222 Share incentive plan SIP on which the right was acquired.
Dividends Under the SIP, the executive directors are automatically reinvested and must be have the above rights to free and held and remain in trust for three years matching shares: from the date of reinvestment.
The SIP is an HMRC approved plan which The fair value of the SIP awards at grant offers eligible employees including date is as follows: executive directors, a way to acquire shares in BlueBay with possible tax advantages to the employee.
Fair value of shares on Grant date grant date 13 February 2007 402.25 pence Free shares are awarded to eligible 22 February 2008 321.50 pence employees at no cost.
Matching shares are awarded at a ratio of 2 to 1, based on partnership shares purchased by the There were no SIP awards granted employee.
The partnership shares have in Financial Year 2010. an initial subscription limit of 1,500 or 10% of annual salary, if less.
The rights Approved and signed on behalf to free shares and matching shares are not of the Board conditional on achieving any performance criteria but are subject to forfeiture Terence Eccles provisions and must be held and remain in Chairman, Remuneration Committee trust for at least three years from the date 15 September 2010 57 Directors Review Risk Management and Internal Control and the Group devotes considerable Reputational risk is likely to arise as a Purpose resources to the mitigation of this risk.
result of a failure to manage the Groups The purpose of risk management at All funds operate under clear mandates other risks in line with the stated risk BlueBay is to identify and quantify risks governed by detailed guidelines covering appetite.
This is one of the principal faced by the firm, mitigate and manage market, counterparty and liquidity risk risks for an asset management company, such risks within the context of the firms monitored by the Risk and Performance and BlueBay recognises that effective overall risk appetite, and to provide department and reviewed by the Risk risk management and strong internal ongoing monitoring of such risks for Committee.
Pre-trade and post-trade controls are central to the Groups escalation as needed throughout the year.
checks monitor compliance with business model.
All funds are We seek to achieve this through a strong valued daily by an internal Pricing Group, Operational Risks risk governance framework, independent which enhances transparency of risk reporting, and robust systems and controls, Risk of loss from inadequate or failed positions.
Weekly performance reports which are regularly reviewed by employees internal processes, errors or security serve to highlight any issues with fund responsible for risk monitoring and external breaches.
BlueBay seeks to avoid risks performance to senior management, reviews by independent third parties.
from operational processes and technology and regular performance attribution through the continued development of analyses provide insight into the drivers a robust infrastructure and adherence The Group is engaged exclusively in asset of profits and losses.
to documented processes and controls.
management services, primarily as agent The effectiveness of internal controls is in managing client portfolios and does not Business Risks reviewed by internal and external audit.
undertake leverage on its balance sheet.
Business strategy risk is the risk that As such the Group generally has low Business continuity and disaster recovery.
management will pursue inappropriate exposure and risk tolerance for market, In addition to the failure of IT systems strategies or implement the Groups credit, and liquidity risk and has there is a risk of disruption to the strategy ineffectively.
Whilst BlueBay consistently maintained an excess of business as a result of power failure, fire, engages in new initiatives that carry the regulatory capital on balance sheet.
acts of terrorism or similar risks.
BlueBay risk of failure the financial loss associated seeks to minimise the impact from with such initiatives is typically limited The key elements of our risk framework business disruption by way of operating to the set up costs from new fund and its summary are as follows: a robust business continuity platform launches.
The Group pursues a highly that is tested twice a year.
In the event selective approach to providing seed Risk Appetite of a local disaster, or failure to gain capital for new initiatives, and restricts access to the Groups current location, The firms risk tolerance is expressed itself to new business strategies within SunGard Availability Services provide through a risk appetite statement which its core area of expertise.
a dedicated workspace for the Groups defines the types and degree of risk that Regulatory risk is the risk that the exclusive use.
The Group currently has the Group is willing to accept in order to Groups profitability may be negatively several methods of server and data execute its business strategy.
Formulated impacted by regulatory changes.
Due to recovery in place which vary depending by the Board, it provides practical guidance its strengths in terms of infrastructure, on the nature of the event.
This includes to key stakeholders about the level of systems and controls as well as its strong an off-site high availability facility which tolerance for risk in the principal risk capital position, BlueBay is ideally placed hosts replicated services for core servers categories the Group is facing.
It also to handle regulatory change.
The Group and trade systems.
Back-up servers for determines the framework of controls and maintains an open and constructive the Groups file server, email and core oversight required to ensure risk exposures dialogue with the FSA and other trading systems are resident at the high remain within acceptable levels.
regulatory agencies to gain insight into availability site.
Independent tape potential regulatory developments.
The Group The main risks faced by BlueBay are: has uninterruptible power sources at Emergent risk covers risks that are head office for all desktops, servers and currently remote and poorly understood Investment Risks communications equipment.
In case but likely to grow greatly in significance.
Investment performance risk, which of any power failures, a backup power BlueBay accepts that it is exposed is the risk that funds fail to deliver generator is available for all the Groups to changing industry trends and the expected level of performance.
systems and the head office.
The Group dislocations of the markets it is operating This may result in client redemptions and has invested substantially in a robust in.
It relies on the knowledge and a reduction in fees earned.
This is one server environment with redundant experience of its Directors and senior of the principal risks faced by BlueBay, cooling, advanced monitoring, plus fire managers to manage these risks.
and leak detection and fire suppression.
