Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities pic 26 Report and Accounts 2010 Directors' remuneration report The Board has prepared this report in accordance with the Directors' service contracts requirements of Section 421 to the Companies Act 2006.
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts with An ordinary resolution for the approval of this report will be put the Company, although each has a formal letter of appointment to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
recording the terms on which he serves.
Non-executive Directors are required to stand for re-election to the Board The law requires the Company's auditor to audit certain of the at least every three years.
Where disclosures have been audited, re-election at Annual they are indicated as such.
The auditor's opinion is included Director Date of appointment General Meeting in its report on page 28.
Ian Barby 5 January, 2004 2010 Patrick Blanchard 13 February, 2002 - The Company complies with the Combined Code appended to Christopher Jones 5 December, 2001 2011 the FSA Listing Rules in respect of directors' remuneration and Federico Marescotti 5 December, 2001 2011 the content of the Directors' remuneration report.
John Murray 5 December, 2001 Annually Martin Negre 5 December, 2001 Annually Policy on Directors' emoluments Resigned 1 January, 2010.
Details of individual Directors' emoluments are set out on page 27 and Directors' share interests on page 19.
Levels of Your Company's performance pay have been set which reflect the individual contribution of A graph comparing the total return for the Company's each Director.
Directors' fees are set at a level believed to be shareholders with a market index is required to be included in one at which the Company will be able to continue to motivate the remuneration report.
The graph below compares the share and to retain its Directors.
price total return assuming all dividends are reinvested to Income, Capital and Ordinary Shareholders compared to the The Company does not operate any pension schemes, share total shareholder return on a notional investment in the FTSE All option schemes, long-term incentive schemes or death benefit Share index.
The FTSE All Share index is broadly representative schemes for its Directors and the Directors do not receive any of the UK stock market and, as such, is an appropriate performance remuneration from the Company.
John Murray benchmark for investors receiving sterling-denominated returns and Bernard Lambilliotte are also directors of the Investment such as those available to shareholders in the Company.
Manager, Ecofin Limited, which, in accordance with the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, is entitled to a base Total shareholder return for Ecofin Water & Power annual fee and a performance fee, particulars of which are Opportunities pic and the FTSE All-Share index for disclosed in notes 3 and 6 to the financial statements.
the five years to 31 March, 2010 Directors' fees are determined within the limit 200,000 in 700 Capital Share NAV aggregate set out in the Company's Articles of Association.
Income Share NAV Fees are periodically reviewed by the Board in the capacity Ordinary Share NAV 600 FTSE All Share of the Remuneration Committee and were last reviewed on 23 March, 2010.
As a result of the most recent review, with 500 effect from 1 April, 2010 the fees payable have been increased to annual fees of 30,000 Chairman of the Board, 25,000 400 Audit Committee Chairman and 22,000 other Directors.
300 This was the first increase in fees since 2004.
200 Directors and Officers liability insurance is maintained by the Company on behalf of the Directors.
100 No Director is entitled to any compensation on leaving office.
0 It is intended that the above policy will continue for the year ending 31 March, 2011, and subsequent years.
Alternate directors are not, under the Company's Articles of Association, entitled to receive any fees for their services as a Director and no payments have been made to Christophe Boucher or Bernard Lambilliotte.
In the year ended 31 March, 2010, the Company issued two prospectuses: one, in April 2009, setting out the terms of the conversion and tender offers for the Company's Income Shares and Capital Shares, and the other, in July 2009, in connection with the issue of 60 million Zero Dividend Preference Shares by a subsidiary of the Company and 80 million nominal amount of Convertible Unsecured Loan Stock.
As a result, the Board met six times during the year instead of four as is customary, had extensive discussions with the Company's advisers and reviewed all of the documentation associated with the issue of the prospectuses.
The amounts shown above under 'Other payments' were made for this additional work by the Board.
Martin Negre entered into a consultancy agreement with the Company dated 13 February, 2002, under which he advises the Company on developments in the water, electric power and gas distribution industries and liaises with the Board and the Investment Manager in relation to the same.
Martin Negre is entitled to a payment of 80,000 per annum and this is shown as 'Consultancy fees' in the table above.
The consultancy agreement is for an indefinite period, but is terminable by either party on three months' notice and immediately on the occurrence of certain specified events which are usual in the context of an arrangement of this nature.
On behalf of the Board Phoenix Administration Services Limited Secretary 30 July, 2010
