Report on directors remuneration Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Combined Code.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2011 inviting them to consider and approve this report.
The auditors are required to report to the Companys members on that part of this remuneration report which is subject to audit and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
This report is therefore presented in two sections: unaudited information and audited information.
Section 1: Unaudited information The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is made up solely of non-executive directors with no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in the matters to be decided.
Those non-executive directors serving on the Remuneration Committee during 2010 were Colin Holmes as Chairman, John Warren, Alastair Lyons and, until 6 May 2010, Lesley MacDonagh.
Meetings of the Remuneration Committee are held as and when appropriate and at least three times per annum.
During 2010, the Remuneration Committee met on six occasions and all members, then current, attended each meeting with the exception of John Warren, Alastair Lyons and Lesley MacDonagh who each missed one meeting by prior arrangement.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, from time to time, calls upon Malcolm Harris Chairman and also David Ritchie Chief Executive to assist in discussions and deliberations of the Remuneration Committee on remuneration matters not pertaining to their own remuneration or terms and conditions of employment.
The Remuneration Committee has, on occasion, appointed the services of external advisers to advise on remuneration.
Since August 2009 Deloitte LLP has been ongoing adviser to the Committee and attends Committee meetings as required.
Deloitte LLP has also provided VAT advice to the Company during 2010.
ACS HR Solutions Share Plan Services formerly ExcellerateHRO Share Plan Services act as Trustee of the Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan.
The Group Company Secretary, Martin Palmer, acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
Duties of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the following duties: Determine on behalf of the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive, the executive directors and circa thirty five members of senior management.
Within that framework policy, determine the total individual remuneration package of the Chairman, Chief Executive, each executive director and other designated senior executives, including, where appropriate, bonuses and share awards, having regard to the pay and conditions of employees throughout the Company.
Ensure that executive directors and senior management are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
Determine targets for any performance related pay schemes and ask the Board, when appropriate, to seek shareholder approval for any long term incentive arrangements.
Consider and determine the terms, scope, implementation and performance criteria of all share based remuneration schemes.
Ensure that contractual terms on termination and any payments made avoid rewarding poor performance and approve any severance payments.
Determine the policy for and scope of service agreements for executive directors and pensions arrangements, termination payments and compensation commitments.
Consider and determine the terms, scope, implementation and performance conditions of the annual bonus scheme and approve annual bonuses.
In determining remuneration packages and arrangements, give due regard to the requirements and recommendations of the Combined Code as well as the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and associated guidance.
Review competitor companies and maintain awareness of wider market movements and implement remuneration packages appropriate to the Company.
Oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company.
Ensure that the provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration, including pensions, as set out in the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 are fulfilled and produce an annual report of the Committees remuneration policy to be included in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Groups website www.
co. uk and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee determines the Companys policy for the remuneration of executive directors, having regard to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 and the Combined Code and its provisions on directors remuneration, including Schedule A.
The Remuneration Committee sets and implements remuneration policy for the Chairman, executive directors and designated senior management.
The Remuneration Committee determines the need for independent professional advice where appropriate and has regard to information on compensation and salary levels in companies in the housebuilding sector and in other companies of comparable size and complexity.
The objectives of the remuneration policy are to: ensure that the individual rewards and incentives fairly relate to the performance of the individual, the Company and the interests of shareholders: maintain a remuneration package which enables the Company to attract, retain, and motivate executives of the appropriate calibre and experience to further the success of the Company and maximise long term shareholder value: and take into account pay and employment conditions throughout the Company.
The remuneration policy was reviewed by the Remuneration Committee during 2010.
42 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
