Directors remuneration report 2011 remuneration policy Part 2 Executive directors The basic principles that guide remuneration policy for executive directors in BP include: remuneration A substantial portion of executive remuneration should be linked to success in implementing the companys business strategy to 2010 remuneration maximize long-term shareholder value.
The structure of pay should reflect the long-term nature of BPs business and the significance of safety and environmental risks.
Salary Performance conditions for variable pay should be set independently Mr Dudleys salary was increased to $1,700,000 on his promotion to by the committee at the outset of each year and assessed by the group chief executive in October 2010.
The London accommodation committee both quantitatively and qualitatively at the end of each provided to him ceased at the end of 2010.
No other executive director performance period.
Performance assessment should take into account material changes in the market environment predominantly oil prices and BPs Annual bonus competitive position primarily vis--vis other oil majors.
The 2010 annual bonus results were dramatically affected by the Gulf of Salaries should be reviewed annually, in the context of the total Mexico accident.
In the judgement of the committee and the group chief quantum of pay, and taking into account both external market and executive this overrode the normal metrics for bonus outcomes.
indicated in the table on page 112, no bonus was paid to Mr Dudley, Executives should develop and be required to hold a significant Dr Hayward or Mr Inglis for 2010.
Mr Conn and Dr Grote similarly received shareholding as this represents the best way to align their interests no bonus for their group portion and were limited to an on-target level for with those of shareholders.
their segment functional portion accounting for 30% of their overall The remuneration committee will actively seek to understand bonus opportunity.
Both of these met or exceeded targets and made shareholder preferences and be as transparent as possible in important contributions to the stabilization of the business following the explaining its remuneration policy and practices.
The total bonus to Mr Conn was 310,500 and to Dr Grote The majority of total remuneration is long term and varies with $621,000.
Of the total for each, one-third is paid in cash, one-third is performance, with the largest elements share based, further aligning deferred on a mandatory basis and one-third is paid either in cash or interests with shareholders.
voluntarily deferred at the individuals discretion.
These amounts are The committee reviews the pay policy and levels for executives shown in the table on page 112. below board, as well as pay and conditions of employees throughout the group.
These are considered when determining executive directors Deferred bonus remuneration.
One-third of the bonus awarded to Dr Grote and Mr Conn is deferred into shares on a mandatory basis under the terms of the deferred bonus Salary element.
Their deferred shares are matched on a one-for-one basis and will The committee normally reviews salaries annually, taking into account vest in three years contingent on an assessment of safety and other large Europe-based global companies as well as relevant US environmental sustainability over the three-year deferral period.
These groups are each defined and analysed by the Both individuals may elect to defer an additional third into shares committees independent remuneration advisers.
on the same basis as the mandatory deferral.
Mr Dudleys current salary of $1,700,000 will remain unchanged All deferred bonuses are converted to shares based on an average in 2011.
Both Mr Conn and Dr Grote, who last received salary increases price of BP shares over the three days following the companys in July 2008, will have their salaries increased effective 1 April 2011. announcement of 2010 results 4.84 share, $46.68 ADS.
2008-2010 share element Results for the 2008-2010 share element were also strongly affected by Annual bonus the Gulf of Mexico accident.
BPs Total Shareholder Return TSR for the Bonus measures and levels of eligibility are set at the start of the year three-year period was lowest among the peer group of oil majors.
The for the senior leadership including executive directors.
The approach for companys underlying performance relative to the peer group actually 2011 aligns closely with the group template for reinforcing safety and remained quite strong on the metrics historically used to test the fairness risk management, rebuilding trust and reinforcing value creation.
The committee felt, however, that because of the is a balance of long-term and near-term objectives weighted towards seriousness of the Gulf of Mexico accident, the TSR ranking was an the top priorities of risk identification and management, safety and appropriate result.
No shares, therefore, vested under the plan for any compliance, and talent and capability development.
Group measures for executive director.
executive directors will focus on: Safety and operational risk metrics including full implementation of the S&OR functional model.
Short-term performance including key financial and operating metrics.
Long-term performance including progress on key projects and reserves replacement.
People including a new performance and reward framework.
114 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
