72 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Remuneration report Increasingly, the focus for remuneration is towards payment for long-term performance.
Anthony Ruys Remuneration Committee Chairman Introduction from the Chairman of the However, the Committee believes that these two areas, the LTIP and  IEIS, can be improved further.
In particular, the Committee is aware Objectives of the calls for remuneration to be increasingly focused towards For a number of years, the principal objective of the Companys payment for long-term performance so that the interests of remuneration policy has been to align remuneration with the shareholders and senior executives remain fully aligned.
The delivery of the Groups strategy of growth, productivity and the Committee proposed changes which will firmly align reward development of a winning organisation that acts responsibly at all towards long-term performance, while still remaining market times.
We continue to see this as the right approach.
In particular, it proposed to: 1 increase the maximum relevant business objectives underpin all of the performance annual award under the LTIP scheme rules from 300 per cent to measures taking into account both business sustainability and the 500 per cent of annual base salary: 2 consequently increase the management of key risks.
annual award to the Chief Executive under the LTIP to 400 per cent of annual base salary: and 3 reduce the number of common The Remuneration Committee is also aware, however, that it needs performance measures for the IEIS from six to four for 2011 onwards.
to be sure that the total remuneration opportunity for the Executive Directors and senior management remains market competitive.
These proposals have been the subject of an extensive consultation Tothat end, and as indicated in the 2009 Remuneration report, process with key shareholders since the autumn of 2010.
As a result acomprehensive review of all elements of senior level remuneration of that dialogue and directly responding to issues raised, the packages was carried out by the Committees remuneration Committee has agreed that: 1 the original proposal for an increase consultants during 2010.
This included consideration of the Groups in the maximum annual award under the LTIP scheme rules from International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS and the Long-Term 300 per cent to 500 per cent of annual base salary be revised to Incentive Plan LTIP.
400per cent, being consistent with the proposed award level for theChief Executive and with no additional headroom: and 2 there Incentive Review: Overview should be an increase in the respective percentage amounts of In undertaking this review, the Remuneration Committee was well salary that Executive Directors are required to hold under our aware of the general economic environment in which the Group shareholding guidelines.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee continues to operate and the continuing strong performance and has also proposed to introduce a clause into the LTIP scheme rules resilience of the Company in a challenging world.
Over the long giving the Committee the discretion to reduce or to forfeit entirely term, this is reflected in the total shareholder return of the Company a participants unvested LTIP award in circumstances where there of 775 per cent compared to 132 per cent for the FTSE 100 over the has been a material misrepresentation involving the participant in 10year period to 31 December 2010.
The Company has therefore connection with a prior vested award.
performed well and the Committee is of the view that the reward structure for the Executive Directors and the members of the The proposal for the LTIP, which I now believe has the support of Management Board should reflect the quality of that performance asignificant number of our major shareholders, will be put to all within a framework of required motivational targets married to the shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting on usual checks and constraints relevant to a leading organisation.
Separately, the IEIS proposal will be implemented during 2011.
In conclusion, I am pleased with the outcomes of the Incentive Review: Outcomes review and details of the specific proposals and related matters are In this context, our review confirmed that, for the most part, the set out later in this report.
In particular, a single long-term performance scheme the LTIP continues to be appropriate in maintaining the Companys requirement for a simple and transparent, yet effective, incentive scheme.
Similarly, the IEIS continues to operate effectively.
You can read more about our governance at: www.
com governance Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 73 Corporate governance Summary Terms of Reference the setting and the review of targets applicable for the The Remuneration Committee is responsible for: Companys short and long-term performance-based variable reward schemes and determining achievement against targets: determining an executive remuneration policy covering salary, exercising its discretion in relation to performance-based performance-based variable rewards and pensions: rewards where appropriate and as provided by the applicable determining, within the terms of the agreed policy, the specific scheme rules : and remuneration packages for the Chairman, the Executive monitoring and advising the Board on any major changes to Directors and the members of the Management Board both on the policy on employee benefit structures for the British appointment and on review, having due regard to pay and American Tobacco Group.
employment conditions elsewhere in the Group: Remuneration Committee No Executive Director or Management Board member plays any part Current members in determining his or her remuneration.
During the year ended Anthony Ruys Chairman 31December 2010, both the Chief Executive and the Chairman Karen fide Segundo were consulted and invited to attend meetings of the Committee, Robert Lerwill except when their own remuneration was under consideration.
In 1 Dr Ana Maria Llopis determining remuneration for the year, the Committee considered a Christine Morin-Postel report from Deloitte LLP, the Committees remuneration consultants, Dr Gerry Murphy and also consulted the Chief Executive and the member of the Sir Nicholas Scheele Management Board responsible for Human Resources and the Group Head of Reward.
Ana Maria Llopis will cease to be a member of the Remuneration The agenda for the meetings of the Remuneration Committee is Committee following her retirement as a Non-Executive Director at the agreed by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, taking conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2011. into account the views of other members of the Committee, asappropriate.
At the date of this report, the Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company set out in the table above.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed in There were no changes in the membership of the Remuneration December 2010 and minor updates were made with effect Committee during 2010. from 1 January 2011.
The full terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary and on www.
com governance The Secretary to the Committee is Nicola Snook, the Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information it requires from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director or member of management, and all employees are expected to cooperate with any request made by the Attendance at meetings in 2010 Committee.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at Meetings the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent Meetings eligible to professional advice if it considers this necessary.
In particular, the Name attended attend Committee is responsible for the appointment of any remuneration Anthony Ruys 6 7 consultants who may advise the Committee.
Karen fide Segundo 6 7 Deloitte LLP provided remuneration services and advice to the Robert Lerwill 7 7 Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
Deloitte is an Ana Maria Llopis 6 7 international professional services firm which has also supported management in the development and delivery of remuneration Christine Morin-Postel 5 7 proposals as well as the provision of tax, corporate finance and Gerry Murphy 7 7 consulting services to British American Tobacco Group companies Sir Nicholas Scheele 7 7 around the world.
Herbert Smith LLP has also been retained by the Company to provide legal advice in respect of the Companys share Note: schemes, as well as providing other legal services to British Those Directors who were absent from one or more meetings of the AmericanTobacco as a whole.
Ernst & Young LLP provides tax Committee were either unable to attend a meeting arranged at short notice advice to international assignees and in respect of the Companys or had a long-standing prior engagement.
Following the 2010 Board evaluation, the Remuneration Committee will be reviewing its size and composition during 2011.
It will also be reviewing comments made during the evaluation process in relation to its activities and any additional actions relevant to its role and responsibilities will be reported back to the Board and implemented during 2011.
74 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Key activities of the Remuneration Committee in 2010 In addition, the Remuneration Committee dealt with the following: The Remuneration Committee met seven times during 2010.
The a comprehensive review of the Companys remuneration Committee followed its regular work programme designed around packages over two Committee meetings, culminating in the its two scheduled meetings in February and October each year at proposed changes to the LTIP and IEIS as explained elsewhere which it: in this report: benchmarked, reviewed and set the salaries for the Executive the application of the Groups policies in connection with the Directors and the Management Board members: retirement arrangements for Paul Adams as Chief Executive: assessed the achievement of the targets for the 2009 IEIS terms of appointment for Nicandro Durante as Chief Executive award and set the IEIS targets for 2010: Designate and John Daly as Chief Operating Officer: assessed the measurement of the performance conditions for the revised remuneration package for Ben Stevens Finance the vesting of the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP 2007 award: Director to reflect his additional responsibilities as Chief determined the LTIP award for March 2010 and its associated Information Officer: performance conditions: terms of appointment and termination in connection with assessed the achievement of the targets for the 2009 Share Management Board appointments and departures during the Reward Scheme award and set the targets for the award made year particularly with regard to the reorganisation of the in 2010: Groups regional structure: and monitored the application of the Companys shareholding the impact of forthcoming changes to the tax treatment of guidelines for the Executive Directors and the Management pension contributions made by or on behalf of UK employees Board members: into a UK pension.
maintained oversight of the Groups salary review processes to ensure consistency of application: and reviewed the Remuneration report for the year ended 2009 prior to its approval by the Board and subsequent approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting inApril 2010.
Remuneration policy performance criteria of the remuneration packages with the keyperformance indicators KPIs and business measures Group reward strategy seeBusiness review.
It is important that the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and the members of the Management Board considered Financially based KPIs form the basis for the majority of the by the Committee is placed in the context of the strategy for performance-related bonus incentives with market share being an rewards and benefits for employees across the Group.
As a leading important additional non-financial indicator.
The Executive Directors global business, British American Tobacco wants its employees to and the members of the Management Board are also held feel rewarded by the challenge of their roles, their career accountable for their performance in respect of the business opportunities and positive team relationships.
The reward strategy is measures which comprise a mixture of other financial and nonpositioned to support the goal of attracting and retaining the best financial targets.
Taken together, these elements provide a comprehensive set of Regular benchmarking exercises are carried out across the Group in challenging performance criteria which sit alongside the Companys order to provide comparative data to ensure the provision of reward positive position on sustainability and governance issues.
The and benefit structures in keeping with local market practice while remuneration policy reflects the Companys objectives which are being clearly linked to aligned individual and organisation linked to the payouts and grants under the respective incentive performance objectives.
Economic factors are considered and salary schemes.
This promotes the Groups ability to attract, retain and surveys are conducted in individual markets to compare the Group motivate top quality executives, enabling the Group to achieve the company remuneration packages against those of comparator levels of corporate performance in alignment with the long-term companies, while ensuring that these are aligned to a global reward interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Further, the Remuneration Committee has set a guideline that Executive Directors and Management Board: approximately 50 per cent of the remuneration package should be remunerationpolicy performance-related.
The remuneration package comprises both The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and members of core fixed elements base salary, pension and other benefits and the Management Board is also considered by the Remuneration performance-based variable elements cash and share incentive Committee with reference to the Companys strategic vision and annual bonus plans, and the LTIP.
analysis of risk and its associated systems see risk management and internal control in the Corporate governance statement.
The aim is to support the Companys strategy by linking the relevant Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 75 Corporate governance The composition in the case of the current Executive Directors for In February 2010, Cadbury, a former constituent company of the 2010 is illustrated in the bar chart below: PayComparator Group, was taken over by Kraft Foods.
Cadbury istherefore removed from the Pay Comparator Group and, as at 31December 2010, it is comprised as follows: Executive Directors percentage of fixed and variableremuneration Associated British Foods Philip Morris International P N Adams AstraZeneca Reckitt Benckiser N Durante BP Reed Elsevier J B Stevens BT Group Royal Dutch Shell J Daly British Sky Broadcasting SABMiller % 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Diageo Tesco Salary Pension and Benets Bonus Cash Deferred Shares LTIP GlaxoSmithKline Unilever Imperial Tobacco Group Vodafone Notes: Marks & Spencer WPP Group 1.
The above illustration of the Executive Directors percentage of fixed and variable remuneration for 2010 is based on a number of assumptions: 1 Pearson base salary represents annual salary: 2 pension represents the transfer value of net increase in pension to the UK Pension Fund as disclosed in Table 7 Nicandro Durantes transfer value is based on constant Salary exchange rates : 3 benefits are core benefits such as car allowance, private medical and personal accident insurance: 4 bonus is the Purpose reward individual performance amount received for performance in 2010 delivered in cash and deferred reflect skills and experience shares: 5 LTIP represents the target annualised expected value of the long-term incentive award granted in 2010 expressed as a percentage of Delivery monthly base salary: and 6 the remuneration shown for John Daly for 2010 cash includes eight months as a member of the Management Board prior to his appointment as an Executive Director on 1 September 2010.
Policy annual review in February with salary changes 2.
Fixed remuneration comprises: salary, pension and benefits.
Variable effective from April or ad hoc review on a significant remuneration comprises: bonus cash and deferred shares and LTIP.
change of responsibilities benchmarked for appropriate salary levels using a company size and complexity model coupled with: Pay Comparator Group 1 the Pay Comparator Group: and, for The setting of the reward opportunity for Executive Directors ExecutiveDirectors, 2 published salary remains underpinned by responsible independent benchmarking.
 The approach is focused on a peer group which includes selected base salary is pensionable FTSE 100 companies and, since 2009, Philip Morris International the Pay Comparator Group, which is supplemented by market data of Incentive no change to policy FTSE 350 companies, with the relevant scale and complexity, as Review wellas the practice of the FTSE 30 companies.
The Pay Comparator Group is made up of companies which meet the criteria of a The summary table above sets out the key policy principles for the consumer goods focus, an international spread of operations and a salaries for the Executive Directors and the Management Board competitor for top management talent.
Similar principles are applied to the salaries of senior managers and other levels in the organisation, taking into account local market practices across the Group.
76 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Base salary from Performance-related bonus International Executive Incentive 1 April 2011 Base Base Scheme IEIS or applicable salary at salary from date 1 January 2011 1 April 2010 Purpose incentivise the attainment of corporate targets on an Paul Adams annual basis ChiefExecutive until Delivery annual award 28February 2011 1,290,000 1,290,000 50 per cent cash Nicandro Durante 50 per cent shares deferred shares through the ChiefExecutive from Deferred Share Bonus Scheme 1March 2011 1,000,000 1,000,000 670,000 dividend equivalent payment Ben Stevens Policy six common measures for performance during 2010 FinanceDirector and with equal weightings: adjusted profit from operations: Chief Information Officer 750,000 720,000 640,000 market share: Global Drive Brand volume: net revenue: John Daly cash flow: and costs ChiefOperating Officer the annual on-target bonus opportunity for the Chief from 1September 2010 650,000 650,000 Executive is 100 per cent of base salary with a maximum award of 200 per cent of salary, and for the Chief Operating Officer and the Finance Director and Paul Adams will retire as an Executive Director and as Chief Chief Information Officer the on-target bonus Executive with effect from 28 February 2011. opportunity is 90 per cent with a maximum award of Nicandro Durante, formerly Chief Operating Officer, was 180 per cent appointed Chief Executive Designate on 1 September 2010 for the Management Board the on-target bonus and in this context his base salary was increased to 1,000,000 opportunity is 67.5 per cent of the base salary with a with effect from 1January 2011 prior to his becoming Chief maximum award of 135 per cent of salary Executive on 1March 2011.
Under the terms of his service awards are non-pensionable contract, Nicandro Durantes base salary is not subject to Incentive structure and potential bonus opportunity remain an annual review until April 2012. Review unchanged John Daly was appointed as an Executive Director and Chief four common measures for performance from 2011 Operating Officer with effect from 1 September 2010 with a base reduced from six with the following weightings: salary of 650,000.
Ben Stevens, as Finance Director, assumed adjusted profit from operations 40 per cent : market additional responsibilities as Chief Information Officer, with effect share 20 per cent : Global Drive Brand volume from 1 September 2010 with a new base salary of 720,000.
He 20 per cent : and cash flow 20 per cent willreceive an increase in base salary of 4.1 per cent 30,000 from 1April 2011.
The IEIS rewards short-term business performance within the The Management Board members will receive salary increases averaging context of longer-term sustainability.
Appropriately stretching around 4.1 per cent: centre-based UK employees will receive salary business and financial performance targets are set by the increases averaging around 4 per cent with effect from 1 April 2011.
Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each year.
In 2010, Actual rises have been based on each individuals contribution and there were six common measures as referred to above with each performance as well as to ensure market competitiveness.
having an equal weighting of 16.67 per cent.
Relevant performance points are: threshold which must be exceeded to attract any In addition to basic salary, the Executive Directors receive certain payment of a bonus for that measure : target: and maximum benefits in kind, principally: a car or car allowance: the use of a amount the level at which the bonus for that measure is capped.
driver: the installation and or maintenance of home security systems These performance points are set at the start of the year by and private medical and personal accident insurance.
reference to the Groups annual budget.
No elements of the bonuses are guaranteed and, as in previous years, the specific performance points are commercially sensitive and not made public.
For the Executive Directors and Management Board members, the annual bonus opportunity for 2011 unchanged from 2010 will be as shown in the summary table above.
The annual bonus opportunity for senior managers also remains unchanged with the annual on-target bonus opportunity being 45 per cent of base salary with a normal maximum award of 90 per cent of salary rising to 135 per cent of base salary in cases of exceptional performance.
The award for senior managers is delivered in variable proportions according to grade, being usually 55 per cent cash and 45 per cent deferred shares.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 77 Corporate governance For 2011, the six measures will be reduced to four as stated under the Incentive Review section of the table above.
These four Long-term incentives performance measures provide a simplified and appropriate mix of criteria that look to assess the vitality and performance of the Purpose incentivise growth in earnings per share and total Company while still providing full clarity for both shareholders and shareholder return TSR over a three year period eligible participants about the required areas of performance.
Delivery discretionary annual award The Committee receives a report to allow it to assess the extent to awards of shares which performance measures have been achieved.
Subject to the variable due to performance over three year period Committee exercising its judgment in the assessment of the quality dividend equivalent payment of the Companys overall performance, the payout for each measure Policy maximum annual award of 300 per cent of salary is determined by reference to performance relative to that measures three year performance period performance points, on a pro rata basis.
TSR performance 50 per cent of the total award In respect of the year ended 31 December 2010, the total payouts combines both the share price and dividend under the IEIS were: performance during the three year performance period as against two comparator groups 25 per cent for Payout: each measure : 1 constituents of the FTSE 100 Index: 50 per cent in cash, 50 per cent in 2010 2009 and 2 a peer group of FMCG companies deferredshares % % earnings per share measure 50 per cent of the total Paul Adams Chief Executive until award relates to earnings per share growth on an 1 28February 2011 173.9 135.4 adjusted diluted basis relative to inflation Nicandro Durante Chief Executive Incentive subject to shareholder approval, the maximum annual Designate from 1 September 2010 156.5 121.9 Review award under the LTIP scheme rules will be increased Ben Stevens Finance Director and from 300 per cent to 400 per cent of annual base ChiefInformation Officer 156.5 121.9 salary and LTIP awards made in 2011 will be made at John Daly Chief Operating Officer 400 per cent of annual base salary for the Chief 2 from1 September 2010 156.5 Executive and at 300 per cent for the other Executive Management Board members 117.4 91.4 Directors as shareholder approval is required, a resolution and an explanatory appendix are set out in the Notice of Notes: Meeting for the AGM on 28 April 2011 1.
Paul Adams will retire as Chief Executive on 28 February 2011 and will the introduction of a discretionary power to reduce cease to be an employee of the Company from that date.
In accordance with the rules of the IEIS, his performance-related bonus in respect of forfeit unvested awards in the event of material the year ended 31 December 2010 is therefore payable as a 100 per misrepresentation cent cash bonus instead of 50 per cent in cash and 50 per cent in all other elements of the LTIP remain unchanged deferred shares.
The percentage payout shown for John Daly reflects the percentage applicable for the period since his date of appointment as an Executive The long-term element of remuneration continues to be delivered Director on 1 September 2010. through the Companys LTIP.
The actual performance-related payments are shown in Table 4 annual Management Board members and senior employees participate in cash bonus and deferred share bonus.
the Long-Term Incentive Plan adopted in 2007 the 2007 LTIP.
This plan replaced the LTIP adopted in 1998 1998 LTIP under which no For senior managers, the total payouts reflect performance at a further awards have been made and which has now expired, global, regional, area or end market level, as applicable to their although there is a small number of participants who remain to roles.
For senior managers whose bonus was linked to global exercise their awards under that plan.
The 2007 LTIP provides for performance, the total payout under the IEIS in respect of the year awards of free ordinary shares, provided demanding and ended 31 December 2010 was 96.9 per cent 2009: 60.9 per cent, appropriately stretching performance conditions are met over a paid 55 per cent in cash and 45 per cent in deferred shares.
Awards made under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme are in the form of free ordinary shares in the Company which are normally held in trust for three years and no further performance conditions apply in that period.
This element of reward deferral has been a key element of the Companys bonus structure for a number of years and, in certain circumstances, such as resigning before the end of the three year period, participants may forfeit the shares.
The Remuneration Committee encourages a culture of ownership of these awarded shares and participants receive a cash sum equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position of all unvested ordinary shares held in the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme at the dividend record date.
78 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Award levels Performance The award levels for Executive Directors and Management Board The percentage of award vesting is based on a combination of total members are set out in the table below and have been applied to shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS performance awards made from 2008 to 2010.
Senior managers receive awards conditions measured over a three year period.
The Remuneration of75 per cent or 25 per cent of salary dependent on grade.
Committee considers that both of these measures are appropriate benchmarks of a companys performance.
This combination Multiple of provides an important balance of measures relevant to the Groups base salary business and market conditions as well as providing a common goal LTIP awards % for the Executive Directors, the Management Board members and Chief Executive 300 shareholders.
These performance conditions are set out in the above Finance Director and Chief Information Officer 250 table and are considered in more detail below.
Chief Operating Officer 250 TSR performance condition Management Board 200 A total of 50 per cent of the total award is based on the Companys TSR performance against two comparator groups 25 per cent for each measure : 1 the constituents of the London Stock Exchanges If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of the performance period: and Meeting, an LTIP award of 400 per cent will be made to the Chief 2 a peer group of international FMCG companies.
In the event Executive currently the Chief Executive Designate in May 2011.
At ofupper quartile performance by the Company relative to the the same time, the Finance Director and Chief Information Officer comparator groups above, 25 per cent of the total award vests in and the Chief Operating Officer will receive awards at 300 per cent full.
From 2008, 6 per cent of the total award vests for median of base salary.
These new award levels reflect the key outcome of performance.
There is pro rata vesting between these two thereview in 2010: the re-balancing of total remuneration points.
The TSR portions of an LTIP award do not vest for packagesfor Executive Directors towards rewarding long-term, belowmedian performance.
These comparator groups, which are regularly reviewed to ensure Awards to members of the Management Board will remain at the that they will remain both relevant and representative, are chosen to 2010 level of 200 per cent of base salary and these will also be reflect the Companys financial and business trading environments.
Awards for the senior managers will be made in March 2011 at the same levels as in 2010.
Since 2005, participants have been entitled to receive a dividend equivalent payment to the value of the dividends that they would have received as shareholders on their vesting awards.
The LTIP dividend equivalent payment continues to be important in aligningfurther the interests of senior management with those of shareholders.
The values of the LTIP dividend equivalent payments for the Executive Directors are shown as individual emoluments in Tables 3 and 4.
To the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied following assessment by the Remuneration Committee, awards are normally exercisable between three and 10 years after they have been made.
An award of shares lapses to the extent that the performance conditions are not satisfied in accordance with the measures set out above at the end of the three year performance period.
Further, any such proportion of the award that lapses, asaresult, does not attract the payment of the LTIP dividend equivalentpayment.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 79 Corporate governance The applicable FMCG peer groups for the outstanding LTIP awards TSR continues to be measured according to the return index are shown below.
calculated by Datastream and reviewed by the Companys independent advisers.
It is measured on the basis that all companies Award: Award: Award: dividends are reinvested in the shares of those companies.
The 27 March 15 March 15 May return is the percentage increase in each companys index over the FMCG Peer Group 2010 2009 2008 three year performance period.
The opening and closing indices for Anheuser-Busch this calculation are respectively the average of the index numbers Anheuser-Busch InBev for the last quarter preceding the performance period and for the last quarter of the final year of that performance period this Cadbury methodology is employed to reflect movements of the indices over Cadbury Schweppes that time as accurately as possible.
Campbell Soup A local currency basis is used for the purposes of TSR measurement.
Carlsberg This approach is considered to have the benefits of simplicity and Coca-Cola directness of comparison with the performance of the comparator Colgate-Palmolive companies, and is in line with the historic approach taken by the Remuneration Committee for the purposes of TSR measurement.
Danone formerly Group Danone Diageo EPS performance condition Half of the award is based on earnings per share growth relative to The Gillette Company inflation.
This element of the award will vest in full if EPS growth Heineken over the three year performance period is an average of at least HJ Heinz 8per cent per annum in excess of inflation.
Eight per cent of the Imperial Tobacco Group award will vest if the EPS growth over the performance period is 3per cent in excess of inflation.
An award will vest on a pro rata InBev SA basis between these two points.
None of the EPS portion of an Japan Tobacco award vests if EPS growth is less than 3 per cent per annum in Johnson & Johnson excessofinflation.
Kellogg These EPS targets are consistent with and support the Companys Kimberly-Clark strategy to deliver high single-digit EPS growth on average over Kraft Foods the medium to long term.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the EPS targets as part of the Incentive Review and concluded that LVMH the current targets continue to be appropriately stretching.
Nestl For awards made up to and including 2008, growth in EPS for these PepsiCo purposes is calculated on an adjusted diluted EPS basis using a Pernod Ricard formula which incorporates: 1 the adjusted diluted EPS for the year 1 Philip Morris International prior to the start of the first performance period and then for the Procter & Gamble first, second and third years of that performance period: and 2 retail price index RPI for the last month of the year immediately Reckitt Benckiser preceding the performance period and then the RPI for the SABMiller respective first, second and third years of that performance period.
Sara Lee Since the LTIP award made in March 2009, EPS performance is Unilever measured as an increase in adjusted diluted EPS between the base Wrigley year and the final year of the performance period, expressed as an annual growth rate over the period.
Under this approach, only the Note: base year and final year adjusted diluted EPS results are considered.
For the 2008 award, Altria Group was tracked from the start of the However, on the basis that rolling annual awards are made, all years performance period and then re-invested in Philip Morris International of performance ultimately will be taken into account in calculating from the point of demerger.
This change was made in order to simplify the approach and to bring it into line with prevailing market practice.
Where EPS grows at a relatively constant rate, the two methodologies will produce broadly similar results, although the outcome will differ for different growth profiles.
Both methods are considered to be fair and reasonable measures of performance.
80 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Vesting of LTIP award made in 2008 An LTIP award was made to Executive Directors and Management Total shareholder return annual % Board members on 15 May 2008 with the performance period being FMCG group 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010 completed at 31 December 2010 the 2008 Award.
The Remuneration The FMCG group comparison is based on three months average values Committee has assessed the performance of the Company against British American Tobacco 14.7% 20 the two performance conditions.
On the TSR measure, the Company ranked 12th out of the FTSE 100 group ofcompanies, giving a vesting 5 of 25 per cent for performance at theupper quartile.
A vesting of 25 per cent was also achieved for ranking second out of the peer -10 group of international FMCG companies, this also being upper quartile.
EPS growth was 15.9 per cent per annum in excess of Median 3.0% -25 inflation.
The overall assessment of both LTIPmeasures, therefore, resulted in a vesting of 100 per cent of theaward.
Upper quartile Lower quartile In accordance with the rules of the 2007 LTIP, the Remuneration Committee also resolved that the participants would receive an LTIP LTIPs change of control dividend equivalent payment on the vesting of their 2008 awards.
The rules of the 1998 LTIP and the 2007 LTIP both provide that in Performance graph the event of a change of control of the Company as a result of a Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and takeover, reconstruction or winding up of the Company not being Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 requires an internal reorganisation, LTIP awards will become exercisable for that the Company must provide a graph comparing the TSR alimited period based on the period of time which has elapsed since performance of a hypothetical holding of shares in the Company the date of the award and the achievement of the performance with a broad equity market index over a five year period.
In conditions at that date, unless the Remuneration Committee this context, the Directors have again chosen to illustrate the determines this not to be appropriate in the circumstances.
In performance of TSR against the FTSE 100 Index over a five year addition, the 2007 LTIP allows as an alternative to early release that period, commencing on 1 January 2006.
In the opinion of the participants may, if permitted, exchange their LTIP awards for new Directors, the FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate index against awards of shares in the acquiring company on a comparable basis.
which TSR should be measured because it is a widely used and Share Option Scheme understood index of broadly similar sized UK companies to the No options have been granted under the Share Option Scheme Company.
The performance graph is shown below.
since March 2004 and no options have been granted to the current Executive Directors since September 1999.
The Share Option Scheme expired in April 2008.
As at 31 December 2010, no Historical total shareholder return performance Executive Directors held outstanding options under the Share Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years Option Scheme.
FTSE 100 comparison based on 30 trading day average values During the life of the Share Option Scheme, options granted were 250 not issued at a discount to the market price at the time of grant, 250 200 with the value of options for that grant being limited to 50 per cent 200 of a participants base salary.
All outstanding options have matured 150 150 and are exercisable up to March 2014.
100 100 All-employee share schemes 50 50 The Executive Directors, Management Board members and senior 0 0 managers are also eligible to participate in the following allDec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007 employee share schemes which are designed to incentivise employees of the Group by giving them opportunities to build a FTSE 100 British American Tobacco shareholding in the Company: the British American Tobacco Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme and the Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Total shareholder return annual % FTSE 100 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010 Sharesave Scheme The FTSE 100 comparison is based on three months average values The Sharesave Scheme is approved by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC.
Eligible employees, including the Executive Directors and British American Tobacco 14.7% 30 Management Board members, have been granted employee 10 savings-related share options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company.
Grants of options under the Sharesave Scheme have -10 historically been made in November each year.
However, during -30 2010 the Company reviewed its timetable for making grants of -50 options under the Sharesave Scheme with the result that no grants -70 Median 0.5% were made in that year.
Instead, the Company intends to make its Upper quartile Lower quartile Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 81 Corporate governance next grant of options under the Sharesave Scheme in March 2011 325 million at 31December 2010 2009: 273 million.
The loan is following the 2010 Preliminary announcement.
Options will be either repaid from the proceeds of the exercise of options or, in the granted to be exercisable in conjunction with either a three year or case ofordinary shares acquired by BATGET to satisfy the vesting and five year savings contract up to a monthly limit of 250.
Options are exercise of awards, the Company will subsequently waive the loan normally granted at a discount of 20 per cent to the market price at provided over the life of the awards.
If the options lapse, ordinary the time of the invitation, as permitted under the rules of the shares may be sold by BATGET to cover the loan repayment.
At 31 December 2010, Nicandro Durante and BATGET currently waives dividends on the ordinary shares held by it.
Ben Stevens each held options under the Sharesave Scheme.
As at 31 December 2010, BATGET held 11,949,088 ordinary shares Employee Share Ownership Plan with a market value of 294.4 million 1 January 2010: 14,679,045 The Employee Share Ownership Plan is an HMRC approved share ordinary shares: 296.0 million, being 0.59 per cent of the incentive plan, which incorporates a Partnership and Free Shares Companys issued ordinary share capital 1 January 2009: 0.72 per element.
The Partnership Share Scheme is open to all eligible cent including treasury shares.
BATGET waived payment of the employees, including Executive Directors and Management Board final dividend for 2009 of 9.9 million in May 2010 and the interim members.
Employees can allocate part of their pre-tax salary to dividend for 2010 of 4.1 million in September 2010. purchase shares in the Company.
The maximum amount that can be While shares are held by BATGET, the trustee does not exercise allocated in this way is 1,500 in any year.
Shares purchased are held in anyvoting rights.
However, as soon as shares held in BATGET are a UK-based trust, normally capable of transfer to participants tax-free transferred out to share scheme participants, the participants may after a five year holding period.
At 31 December 2010, Paul Adams and exercise the voting rights attaching to those shares.
Nicandro Durante participated in the Partnership Share Scheme.
Details of the Companys material share-based payment arrangements, The Company also operates the Free Shares element of the plan, reflecting both equity share-based and cash-settled share-based known as the Share Reward Scheme.
Under this Scheme, eligible arrangements, are set out in note 27 to the accounts.
employees including Executive Directors and members of the Management Board receive an award of shares in April of each Shareholding guidelines yearin which the Scheme operates in respect of performance Executive Directors and Management Board members are in theprevious financial year.
An award of 2,610 will be made encouraged to hold shares in the Company.
The Remuneration to Executive Directors and Management Board members on Committees guidelines require a holding equal to the value of a 1 April 2011 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010. percentage of salary as set out below and excludes shares earned The performance conditions are aligned to those set for the IEIS in but not yet vested under Company share plans.
respect of the same performance period.
The plan shares are held Multiple of ina UK-based trust for a minimum period of three years and during base salary that time the trust will exercise its voting rights as directed by the Shareholding guidelines % plans participants.
The maximum individual award under the Share Chief Executive 200 Reward Scheme is 3,000.
Finance Director and Chief Information Officer 150 Options and awards outstanding Chief Operating Officer 150 To satisfy the future exercise of awards or options under the Groups Management Board 100 employee share schemes, ordinary shares are acquired in the market by the Groups employee share ownership trusts or the Company issues new shares.
Multiple of Incentive review revision of shareholding guidelines base salary During the year, new ordinary shares were issued by the Company witheffect from1April2011: % in relation to the Sharesave Scheme and to certain participants in Chief Executive 300 the Share Option Scheme resident outside the UK.
Finance Director and Chief Information Officer 200 Under the Sharesave Scheme, a total of 881,981 options over ordinary Chief Operating Officer 200 shares in the Company were outstanding at 31 December 2010.
The Management Board 100 options outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable until June 2015 at option prices ranging from 977p to 1,555p.
At the date of this report, Paul Adams Chief Executive, Nicandro The British American Tobacco Group Employee Trust BATGET Durante Chief Executive Designate and Ben Stevens Finance BATGET is used to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of Director and Chief Information Officer each meet the current ordinary shares made under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme, and shareholding guidelines.
There are transitional provisions in place the 1998 LTIP and the 2007 LTIP as well as the exercise of options forthose Executive Directors and Management Board members who under the Share Option Scheme.
The number of shares held in do not meet the requirements of the shareholding guidelines upon BATGET to satisfy outstanding awards is consistently monitored appointment.
In such cases, individuals may, generally, only sell a by a committee of senior management that reports to a committee maximum of up to 50 per cent of any shares vesting after tax under of the Board.
BATGET is funded by interest-free loan facilities from Company share plans until the threshold under the shareholding the Company totalling 400 million, enabling the trust to facilitate guidelines has been met.
the purchase of ordinary shares to satisfy the future vesting or exercise of options and awards.
The loan to BATGET amounted to 82 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued The interests of the Directors of the Company in the ordinary shares John Daly was formerly a member of the P J Carroll Directors Plan in of the Company are shown in Table 5.
He is also entitled to a deferred benefit currently amounting to 105,631 per annum, payable from the age of 60.
This benefit is Executive Directors pension benefits scheduled to increase each year between January 2011 and December 2015 by the lower of 4 per cent or the Irish Consumer Purpose provision of competitive post-retirement benefits Price Index.
The increase amount is confirmed each year by the Minister of Social Protection in Ireland the increase for 2010 was Delivery British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund and 0per cent.
Company supplementary pension arrangements monthly pension payment Nicandro Durante is a member of the Fundacao Albino Souza Cruz FASC in Brazil.
This is a non-contributory defined benefit scheme Policy pension accrues at one-fortieth of annual base salary and includes a spouses death in service benefit equal to 37.5 per Fund normal pensionable age of 60 cent of the members prospective pension at normal retirement age.
maximum pension payable will not exceed two-thirds Accrual rates do not exceed 1.85 per cent of basic salary excluding of base salary averaged over the preceding 12 months bonus averaged over the 12 months to normal retirement age, for UK Pension Fund retains a scheme-specific cap each year of pensionable service.
Nicandro Durantes Brazilian following the introduction of the new UK pension pensionable salary will be reviewed by the Company annually with regime in 2006 reference to the salary of that of a General Manager of Souza Cruz excess benefits continue to be accrued within an SA which will be adjusted annually in line with local practice and unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme agreed with the Company.
Benefits from the FASC remain subject to the rules of that scheme.
Executive Directors with the exception of Nicandro Durante are, In addition, Nicandro Durante accrues a pension of 0.65 per cent like other UK employees, eligible for membership of the British for each year of service the UK Accrual Rate with effect from American Tobacco UK Pension Fund Pension Fund.
1March 2006, being the date of his appointment as a member of The Pension Fund, for members who joined before 1 April 2005, is a the Management Board.
At retirement the pension will be based on non-contributory defined benefit scheme.
The early retirement rules Nicandro Durantes 12 month average UK base salary excluding in the Pension Fund permit a member to draw the accrued bonus immediately prior to retirement.
This accrued pension will be retirement pension within five years of Fund normal retirement age provided through the UURBS.
Further, the UK Accrual Rate for the without actuarial reduction, subject to the employing companys element of the base salary in excess of 670,000 increases from 0.65 agreement.
Alternatively, an Executive Director may choose to leave per cent as stated above to 2.50 per cent for each year of service and and take a pension at any time on or after his or her 50th birthday will continue to be provided through the UURBS.
The initial base without the employing companys agreement, subject to a reduction salary level of 670,000 in respect of the 2.50 per cent accrual as determined by the Pension Fund trustee in conjunction with the provided through the UURBS will be adjusted annually by the same Pension Fund actuary.
Accrual rates differ according to individual percentage as that agreed for Nicandros Durantes pensionable circumstances but do not exceed one-fortieth of pensionable salary salary for the purposes of calculating benefits payable from the FASC.
for each year of pensionable service.
Executive Directors service contracts Pensionable pay covers base salary only and therefore bonus awards Each Executive Director has a one year rolling contract, executed at and the value of benefits in kind are not pensionable.
the time of his original appointment.
The contract may be varied from time to time to take account of changes in terms and The Pension Fund includes provision for spouses benefits on death in conditions as well as to incorporate best practice.
Each contract service or after retirement.
In the event of death in service, a spouses includes a provision for a termination or compensation payment in pension equal to half of the members prospective pension at normal lieu of notice.
retirement age would be payable.
A spouses pension payable in the event of death after retirement is equal to half of the members full The Remuneration Committee, however, maintains the discretion to pension, irrespective of any decision to exchange part of the benefit vary the policy of one year rolling contracts in the event that an for a lump sum.
Executive Director is recruited externally or from overseas, when it may then be appropriate to offer a contract with an initial period of Paul Adams, John Daly and Ben Stevens each joined the Pension longer than one year, reducing to a one year rolling contract after Fund after 1989.
As a result, prior to 6 April 2006, these individuals the expiry of the initial period.
were subject to the HM Revenue & Customs cap on pensionable earnings notionally 123,600 for the tax year 2010 11.
In addition, An Executive Directors compensation payment, in lieu of notice, each has an unfunded pension promise from the Company in respect would comprise: 1 12 months salary at his then current base pay: of earnings above the cap on an equivalent basis to the benefits and 2 a cash payment in respect of other benefits under the provided by the Pension Fund.
This is provided through membership contract such as medical insurance, or the Company may at its of an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS.
option continue those benefits for a 12 month period.
The Committee maintains discretion as to how to deal with any grants or These unfunded commitments are included in note 12 to the accounts.
awards made prior to termination under the LTIPs, the IEIS and the Members of the Pension Fund are entitled to receive increases in their Share Option Scheme if appropriate.
Pension entitlements are dealt pensions once in payment in line with price inflation as measured by with in accordance with the terms and conditions of the applicable the Retail Prices Index up to 6 per cent per annum.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 83 Corporate governance pension scheme and do not form part of the contractual None of the Executive Directors or Management Board members compensation payment.
currently holds such an appointment.
The compensation payment is payable where the requisite 12 During the year, Nicandro Durante, an Executive Director of the months notice is not given to the Executive Director or when he Company, was a non-executive director of Reynolds American Inc terminates by giving 12 months notice and the Company does not RAI an associate undertaking of the Company having been wish him to serve his notice.
If a period of notice is served, the designated by Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. a wholly-owned compensation payment is reduced pro rata.
In the unlikely event indirect subsidiary of the Company, as its nominee to sit on the that the contract is terminated for cause such as gross misconduct, board of RAI.
In accordance with present arrangements, the Group the Company may terminate the contract with immediate effect and received a fee of US$195,525 from RAI 2009: US$215,020 in respect no compensation would be payable.
of Nicandro Durantes service in that role up to 1 December 2010, the date of his resignation from that position.
Nicandro Durante has a service contract with the Company in the form outlined above.
In addition, as a result of the application of On 1 December 2010, John Daly, an Executive Director of the Company, local labour laws in Brazil, Nicandro Durante retains certain became a non-executive director of RAI.
Further to the present termination or compensation rights in respect of his former arrangements, the Group received a fee of US$17,775 from RAI in employment with Souza Cruz SA.
In the event of any compensation respect of John Dalys service in that role up to 31 December 2010. being payable to Nicandro Durante pursuant to his service contract Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment with the Company, these Souza Cruz rights will be taken into The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the account first in arriving at a final compensation amount in order that Company but instead have letters of appointment.
Since 2010, all he does not benefit twice from these dual arrangements.
Non-Executive Directors have terms of appointment of one year Executive Directors external appointments only which are considered for renewal around the time of the Executive Directors and members of the Management Board are Companys Annual General Meeting each year.
able to accept one substantive external Board appointment provided The date of appointment, the most recent reappointment and that permission is respectively sought from the Board or Chairman.
length of service for each Non-Executive Director are shown in the Any fees from such appointments are retained by the individual in table below.
recognition of the increased level of personal commitment required.
Length of service Date of last as at 2011 Annual Date of reappointment General Meeting Non-Executive Director appointment at AGM Years Months Karen fide Segundo 1 October 2007 30 April 2008 3.7 Robert Lerwill 1 January 2005 30 April 2009 6.4 1 Ana Maria Llopis 24 February 2003 28 April 2010 8.2 Christine Morin-Postel 1 October 2007 28 April 2010 3.7 Gerry Murphy 13 March 2009 30 April 2009 2.1 Kieran Poynter 1 July 2010 0.10 Anthony Ruys 1 March 2006 28 April 2010 5.2 Sir Nicholas Scheele 28 February 2005 30 April 2009 6.2 Note: 1.
Ana Maria Llopis will retire as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
84 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued On termination, at any time, a Non-Executive Director is entitled Non-Executive Directors receive no other pay or benefits with the toany accrued but unpaid Directors fees but not to any exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in respect of their othercompensation.
duties as Directors of the Company.
It is the policy of the Board that the spouses of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors remuneration policy may accompany the Directors for business purposes on designated The current fees structure for the Non-Executive Directors is trips and functions during the year.
shownbelow: Anthony Ruys has been a Non-Executive Director of ITC Limited With ITC an associate undertaking of the Company since 20 January effect from 2009.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, Anthony Ruys 1 Jan 2011 Jan-Dec 2010 received INR680,000 9,713 in fees from ITC 2009: INR196,712 2,475.
This amount is the subject of an annual supplement from Basic fee 90,000 90,000 a Group company so that he receives a total annual fee for this appointment of 75,000.
Anthony Ruys also has an interest in Supplements: options over shares in ITC see Table 8.
Senior Independent Director 28,000 25,000 Chairmans terms of appointment and remuneration Audit Committee Chairman 28,000 25,000 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the terms of engagement and fees payable to the Chairman.
This CSR Committee Chairman 23,000 20,000 process takes into account the breadth of that role coupled with its Nominations Committee Chairman associated levels of commitment and expertise.
Remuneration Committee Chairman 23,000 20,000 Richard Burrows has been a Director of the Company since 1September 2009 and has been Chairman of the Company from Committee Membership Fees 1November 2009.
The terms of his appointment provide that he not Chairmen : holds the appointment for an initial term of two years unless Audit Committee 5,000 terminated earlier by: 1 the Company giving three months notice or a discretionary compensation payment in lieu of notice: or 2 by CSR Committee 5,000 him giving one months written notice: with the Company having Nominations Committee discretion to make a compensation payment in lieu of such notice.
Remuneration Committee The compensation payment is limited to any fees which are payable for such part of the relevant notice period as the Board does not require him as Chairman to perform his duties.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are considered annually and are determined in light of market best practice and with The current terms of Richard Burrows appointment provide for: reference to the time commitment and responsibilities associated 1 an annual fee of 525,000: 2 the use of a driver: 3 private with the roles.
medical insurance and personal accident insurance benefits: and 4 the reimbursement by the Company of the cost of return airline In October 2010, in order to recognise the growing workload of the tickets to London from Ireland in connection with his duties as Board Committees, two changes were made to the fees structure Chairman.
In common with the Non-Executive Directors, Richard for the Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2011: Burrows does not participate in the British American Tobacco share 1 a membership fee was introduced for those Non-Executive schemes, bonus schemes or incentive plans and is not a member of Directors sitting on the Audit Committee and the CSR Committee any Group pension plan.
who are notthe Chairman of either of those Committees no membership fees are currently payable for membership of the In February 2011, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the fees Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee : and for the Chairman against practice in the FTSE 30 and agreed to 2 an increasewas agreed to each of the supplement fees.
The basic increase his annual fees from 525,000 to 570,000 with effect from feeremains unchanged.
Non-Executive Directors fees including those of the Chairman are Copies of service contracts and terms of appointment determined within the overall aggregate annual limit of 2,500,000 Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts and the details authorised by shareholders with reference to the Companys Articles of the terms of appointment of each Non-Executive Director and the of Association.
The Board as a whole considers the policy and Chairman are available for inspection during normal business hours structure for the Non-Executive Directors fees on the at the Companys registered office and will also be available for recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The inspection at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2011.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 85 Corporate governance Appendices to the Remuneration report Table 1: Aggregate emoluments audited The emoluments of the Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. were as follows: 2010 2009 Salaries and fees 4,094,584 3,807,417 Benefits: cash and non-cash 1,214,506 779,927 Performance-related pay cash bonus 3,500,527 1,572,915 deferred share bonus 1,257,217 1,572,915 DSBS and LTIP equivalents 701,947 459,222 Share Reward Scheme 6,084 8,100 Former Directors 43,602 747,543 Total 10,818,467 8,948,039 Table 2: Individual fees of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors audited Fees Benefits Total 2010 Total 2009 Richard Burrows from 1 September 2009 525,000 157,319 682,319 178,317 Karen fide Segundo 110,000 16,399 126,399 118,082 Robert Lerwill 115,000 774 115,774 116,331 Ana Maria Llopis 90,000 90,000 90,000 Christine Morin-Postel 90,000 90,000 90,000 Gerry Murphy from 13 March 2009 90,000 8,103 98,103 72,958 Kieran Poynter from 1 July 2010 45,000 118 45,118 Anthony Ruys 110,000 5,543 115,543 110,000 Sir Nicholas Scheele 115,000 16,131 131,131 115,811 Former Chairman Jan du Plessis until 31 October 2009 584,919 Former Non-Executive Director Thys Visser until 30 April 2009 30,000 Total 1,290,000 204,387 1,494,387 1,506,418 Notes: 1.
R ichard Burrows benefits as Chairman comprise: 1 the use of a company driver: 2 installation and maintenance of home security systems 44,378 : and 3 travel and other expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions and or corporate events.
Benefits for Non-Executive Directors comprise those expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions.
In addition, Anthony Ruys received INR680,000 9,713 2009: INR196,712 2,475 from ITC Limited, the Groups associate undertaking in India, in respect of his services as a Non-Executive Director of that company during 2010 appointed 20 January 2009.
This was supplemented by a further payment of 65,287 2009: 68,621 paid by the Group for services up to and including 31 December 2010, so that he receives a total annual fee for this appointment of 75,000.
The benefits shown for Antonio Monteiro fide Castro and Paul Rayner comprise principally their contractual entitlements to tax advice in respect of their relocations back to Brazil and Australia respectively.
The Executive Directors remuneration shown above does not include, in respect of the LTIP awards made in May 2008 and which will vest on 15 May 2011: 1 the illustrative values of those awards as at 22 February 2011 reference should be made to the illustrative values shown for each Executive Director in Table 6 : and 2 the values of the LTIP dividend equivalent payments to be made in respect of those awards which are: Paul Adams 353,636: Nicandro Durante 222,936: Ben Stevens 157,913: and John Daly 111,468.
Table 4: Analysis of remuneration of Executive Directors audited Paul Adams 2010 2009 Salary 1,273,750 Salary 1,213,750 Benefits: cash 15,840 Benefits: cash 16,780 Benefits: non-cash 133,720 Benefits: non-cash 129,981 Annual cash bonus 2,243,310 Annual cash bonus 829,325 Value of deferred share bonus Value of deferred share bonus 829,325 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 69,178 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 61,318 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 397,386 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 233,569 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year 2,028 the year 2,700 Total see Table 3 4,135,212 Total see Table 3 3,316,748 Notes: 1.
Cash benefits comprise: a car allowance 15,840.
Non-cash benefits comprise: 1 life and health insurance 45,090 : 2 the use of a company driver: 3 maintenance of home security systems 3,265 : and 4 other expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions and or corporate events.
Paul Adams will retire as Chief Executive on 28 February 2011 and will cease to be an employee of the Company from that date.
In accordance with the rules of the IEIS, his performance-related bonus in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 is therefore payable as a 100 per cent cash bonus instead of 50 per cent in cash and 50 per cent in deferred shares.
Cash dividend equivalent payments: 1 DSBS these are cash sums equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all unvested ordinary shares comprised in the share awards held by participants in the DSBS at each dividend record date: and 2 LTIP this is a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that an LTIP participant would have received as a shareholder on the actual number of shares under an LTIP award.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 87 Corporate governance Table 4: Analysis of remuneration of Executive Directors audited continued Nicandro Durante 2010 2009 Salary 660,000 Salary 622,500 Benefits: cash 13,560 Benefits: cash 43,157 Benefits: non-cash 573,369 Benefits: non-cash 407,601 Annual cash bonus 524,275 Annual cash bonus 383,985 Value of deferred share bonus 524,275 Value of deferred share bonus 383,985 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 25,046 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 13,690 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 85,833 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 64,580 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year 2,028 the year 2,700 Total see Table 3 2,408,386 Total see Table 3 1,922,198 Notes: 1.
Cash benefits comprise: a car allowance 13,560.
Non-cash benefits comprise: 1 life and health insurance 10,698 : 2 tax advice 54,720 : 3 the use of a company driver: 4 travel and related costs in respect of the relocation of Nicandro Durante from Brazil 136,719 : 5 employee welfare and medical payments made by Souza Cruz SA in respect of Nicandro Durantes subsisting employment rights in Brazil 88,428 : 6 the payment by the Company of Nicandro Durantes income tax liability on a cash-based equivalent LTIP award made to him in 2005 when he was located in Brazil and which vested in March 2008 when he was located in the UK : the payment being made in accordance with the Companys policy whereby individuals are protected from paying no more than 100 per cent of their home tax rate 165,233 : 7 installation and maintenance of home security systems in the UK and Brazil 35,918 : and 8 other expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions and or corporate events.
Ben Stevens 2010 2009 Salary 654,167 Salary 582,500 Benefits: cash 13,560 Benefits: cash 14,500 Benefits: non-cash 95,095 Benefits: non-cash 80,157 Annual cash bonus 563,400 Annual cash bonus 359,605 Value of deferred share bonus 563,400 Value of deferred share bonus 359,605 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 24,215 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 17,896 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 95,371 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 68,169 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year 2,028 the year 2,700 Total see Table 3 2,011,236 Total see Table 3 1,485,132 Notes: 1.
Non-cash benefits comprise: 1 life and health insurance 5,741 : 2 the use of a company driver: 3 installation and maintenance of home security systems 5,563 : and 4 other expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions and or corporate events.
88 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Table 4: Analysis of remuneration of Executive Directors audited continued John Daly from 1 September 2010 2010 2009 Salary 216,667 Salary Benefits: cash 110,382 Benefits: cash Benefits: non-cash 54,593 Benefits: non-cash Annual cash bonus 169,542 Annual cash bonus Value of deferred share bonus 169,542 Value of deferred share bonus Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 4,918 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS Cash dividend equivalent LTIP Cash dividend equivalent LTIP Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year the year Total see Table 3 725,644 Total see Table 3 Notes: 1.
The amounts shown for John Daly are apportioned to reflect those sums received since the date of his appointment as a Director from 1 September 2010.
Cash benefits comprise: 1 a car allowance 4,520 : and 2 a contractual payment made in respect of the relocation of John Daly from Hong Kong 105,862.
Non-cash benefits comprise: 1 health insurance 914 : 2 tax advice in respect of the relocation of John Daly from Hong Kong 4,898 : 3 the use of a company driver: 4 installation and maintenance of home security systems 2,800 : and 5 other expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions and or corporate events.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 89 Corporate governance Table 5: Directors interests in British American Tobacco p. l. c. ordinary shares of 25p At 1 Jan 2010 Changes or date of At from At appointment 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2010 22 Feb 2011 Richard Burrows 10,000 10,000 10,000 Paul Adams 164,617 162,115 10 162,125 Nicandro Durante 106,778 112,167 11 112,178 Ben Stevens 49,983 77,902 77,902 John Daly from 1 September 2010 1,593 22,795 22,795 Karen fide Segundo 4,050 2,000 2,000 Robert Lerwill 3,000 3,000 3,000 Ana Maria Llopis 2,200 2,200 2,200 Christine Morin-Postel 4,700 4,700 4,700 Gerry Murphy 3,000 3,000 3,000 Kieran Poynter from 1 July 2010 5,000 5,000 5,000 Anthony Ruys 3,000 3,000 3,000 Sir Nicholas Scheele 5,000 5,000 5,000 Total 362,921 412,879 21 412,900 Notes: 1.
T he changes in Directors interests since 31 December 2010 relate to the purchase of shares pursuant to the Companys Partnership Share Scheme.
Based on the performance for 2010, the Executive Directors will each be awarded a number of ordinary shares to the value of 2,610 pursuant to an appropriation of shares under the Share Reward Scheme on 1 April 2011.
In addition to the shares shown above, the Executive Directors have further interests in the ordinary shares in the Company set out in Table 6 below and which are held in trust pursuant to the British American Tobacco DSBS.
The value of these shares has been included as Directors emoluments in the prior year.
Details of the DSBS are given in the Remuneration report.
On 31 December 2010, the Groups employee share ownership trust referred to in the Remuneration report held a total of 11,949,088 ordinary shares in the Company.
All participating employees, including the Executive Directors, are deemed to have a beneficial interest in these shares.
90 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Table 6: Executive Directors 1 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 awards: 2 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme share interests: and 3 share options ordinary shares of 25p in British American Tobacco p. l. c. audited Paul Adams Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan At Awarded Vested Lapsed At Value Illustrative 1 Jan 2010 in 2010 in 2010 in 2010 31 Dec 2010 vested value vesting Performance Award Number Number Number Number Number in 2010 Vesting 2011 period date of shares of shares of shares of shares of shares date 1 2007 2009 15-May-07 159,337 159,337 3,530,908 15-May-10 3 3 2008 2010 15-May-08 163,418 163,418 15-May-11 3,986,582 3 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 224,192 224,192 27-Mar-12 3 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 162,754 162,754 25-Mar-13 Total 546,947 162,754 159,337 550,364 3,530,908 3,986,582 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme At Awarded Released At 1 Jan 2010 in 2010 in 2010 31 Dec 2010 Award Number Number Number Number date of shares of shares of shares of shares 13-Mar-07 46,083 46,083 13-Mar-08 25,603 25,603 27-Mar-09 63,297 63,297 25-Mar-10 36,728 36,728 Total 134,983 36,728 46,083 125,628 Options Sharesave Scheme At Granted Exercised on At 1 1 Jan 2010 in 2010 9 Mar 2010 31 Dec 2010 Dates from Number Grant Grant Number Number of Market Gain Number which Latest of shares date price of shares shares price of shares exercisable expiry date 2,492 25-Nov-04 663.0p 2,492 2,306.5p 40,956 Jan 2010 Jun 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan Notes: 1.
LTIP award 15 May 2007: in order to enable participants to elect to be taxed on this award in the 2009 10 tax year, certain Executive Directors entered into restricted share agreements in March 2010 whereby each participant elected to receive the beneficial interest in the shares underlying the 2007 award to the extent that the performance conditions had been met.
Each participant paid their respective tax liabilities to the Company from their own funds based on the closing mid-market price on 15 March 2010 2,216.0p.
The shares were held by the trustee of the British American Tobacco Group Employee Trust until the vesting date of 15 May 2010 at which point the restricted shares were eligible to be transferred to the participants.
The vesting of the awards on 15 May 2010 was reported in the Companys Annual Report 2009 showing illustrative vesting values based on the mid-market price of ordinary shares of 2,200.0p at 22 February 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of that report.
The closing mid-market price on 17 May 2010 being the next business day following the vesting date of 15 May 2010 was 2,040.5p.
The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on the following award dates was: 15 May 2007 1,590.0p : 15 May 2008 1,966.0p : 27 March 2009 1,534.0p : and 25 March 2010 2,278.0p.
Paul Adams will retire as Chief Executive on 28 February 2011 and the Remuneration Committee has determined that all of his outstanding LTIP awards willvest and be exercisable from 1 March 2011.
The May 2008 award will vest at 100 per cent in the manner described in the Remuneration report.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 22 February 2011, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, of 2,439.5p has been used to value the vesting of that award.
Paul Adams March 2009 award and the March 2010 award will be subject to pro-rata time and performance vesting criteria: at31December 2010 the performance percentage reflecting performance to date was 86.5 per cent for the March 2009 award and 81.4 per cent for the March 2010 award.
The performance conditions applicable to the LTIP awards relate to an apportionment between measures relating to TSRand EPS-based criteria with reference to a three year performance period.
TSR combines both the share price and dividend performance of the Company as set against two comparator groups: a the FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of the performance period: and b a peer group of FMCG companies.
A total of 50 per cent of the total award is based upon each of two separate measures 25 per cent for each measure.
Fifty per cent of an award is based on EPS growth relative to inflation.
Further details of the performance conditions are set out in the Long-Term incentives section of the Remuneration report.
There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of the LTIP interests during the year.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 91 Corporate governance Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Notes: 1.
Each Executive Director has an interest in the ordinary shares of the Company, as shown in the DSBS tables, which are held in trust pursuant to the British American Tobacco DSBS.
The cost of these shares has been included as Directors emoluments in the prior year.
Details of the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme are given in the Remuneration report.
The DSBS shares awarded on 13 March 2007 were released on 15 March 2010.
The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobaccop.
Sharesave Scheme: in respect of the Executive Directors, no options lapsed during the year ended 31 December 2010.
There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of these interests in share options during the year.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in conjunction with a three-year or five-year savings contract up to a monthly limit of 250.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 20 per cent to the market price at the time of the invitation, as permitted under the rules of the Sharesave Scheme.
The aggregate gain on the exercise of Sharesave Scheme options by the relevant Executive Directors Paul Adams and Ben Stevens was 81,912 2009:nil.
The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on 31 December 2010 was 2,463.5p and the range during the year was1,959.0p to 2,521.0p.
The market price on 31 December 2010 exceeded the grant price of all the options detailed in the Options tables for the Executive Directors.
Nicandro Durante Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan At Awarded Vested Lapsed At Value Illustrative 1 Jan 2010 in 2010 in 2010 in 2010 31 Dec 2010 vested value vesting Performance Award Number Number Number Number Number in 2010 Vesting 2011 period date of shares of shares of shares of shares of shares date 4 2008 2010 15-May-08 74,962 74,962 15-May-11 1,828,697 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 94,996 94,996 27-Mar-12 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 69,751 69,751 25-Mar-13 Total 169,958 69,751 239,709 1,828,697 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme At Awarded Released At 1 Jan 2010 in 2010 in 2010 31 Dec 2010 Number Number of Number of Number Award date of shares shares shares of shares 13-Mar-07 10,566 10,566 13-Mar-08 6,028 6,028 27-Mar-09 29,164 29,164 25-Mar-10 17,005 17,005 Total 45,758 17,005 10,566 52,197 Options Sharesave Scheme At Granted in Exercised At 1,2 1 Jan 2010 2010 in 2010 31 Dec 2010 Dates from Number of Grant Grant Number of Number Number of which Latest shares date price shares of shares shares exercisable expiry date 1,421 24-Nov-06 1,152.0p 1,421 Jan 2012 Jun 2012 92 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Table 6: Executive Directors 1 Long-Term Incentive Plan awards: 2 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme share interests: and 3 share options ordinary shares of 25p in British American Tobacco p. l. c. audited continued Long-Term Incentive Plan Notes: 1.
On 2 March 2010, Nicandro Durante exercised a cash-based award equivalent in value to 31,380 shares.
This award had been made in March 2006 and was subject to the same performance conditions and vesting terms as an equivalent award made under the 1998 LTIP.
This award vested on 15March2009 and was exercisable from that date.
The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares on 2 March 2010 was 2,289.0p, giving a value at the date of exercise of 718,288.
Cash-based phantom LTIP award 15 May 2007: Nicandro Durante received this award over the equivalent of 34,416 shares, subject to the same performance conditions and vesting terms as awards made under the 2007 LTIP.
On 15 March 2010 the notional shares attached to this award were the subject of a conditional payment agreement between the Company, Nicandro Durante and the trustee of the British American Tobacco Group Employee Trust.
This agreement was required in order to enable Nicandro Durante to pay the tax on the notional award of shares in the tax year 2009 10.
Under this agreement, a cash amount was received by the trustee from the Company with reference to the value of the notional award of shares to the extent that the performance conditions had been met at the closing mid-market price of ordinary shares on 15 March 2010 2,216.0p.
The funds were held by the trustee until the vesting date of 15 May 2010 at which point an amount of 762,659 referenced to the value of shares on 15 March 2010 was released to Nicandro Durante.
No interest accrued on the funds between 15 March 2010 and the date of vesting.
The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on the following award dates was: 15 May 2008 1,966.0p : 27 March 2009 1,534.0p : and 25 March 2010 2,278.0p.
The May 2008 award will vest on 15 May 2011 at 100 per cent in the manner described in the Remuneration report.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 22 February 2011, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, of 2,439.5p has been used to value the vesting awards.
The performance conditions applicable to the LTIP awards relate to an apportionment between measures relating to TSR and EPS-based criteria with reference to a three year performance period.
The awards made in March 2009 and March 2010 are due to vest in March 2012 and March 2013 respectively.
At 31 December 2010, the performance percentage reflecting performance to date, was 86.5 per cent for the March 2009 award and 81.4 per cent for the March 2010 award.
Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Notes: 1.
Each Executive Director has an interest in the ordinary shares of the Company, as shown in the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme tables, which are held in trust pursuant to the British American Tobacco Deferred Share Bonus Scheme.
The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on 15 March 2010 was 2,216.0p.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in conjunction with a three year or five year savings contract up to a monthly limit of 250.
The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on 31 December 2010 was 2,463.5p and the range during the year was1,959.0p to 2.521.0p.
The market price on 31 December 2010 exceeded the grant price of all the options detailed in the Options tables for the ExecutiveDirectors.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 93 Corporate governance Ben Stevens Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan At Awarded Vested Lapsed At Value Illustrative 1 Jan 2010 in 2010 in 2010 in 2010 31 Dec 2010 vested value vesting Performance Award Number Number Number Number Number in 2010 Vesting 2011 period date of shares of shares of shares of shares of shares date 1 2007 2009 15-May-07 38,240 38,240 847,398 15-May-10 3 2008 2010 15-May-08 53,098 53,098 15-May-11 1,295,325 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 88,663 88,663 27-Mar-12 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 65,323 65,323 25-Mar-13 Total 180,001 65,323 38,240 207,084 847,398 1,295,325 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme At Awarded Released At 1 Jan 2010 in 2010 in 2010 31 Dec 2010 Award Number Number Number Number date of shares of shares of shares of shares 13-Mar-07 12,293 12,293 13-Mar-08 6,655 6,655 27-Mar-09 26,114 26,114 25-Mar-10 15,925 15,925 Total 45,062 15,925 12,293 48,694 Options Sharesave Scheme At Granted Exercised on At 1 1 Jan 2010 in 2010 9 Mar 2010 31 Dec 2010 Dates from Number Grant Grant Number Number of Market Gain Number which Latest of shares date price of shares shares price of shares exercisable expiry date 2,492 25-Nov-04 663.0p 2,492 2,306.5p 40,956 Jan 2010 Jun 2010 1,000 25-Nov-09 1,555.0p 1,000 Jan 2015 Jun 2015 Total 3,492 2,492 40,956 1,000 94 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Table 6: Executive Directors 1 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 awards: 2 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme share interests: and 3 share options ordinary shares of 25p in British American Tobacco p. l. c. audited continued Long-Term Incentive Plan Notes: 1.
LTIP award 15 May 2007: in order to enable participants to elect to be taxed on this award in the 2009 10 tax year, certain Executive Directors entered into restricted share agreements in March 2010 whereby each participant elected to receive the beneficial interest in the shares underlying the 2007 award, to the extent that the performance conditions had been met.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 95 Corporate governance John Daly from 1 September 2010 Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan Awarded in Vested in Lapsed in Value At 2010 post 2010 post 2010 post At vested in Illustrative 1 Sep 2010 1Sep 2010 1Sep 2010 1Sep 2010 31 Dec 2010 2010 post value vesting Performance Award Number Number Number Number Number 1 Sep 2010 Vesting 2011 period date of shares of shares of shares of shares of shares date 2 2008 2010 15-May-08 37,481 37,481 15-May-11 914,349 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 51,931 51,931 27-Mar-12 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 37,643 37,643 25-Mar-13 Total 127,055 127,055 914,349 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Awarded in Released in At 2010 post 2010 post At 1 Sep 2010 1 Sep 2010 1 Sep 2010 31 Dec 2010 Award Number Number Number Number date of shares of shares of shares of shares 13-Mar-08 5,872 5,872 27-Mar-09 15,151 15,151 25-Mar-10 8,601 8,601 Total 29,624 29,624 Long-Term Incentive Plan Notes: 1.
T he closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on the following award dates was: 15 May 2008 1,966.0p : 27 March 2009 1,534.0p : and 25 March 2010 2,278.0p.
At 31 December 2010 the performance percentage reflecting performance to date was 86.5 per cent for the March 2009 award and 81.4 per cent for the March 2010 award.
E ach Executive Director has an interest in the ordinary shares of the Company, as shown in the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme tables, which are held in trust pursuant to the British American Tobacco Deferred Share Bonus Scheme.
J ohn Daly was not a participant in the Sharesave Scheme as at the date of his appointment as an Executive Director 1 September 2010 or at 31December2010.
96 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Table 7: Executive Directors pension entitlements audited Increase in Transfer value Transfer value Transfer value Total Fund Total accrued Gross increase accrued of net increase of accrued of accrued change in normal pension at in accrued pension in accrual pension at pension at transfer value retirement 31 Dec 2010 pension net of inflation over period 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 during period age Paul Adams 60 626,540 56,469 32,416 764,016 12,936,971 14,767,041 1,830,070 3 Nicandro Durante 60 464,917 80,468 62,168 1,315,028 7,971,698 9,840,627 1,868,929 Ben Stevens 60 189,495 32,031 24,519 483,547 3,082,063 3,737,054 654,991 4 John Daly 60 171,133 21,114 13,957 300,151 3,162,365 3,680,288 517,923 Notes: 1.
The amount of total accrued pension is the pension that would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, excluding any increase granted under statute before retirement.
The value of net increase in accrued pension represents the incremental value to the Executive Director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service terminated at the year end.
Nicandro Durante is entitled to a benefit promise of 0.65 per cent of final sterling pensionable salary calculated as a 12 month average in relation to service the UK Accrual Rate from 1 March 2006.
This is provided through the unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS.
The UK Accrual Rate will increase from 0.65 per cent as stated above to 2.50 per cent in respect of the element of the base salary in excess of 670,000 for each year of service and will continue to be provided through the UURBS.
In addition, Nicandro Durante is entitled to a pension from the Souza Cruz Pension Scheme based on an accrual rate of 1.85 per cent of final Brazilian real pensionable salary calculated as a 12month average in relation to service from December 1981 the value of this pension in terms of sterling has increased during 2010 due to a 9percent strengthening of the Brazilian real.
The accrued pension amount and transfer value shown above are based on the sum of these promises i. e. with the accrual rate since March 2006 being a total of 2.50 per cent.
Nicandro Durante is entitled to receive that part of the promise from the Souza Cruz Pension Scheme based on 1.85 per cent accrual rate with immediate effect: this entitlement has been ignored for the purposes of the above transfer value.
John Daly was formerly a member of the P J Carroll Directors Plan in Ireland.
He is entitled to a deferred benefit currently amounting to 105,631 per annum payable from the age of 60.
This deferred benefit is scheduled to increase each year between January 2011 and December 2015 by the lower of 4per cent or the Irish Consumer Prices Index.
The increase amount is confirmed each year by the Minister of Social Protection the increase for 2010 is 0per cent.
The transfer value in respect of John Dalys deferred benefit is included in Table 7 above and has been calculated in accordance with the method used for the Pension Fund.
Changes in the transfer values reflect both individual Executive Directors circumstances such as the date of joining the Pension Fund and changes in salary during the year together with the application of market value adjustments in accordance with actuarial and legislative requirements.
The transfer value basis used is consistent with that used by the Trustee of the Pension Fund for the ongoing funding of the Pension Fund.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the Pension Fund would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the Pension Funds liability in respect of Executive Directors pension benefits.
They do not represent sums payable to individual Executive Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
Further, although Nicandro Durante is not a member of the Pension Fund, the transfer values calculated above have been calculated in accordance with the method used for the Pension Fund.
Although Paul Adams, Ben Stevens and John Daly receive a significant element of their overall entitlement from the UURBS, the transfer values above have been calculated in accordance with the method used for thePension Fund.
The transfer value calculations at 31 December 2010 incorporate a change to the underlying transfer value basis from that used at 31 December 2009.
This reflects a change in the statutory rate of increases applied between an individuals date of leaving the Fund to their retirement date from being in line with the Retail Prices Index, to increases in line with the Consumer Prices Index.
The Pension Fund is non-contributory.
Voluntary contributions paid by Executive Directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
No excess retirement benefits have been paid to or are receivable by any Executive Director or past Executive Director.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 97 Corporate governance Table 8: Non-Executive Directors share options Ordinary Shares of INR1 each in ITC Limited audited Anthony Ruys ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme At 1 Jan 2010 At Number 31 Dec 2010 At of shares Number Number Number of 1 Jan 2010 over Grant Granted of shares At of shares options Number which price in 2010 over which 31 Dec 2010 over which that Dates from Latest of options Grant per Number options Number options may be which expiry 2 2 2 options held date option of options granted of options held exercised exercisable date 20,000 200,000 23-Jul-09 INR1090.00 20,000 200,000 6,000 23-Jul-10 23-Jul-15 6,000 23-Jul-11 23-Jul-16 8,000 23-Jul-12 23-Jul-17 22-Jul-10 INR1461.75 20,000 200,000 20,000 200,000 6,000 22-Jul-11 22-Jul-16 6,000 22-Jul-12 22-Jul-17 8,000 22-Jul-13 22-Jul-18 Total 20,000 200,000 20,000 200,000 40,000 400,000 40,000 Notes: 1.
ITC Limited ITC is an associate undertaking of the Company and is listed on stock exchanges in India.
Anthony Ruys, a Non-Executive Director of the Company, is also a Non-Executive Director of ITC.
Anthony Ruys has been granted options over shares in ITC under the ITC Employee Stock Option Scheme 2006 which provides for the grant of options to its Non-Executive Directors as permitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme Guidelines 1999 the Scheme.
Each option entitles its holder to apply for and to be allotted 10 ordinary shares in ITC of INR1 each upon the payment of the grant price during the appropriate exercise period.
An exercise period begins at the date of vesting of an option and expires at the end of five years from that vesting date.
The vesting period for the conversion of an option under the Scheme is as follows: a 30 per cent vests 12 months from the date of grant: b 30 per cent vests 24months from the date of grant: and c 40 per cent vests 36 months from the date of grant.
No options were exercised by Anthony Ruys during the year ended 31 December 2010.
Status of Remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with the relevant remuneration.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 5 and Schedule report to the Companys shareholders on the audited information 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts within the Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The report also meets the relevant of the Report have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and Companies Act 2006.
The report of the independent auditors, in describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good respect of the Company, addresses those aspects of this Report and Governance relating to Directors remuneration as set out in the UK which have been subject to audit have been clearly marked: Table 1, Corporate Governance Code referred to in the Corporate Table 2, Table 3, Table 4, Table 6, Table 7 and Table 8. governance statement.
As required by the Companies Act 2006, a On behalf of the Board resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration report the Report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 28 April 2011, at which the financial statements will be Anthony Ruys presented for approval.
The vote will have advisory status, will be in Chairman of the Remuneration Committee respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration 23 February 2011 packages and will not be specific to individual levels of
