DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee the Committee, as approved by the Board, embody the purpose of the Committee as ensuring that the Companys executive directors and senior executives are properly incentivised and fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Groups overall performance having due regard to the interests of shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the Group.
Membership All members of the Committee, who are identified on page 23, are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is chaired by Mr C A Banks.
Members of the Committee do not have any personal financial interest other than as shareholders in matters decided by the Committee, nor do they have any potential conflict of interest arising from cross directorships or day to day involvement in running the Groups business.
The Committee meets at least three times during the year and at other times as may be required.
While neither the Chairman of the Company nor the Chief Executive are members of the Committee, they normally attend meetings by invitation except when the Committee is considering matters concerning themselves.
The Director of Group Human Resources acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Audit The directors remuneration in 2010 and the details of the directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares disclosed on pages 32 to 40 have been audited by the Companys independent external auditor.
Remuneration policy The Companys remuneration policy is designed to help ensure the recruitment, retention and motivation of the executive directors by providing fair reward for the responsibilities they undertake and the performance they achieve on behalf of shareholders.
In this context, the Committees policy is to set the overall remuneration package at a competitive level and in a form that permits significant additional remuneration to be earned for high performance over a sustained period.
This is normally achieved by benchmarking base pay against comparator companies taking into account a range of factors and by providing, in addition, short and long term incentives geared to performance.
In assessing the balance of performance related and non-performance related elements of remuneration, base pay and benefits are treated as non-performance related, whereas annual bonus including awards under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme the DASBS and long term incentives are treated as performance related.
For this purpose, share options and performance shares are valued at an appropriate proportion of their face value on grant or award.
On this basis, the Committee sets the remuneration package such that about half the total target remuneration package is derived from the performance related elements.
The performance related elements of the package are designed to incentivise executives to meet key performance metrics which align their interests and remuneration with those of shareholders, for example targets relating to earnings per share and total shareholder return.
In setting such targets the Committee takes due account of the potential effect such targets could have on the attitude and behaviour of executives to risk within the business.
Both the overall competitiveness of the remuneration package and the balance between performance and non-performance related elements are kept under regular review in the light of market practice and the needs of the Company.
The Committee commissions reports and receives advice on directors remuneration from independent remuneration and benefits consultants, namely  LLP PwC and Hewitt New Bridge Street, who may from time to time also provide other services to the Company on remuneration and benefit related matters that are not the subject of review by the Committee.
During 2010, PwC provided external survey data on directors remuneration and benefit levels and Hewitt New Bridge Street provided information to determine whether, and if so to what extent, the performance conditions attached to share options and performance share awards had been satisfied.
In addition PwC provides the Company with some accounting, tax and pre-acquisition due diligence services.
Further details of the remuneration policy and how it is currently applied to the various aspects of remuneration are provided in the relevant sections below.
With regard to external pay survey data, the Committee reviews each year, prior to the annual review of base pay in January, information on remuneration and benefit levels based on external survey data produced by PwC.
The Committee seeks to maintain, wherever possible, a consistent and appropriate basis for comparison year on year in terms of the survey methodology and, in particular, the use of comparator groups from which the survey data is produced.
There are three comparator groups that the Committee uses.
These are related to revenue, profit before tax and market capitalisation.
In each case the comparator group consists of at least 20 non-financial UK based companies that have substantial operations overseas.
Half of the companies in each comparator group are the next highest and half are the next lowest compared to Bunzl.
The total number of companies included in this survey will depend on the overlap of the companies within each of the three comparator groups but the aim is for the total number of companies to be at least 40.
The results from each of the comparator groups are blended by PwC to provide an overall assessed market position as at 1 January of the year of the review.
Neither PwC nor Hewitt New Bridge Street provide specific recommendations to the Committee on remuneration or benefit levels for the executive directors.
The Committee does, however, review survey information provided by them in the light of its established remuneration policy before making its decisions.
All decisions of the Committee were implemented in full.
32 Directors remuneration report Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Base pay The base pay of each executive director is set to reflect the size and scope of that directors responsibilities, the level of overall performance achieved, including that related to environmental, social and governance issues, and experience in the post.
As stated above, it is benchmarked against comparator companies and the actual pay level is set after taking account of performance, relevant external survey data and the average salary increases implemented for other employees within the Group.
The Committee has recently reviewed the level of base pay for 2011.
After taking account of the ongoing performance of the Group, the Committee has from 1 January 2011 increased the annual base pay for Mr M J Roney to 825,000, Mr B M May to 456,000 and Mr P L Larmon to US$935,000.
Mr P L Larmons 2010 base pay as shown in the table on page 40 has been converted into sterling at the applicable average exchange rate for the year.
Annual bonus plan The executive directors participate in an annual bonus plan intended to support the Companys overall remuneration policy.
The bonus plan for each executive director contains meaningful targets that seek to focus attention on one or two key measures of short to medium term achievement.
Bonus awards are not pensionable.
In 2010 the target for the annual bonus for Mr M J Roney and Mr B M May was linked to the Groups achievement of earnings per share after certain specified adjustments eps.
Detailed terms of the plan were determined by the Committee and provided for a bonus to be awarded if the Group achieved, in 2010, a target eps level based on the budgeted performance for the year.
The bonus plan provided for an increase in the bonus award pro rata for eps achievement above the target level of eps up to the maximum bonus referred to below and a reduced payment for performance below the target subject to the achievement of a minimum threshold eps below which no bonus would be payable.
Half of this annual bonus is paid in cash to a maximum level of 57.5% of annual base pay and the other half but with the total aggregate amount capped at 115% of base pay is deferred under the rules of the DASBS, details of which are set out below.
Mr P L Larmons bonus plan for 2010 was partly based on the profit of and capital employed in the business for which he was directly responsible.
In addition a portion of his bonus was based on Group performance.
Part of Mr P L Larmons annual bonus is normally paid in cash to a maximum level of 65% of annual base pay and the balance but with the total aggregate amount capped at 110% of base pay is deferred under the rules of the DASBS.
Under the DASBS, eligible executives, including the executive directors, receive the deferred element of their annual bonus as an award of ordinary shares.
The awards are satisfied by ordinary shares that are purchased in the market and deposited with the Bunzl Group General Employee Benefit Trust the Trust until 1 March in the third year after the year in which the award is made, following which they are transferred to the executive provided normally that the executive has remained in the employment of the Group throughout that period or until their normal retirement date.
The DASBS forms a part of the annual bonus plan so as to provide, in total, an annual bonus opportunity linked to the performance of the Group, with a significant portion of any bonus award held in shares for a three year period.
The Committee believes this supports the overall remuneration policy and contributes to the alignment of executives and shareholders interests.
The rules of the DASBS provide that executives who leave the Group prior to the vesting of their awards lose their rights to any deferred shares although the Committee has discretion to allow such shares to vest if deemed appropriate to do so.
After consideration of potential risks relating to executive remuneration, the Committee has approved an amendment to the rules of the DASBS to introduce clawback terms to apply to awards made in 2011 and in subsequent years.
The clawback terms provide scope for the Committee to reduce or cancel such DASBS awards to the extent that the value of the bonus originally awarded is subsequently deemed to have been overstated as a result of a material mis-statement of the relevant financial statements by which the bonus was originally determined.
The overall structure of the annual bonus plans for the executive directors remains unchanged for 2011.
The table below shows the number of shares under the DASBS held by the executive directors.
Shares held at Shares awarded Shares transferred Shares held at 1 January 2010 during 2010 during 2010 31 December 2010 M J Roney 118,318 29,724 37,250 110,792 P L Larmon 71,448 23,268 23,504 71,212 B M May 65,132 16,300 20,542 60,890 Notes a All awards of shares are made in respect of bonus performance in the previous year.
The awards made during the year were made on 1 March 2010 at a value of 680.5p per share.
b The market values of the shares at the date of transfer in 2010, in each case which related to awards made in 2007 in respect of the 2006 financial year, were as follows: Mr M J Roney 257,437, Mr P L Larmon 162,438 and Mr B M May 141,967.
The Committee also reviews and authorises the outline structure of annual bonus plans for other senior executives within the Group.
These plans are based on performance targets relevant to individual businesses or areas of responsibility and are compatible with the principles of the bonus plans approved for the executive directors.
All bonus plans in place within the Group are capped.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Directors remuneration report 33 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Share based incentives The Committee believes that the long term performance of the Group is an important consideration for shareholders and that share based incentives are an important part of helping to align the interests of shareholders and those employed by the Group.
A formal share ownership guideline is in place under which executive directors are expected to retain shareholdings worth at least equal to their base salaries.
A period of three years is allowed for executives who are promoted from within the Company to achieve this shareholding with an additional two years permitted in the case of external appointments.
Details of the interests of the directors and their connected persons in the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 19 to the financial statements.
The Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP was approved by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting in May 2004 under which the executive directors and other senior executives in the Group may be granted share options and awards in respect of performance shares.
Participation in the LTIP is at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee periodically reviews the level of grants, taking account of each executives performance and job responsibilities.
Options were granted and performance shares awarded under the LTIP to the executive directors in 2010 in respect of both new issue shares and market purchased shares, some of which are held through the Trust.
The LTIP is divided into two parts.
Part A allows the Committee to grant share options.
Annual grants may not exceed an amount equal to three times base salary.
In normal circumstances options granted are exercisable, subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance condition as referred to below, not earlier than three years and not later than 10 years after the date of grant.
Share options granted to date have a performance condition attached based on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance relative to UK inflation RPI over three years.
The performance condition for options granted operates on the following sliding scale: Face value of annual Total margin share options granted over UK inflation as a proportion of salary after 3 years First 150% of salary 9% Next 75% of salary 12% Next 75% of salary 19% The performance condition is tested after three years, with no provision for retesting.
Accordingly, to the extent the performance condition has not been met after three financial years, the relevant share options will lapse.
The performance condition has been satisfied in relation to the options granted prior to 2009 under Part A of the LTIP.
The Committee can set different performance conditions from those described above for future options, provided that the new conditions are no less challenging.
Similarly the Committee can adjust the performance conditions of existing options to take account of technical changes, for example changes in accounting standards or in the event of a rights issue.
The amended condition must be no less challenging as a result of the change.
The Committee considers that the current performance condition remains appropriate after taking into consideration the current economic conditions and the performance of the business.
34 Directors remuneration report Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 The table below shows the number of share options under the executive share option schemes held by the executive directors.
b The mid-market price of a share on 31 December 2010 was 719p and the range during 2010 was 616.5p to 777p.
c The performance condition has been satisfied in relation to options granted prior to 2009 under Part A of the LTIP.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Directors remuneration report 35 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Part B of the LTIP allows the Committee to make an award of performance shares which is a conditional right to receive shares in the Company for nil consideration.
Annual awards may not exceed an amount equal to two times base salary.
A performance share award will normally vest i. e. become exercisable on the third anniversary of its grant to the extent that the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied and will remain capable of being exercised for the three year period following the date on which it vests.
The extent to which one half of the awards may vest is subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over a three year period relative to the TSR performance of a specified group of companies the Peer Group.
The process for identifying the Peer Group is the same as that used for identifying the comparator group for the setting of base pay as described under Remuneration policy on page 32.
These performance share awards vest in full only if the Companys TSR performance is ranked at upper quartile within the Peer Group and the following vesting schedule is applied: Proportion of performance TSR share awards exercisable Below median Nil Median 25% Median to upper quartile Pro rata between 25% 100% Upper quartile 100% The companies currently within the Peer Group are: Aegis Group Inchcape Reed Elsevier Aggreko Informa Rentokil Initial AMEC Inmarsat Rexam Autonomy Corp Intertek Sage Group BAE Systems Invensys SIG Burberry Johnson Matthey Smith & Nephew Cable & Wireless Communications Kesa Electricals Smiths Group Cobham Logica Tate & Lyle Computacenter Meggitt Thomas Cook Group Croda International Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Tui Travel Experian Mondi United Business Media GKN Misys Weir Group G4S Pearson WPP IMI Reckitt Benckiser The performance condition relating to TSR for all awards under Part B of the LTIP provides for the exclusion from the comparator group of those companies that cease to be listed and the exclusion of those companies that have been subject to a recommended takeover offer and are therefore in the process of delisting.
Where companies are excluded from the comparator group, the median upper quartile rankings are recalculated using the reduced number of companies in the comparator group.
The extent to which the other half of awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance relative to UK inflation RPI over three years.
This performance condition operates on the following sliding scale: Total margin over Proportion of performance UK inflation after 3 years share awards exercisable Below 12% Nil 12% 25% Between 12% and 33% Pro rata between 25% 100% Over 33% 100% The performance conditions are tested after three years, with no provision for retesting.
Accordingly, to the extent the performance conditions have not been met after three years, the relevant performance share awards lapse.
As with share option grants, the Committee reviews the performance conditions each time performance share awards are made in order to ensure that they remain challenging and may impose different conditions on performance share awards made in subsequent years provided that any new conditions are no less challenging.
The Committee considers that the current performance conditions remain appropriate after taking into consideration the current economic conditions and the performance of the business.
36 Directors remuneration report Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 The table below shows the number of performance share awards under the LTIP, all for nil consideration, allocated to the executive directors.
b During the year the Committee approved the acceleration of the vesting of the awards granted under Part B of the LTIP on 2 April 2007 by one day to 1 April 2010.
No changes were made to the performance conditions and the periods over which they were measured.
c On 1 April 2010 the Committee determined that the TSR performance condition attaching to half of the performance share awards made on 2 April 2007 had been satisfied to the extent that 46% of the original awards 23% of the total awards had vested and that the eps performance condition attaching to the other half of the performance share awards had also been satisfied to the extent that 76% of such awards 38% of the total awards had vested with the remainder of such awards lapsing.
The closing mid-market price of the Companys shares as at the date of vesting was 740p per share.
The following awards were subsequently exercised by: i Mr M J Roney on 1 April 2010 in respect of 30,726 shares at a market price of 738p: ii Mr P L Larmon on 1 April 2010 in respect of 19,774 shares at a market price of 738p: and iii Mr B M May on 1 April 2010 in respect of 14,298 shares at a market price of 738p.
d On 19 October 2010 the Committee determined that the TSR performance condition attaching to half of the performance share awards made on 19 October 2007 had been satisfied to the extent that 64% of the original awards 32% of the total awards had vested and that the eps performance condition attaching to the other half of the performance share awards had been satisfied to the extent that 76% of such awards 38% of the total awards had vested with the remainder of such awards lapsing.
The closing mid-market price of the Companys shares as at the date of vesting was 760.5p per share.
The following awards were subsequently exercised by: i Mr M J Roney on 19 October 2010 in respect of 35,562 ordinary shares at a market price of 765p: ii Mr P L Larmon on 19 October 2010 in respect of 22,662 ordinary shares at a market price of 765p: and iii Mr B M May on 19 October 2010 in respect of 16,735 ordinary shares at a market price of 765p.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Directors remuneration report 37 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Any shares required to fulfil entitlements under the share based incentive schemes in respect of options and awards over market purchased shares will be provided by the Trust.
The Companys TSR over the last five years compared to that of the FTSE Support Services Sector is shown below.
140 Bunzl FTSE Support Services 130 120 110 100 90 80 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Source: Datastream The UK based executive directors may also participate in a Sharesave Scheme which was approved by shareholders in 2001, is approved by HM Revenue & Customs and is open to all UK employees who have completed at least three months of continuous service.
It is linked to a contract for monthly savings of up to 250 per month over a period of either three or five years.
Under the Sharesave Scheme options are granted to participating employees at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply for the option.
Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted.
The following table sets out the number of share options under the Sharesave Scheme held by the UK based executive directors.
Exercise Options Options at Options at price exercisable 31 December 1 January p between 2010 2010 M J Roney 522 01.11.11 30.04.12 3,136 3,136 B M May 452 01.05.14 31.10.14 3,462 3,462 The current Sharesave Scheme will expire in May 2011.
A resolution is to be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to approve the adoption of a new Sharesave Scheme which will operate on a similar basis.
Based on the authority obtained at the 2001 Annual General Meeting, the Company introduced the International Sharesave Plan during 2002 and the Irish Sharesave Plan in 2006.
These operate on a similar basis to the Sharesave Scheme except that options are normally exercisable three years after they have been granted.
None of the executive directors are eligible to participate in these Plans.
Since both these Plans are linked to the Sharesave Scheme in the UK they will also expire in May 2011.
Subject to shareholders approving the adoption of a new Sharesave Scheme at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company proposes to renew the International Sharesave Plan and the Irish Sharesave Plan on similar bases to the existing Plans.
US based executive directors may participate in the Bunzl Employee Stock Purchase Plan US ESPP.
The ESPP provides an opportunity for employees in the US to purchase the Companys shares at a 15% discount to the market price, up to an annual maximum of 10% of remuneration or US$25,000 worth of shares, whichever is lower.
The purchase of the shares is funded by after tax payroll deductions from the employee with the employing company contributing the 15% discount.
Shares held by Mr P L Larmon under the ESPP are included in his ordinary share interests set out in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
Although not required under the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules since the ESPP only operates over market purchased shares and not new issue shares, a resolution is to be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to approve the adoption of a new ESPP for the purposes of s. 423 of the United States Internal Revenue Code which will operate on a similar basis to the previous ESPP which has now expired.
Retirement benefits As stated in the Accounting policies section of the consolidated financial statements and elaborated upon in Note 20, the Group utilises both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes throughout the world.
All defined benefit schemes have been closed since 2003 to new entrants who are offered a defined contribution arrangement.
38 Directors remuneration report Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 In the UK the Group has historically operated the Bunzl Senior Pension Scheme section of the Bunzl Pension Plan BSPS as its main contributory scheme for senior executives.
BSPS provides for members contributions currently at the rate of 9% of pensionable salary which is base salary with the Group being responsible for the balance of the cost of providing the benefit as determined from time to time by the consulting actuaries to BSPS.
Subject to HM Revenue & Customs limits, BSPS members are eligible for a pension which accrues at a maximum rate of 3% per annum up to two thirds of pensionable salary, with a normal retirement age of 60 years.
BSPS also provides for payment of certain benefits in the event of death or disability.
Due to the cap on pensionable salary introduced in the Finance Act 1989, which has been maintained by the Company notwithstanding the changes introduced to the legislation with effect from April 2006, the amount of direct contribution by the Company to defined benefit pension schemes for the UK executive director who is a member of BSPS is limited.
Arrangements have therefore been made to provide that executive director with an allowance of 30% of base salary above the cap which permits him to make provision, of his choice, in respect of that part of his salary which exceeds the cap.
The other UK executive director and any UK executive director newly appointed to the Group is offered a pension allowance of 30% of base salary and has the choice of joining the Defined Contribution Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan DC Section or to opt for a private pension scheme or other investment vehicle.
Company contributions to the DC Section match employee contributions but are limited to a maximum of 5% of base salary up to the pensionable salary cap.
The Company also provides lump sum life assurance cover of four times base salary.
In the US the main scheme for employees is the non-contributory Bunzl USA, Inc Retirement Plan the US Plan.
Subject to IRS limits, members of the US Plan earn a lifetime pension which accrues at a rate of 1.67% per annum, up to 50% of the five year average pensionable salary less the primary social security benefit, with a normal retirement age of 65 years.
Pensionable salary in the US Plan is capped at US$140,000.
The US Plan also provides for certain benefits in the event of death or disability.
On closure of the US Plan to new entrants all existing participating employees had the choice to continue in the existing scheme or freeze their benefit and join a defined contribution plan, the Retirement Saving Benefit the RSB.
Contributions to the RSB are fully funded by the employer on a sliding scale that is age related.
The contributions are a percentage of base salary maximum 5% which is capped at US$200,000 per annum.
Because of the cap on pensionable salary under the US Plan and the RSB, the pensions of senior US executives are limited and arrangements have been made to provide certain executives with supplementary pensions through a Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA.
Mr P L Larmons SERA provides for a lifetime pension of US$100,000 per annum, payable upon retirement.
In 2007, the SERA arrangement was closed to new entrants and a new defined contribution SERA DC SERA was put in place.
Directors service contracts and terms of appointment It is the Companys policy that executive directors are normally employed on contracts that provide for 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice from the executive.
For the UK executive directors there is no predetermined compensation for termination of these contracts.
Mr P L Larmons contract provides that on termination by the Company without cause he is entitled to receive payment of 12 months base salary plus health insurance coverage, reduced by any interim earnings.
There are no provisions for any of the directors for predetermined compensation in excess of one years remuneration and benefits in-kind.
The date of each service contract is noted in the table below.
Date of service contract M J Roney 1 September 2005 P L Larmon 1 January 2005 B M May 9 December 2005 With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them.
Mr M J Roney served as a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc throughout 2010 and retained fees of 48,750.
Neither of the other executive directors hold any such appointments.
In common with many senior executives in the Group, the executive directors are eligible for certain benefits which include the provision of a company car and payment of its operating expenses, or a cash allowance in lieu thereof, in line with prevailing Group policies and, in the case of Mr M J Roney and Mr B M May, private medical plan coverage under the Companys prevailing UK healthcare plan.
Mr P L Larmon participates in welfare benefit plans made available to all US employees of the Group covering life, medical, dental and disability insurance.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are paid annual fees for their services.
In addition, where relevant, the non-executive directors are paid a fee for chairing the Audit and Remuneration Committees of the Board.
Neither the Chairman nor the non-executive directors have service contracts and they are not eligible for pension scheme membership and do not participate in any of the Groups bonus, share option, long term incentive or benefit plans.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed biennially and is next due for review in January 2012.
The non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually.
The non-executive directors fees were reviewed in January 2011 and were not increased.
The fee for the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee and the fees for the non-executive directors are determined by the Board.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Directors remuneration report 39 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Directors remuneration The following table gives details of each directors remuneration for the year.
The deferred element of the bonus is conditionally allocated as shares as described on page 33 and is not included in the table above.
Shares relating to the 2009 bonus were allocated in 2010 as shown in the table on page 33 and for the 2010 bonus will be allocated in 2011. b The remuneration for Mr P L Larmon is paid or determined in US dollars and has been translated at the average exchange rates for the year of 1: US$1.55 in respect of 2010 and 1: US$1.57 in respect of 2009. c The 2010 fees paid to Mr J F Harris in his capacity as Interim Chairman and senior independent director relate to the period 1 January 2010 to 28 February 2010 the date of his retirement from the Board.
d Mr P G Rogerson joined the Board on 1 January 2010 as Chairman designate and assumed the role of Chairman on 1 March 2010. e Mr M J Roney is a member of the DC Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan.
The Company makes matching contributions to the DC Section.
During 2010 such contributions for Mr M J Roney amounted to 6,180 2009: 6,105.
In addition he received a pension allowance of 30% of base salary less the Companys contribution to the DC Section, as shown in the above table.
The values of the pension benefits for the other executive directors are shown in the following table and are not included in the directors remuneration table above.
In addition in 2010 in respect of Mr P L Larmon the Company paid all necessary contributions, on actuarial advice, to the SERA which amounted to 79,913 2009: 71,271.
This increase is solely attributable to inflation and foreign exchange translation.
Mr B M May receives a pension allowance of 30% of that part of his base salary which is not pensionable under BSPS.
f In addition to the remuneration paid to the directors in 2009 shown above, Mr A J Habgood, who retired as Chairman on 30 June 2009, received remuneration of 204,993 in respect of the period from 1 January 2009 to 30 June 2009.
Change in Accrued benefits Accrued benefits Transfer value of transfer value of Transfer value of at 31.12.09 at 31.12.10 accrued benefits accrued benefits accrued benefits per annum per annum at 31.12.09 during the year at 31.12.10 P L Larmon 16,227 16,641 104,285 16,904 121,189 B M May 39,435 42,390 526,742 89,866 627,732 Excluding SERA entitlements.
Notes a Of the additional benefits accrued since 1 January 2010, the increases attributable to factors other than inflation or foreign exchange translation were 1,732 for Mr B M May and nil for Mr P L Larmon.
b Pension accruals shown are the amounts accrued based on service with Bunzl plc or its subsidiaries.
c The changes in the transfer values of accrued benefits have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with any relevant actuarial legislation and, in the case of Mr B M May, are net of his contributions.
The change in the transfer value of accrued benefits for Mr B M May includes the effect of fluctuation in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and the directors, such as changes in market conditions.
d Mr P L Larmons benefits under the US Plan are frozen.
Mr P L Larmon is now a member of the RSB to which the Company has made contributions in 2010 of 6,452 2009: 6,369. e In addition Mr P L Larmon participates in the Bunzl USA, Inc Deferred Savings 401k Plan.
The Company makes matching contributions to this Plan.
During 2010 such contributions for Mr P L Larmon amounted to 7,113 2009: 7,022.
On behalf of the Board C A Banks Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2011 40 Directors remuneration report Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010
