Directors remuneration report Committed to long-term shareholder value code, which in 2010 are more extensive and approach to the assessment of our contain more prescriptive requirements on performance, these measures will be how variable compensation is managed.
Existing share plans Subject to receiving shareholder approval In 2009 the Committee initiated a detailed the Committee has agreed that all review of the Groups share plans which, performance share awards for the 2010 continued in 2010.
Over recent years there performance year will be made under the has been a trend to deliver an increasing new 2011 discretionary share plan.
amount of discretionary annual performance awards in shares, with new regulatory Year-end compensation decisions Dear Shareholder requirements stipulating that delivery of As in previous years, in considering the level these shares is deferred.
In 2009 delivery of year-end compensation the Committee 2010 has brought with it more changes of the annual performance awards became carefully considered the balance of all in the remuneration environment and complex, requiring the use of a number stakeholders interest including the value the Remuneration Committee has of different plans.
The Committee focused upon ensuring that the Groups recognised that 2010 was the eighth year policies are able to attract and retain At the May 2010 Annual General Meeting, of record profit and income.
This is a talent in the highly competitive markets changes to our restricted share scheme long-term and sustained performance in in which we operate whilst meeting the were approved.
These changes enabled us which the Group has generated substantial requirements of regulators and best to meet the requirements of our regulators, value for shareholders.
The Group continues to focus including the FSA.
Committee believed it was appropriate to on organic growth and within this our make variable compensation awards to people are key.
Therefore, the New discretionary share plan those that contributed to that success Committee puts a high priority on The Groups existing performance share including the executive directors.
These maintaining a reward framework plan is due to expire after the Annual awards were at a level that rewarded that that enables delivery of the Groups General Meeting in 2011.
As part of the contribution and recognised the competitive strategy and builds a sustainable wider share plan review, the Committee markets in which we operate.
recommended and the Board has approved information on how we evaluate our the introduction of a new umbrella style total variable compensation spend is on Global regulatory environment discretionary share plan.
Last year we reported how the development put forward for shareholder approval at of global regulations on reward affected the May 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The Directors remuneration report our policies.
This year there have been Under the new plan a variety of awards may has been prepared by the Committee continued changes.
At the end of 2010 the be granted, including performance shares and approved by the Board as a whole.
Committee of European Banking and the deferred portion of any annual On behalf of the Committee, I encourage Supervisors released its guidelines which, performance award.
More details on the you to vote in favour of our report at the were subsequently incorporated into the terms of the new discretionary plan are Companys 2011 Annual General Meeting new Financial Services Authoritys FSA included in the notice of Annual and, in the meantime, welcome any Code.
Local regulators in a number of countries have built on international GeneralMeeting.
feedback that you may have.
standards for remuneration policies, including those laid out by the Financial In line with best market practice and Stability Board, by introducing their own regulatory requirements, the performance local guidelines.
The challenge to meet local criteria attached to performance share requirements and those of our lead awards made under the new discretionary Ruth Markland Chairman of the Remuneration Committee regulator, the FSA, has been considerable.
plan will incorporate a risk aligned We continue to support remuneration performance test in the form of return practices that encourage financial stability, on risk weighted assets.
This is in addition strong risk management processes and to the earnings per share and total behaviours and have again met the shareholder return measures that already requirements of the FSAs remuneration exist.
To ensure a balanced scorecard 106 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Our highlights Our priorities in 2011 The Committee has made a number of key decisions during the year: For the coming year we anticipate that the Committee will be focusing on: Following changes in regulatory requirements, the Group has rened its existing claw-back policy to emphasise the importance of the Groups values The implementation of the new and behaviours in determining whether claw-back is triggered discretionary share plan We have also made changes to the global deferral framework for awards made Supporting the Group strategy, under the annual performance plan to ensure that a higher proportion of any ensuring compliance with the annual performance award is deferred as award levels increase dynamic regulatory environment In an extension of the review that began in 2009, a review of compensation Developing competitive reward structures was undertaken in specic areas of Wholesale Banking.
As a result, structures whilst maintaining a the compensation of some employees was subject to rebalancing from variable prudent approach to the cost and pay to xed pay, whilst keeping total compensation levels unchanged.
The risk to the business change was in the spirit of the Financial Stability Boards desire for compensation to be paid in a manner that does not encourage excessive risk-taking and to enable our xed compensation levels to remain competitive The form of the new share plan was nalised and will be implemented in 2011 A new shareholding requirement policy was introduced How have we ensured that appropriate What has the Committees role and 13245 linkages exist between the committee, focus been in 2010?
our Board and management committee?
The Committee has oversight of all reward Throughout 2010, the regulatory demands policies for Standard Chartered employees.
on the Committee have continued to grow It reviews and is responsible for setting the as both UK and international remuneration principles and governance framework for requirements develop.
The Committee all compensation decisions.
In particular draws upon the relevant experience and the Committee: knowledge of its members, especially Determines and agrees the remuneration benefiting from the fact that a number of of the senior executives and employees them hold positions on other Board with the potential to have a material committees.
These synergies include the impact on the risk prole of the Group fact that Ruth Markland is a member of both the Audit and Board Risk Committees, Remuneration Approves any proposal to award a high John Peace is the Chairman of the remuneration package to new recruits or Governance Committee, Paul Skinner is a Committee meetings a high level individual bonus award to a member of the Board Risk Committee and Group employee chairman of the Brand and Values Ensures that the remuneration policy is Committee, Val Gooding is also a member appropriate and consistent with effective of the Brand and Values Committee and risk management: the Group Chief Risk John Paynter is a member of the Audit Members Scheduled Ad Hoc officer attends key meetings of the Committee.
In addition, important Committee during the year R Markland remuneration issues are brought to the Chairman 3 6 6 2 2 Board before approval and all independent The Committees terms of reference are V F Gooding 2 6 6 1 2 non-executive directors are involved in available at www.
com discussions before final approval is given.
J W Peace 1 6 6 2 2 What were the findings of the Committee P D Skinner 4 6 6 2 2 effectiveness review?
1 J G H Paynter 5 4 4 1 1 During 2010, an internal committee effectiveness review was conducted.
The 2 O H Stocken 1 2 1 1 results of the review show that there is a Notes good mix of relevant business skills and 1 Became a member of the Remuneration experience between members and papers Committee on 4 March 2010 are of the highest standard.
More generally, 2 Ceased to be a member of the the open relationship with the executive Remuneration Committee on 4 March 2010 management team, particularly both the Group Chief Executive and Chairman, is greatly valued.
A number of recommendations were made to improve the efcacy of processes and to assist the Committee in effective decision making.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 107 Directors remuneration report Benchmarking Standard Chartereds compensation arrangements against emerging regulatory best practice Emerging Regulatory Best Practice Standard Chartered Practice Regulatory Benchmarking Remuneration policy that supports Risk management is core to all business decisions across the Group and we have a effective risk management processes robust process for ensuring that compensation decisions take risk into account further details are on page 111 Rewarding for performance and Employees are assessed and rewarded on performance against objectives and adherence to values adherence to Group values.
Those role-modelling our values typically receive an uplift of 20 per cent over target variable compensation compared with those who demonstrate the values less frequently A claw-back policy on deferred compensation that can be activated by inappropriate behaviours and non-adherence to Group values Strong, dened link between Variable compensation for senior management is driven by collective and individual remuneration and strategy objectives that are clearly linked to the achievement of business objectives consistent with the Groups risk appetite Aligning remuneration to risk horizon The use of a robust risk adjusted profit metric that takes into account regulatory capital, credit and market risk in formulation of performance award pools Claw-back can be applied on deferred performance awards prior to vesting The new share plan has greater risk alignment through the introduction of a new risk-based performance condition The three-year vesting period for share awards is consistent with the tenor of the Groups banking book, of which, within Wholesale Banking, circa 70 per cent is one year or less Appropriate use of guarantees No multi-year guarantees are offered Guarantees are subject to the same deferral and claw-back requirements as variable compensation Meaningful levels of deferral for Those executive directors, senior management and certain other senior employees who variable compensation are covered by the FSAs remuneration code Code Staff, have a maximum of 20 per cent of any annual performance award payable in cash All employees subject to the FSA remuneration code are subject to the required deferral rates and delivery mechanisms A Group-wide deferral framework with a top rate of 60 per cent deferral of total variable compensation exists for all employees In addition, where local regulatory requirements apply, employees will be subject to the higher of these and the Group deferral framework Strong internal governance process The Committee oversees all material variable compensation plan spend and reviews the remuneration of the most highly paid and those subject to FSA deferral requirements The Group Chief Risk officer attends key Committee meetings Control function variable compensation pools are managed separately from the businesses they control Comprehensive set of reward plan committees provide rigorous challenge of variable compensation decisions Control functions provide input into reward plan committee meetings on any control or audit issues positive or negative that should inuence compensation decisions 108 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Five highest paid employees beneath the Board The following table sets out, on an anonymised basis, the remuneration of the five highest paid employees, who are not executive directors, in the year ending 31 December 2010.
The disclosure is not limited to those discharging executive responsibility PDMRs.
2010 Total Variable Compensation $000 Variable Fixed compensation Deferred shares 1 compensation Cash non-deferred and performance 2 3 Employee $000 $000 shares $000 shares $000 Total $000 1 676 2,160 2,160 6,877 11,873 2 765 1,400 1,400 4,746 8,311   5 195 2,995 3,955 7,145 Notes 1 Includes base salary, benets and allowances paid in respect of 2010 and where appropriate on a pro rata basis for new joiners 2 Part of any annual performance award for an employee designated as Code Staff under the FSA remuneration code is delivered in the form of shares that must be retained subject to the Groups revised shareholding requirements policy see page 115 3 Includes the deferred element of annual performance award, the expected value of any performance shares, and if appropriate any distribution from any carried interest plan payable in respect of 2010 but paid in 2011 Advisors Performance and reward philosophy Performance-oriented culture In September, the Committee approved the and principles Our One Bank philosophy, which applies to re-appointment of Towers Watson as its The Groups success depends upon the all employees, ensures that behaviours independent advisor for a further 12 months performance and commitment of talented including prudent risk management and to advise on a range of executive employees.
Our performance, reward and values are rewarded as well as business remuneration related issues.
benets approach supports and drives our performance and is central to our business strategy and reinforces our values remuneration policy.
It means that we seek Towers Watson also provides pensions, in the context of a clearly articulated risk to ensure our approach to reward and actuarial and human resources advisory appetite and a One Bank framework.
performance management is consistent services to companies in the Group.
We are across all employees.
We believe that satisfied that the consultants advising the Our approach: performance and related reward outcomes Committee are signicantly independent of should be a consequence of both how Supports a strong performance-oriented other Towers Watson activities in the Group.
performance is delivered and what is culture, ensuring that individual reward The engagement with Towers Watson has delivered.
This is taken into account in all and incentives relate directly to: i the regard to the code of conduct for personal objectives, performance performance and behaviour of the remuneration consultants in the UK.
assessments and reward decisions made individual ii the performance of within Standard Chartered and has a the business: and iii the interests The Committee also received advice from tangible impact on the reward that of shareholders the Group Head of Human Resources and employees receive.
Communications, the Group Head of Maintains a competitive reward package Performance, Reward and Benets and, as that reects our international nature and Target total compensation is benchmarked noted above, the Group Chief Risk officer enables us to attract, retain and motivate to the relevant market in which each where appropriate.
our employees individual is employed, while the potential total compensation is set at upper quartile Reects the fact that many of our Towers Watson provided formal reward or higher for excellent individual and employees bring international experience survey data to the Committee.
and expertise, and we recruit from a Chance LLP has previously advised on the global marketplace design and operation of our share plans All employees have the opportunity to and is also assisting with the design of the receive an element of performance-related The Committee reviews the policy proposed new discretionary share plan.
compensation, subject to their contractual on a regular basis against significant Clifford Chance LLP also advised on issues entitlement.
Typically, the higher the total regulatory developments, market practice relating to executive and non-executive compensation, the greater the proportion and shareholder views and makes directors contracts.
McLagan Partners delivered in variable form either through a appropriate adjustments.
provided formal reward survey data and cash award, deferred shares and or advice on market practice in variable performance shares.
compensation plans within the Wholesale Banking sector.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 109 Directors remuneration report Reward arrangements for all We employed over 85,000 people in 71 countries and territories at the end of 2010.
While we support our One Bank approach to remuneration, it is necessary to structure compensation and benets to reect differing local market and statutory and regulatory conditions.
The table below summarises the key components of our typical reward arrangements.
Further details on each element are set out in the subsequent sections.
Objective Delivery Fixed Base pay To attract and retain talent by ensuring Cash that salaries are competitive to the Typically only base pay element Reviewable allowances relevant market in which the individual is pensionable is employed To ensure that xed compensation is sufficient to allow a truly exible variable compensation policy Benets Core benets To support and be consistent with our Normally includes retirement benets, values and based on local regulations medical insurance, life assurance and and competitive practice annual leave Sharesave schemes To encourage employee share ownership at All employees are invited to open a all levels throughout the Group three-year or five-year savings contract To engage employees in our performance, Option price is set at a discount of up to align their interests more closely with those 20 per cent to the share price at the date of our shareholders, and offer them an of invitation opportunity for long-term savings and a Within a period of six months after the share in the financial success that they help relevant anniversary, employees may to create exercise the option and purchase shares No performance conditions Variable Compensation Annual performance award To focus participants on the achievement Awards are in three components: cash of annual objectives, which align our and deferred shares and, in relation to Cash short-term performance with the certain designated employees, upfront Deferred shares sustainable creation of shareholder value shares.
Awards in excess of $50,000 have a proportion deferred into shares To provide a portion of total reward that is and this proportion satisfies regulatory performance related deferral requirements To ensure that the proportion of variable The greater the amount of the annual compensation opportunity which might be performance award, the greater the level delivered through a cash award and of deferral deferred shares increases with seniority and quantum Deferred shares vest in equal tranches after one, two and three years, subject to Upfront shares Half of any non-deferred annual the claw-back policy performance award for an employee subject to the FSA Remuneration code Deferred and upfront shares delivered to will be delivered in the form of shares Code Staff may only be sold if a share holding requirement is already satisfied Performance shares To focus participants on meeting and Awards of deferred rights or nil price exceeding our long-term performance options, exercisable after the third, but targets, which are linked to safeguarding before the tenth anniversary of the shareholder interests date of grant, subject to continued employment and performance To align the interests of senior managers conditions being met over the first with shareholders by ensuring that they three years build and retain an appropriate equity stake in the Group 110 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Directors remuneration report remuneration guidelines, political and Our balanced set of reward structures investor sentiment on banking reects the risk prole of particular compensation and emerging market businesses.
The methods by which variable intelligence on what other banks are compensation pools are determined vary payingout.
The Committee then uses according to the nature of the business.
thisinformation and exercises discretion Further information on this is provided todetermine the final pool and below and on page 112. approveallocations to business and support functions.
Programme detail Group reward plans Governance of reward committees In arriving at its decision, the Committee To ensure that there is appropriate, formal looks at the proposed aggregate payouts input to the decision making process for Reviewed annually and only amended as relative to both operating profit and each of the Groups plans there are a appropriate taking account of the latest adjusted economic profit.
However, the number of business specic Reward Plan available market data Committee is also informed by the Committees RPCs responsible for making underlying funding frameworks for individual sure that information from the risk, Off-cycle reviews take place where there is pools and has oversight for the allocation of compliance and human resources functions a particular need to ensure market the overall Group pool across businesses.
Decisions on reward competitiveness The GRPC is responsible for allocating the for control function employees are Increases, if any, typically take effect from approved pools to each business specic determined independently of the business 1 April RPC, which then oversees the allocation of and control function, and the RPC members variable compensation spend within do not personally participate in any business its area.
specic plan to maintain independence.
About 80 per cent of our discretionary The accuracy of finance data used in the Reviewed periodically taking account of decision making process is overseen by variable compensation in the business was local market practice risk and finance representatives jointly.
delivered under adjusted economic Human Resources provides independent profit-based plans this year.
input to minimise any potential conict of interests and control functions input into For 2011 the Group will be moving towards In countries where it is not possible RPC meetings on compensation.
a new measure for determining aggregate to operate Sharesave, typically because and business-specic variable of securities laws, regulatory or other The Group Reward Plan Committee compensation pools.
The measure will be similar issues, we offer an equivalent GRPC, which includes the Group Chief risk capital adjusted profit RCAP.
The new cash-based scheme Executive, the Group Finance Director, the methodology, builds on the Groups current Group Head of Human Resources and adjusted economic profit measure AEP Communications and the Group Chief Risk used for bonus pool funding in Wholesale officer, oversees each of the business Banking, using the higher of economic and specic RPCs to ensure consistency across regulatory capital.
AEP is based on the Standard Chartered.
The GRPC ensures higher of actual losses and expected losses compensation decision making is in and RCAP builds on AEP using the higher accordance with our established reward of economic capital and regulatory capital.
strategy and acts as a link to the Committee, providing feedback on other A small number of employees working in RPCs as necessary.
Principal Finance also participate in a Group deferral levels are reviewed annually, carried interest plan under which they may taking into account both regulatory Variable compensation funding benefit from growth in the long-term value requirements and market practice.
The The Groups total variable compensation of investments they make.
maximum marginal rate of deferral is 60 per TVC spend is calculated after sufficient cent of total variable compensation.
In 2010 profit has been accrued to accord capital Ensuring performance and risk are the deferral framework was enhanced so that shareholders and adequate risk adjusted aligned in compensation structures greater variable compensation was deferred return.
Determination of the overall TVC In relation to the management of variable at the mid-tiers see page 112 pool for 2010 was established in a similar compensation, the Committee views this in way to previous years, although in 2010 a holistic way, with a number of levers used there was greater reliance on pool to determine both the appropriate size of determination based on risk adjusted profit the variable compensation pool and as outlined below.
The two key elements individual recommendations taking account to pool determination are overall payout, of current and future risks to the Group.
It is and allocation of the TVC spend between important to acknowledge that such respective businesses and functions.
interventions happen at the time compensation decisions are made.
These The Committee approves the total TVC levers are used to make what is called ex spend, including the amount to be spent on ante risk and performance adjustments Part of the overall reward package for any performance share awards, for the beginning with the use of AEP.
In addition, executive directors and other senior managers Group taking into account a submission it the Committee has agreed a number of Awards are entirely discretionary and are receives from the GRPC.
The Committee mechanisms to make ex post performance based on individual performance and exercises its judgment to ensure that the adjustments that provide further alignment contribution to long-term value creation overall payout appropriately reects Group to actual performance outcomes.
performance, the control environment, and Appropriate performance conditions are set by any other qualitative factors that the the Committee each time an award is made Committee considers appropriate, including: performance relative to peers, the latest www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 111 Directors remuneration report Considerations at the time of award ex ante Initial pool funding Total variable compensation TVC has been established in a similar way to previous years, although in 2010 there was greater reliance on pool determination based on risk adjusted profit An assessment of the pools relative to financial performance both year-on-year and versus budget, is made with reference to multiple financial lenses including i trading profit, ii adjusted economic profit and iii risk capital adjusted profit Validation of the TVC pool The Committee reviews the TVC pool against the financial dimensions above, but exercises its judgment to ensure that the overall payout appropriately reects Group performance, the control environment, and any other qualitative factors that the Committee considers appropriate Adjustments after awards made ex post Balance of cash, deferred The Committee considers the balance of cash, deferred and and performance shares performance shares to be delivered both at an aggregate level and at an individual level.
Ex post adjustments are only effective if the right people get deferrals and performance shares PSP In the Group, deferrals start at $50,000 and performance shares are awarded to up to 1,000 employees depending on individual performance Performance adjustment This is achieved through multiple lenses and claw-back Diminution in value of deferred award: through share price movement until vesting Claw-back: applied if an individual exhibits poor values and behaviour Claw-back: applied in full or part if there is a material restatement or subsequent loss at a Group or business level Diminution in value of performance shares: through share price movement and subsequent testing of performance conditions Determining individual variable Differentiating performance and values The current deferral thresholds are shown compensation awards ratings at all levels enables targeting of in the following table: The aim is to achieve a high performance spend towards those who have made the Annual performance Percentage culture in which every employee has a clear most effective contribution to the Groups award thresholds $ deferred performance and unique culture, set of objectives, receives ongoing No deferral, recognises and aids retention of our highest feedback on performance and behaviour 50,000 or less paid in cash performers and balances this with and is appropriately rewarded for their affordability considerations.
1 equal to 250,000 25 per cent There is no direct formulaic link between Our ePerformance system, introduced last Above 250,000 and business income generated by an individual year, has resulted in a more disciplined and equal to 500,000 35 per cent and that individuals reward.
transparent approach to managing Above 500,000 and employee performance, with more than equal to 3 million 50 per cent Application of deferrals and claw-back 98 per cent of employees having objectives 2 Above 3 million 65 per cent Annual discretionary performance awards that have been discussed and approved by above $50,000 are subject to the Groups their manager.
To support team and Notes 1 standard deferral framework.
The deferred individual objective setting, the Group A minimum deferral into shares of $5,000 portion is delivered entirely in shares.
From Collective Agenda and business priorities exists 2 2009 onwards, awards are subject to our are cascaded throughout the Group.
This The net deferral rate will be capped at an claw-back arrangements and vest in equal approach underpins the strong focus on aggregate deferral of 60 per cent including an tranches annually over a three-year period.
setting quality performance and values expected value of performance shares The percentage deferred rises incrementally objectives and ensures all employees are as the award level increases.
clear on what is expected of them.
Performance against objectives is then regularly reviewed throughout the year.
112 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Directors remuneration report to review and amend all its discretionary In order to comply with the FSA and other RoRWA share plan arrangements at this time, local regulators requirements, executive Return on Risk Weighted Assets is a key including those plans used more broadly for directors and other senior management performance indicator of the Group that is delivering restricted shares and any may receive a higher proportion of their already used to calculate capital adequacy.
deferred element of performance awards.
total variable compensation in deferred This performance measure takes into shares than under the Group wide deferral account not only the return on assets but Notwithstanding this review, we are not framework.
Those employees covered also risk adjusts the assets by looking at proposing to make significant changes by the FSAs remuneration code credit, operational, and market risk.
requirements receive a maximum of Discretionary share awards remain 20 per cent of variable compensation The weighting between the three elements a key part of both executive directors in cash.
will be split equally one-third of the award and senior managements TVC and the depending on the achievement of TSR, core principles of the proposed plan remain Secondly, the Committee will retain EPS and RoRWA, assessed independently broadly unchanged.
However, the Group is discretion in very exceptional circumstances of one another supporting a balanced mindful of the practical challenges of how to determine that a whole award will not scorecard approach through equal focus its share plans are and will continue to be vest, will only partially vest, or will be upon financial measures, investor interests used in a changing remuneration subject to delayed vesting.
Such and prudent risk taking.
environment, subject to ongoing regulatory circumstances may include a material developments.
Our proposals aim to give restatement of Groups financial statements, In setting the new RoRWA target, us a plan that has sufficient exibility to the discovery of endemic problems in the Committee has considered not only navigate these challenges and requirements financial reporting, or where as a result of the historic performance of the Group, but over the coming years.
financial losses a material breach of also the likely impact of the requirement to regulatory guidelines e. g. in relation to carry higher levels of capital and regulatory The plan is proposed as the Groups main capital holdings or liquidity has occurred or liquidity, and external regulatory changes, long-term incentive vehicle, eligible to all is likely to occur.
Where the Groups financial such as the UK bank levy and the employees with the exibility to provide a statements have been subject to a material requirements of Basel III developed by the variety of award types.
The plan is designed restatement, the Committee may also Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
determine that forfeiture is to be restricted to deliver performance shares, deferred In setting the vesting threshold, the Groups to the award holders in a particular awards and restricted shares, which are Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment business unit if issues in that unit alone currently provided under the existing variety Process ICAAP, risk appetite and the have been the cause of the restatement.
Groups underlying performance have all been taken into consideration.
Thirdly, individual award holders may forfeit Performance shares element of new plan their awards if the GRPC, or the Committee Under the new discretionary plan the Performance shares under the new plan will in respect of members of the Group Committee will have the ability to make continue to vest after a three-year Management Committee, determine in their awards of performance shares subject to performance period.
reasonable judgement that the employee or specic criteria.
former employee has, as a result of an Subject to receiving shareholder approval appropriate accountability review, been Performance share awards under the new at the Annual General Meeting in May this deemed to have i caused in full or in part a plan will form a core component of TVC year, all performance share awards for the material loss for the Group as a result of with a policy of an overall maximum amount 2010 performance year will be made under reckless, negligent or wilful actions or ii of 400 per cent of base salary in face value the new 2011 discretionary share plan.
exhibited inappropriate values or behaviour.
terms in relation to executive directors.
This is consistent with the current level under the Deferred awards Performance shares existing PSP.
Awards under the annual performance The use of performance shares is an award plan are subject to increasing levels intrinsic element of total remuneration for The Committee has also taken the of deferral.
To help simplify the process it is our executive directors and senior opportunity to review the performance envisaged that future deferred awards will management.
Its signicance as a conditions and proposes to add a risk be made under the new discretionary plan.
proportion of potential total remuneration is aligned measure.
It is proposed that, in These awards will be subject to a three-year one of the strongest indicators of our addition to the performance conditions deferral period, vesting equally one-third on commitment to pay for sustainable which apply to the existing PSP of Total each of the first, second and third performance and aligning reward with our Shareholder Return TSR and Earnings per anniversaries.
In line with the current rules risk horizon.
The variations in the level of Share EPS, a new performance measure governing deferred awards under the performance share awards that are shown of Return on Risk Weighted Assets existing restricted share plan, these awards on page 118 highlight the importance that RoRWA will be included.
will not be subject to an annual limit to we place on individual performance.
A ensure that regulatory requirements relating performance test is applied at both the time Using a risk adjusted measure ensures that to deferral levels can be met.
In line with the of award and at vesting.
All performance there is an appropriate return for the risk current deferral plans and market practice share grants are funded from the Total taken and ensures the measure is aligned of our competitors, deferred awards will not Variable Compensation pool agreed by the with the Groups risk appetite.
be subject to any further performance Committee and are not therefore an criteria, although the claw-back policy additional cost to the profit and loss.
2011 Discretionary share plan The final decisions regarding the new The Groups existing performance share discretionary share plan will be detailed in plan is due to expire in 2011.
A new the shareholder circular issued prior to the discretionary share plan will be put forward Annual General Meeting taking place in May for shareholder approval at our Annual this year.
Given the need to renew the Performance Share Plan PSP, the Group has taken the opportunity www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 113 Directors remuneration report Proposed 2011 Awards Awards Awards 2001 Performance Share Plan PSP awards under made in made in made prior The Groups existing plan for delivering new plan 2010 2009 to 2009 performance shares is the PSP.
Although Banco Santander OOO the PSP will be replaced in 2011, there are still awards under the plan yet to vest that Bank of America OOOO were made to employees in respect of the Bank of China OOO 2008 and 2009 performance years.
Under Bank of East Asia OOOO the PSP, the maximum award that can be granted to employees is 400 per cent of Barclays OOOO base salary.
Citigroup OOOO Credit Suisse OO Half the award is dependent upon our TSR performance compared with a dened peer DBS Group OOOO group.
The balance is subject to a target of Deutsche Bank OOOO dened EPS growth.
Both measures use HSBC OOOO the same three-year period.
The rationale for these performance conditions is set ICBC OOO out below: ICICI OOOO TSR JPMorgan Chase OOOO Relative total shareholder return, which Kookmin OOO measures the growth in share price Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation OOOO plus dividends paid to shareholders, is recognised as one of the best indicators Royal Bank of Scotland OOOO as to whether they have achieved a good Socit Gnrale O return investing in a specic company Standard Bank OOO relative to a basket of similar companies or a single index State Bank of India OOO Unicredit OOO EPS United Overseas Bank OOOO Earnings per share provide an appropriate measure of a companys underlying Standard Chartered OOO financial performance Lloyds Banking Group O 1 TSR element HBOS O A comprehensive review of the comparator Lloyds TSB O group was undertaken by the Committee in Notes June 2008.
The outcome was to increase 1 For unvested awards granted in 2008, HBOS was replaced by a synthetic company, in view of its the number of constituents from 15 to 21 acquisition by Lloyds TSB for awards to be made in 2009 and beyond.
The enlarged group better reects the Percentage of increased size and scope of our current actual level of TSR performance compared Increase in EPS award exercisable business.
The Committee considered a with the nearest comparator companies.
combination of measures, including size, Less than 15 per cent Nil business scope and geographic spread, to The Committee believes that it is preferable 15 per cent 15 identify the most appropriate companies to continue to measure total shareholder More than 15 before agreeing the constituents.
return performance using a local currency 1 15 to 30 per cent but less than 50 approach.
This reects the international More than 30 per cent 50 The constituents of our comparison peer composition of the comparator group, but group for awards made in 2008, 2009 and also takes into account that a significant Notes 2010 are set out in the table above right.
proportion of each companys profit is 1 Calculated on a straight-line basis generated in the same currency as its The percentage of awards exercisable at the primary listing.
This approach measures the Vesting of 2008 awards end of the relevant three-year performance real impact for a shareholder by focusing on The Committee recently reviewed whether the period is calculated on a straight-line basis.
relative stock movement rather than taking performance conditions for awards granted in Minimum vesting for awards granted from into account exchange rate uctuations.
2008 were satisfied at the end of December 2009 occurs if median ranking is achieved, 2010.
The table below sets out earnings per with full vesting achieved if we are ranked in Earnings per share element share and total shareholder return the upper quintile in our comparison group.
The percentage of award is normally performance over the three-year period and For awards granted from 2011 under the exercisable at the end of the relevant the percentage of the 2008 awards that has new plan, a slight variation in the TSR three-year performance period and now vested.
ranking approach aligned to market practice is as follows: Element Performance 2008 Awards applies.
The comparator companies excluding Standard Chartered are ranked EPS Growth 18.18% 22.41% in comparison with the TSR performance of TSR Ranking 1 out of 15 50.00% Standard Chartered, recognising the Total 72.41% positioning of Standard Chartereds TSR compared with that of the companies positioned immediately above and below it.
On 13 October 2010, the Group announced Straight-line vesting applies for performance details of a rights issue in participating between the set positions reecting the countries see note 36 to the financial statements.
114 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Directors remuneration report operate, due to local securities laws or Only shares held beneficially count.
As a result of the rights issue, the regulatory issues, we offer an equivalent Shares in a spouses name and nominee Committee recommended and the Board cash-based scheme.
Deferred shares approved adjustments to all unexercised will no longer count under the current share options and share awards granted As at 31 December 2010, 36 per cent of band-linked shareholding guidelines under the Groups share plans.
The basis of employees globally participated in our the adjustments was the theoretical Group Management Committee GMC all-employee Sharesave schemes 2009: 37 ex-rights price methodology, which was members will be subject to a higher per cent.
There are no performance considered the most appropriate to take of test, being the greater of the new conditions attached to options granted under into account the impact of the rights issue.
requirement and the old guideline level these schemes.
The adjustments under certain plans were albeit with deferred shares no longer approved by the relevant tax authorities, deemed to count.
Under the old Further details on the long-term incentives where necessary.
This is consistent with the guidelines, the Group Chief Executives operated by Standard Chartered are set out in approach taken following the 2008 and Executive Directors guideline was note 38 to the financial statements.
200,000 and 120,000 shares respectively Other share plan-related items Under the PSP, the EPS target is measured Shareholding requirements Performance graph at the end of a three-year performance The Group has for many years had a The graph overleaf shows our total period against a base EPS gure.
The shareholding guidelines framework to align the shareholder return performance on a Committee has also adjusted the base EPS interests of its executives with its investors.
We cumulative basis over the last five years gure to take account of the rights issue remain committed to the principles of share alongside that of the FTSE 100 and the PSP using a standard theoretical ex-rights price ownership by executives with an expectation comparison group.
The gures given below are that such employees build up a shareholding a broad comparison group against which the adjusted EPS gures.
Following the publication of the our shareholders may measure their relative Original base Revised base 2010 Financial Services Authority FSA returns.
Standard Chartered is a constituent Year of grant EPS gure EPS gure remuneration code the Code in December member of the FTSE 100 Index and the 2008 173.0 166.7 2010, the Group decided to review its London Stock Exchange is the principal shareholding policy in light of the FSAs exchange for our shares.
2009 174.9 168.5 requirement for designated employees to hold 2010 179.8 173.2 deferred shares for specified periods post the Miscellaneous long-term incentivevesting of awards.
In developing the new related matters: employee benefit trusts shareholding requirement policy, the Group We have two employee benefit trusts, Restricted shares has also sought to balance a desire from administered by an independent trustee, The Group currently operates two plans under investors for meaningful shareholding levels which hold ordinary shares to meet various which restricted shares can be awarded.
and employee sentiment around their obligations under our incentive plans.
The Restricted shares are used to deliver the growingexposure to the Group through 2004 trust is used in conjunction with the deferred portion of annual performance already higher deferrals.
2004 Deferred Bonus Plan while the 1995 awards and as an incentive to motivate and trust holds shares to satisfy the exercise of retain high performing employees.
In line with The key features of the shareholding awards under our various share plans.
similar schemes operated by our competitors, requirement policy are: Voting is at the discretion of the our existing restricted share awards do not independent trustee, who does not have have any performance conditions.
A minimum dened number of vested any rights to dividends.
ordinary shares will need to be held by Current deferral each Code Staff employee at all times The trusts holdings inclusive of any rights For the 2010 performance year, elements of The shareholding requirement level is issue subscription are as follows: total variable compensation will be deferred linked to a relevant percentage of both using only the 2006 Restricted Share Scheme 31 December 31 December historical and current annual RSS.
These awards are subject to dividend 2010 2009 performance awards APAs and equivalent payments at the date of vesting.
1995 trust 13,429,212 7,589,615 effectively results in a 12-month retention Awards will vest in three equal annual period for these vested deferred and instalments.
2004 trust 539,605 498,127 upfront share awards required under the FSA code Incentive retention Awards made outside the annual Dilution limits Executives will be unable to sell vested performance process as a retention Our existing share plans contain monitored upfront shares and deferred shares mechanism are provided under the RSS.
limits that govern both the amount of granted with effect from 1 January 2011 Awards will vest in equal instalments on the awards that may be granted and the unless they meet their prevailing second and third anniversaries of grant.
amount of shares that may be issued to minimum shareholding requirement satisfy any subsequent exercise of awards.
The shareholding requirement will be All-employee sharesave schemes These limits are in line with those stated in setannually, adjusted based on the We strongly believe in encouraging employee the Association of British Insurers levelof APA and for anticipated income share ownership at all levels in the corporate guidelines.
Under the terms of tax liability organisation.
We seek to engage employees our listing on the Stock Exchange of Hong in our performance to align their interests more Kong Limited, there is an additional limit In 2011 the headline shareholding closely with those of our shareholders and that provides that awards under any plan requirement will be 20 per cent of the offer them an opportunity for long-term cannot be granted whether to be satisfied 2010 APA with the percentage levels savings and a share in the financial success through the issue of new shares or market steadily increasing through to 2014 that they help to create.
purchased shares that would cause the when the headline level will be circa total number of shares under option all 50 per cent of APA then adjusted for tax Where it is not possible to offer Sharesave schemes to exceed 10 per cent of issued for most employees schemes in some countries in which we share capital at that time.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 115 Directors remuneration report Total shareholder return Percentage change over five-year period 183.87 200 150.03 157.60 122.85 122.65 150 118.30 126.26 88.05 112.11 83.53 122.96 114.43 80.68 100 100 87.50 65.60 50 0 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Data provided by Thomson Reuters Standard Chartered FTSE 100 Comparator median International Financial Reporting Vesting provisions on a change Standards of control Details on how share awards have been The rules of the PSP do not provide for expensed under International Financial automatic vesting in the event of a change Reporting Standard 2 are set out in note in control.
However, the rules do provide 38 to the financial statements.
that the number of shares subject to the award be pro-rated, based on the length General of the shortened performance period.
The The middle market price of an ordinary Committee may at its discretion, and acting share at the close of business on 31 fairly and reasonably, determine the extent December 2010 was 1,725.50 pence.
The to which awards vest, having taken into share price range over the year was account Standard Chartereds performance 1,316.50 pence to 1,975.00 pence per share since the date of grant.
based on closing middle market prices.
Full details of the directors shares and Vesting provisions for leavers options can be found in our register of When an employee ceases employment, directors interests.
unless classied as an eligible leaver, any unvested share awards will normally lapse.
Unless indicated otherwise, the foreign For an eligible leaver: exchange rates used in this Directors Awards under the existing PSP will remuneration report are based on the normally vest at the original date and average rates throughout the relevant bepro-rated to take into account the financial year.
The rates are GBP1:$1.5439 portion of the performance period as 2010 and GBP1:$1.5613 2009. anemployee Deferred annual performance awards will normally continue to vest over the original vesting period, subject to: There being no breach of relevant non-compete and non-solicit conditions The Groups claw-back policy Other awards made under the RSS will vest immediately on cessation of employment on a pro-rated basis according to the period of time from the date of grant to the date of cessation 116 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Directors remuneration report more pronounced than in much of Europe.
Reward arrangements for Steve also had not had any adjustment for executivedirectors three years, hence the increase is greater Each executive director has documented for him relative to others.
In relation to Mike priorities that are presented to the Rees, the increase is part of the on-going Committee at the start of the financial year phased rebalancing of his total and assessed at the year-end.
The compensation following his appointment to importance of each executive directors the Board, with a greater proportion being individual performance and that of delivered in xed compensation rather than Standard Chartered as a determinant in variable.
their compensation is reected in the variation of the annual performance awards The annual base salary levels of executive directors from 1 January 2010 were as follows: made in recent years, see page 118.
Percentage increase Target remuneration levels for the executive Name 1 January 2010 1 January 2011 at 1 April 2011 directors are set with reference to the P A Sands $1,561,300 $1,543,900 7.5% market, individual experience levels and 1,000,000 1,000,000 affordability.
Target annual performance 1 awards are not linked to base salary, S P Bertamini $900,000 $900,000 11% allowing the Committee the exibility to deliver an appropriate balance between 2 J S Bindra $780,650 $771,950 xed and variable compensation aiming 500,000 500,000 5% to ensure that the greatest weighting is R H Meddings $1,170,975 $1,157,925 on performance-related elements.
These two groupings have 3 G R Bullock $780,650 $771,950 business characteristics, such as 500,000 500,000 n a international scope of operations, Notes complexity and size, that are similar 1 Steve Bertamini has a US dollar-denominated base salary, whereas other executive directors to ours, and represent organisations have sterling-denominated base salaries with which we compete for talent.
2 Jaspal Bindra was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2010 3 Gareth Bullock stepped down from the Board on 1 May 2010 and his employment with the Base salaries Group will cease on 30 April 2011 The Groups compensation review at the end of 2010 maintained a prudent approach to increases in xed compensation across the whole business, targeting a review of base salaries for employees in control functions and senior banking executives where these were out of line with market compensation levels.
A review of salaries for executive directors was also carried out and the Committee agreed to make a number of individual adjustments to base salary.
The rationale for each increase was carefully considered by the Committee which reected on each directors performance, market positioning and the impact of each increase on total compensation.
Peter Sands increase recognises that his xed compensation remains behind his peers and the Committee has continued its approach of phasing in market adjustments over time.
The Committee recommended increasing Richard Meddings base compensation, recognising that his portfolio has grown signicantly in the last 18 months.
In addition to his responsibilities on strategy and corporate development, risk has been added to his portfolio in 2010.
Both Steve Bertamini and Jaspal Bindra work in Asia where the market movement has been www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 117 Directors remuneration report 2010 Total variable compensation TVC awards and 2011 target awards At its meeting in February 2011, the Committee agreed the following TVC outcomes for executive directors in respect of the 2010 performance and financial year: Annual Performance Award $000 Performance 2010 2011 Target 2 3 2010 Target Award Upfront Shares EV TVC award Award 1 $000 Cash Shares Deferred Sub-total $000 $000 $000 P A Sands $2,000 700 700 2,100 3,500 2,621 6,121 2,000 S P Bertamini $1,125 340 340 1,020 1,700 1,405 3,105 1,125 J S Bindra $1,125 340 340 1,020 1,700 1,253 2,953 1,125 R H Meddings $1,500 480 480 1,440 2,400 1,785 4,185 1,500 A M G Rees $10,000 2,200 2,200 6,600 11,000 2,089 13,089 10,000 G R Bullock $375 281 94 375 - 375 $ nil Notes 1 Upfront shares are the portion of the annual performance award that is delivered in shares for the 2010 performance year.
These shares are subject to the Groups shareholding requirements detailed on page 115 2 Awards of performance shares were approved by the Committee in February 2011 but will be granted under the new share plan in May 2011 subject to shareholder approval of the new share plan 3 Directors have a US dollar-denominated target set based on overall financial performance goals, market benchmarks and internal affordability.
The maximum annual performance award opportunity for all directors in 2011 will be 250 per cent of their target part of the executives benefit that The TVC awards were made to recognise the executive director has been summarily exceeds the UK Governments lifetime another year of record income and profits, dismissed or is serving out their notice, an allowance.
In other respects the terms of and strong performance relative to peers.
At amount equal to 12 months base salary, the unapproved scheme are designed to an individual level, awards were made to annual performance award, pension mirror the provisions of the Standard reect relevant business and or contributions entitlement and certain benets Chartered Pension Fund.
Upon the death in geographical performance against both and allowances will be paid in four equal service of an executive director, pension budget and prior year performance as well instalments.
The annual performance award benets are available to a spouse and as broader leadership of the Groups payable in respect of the 12 months following dependent children in a lump sum.
This performance the date of termination is equivalent to the assessment is reected in both the APA as a executive directors target performance award.
Base salary is the only element of The annual performance award payable in multiple of target and in the absolute level of remuneration that is pensionable.
respect of the performance period prior to performance shares, which together termination is decided by the Committee, comprise TVC.
The Committee believes that Executive directors contracts of taking into account both the performance of the individual and aggregate TVC outcomes employment the individual and Standard Chartered.
A pro strike the right balance in aligning reward Executive directors receive and are required rata target performance award is payable if with the Groups overall profit performance, to give 12 months notice.
The dates of the this period is less than six months.
income growth and risk management.
executive directors contracts of employment are as follows: Details of non-executive directorships Retirement benets held by the executive directors Retirement benets are provided through a Certain executive directors serve as combination of approved and or P A Sands 31 December 2003 non-executive directors of other companies.
unapproved dened benefit and cash Details of these directorships are contained structures depending upon when an S P Bertamini 22 April 2008 on pages 84 to 86.
The executive directors executive director joined Standard J S Bindra 1 March 2008 are permitted to hold a maximum of one Chartered and their geographical location.
non-executive directorship with a listed Executive directors are given the R H Meddings 12 December 2003 company on the basis that there is no opportunity to waive a proportion of the A M G Rees 7 January 2010 cash element of any potential annual conict of interest or time commitment.
performance award and a portion of their Details of non-executive fees of the annual base salary to enhance their executive directors are shown opposite.
The contracts contain payment in lieu of notice unfunded unapproved retirement benets.
PILON provisions that can be exercised at Any amounts waived in respect of this year our discretion.
The PILON comprises an are shown on page 121: our actuary has amount equal to 12 months base salary, calculated the additional pension benets pension contributions entitlement and certain using assumptions adopted for International benets and allowances such as life Accounting Standard 19 reporting.
Annual performance awards payable as part of a The dened benefit plans comprise a PILON are determined by the Committee, after combination of the Standard Chartered taking into consideration the performance of Pension Fund, an approved nonboth the individual and Standard Chartered.
contributory scheme, and an unapproved Payments under PILON are made in quarterly retirement benefit scheme.
The unapproved instalments and are subject to mitigation.
scheme is unfunded but the benets are currently secured by a charge, in the name Special provisions apply in the event that of an independent trustee, over specic Standard Chartered terminates an executive assets.
The unapproved unfunded directors contract in the 12 months following a retirement benefit scheme provides the change of control without giving notice.
Unless 118 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Current Basic annual fees and committee fees Remuneration Name Organisation annual fees are designed to be competitive against Johns compensation as Chairman P A Sands The Institute of our international comparison group.
The comprises two key parts.
He receives an International No fees non-executive directors fees were revised annual base fee, part delivered in cash Finance, inc payable in relation to committee fees from March $1,003,535 GBP650,000 and part Global Business 2010.
The fees of the non-executive directors delivered in restricted shares 20,764 shares Coalition on HIV are commensurate with the experience and in 2010.
This structure aligns his interests AIDS, Tuberculosis No fees the increased time commitment that they with those of shareholders and and Malaria payable bring to the Board.
The current fees are set demonstrates the Chairmans commitment out in the following table.
and confidence in our future.
Restricted The Hong Kong No fees share awards for 2011 and 2012 will be Association payable Pre March Current granted in two instalments each year British Bankers No fees Element 2010 GBP GBP March and September with the share price Association payable Base fee 100,000 100,000 based on the higher of the average share No fees 1 price over the five dealing days up to the Audit Committee Roundhouse Trust payable grant date and the closing price on the Chair 65,000 65,000 1 R H Meddings 3 i Group Plc $62,908 dealing day before grant in line with the Committee Member 30,000 30,000 Groups normal approach.
This is Johns International Remuneration primary employment where his duties take Chamber of No fees Committee priority over any existing interest or any new Commerce payable Chair 40,000 50,000 outside interest.
Committee Member 20,000 25,000 J S Bindra Vital Voices Global No fees Partnership payable Nomination The structure and quantum of the Committee Notes Chairmans compensation arrangements 1 Chair N A N A Indicates fees are retained by the executive was benchmarked against comparable Committee Member 10,000 15,000 director banking roles in both the UK and Governance international marketplace.
The Executive director changes Committee arrangements ensure that John is With effect from 1 January 2010, Jaspal Chair N A No fees appropriately compensated for his Bindra was appointed as a group executive Committee Member N A No fees contribution and reects the increased director.
Jaspal has an annual base salary demands placed on the Chairmans role of GBP500,000 effective from 1 January Board Risk 1 Committee over the course of the year.
This is expected 2010, and his contract of employment, Chair N A 65,000 to continue in the foreseeable future.
dated 1 March 2008 has similar provisions Committee Member N A 30,000 to those outlined above in relation to other John is also entitled to a car and driver, executive directors.
Brand and Values 2 which he does not currently utilise, and is Committee provided with private healthcare.
He is not In addition, Gareth Bullock stepped down Chair N A 50,000 eligible to receive discretionary from the Board with effect from 1 May Committee Member 7,500 25,000 performance share awards or to participate 2010.
Gareth will remain an employee until Senior Independent in either our annual performance award or 30 April 2011 in order to provide an orderly Director 30,000 30,000 retirement plans.
transition to his successor and to continue Notes to provide input on strategic developments.
1 Prior to 1 March 2010 these committees The remuneration arrangements will be During the period between stepping down were the Audit and Risk Committee, reviewed again during the course of 2012. from his Board role and the termination of separating in March 2010 his employment, he will be paid in 2 Prior to 1 March 2010 this committee was the accordance with his contract of Sustainability and Responsibility Committee employment, including the receipt of base salary, car benefit, life and medical cover and be entitled to a pension benefit.
From 2011 UK-based non-executive directors are able to take up to 100 per cent of their In addition, please refer to page 127 for monthly post-tax base fees to acquire details of the changes to non-executive shares in Standard Chartered previously directors.
Nonexecutive directors have no service contract Reward arrangements for the Chairman and do not participate in any performanceand non-executive directors related remuneration arrangements.
Fees for non-executive directors are determined by the Chairman and executive Chairman directors.
Contract The fees are reviewed at least every two John Peaces contract of employment, years and, in line with executive directors dated 2 July 2009 and updated on 1 March remuneration, reect the international 2011, is subject to 12 months rolling notice.
nature of the roles performed by the The terms of his contract governing PILON non-executive directors and also the provisions and payments on termination are changes to the committees structures similar to those previously outlined in relation with effect from March 2010. to executive directors.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 119 Directors remuneration report Audited information Remuneration of Group Chairman 2010 2009 Shares Shares Cash fee based fee Benets Total Cash fee based fee Benets Total Chairman $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 1, 2 J W Peace 1,004 613 2 1,619 988 781 2 1,771 Notes 1 Following his appointment as Chairman, John Peace now receives part of his annual fee in restricted shares.
Accordingly, he was granted an award over 20,764 shares in the Company on 21 September 2010 2 John Peace is a member of the Brand and Values, Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Remuneration of non-executive directors 2010 2009 Fees Benets Total Fees Benets Total Non-Executive Directors $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 1, 2, 8 R Delbridge 239 239 1, 2, 3, 5 J F T Dundas 340 340 204 204 4, 5 V F Gooding 226 226 173 173 9 S J Lowth 103 103 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 R H P Markham 362 362 292 292 1, 2, 3, 4 R Markland 336 336 255 255 1, 4 J G H Paynter 233 233 177 177 5, 8 10 Dr Han Seung-soo 187 80 267 2, 3, 4, 5 P D Skinner 314 314 161 161 2 O H J Stocken 195 195 173 173 Total 2,535 80 2,615 1,435 1,435 Notes 1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Board Risk Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee 4 Member of the Remuneration Committee 5 Member of the Brand and Values Committee 6 Member of the Governance Committee 7 Senior Independent Director 8 Appointed 1 January 2010 9 Appointed 1 May 2010 10 This amount relates to benets received by Dr Han in relation to his non-exective duties and tax due on these benets, which the Group has agreed to pay on Dr Hans behalf 11 Any base salary fee or benefit item in the table above has been converted using the average foreign exchanges rates throughout the relevant financial year as shown on page 116 12 As the Audit and Risk Committee split to become the Board Risk Committee and the Audit Committee in March 2010 there are a number of nonexecutive directors who have part year fees for the committees that they serve on 13 All committee fees were reviewed and in some cases revised with effect from 1 March 2010 to reect the increased workload and expanded remit of the committees 120 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
Steve Bertamini and Jaspal Bindra carry out duties overseas and their remuneration was adjusted to take local living costs into account.
This adjustment was to put them in a position, after taxation differentials, where they would be no worse off as a result of carrying out duties overseas.
The benets column for both Steve and Jaspal also includes additional benets, such as allowances for working overseas, the provision of accommodation or education of children 2 The cash element of the annual performance award is shown net of any amounts waived to provide additional pension benets.
See page 124 for further details 3 The amounts shown in the deferred shares column include the proportion of the annual performance award deferred into restricted shares and or the deferred bonus plan for each executive director.
In addition to the deferred shares that have been awarded as part of the directors annual performance awards, in line with the FSA remuneration code requirements, a portion of the annual performance award APA has been delivered in upfront shares.
This portion equates to 20 per cent of the total APA.
The amount shown is the gross amount and the net amount post any withholding taxation requirements has been transferred to a trust and used to acquire shares that are beneficially allocated to the employee 4 The expected value of any performance share awards that it is proposed to be granted in May 2011 in respect of the 2010 financial year.
The values are based on an initial value adjusted for factors such as performance conditions, forfeiture risk and lack of dividends 5 Steve Bertamini received cash allowances of $315,000 2009: $315,000 in lieu of his participation in any pension plan and this is reected in the table above, as part of salary fees.
Details of the retirement benets for other executive directors are detailed on page 124 6 Jaspal Bindra was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2010.
His 2009 compensation has been provided for comparison purposes.
He received a total 2010 discretionary annual bonus award of $1,400,000, of which he has chosen to waive $nil 2009: $655,746 into his pension arrangement.
In addition, Jaspal has also waived $602,121 of his 2010 base salary 2009: $nil into his pension arrangement, details of which are included on page 124 7 Any base salary fee or benefit item in the table above has been converted using the average foreign exchanges rates throughout the relevant financial year as shown on page 116 www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 121 Directors remuneration report 2004 Deferred Bonus Plan Shares awarded in Shares held Shares held in trust Shares awarded respect of notional Shares vested Rights issue in trust at 31 1 2 3 Directors at 1 January 2010 during the period dividend during period adjustment December 2010 P A Sands 70,532 63,675 656 71,188 2,418 66,093 S P Bertamini 170,081 27,858 1,583 171,664 1,058 28,916 J S Bindra 12,187 462 12,649 R H Meddings 35,923 43,777 334 36,257 1,662 45,439 A M G Rees 47,814 218,885 445 48,259 8,313 227,198 G R Bullock 28,283 12,187 263 28,546 462 12,649 Notes 1 Market value on date of awards 9 March 2010 was 1,718.88 pence 2 Under the 2004 Deferred Bonus Plan, shares were conditionally awarded as part of the executive directors deferred element of their annual performance award.
The shares are held in an employee benefit trust and automatically vest one year after the date of acquisition.
A notional scrip dividend accrues on the shares held in the trust.
The dividend is normally delivered in the form of shares and is released on vesting 3 Adjustments made to all unexercised share awards granted under the Groups share plan as part of the rights issue Subsequent pages contain information on share options and share awards.
Long-term incentives Share options As at Exercise As at 31 1 January price Rights Issue December Period of 1 4 Director Scheme Grant Date 2010 pence Exercised Lapsed adjustment 2010 exercise P A Sands Sharesave 26-Sep-07 1,543 1,048.22 58 1,601 2012 2013 S P Bertamini Sharesave 09-Oct-09 1,356 1,104.00 51 1,407 2014 2015 J S Bindra Sharesave 09-Oct-09 1,356 1,104.00 51 1,407 2015 2015 R H Meddings Sharesave 04-Oct-10 592 1,463.00 22 614 2013 2014 2 A M G Rees 2000 ESOS 09-Mar-05 61,768 849.94 61,768 3 G R Bullock Sharesave 29-Sep-08 943 1,017.12 943 Notes 1 The exercise price has been adjusted to take account of the rights issue 2 Market value on date of exercise 9 March 2010 was 1,718.88 pence 3 Withdrawn from scheme on 1 March 2010 and options have lapsed 4 Adjustments made to all unexercised share awards granted under the Groups share plans as part of the rights issue 122 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
Therefore the number of shares lapsed indicates the portion of the award which did not satisfy the performance conditions 8 The performance conditions attached to these awards have been partially met and the awards can be exercised, in part, from 11 March 2011 9 The award will be exercisable from 11 March 2012 subject to satisfaction of i any performance conditions and: ii relevant non-compete and nonsolicit conditions and will remain exercisable until 31 December 2012 at which point it will lapse.
The number of shares under the award will be reduced to reect the period of employment in the performance period 10 The deferred RSS awards granted in March 2009 and March 2010 will be exercisable in part from March 2011 and March 2012 respectively subject to the satisfaction of i relevant non-compete and non-solicit conditions: ii claw-back provisions.
The awards will remain exercisable until March 2016 and 2017 respectively, at which point the awards will lapse www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 123 Directors remuneration report Directors interests in ordinary shares 1 At 1 January 2010 Rights issue At 31 December 2010 2 Directors total interests Personal interests Family interests subscription total interests J W Peace 6,648 6,705 838 7,543 P A Sands 321,532 175,001 24,999 200,000 S P Bertamini 41,133 42,192 5,273 47,465 7 J S Bindra 130,279 52,406 6,550 58,956 7 R Delbridge 4,492 469 4,961 J F T Dundas 2,792 2,792 349 3,141 V F Gooding 2,804 2,804 350 3,154 7 Dr Han Seung-soo 2,000 250 2,250 8 S J Lowth 3,066 326 3,392 R H P Markham 3,462 3,551 443 3,994 R Markland 3,135 3,215 401 3,616 R H Meddings 183,611 52,951 52,951 15,128 121,030 J G H Paynter 5,000 5,000 625 5,625 A M G Rees 160,297 120,297 15,037 135,334 P D Skinner 8,565 12,051 1,395 13,446 O H J Stocken 15,820 15,925 1,990 17,915 9 3 G R Bullock 120,000 80,000 80,000 Notes 1 Or at date of appointment to the Board, if later 2 The number of additional shares subscribed by the individual under the rights issue offer 3 As at the date of resignation from the Board 4 The beneficial interests of directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out above.
The directors do not have any non-beneficial interests in the Companys shares 5 No director had an interest in the Companys preference shares or loan stock, nor the shares or loan stocks of any subsidiary or associated undertaking of the Group 6 No director had any corporate interests in the Companys ordinary shares 7 Jaspal Bindra, Richard Delbridge and Dr Han Seung-soo were appointed to the Board on 1 January 2010 8 Simon Lowth was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2010 9 Gareth Bullock stepped down from the Board on 1 May 2010.
It is anticipated he will remain an employee of the Group until 30 April 2011 Retirement benets of executive directors Increase in accrued pension Transfer value of accrued net of ination and waiver 2 9 5 Accrued pension $000 pension $000 during 2010 $000 Increase At Increase At At during the At 2010 1 January during the 31 December 1 January year net of 31 December waiver Annual Transfer 4 3 Directors 2010 year 2010 2010 waiver 2010 $000 pension value P A Sands 350 78 418 5,809 600 6,223 63 942 6 J S Bindra 67 76 142 1,169 438 2,156 596 35 531 R H Meddings 347 71 408 6,127 662 6,593 55 823 A M G Rees 230 135 359 3,999 2,248 6,138 125 2,204 G R Bullock 332 39 373 6,698 6,709 170 10 184 Notes 1 Steve Bertamini received cash supplements and does not participate, like the other executive directors, in the dened benefit plans set out above.
The cash supplement amounts are shown in the executive directors remuneration table on page 121 2 The accrued pension amounts include benets arising from transfer payments received in respect of service with previous employers 3 The transfer values in respect of benets under the unapproved unfunded retirement benets scheme have been calculated using our pension accounting methodology and assumptions 4 Executive directors are given the opportunity to waive a proportion of any potential annual performance award payable in cash and or salary to enhance their unfunded unapproved retirement benets.
The amounts waived in respect of 2010 are shown in the table 5 The increase in the accrued pension net of ination and waiver during the year is the difference between the accrued pension at the end of 2009 increased by an allowance for ination of 4.7 per cent 2009: 0.3 per cent and the accrued pension at the end of 2010 excluding any waiver 6 Jaspal Bindra waived $0 of his annual performance award 2009: $434,788 and $596,562 of his 2010 base salary 2009: $0 into his pensionarrangements 7 The amounts included in the table above as at 1 January and 31 December 2010 are calculated using the exchange rates at the end of 2010 1:$1.5605 and 2009 1:$1.6142 respectively.
The other entries are calculated using the exchange rates shown on page 116 8 The ages of the executive directors are shown on pages 84 to 86 9 In addition to the amounts identied in the table above Standard Chartered paid $441,989 2009: $449,612 in retirement benets to former directors and their dependants 124 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Deferred compensation In recognition of the substantial elements of deferred compensation and share awards forfeited when he left his previous employer, Steve Bertamini participates in a deferred compensation arrangement under which a total of $6,500,000 was initially allocated into an interest bearing account with the option for all or part of the value to be invested in alternative assets at his discretion.
The original allocation together with the accrued interest and investment returns vests in three tranches unless he resigns or is terminated for cause: $3,000,000 after the second, $2,000,000 after the fourth and $1,500,000 after the sixth anniversary of joining.
No further awards are planned.
The first vesting date was reached during the year and $3,583,077 before tax was paid to Steve Bertamini.
The table below shows the value of the residual assets held in the arrangement.
Value as at Grant date Allocation 31 December 2010 Vesting period S P Bertamini 19 May 2008 $3,500,000 $4,599,122 2012-2014 Remuneration of the five highest paid individuals As a result of the Companys listing on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, it is necessary to disclose certain information 3 relating to our five highest paid employees.
Set out below are details for five individuals, which includes one executive director whose emoluments were the highest in the year ended 31 December 2010.
Components of remuneration $ Basic salary, allowances and benets in kind 2,878,297 Pension contributions 2,293,752 1 Annual performance award paid or receivable 45,800,938 Payments made on appointment 4,886,565 Compensation for loss of ofce contractual other 2 Total 55,859,552 1 Excluding any performance awards or commissions linked to profits generated by the individual collectively or with others engaged in similar activities.
Includes the deferred element of any annual performance award and the expected value of any performance shares 2 Equal to HKD433,984,033 3 Executive director included in data is Mike Rees The emoluments were in the following bands: Number of HKD approx.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 125
