Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 4.3 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Our supply chain of consultants, suppliers and contractors can significantly influence our social and environmental performance, especially in the areas of planning, design and the construction of stores.
This influence is also continued in the operation of stores through our facilities management contracts.
Energy Services Big Yellows energy service company has provided total energy use data for the store portfolio for annual carbon emission reporting and the CTS.
Our energy service company will also be providing Smart Meters to analyse energy efficiency improvements for our Carbon Reduction Commitment.
A major supplier of energy to our business has provided Carbon Reduction Commitment workshops, Energy Efficiency Toolkits for our stores and is purchasing the renewable energy that we generate at our Balham and Merton stores.
Ten solar installations and two wind turbines are in the process of being transferred, under the Office of the Gas and Electricity Markets OFGEM to the new Feed in Tariff provided in the Energy Act.
This will increase our revenue on the sale of our renewable energy to energy companies and provide an improved return on our renewable energy investments.
Renewable Energy In Autumn 2009, we joined the Support Solar campaign of our supplier to encourage the Government to increase its Feed in Tariff cash back scheme to companies like Big Yellow, who are making significant capital investments in renewable technology.
The aim was, not only to increase the rate of return on investment, but also to help increase its uptake and create more green jobs within the UK.
A presentation was given by the CSR Manager at the annual Eco-Build Exhibition in March 2010, together with other industry peers and representatives from the Government.
Store Waste Management and Recycling Store waste generation consists mainly of paper, cardboard and packaging, which has a relatively minor environmental impact in terms of cost, it represents only 3.5% of our environmental impact.
Timber pallets, fluorescent lamps and small quantities of oily wastes are recycled.
The table below provides estimates of the bulk volume of waste generated by a growing store portfolio.
Estimates of Store Non Hazardous Bulk Waste Volume Year 2008 2009 2010 3 Estimated total bulk waste volume m 4,248 4,369 4,380 Number of stores 48 54 60 Our waste disposal costs have risen by 7.8% in 2008 and 16.3% in 2010.
In March 2010, a snapshot survey of 22 of our 60 stores was undertaken to estimate bin waste destination percentages to recycling centres and landfills over the past three years.
This survey indicated that the waste from 87% of the sample went to recycling centres, but an unknown quantity of residual waste was sent to landfill after sorting.
It was also estimated that waste from about 13% of stores went direct to landfill.
A review of waste management to improve the quantity of recycling at our stores was implemented by the Facilities and Administration teams last year.
A new waste contractor was selected because they use waste as a source of raw materials for their cardboard production.
The contractor carried out surveys at 16 stores and this has identified that the majority of waste is mixed dry recyclables.
The remaining general waste food, food packaging, glass and other non-recyclable items will be sent to a sorting station to identify further recyclables, before the residual waste is sent to landfill.
In the next financial year our contractor will continue to carry out surveys at other Big Yellow stores and will discuss existing waste volumes with the store teams so they can advise us on the appropriate bin sizes and collection frequencies for all stores.
Once the surveys are complete, delivery of bins, information packs and posters will start to arrive, so each store has all the information and equipment needed for the start of a new waste management scheme.
41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 4.3 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN continued Construction Waste Management Big Yellow selects waste contractors for the fit-out stages of our new store construction that can provide waste management and recycling data.
This data is used for performance improvements in Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology BREEAM ratings, where required.
Demolition and excavation wastes are excluded in the BREEAM assessment and their standard is to divert at least 75% by weight or 65% by volume of non-hazardous waste from landfill.
Generic recycling and landfill disposal percentages, including demolition and excavation wastes, have been provided by one of our main contractors for Bromley and Twickenham in the table below.
These waste figures represent the total tonnage processed by the contractor, including other construction sites, during the period that Big Yellow was fitting out Bromley and Reading.
Example: Contractor Recycling and Landfill Disposal Percentages for Bromley and Twickenham Fit Out Periods April 2009 June 2009 July 2009 September 2009 Total contractor waste tonnes 45,307 44,951 Total contractor waste recycled % 93.2 89.9 Total contractor waste landfill % 6.8 10.1 This information indicates that relatively high percentages of our construction waste were recycled from our Bromley and Twickenham sites.
Reading fit out waste recycling will be reported next year.
High percentages of timber are recycled during fit out.
Smaller amounts 1% of iron, top soil, paper cardboard, plasterboard and plastics are also recycled.
Big Yellows construction waste management performance for all of our development sites in the financial years 2009 and 2010, are summarised in the table below.
Fit Out Construction Non Hazardous Waste Year 2008 2009 2010 3 Total waste skip volume m No data 1,912 1,754 3 2 Average Waste Resource Efficiency m 100m GIA of store No data 36.4 34.1 3 Plasterboard recycled supplier take back m No data 189 216 6 stores included 5 stores included GIA Gross Internal Area of the new store This table excludes demolition and shell construction waste, but helps Big Yellow compare performance between sites by the ratio of waste volume over the building area our average waste resource efficiency during the fit out phase of build that is managed by Big Yellow 3 Construction.
Typically, total annual waste volumes for five or six stores remain under 2,000 m per year and we recycle plasterboard directly back to the supplier.
The Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS All Big Yellows contractors for demolition, shell and fit out works are instructed to register with the CCS and all sites have been in compliance with their minimum standards since 2008.
Sites are monitored against a Code of Considerate Practice providing guidelines that are beyond statutory requirements.
Areas of management performance include the environment, the workforce and the general public.
A maximum of 5 points can be gained by site workers for each of the following categories: being considerate: protecting the environment: maintaining cleanliness: being a good neighbour: respectability: safety: responsiveness: and accountability.
CCS auditors visit our sites and assess performances out of a maximum score of 40 points.
Reports are then sent to the Construction Director and CSR Manager for review and actions if required.
Considerate Constructors Scheme Performance Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 Target Number of Construction Projects 66 7 Percentage of Registered Sites UK average 76.5% 77.8% 81.8% Average Points Score For All Sites 30.9 30.8 32.1 31.0 Compliance with the schemes code 24 points and above Achieving the UK average score of all registered sites 31 points CCS have indicated they will be reviewing their scoring system in 2010.
Our 2011 target may need to be adjusted to reflect this.
81.8% of our sites met or exceeded the CCS national average points score for all construction sites in the UK.
Out of 11 site reports, 8 scored above the UK average of 31 points.
We exceeded our average points score target set for 2010 30 points by achieving 32 points, an improvement of 4.2% on last year.
Sheffield Bramall Lane and Reading fit out sites both achieved 35 points or above and enter the top 10% of construction companies in the UK to be reviewed for the CCS National Awards Scheme.
Reading and High Wycombe received a certificate for Performance Beyond Compliance on 5 March 2010.
The Reading site also achieved a Bronze award at the CCS National Awards for 2010.
42 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 4.4 GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS Government organisations that Big Yellow has engaged with last year included the Department of Environment and Climate Change on the Carbon Reduction Commitment, and the Environment Agency EA who will be managing the legislations implementation.
We have also engaged with OFGEM, which secures Britains energy supplies, contributes to reducing climate change and aims at increasing sustainable development in the energy industries.
Big Yellow has also engaged with trusts that the Government has set up, such as the Carbon Trust and the Building Research Establishment.
The Department of Environment and Climate Change DECC In the UK, the Climate Change Act has recently introduced the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC to thousands of non-intensive business users of energy.
These companies will form a league table that will trade in carbon deficits and surpluses.
In order to prepare for this legislation Big Yellow has been measuring and reporting its total energy use and carbon emissions in its Annual Report since 2008.
The CRC legislation is an economic instrument that requires companies to conduct long term planning and investment to deliver energy efficiencies.
Big Yellow has successfully demonstrated a reduction in the absolute amount of carbon it has been emitting year on year: even whilst undertaking a substantial expansion in its store opening programme in the last 12 months.
This achievement was certified by obtaining the Carbon Trust Standard in 2010.
The Carbon Trust Standard CTS Big Yellow achieved CTS certification for its reduction in carbon emissions for the financial year ending 2009 against the average emissions for the financial years ended 2007 and 2008.
In absolute terms the reduction in carbon emissions was 4.8% and relative to annual turnover it was 7.8%.
The CTS certification indicates that Big Yellow is taking real action on climate change and has committed to ongoing emission reductions.
The CTS requires Big Yellow to keep reducing its carbon footprint and to recertify every two years.
Office of the Gas and Electricity Markets OFGEM The Renewable Energy Obligation requires a proportion of the energy used at our stores to be supplied by on-site renewable energy and is increasingly being implemented through the planning process.
Big Yellow considers this significant capital expenditure as a long term investment in its development programme.
With the establishment of the Governments Feed in Tariff for renewable energy we are working through OFGEM to register all of our solar and wind renewable energy installations into the new cash back scheme, for an improved return on investment.
Energy Performance Certificates EPC Since October 2008, EPCs are required for all commercial buildings whether built, rented or sold.
The EPC records how energy efficient a property is as a building and provides ratings from A to G. This allows prospective investors, buyers and tenants to see information on the energy efficiency and carbon emissions from their building so they can consider energy costs as part of their investment.
Since October 2008, most new Big Yellow stores have been certified at or one level above expected energy efficiency benchmarks for new buildings in England or Scotland.
In the case of our Twickenham store, it achieved a net zero CO emission rating.
2 Local Planning Authorities LPAs An increasing number of LPAs are requiring higher levels of achievement in the Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Methodology BREEAM.
Big Yellows Sheen and Reading stores have achieved Excellent BREEAM ratings.
They scored highly in sustainable building design, energy efficiency, water conservation, waste management and biodiversity.
All of these improvements will help to protect the environment and reduce the stores operational costs over both the short and long term.
In recent years Big Yellows efforts have been recognised by different LPAs, with Green Building Awards won for the Groups new stores at Barking, Bromley, Liverpool and Merton.
The performance of the new renewable energy technologies, together with rain-water harvesting, are remotely monitored by a system providing the LPAs with ongoing information about the most effective forms of technology being used.
By being part of this research effort Big Yellow aims to lead and inform the debate on the benefits of the new technologies and help others to make the right decision.
Considerate Constructors Scheme, Wind turbine, Barking Reading 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 4.5 THE INVESTMENT COMMUNITY The investment community includes ethical and environmental investors, analysts, and research and information services.
It also includes sustainable business index series and their associated eco-funds.
FTSE4Good and the Ethical Investment Research and Information Service EIRIS In the year ended 31 March 2009, Big Yellow received feedback from EIRIS on its 2009 CSR Report that it satisfied their social and environmental standards for membership to the FTSE4Good index series.
In 2010 Big Yellow will be updating their information on the progress made on our policy objectives, management systems and key performance indicators.
The Carbon Disclosure Project CDP Big Yellow took part in the sixth Carbon Disclosure Project CDP6 in the year ended 31 March 2009.
The CDP is an independent not-for-profit organisation aiming to create a relationship between shareholders and companies regarding the implications for shareholder value and commercial operations presented by climate change.
The CDP provides a coordinating secretariat for institutional investors with a combined US $57 trillion of assets under management.
The Environmental Real Estate Index In 2009, Maastricht University were commissioned by the Universities Superannuation Scheme, APG Asset Management and PGGM Investments to conduct a report into the environmental performance of European property investment and development companies.
They reported that out of 688 European companies surveyed, Big Yellow was the leader in the Environmental Real Estate Index and was ranked second globally.
The index compares property companies environmental credentials based on the evidence of environmental management practices and their implementation.
The survey results were announced in February 2010 and measured what real estate companies were doing to reduce material risk and to benefit from sustainable business opportunities through environmental key performance indicators.
The survey represented 80% of the listed European property market.
The Maastricht survey is likely to be repeated every other year and to become an increasingly important part of the property investors decision-making process.
CSR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The most significant environmental impact of Big Yellows activities is its carbon emissions from operational stores.
This is due to the longer term use of energy in these stores, compared to the shorter demands from store construction and work related travel.
Big Yellow has re-calculated its carbon dioxide CO emissions for the past three years using the new DEFRA DECC conversion factors published on 30 September, 2009.
2 5.1 STORE ENERGY USE CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS Store energy use is predominantly electricity from offsite national grid supply for lighting, lifts, heating, cooling and ventilation.
This type of emission is classified as Scope 2 from power station combustion.
The table below summarises the Companys usage and emissions over the last three years: Store Electricity Use, CO Emissions and Carbon Intensity 2 Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 Target Electricity Use kWh 13,899,604 12,866,186 12,730,855 1.1% Absolute carbon emissions Kg CO 7,547,902 6,986,725 6,913,236 1.1% 1% 2 2 Carbon Intensity Kg CO m total space 27.6 23.9 23.1 3.4% 3% 2 2 Carbon Intensity Kg CO m occupied space 44.7 43.4 38.9 10.4% 3% 2 Big Yellow achieved a second absolute reduction in store energy use and carbon emissions of 1% 2009: 7.4%.
Last years reduction was largely due to the installation of motion sensor lighting in store corridors.
Carbon dioxide emissions per square metre of total storage space, also known as Carbon Intensity, takes into account the growth of the store portfolio.
This measure decreased by 3.4%, exceeding our 3% Carbon Intensity reduction target for 2010.
Carbon reduction relative to occupied space, taking into account business activity: showed a significant 10.4% saving in energy use and carbon emissions compared to previous years.
Our target will be to continue to reduce carbon intensity by 3% for 2011.
This will become a more challenging target to achieve, as the benefit of our investments in store energy efficiency become less able to deliver significant savings.
44 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 5.2 STORES GAS USE CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS Flexi-office services are provided alongside self storage in eleven of the sixty open stores.
Most stores with flexi-offices use gas heating, which causes onsite combustion, known as Scope 1 carbon emissions.
Therefore increased gas use caused an absolute carbon dioxide emissions increase 2 of 0.6%.
However, carbon dioxide emissions per square metre of office space carbon intensity, decreased by 0.8 kg CO m meeting our 2 reduction target of 3%.
A programme for increasing gas boiler energy efficiency will be considered for the future.
A small reduction in carbon emissions from ground source heat pumps has contributed to carbon reductions relative to office areas at Bromley and Kennington.
5.3 CONSTRUCTION FIT-OUT STAGE CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS Annual construction fit-out energy usage is determined by the number of stores built in each year, the availability of a grid electricity supply, and the size and the local site conditions of each project.
Store fit out is the final stage of construction which Big Yellow directly controls.
This year seven stores were either fully or partly under fit-out construction and diesel consumption and grid electricity usage is recorded in the table below.
Big Yellow Fit Out Energy Use & Carbon Dioxide Emissions Year 2008 2009 2010 Total fit out diesel use litres 60,532 37,962 50,571 33.2% Total fit out electricity use kWh 135,699 177,047 127,643 27.9% 2 Carbon dioxide emissions per area kgCO m 5.0 4.8 4.4 8.3% 2 Absolute total metric tons tCO 233 196 203 3.5% 2 An absolute increase in carbon emissions of 3.5% occurred due to the increased use of diesel.
However, the carbon intensity or emissions per square metre of new build, decreased by 8.3% indicating a more efficient management of energy resources on site compared to the previous years.
5.4 BIG YELLOWS CARBON FOOTPRINT Big Yellows carbon footprint is set out in the table below.
Big Yellow Absolute Carbon Foot Print Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 target Store electricity carbon dioxide emissions tCO 7,548 6,987 6,913 1.1 % 1% 2 Fit out diesel & electricity carbon dioxide emissions tCO 233 196 203 3.6 % 1% 2 Store flexi-office carbon dioxide emissions tCO 67 88 89 1.1 % 1% 2 Total carbon dioxide emissions tCO 7,848 7,271 7,205 0.9 % 1% 2 Expressed as metric tonnes of carbon dioxide Total carbon dioxide emissions for combined store and operational emissions decreased in absolute terms by 0.9%.
This is the second consecutive year in which Big Yellow has managed an absolute carbon reduction.
In financial year 2011 Big Yellow plans to continue its programme of installing energy efficient lamps and the installation of Smart Meters to assess energy use in our stores more accurately.
Longer term energy efficiency programmes will also be reviewed where appropriate technologies can be identified.
45 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 5.5 RENEWABLE ENERGY In the year ended 31 March 2010 a further four stores generating renewable energy were added to the portfolio.
To date Big Yellow has renewable energy assets that include ten solar photo-voltaic installations, five ground source heat pumps and two wind turbines.
The generation from ground source heat pumps has been estimated using manufacturers specifications.
Next year guidance from the Feed in Tariff for ground source heat pumps will be used for more accurate readings.
Renewable Energy Generation and CO Emission Reduction 2 Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 Targets Renewable energy generation kWh 3,297 57,000 124,722 119% 35% Carbon dioxide reduction tCO 2 25 68 172% 2 Renewable energy as a % of energy use 0.03% 0.3% 0.9% Energy generation totalled 124,722 kWh for financial year ending 31 March 2010, an increase of 119% over the previous year, resulting in a carbon emission saving of 68 tonnes of CO.
Solar photovoltaic energy has proved to be the most reliable technology for meeting Local Planning Authority 2 carbon dioxide reduction targets.
Also, due to the financial incentive of the Feed in Tariff return on investment has reduced to about 10 years and can potentially provide a significant income stream in the longer term.
A further three stores with solar photo-voltaic installations Edinburgh, Nottingham and Reading have been opened during the year.
Renewable energy generated from these stores will be measured at the end of next year to compare specification against actual performance and to gain cash back from the Feed in Tariff for energy generated and used on site.
STORE PLANNING, DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION The following section summarises Big Yellows initiatives to reduce its carbon footprint and increase its environmental performance through store design, specification and the installation of renewable energy technologies.
Planning authorities require environmental assessments of new building designs and construction to be undertaken.
In December 2009 our new Reading Store achieved an Excellent rating from the Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Methodology BREEAM.
The environmental performance of the Reading store performed well in the design and construction stages for energy efficiency, renewable energy, materials selection, waste management, water conservation and landscape biodiversity amongst other criteria.
The excellent BREEAM rating at Reading follows on from the same rating we achieved in 2009 at Sheen.
These types of environmental assessments are required for several of our future stores and we aim for more Excellent and Very Good ratings in the future.
The tables below summarises all the environmental performance improvement features from our most recent stores developments our Eco-stores.
Improvements in Sustainable Development & Eco-Efficient Store Operations 2007 2010 Motion Sensor Energy Efficient Renewable Green Travel Rain Water Improved Eco-store Lighting Lighting Energy Plans Harvesting Green Roofs Ecology 1 Sutton 2 Barking Ealing 3 Balham 3 Fulham 4 Merton 3 Kennington Sheffield Hillsborough 5 Sheen 3 Bromley Birmingham Liverpool 6,7 Twickenham 6 Edinburgh 6 Nottingham Poole Sheffield Bramall Lane 5 Reading 1 5 Green wall Excellent Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment 2 Wind turbine Methodology BREEAM Rating 3 6 Solar panels and Ground Source Heat Pumps Solar panels only 4 7 Solar panels and wind turbine Net zero carbon Energy Performance Certificate 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 6.
STORE PLANNING, DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION continued All Big Yellow store managers have responsibility for a seasonal Energy Efficiency Walk Round checklist and, where indicated in the table above, responsibility for travel plans, biodiversity plans and renewable energy generation reporting.
Travel plans are implemented where traffic congestion in inner city or urban environments are a planning issue and can offer information on modes of transport for our staff and for our customers other than the car.
Rainwater harvesting and sustainable urban drainage systems SUDS are installed where advised by LPAs usually in association with an adjacent flood risk area.
Green roofs, green walls and landscape add opportunities for improvement in biodiversity and habitat.
They also reduce the impact of the urban heat island affect and flooding by water retention.
All stores have motion sensor lighting as standard and energy efficient lighting has been standard in all new stores from Kennington onwards.
The Facilities Team is rolling out a programme of energy efficient T5 re-lamping in the existing store portfolio and this will have a significant effect on energy demand reduction going forward.
Reliable solar pv energy generation will also improve our carbon emission reductions and contribute to Energy Performance Certification EPC above the national benchmarks for new and existing buildings.
HEALTH AND SAFETY The Group has established self storage, construction and office health and safety policies and management systems to protect our staff, customers, visitors and contractors.
These policies were reviewed in the year ended 31 March 2010 and an overarching Group Policy was put into the public realm on the Investor Relations website.
Health and safety data is monitored and recorded by the Facilities team and the Construction team for our wholly owned stores, partnership stores and Armadillo stores that we manage on behalf of third party investors.
Store Customers, Contractors and Visitors There were no customer, contractor and visitor Near Misses and a reduction in Minor Injuries of approximately 30%.
RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation 1995 Big Yellow Self Storage Store Customer & Visitor Health and Safety Year 2008 2009 2010 Total number of customers move-ins 40,421 34,169 39,297 Minor Injuries 54 75 53 Reportable Injuries RIDDOR 1 1 Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR per 100,000 customers 2.47 2.54 Minor Injuries were predominantly related to the handling of personal possessions by customers when putting them in or taking them out of storage.
One reportable injury in 2010 has resulted in a relatively low Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR of 2.54 using the number of move-ins per year.
No fatal injuries, notices or prosecutions occurred.
Solar panels, Twickenham Green roof, Fulham 47 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 7.
HEALTH AND SAFETY continued Store and Office Staff With an increase of about 5% in annual average employment over the previous year, there have been no Near Misses and a 54% reduction in Minor Injuries.
Big Yellow Self Storage Staff Health and Safety Year 2008 2009 2010 Average Number of Staff 218 239 252 Near Misses 1 Minor Injuries 32 39 16 Reportable Injuries RIDDOR 1 1 Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR per 100,000 staff 418 397 Notices 1 RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation 1995 No fatal injuries, notices or prosecutions occurred.
Only one reportable injury occurred but the Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR reduced by 5%.
Health and safety risks are assessed by independent consultants for Stores and Head Office.
Approximately six stores per year are audited by an external consultant and their feedback has helped to reduce the total number of incidents against a rising number of staff, customers and store openings.
Employees are trained in first aid and all are retrained every three years.
Big Yellow Construction Company Limited An average number of 12 staff per site per year are employed during the fit-out stage of construction.
Big Yellow Construction Company Limited Fit out Stage Health and Safety Year 2008 2009 2010 Average number of staff 72 78 84 Near Misses 1 Minor Injuries 27 2 No reportable injuries, fatal injuries, notices or prosecutions occurred in the year ended 31 March 2010 and for the previous two years.
Two Minor Injuries represented a 70% reduction from the previous year, indicating a well controlled environment for staff and contractors on site.
Construction Design Management Regulation training was completed for the year ended 31 March 2010.
CSR PROGRAMME FOR 2011 Strategy Programme Objectives Targets 2011 The Carbon Reduction Commitment Complete registration for the 6 month period to Position in the upper half of the CRC CRC 30 September 2010 and report financial savings league table The Carbon Trust Standard CTS Maintain CTS certification for carbon reduction Certification from 1 April 2011 to and efficiency initiatives.
31 March 2013 Energy Efficiency To install Smart Meters where required to gain a Investment to be completed by real-time and accurate analysis of energy use of 31 March 2011 all stores Renewable Energy Revenues To transfer all existing and new renewable energy Claim cash back from the new generating stores to the Feed in Tariff scheme October 2010 Improving Real Estate Value To aim for the highest BREEAM standards in new Increased asset value and lower store eco-efficiency: energy: materials: waste: water etc operating costs Energy Performance Certificates To achieve carbon emission ratings on new stores Certificate ratings average new build EPCs better than the UK average on existing and new stock of a similar design Environmental Real Estate Index Maintain environmental policies, management systems To maintain a leading position in the and reporting on implementation of programmes real estate investment sector FTSE4Good Index Series Maintain social and environmental policies, Submission to Ethical Investors management systems and reporting for membership Research EIRIS Store Waste Recycling To carry out waste surveys for waste types and Provide appropriate recycling bin sizes volumes and to adjust the waste collection and collections program accordingly 48
