Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 51 Directors Remuneration Report This report is produced in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and contains both auditable and non-auditable information.
The information subject to audit is set out on pages 53, 54 and 59.
Introduction by Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2010 was a transformational year for Analysis of peer group remuneration Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC hasdemonstrated that in general with twomajor transactions the remuneration at CSC is at an appropriate demerger of Capital & Counties in May level by comparison and this has been 2010 and theacquisition of The Trafford con rmed by external remuneration Centre which completed in January 2011. consultants.
Ibelieve that the increases and awards for2010, as set outin the The Group is now in a robust financial report, are entirely justi ed, reasonable position with signi cant growth prospects and will incentivise management towards andan 11 per cent revaluation uplift for further enhancement of the value of the CSCsportfolio in 2010.
Companys shares and I recommend without hesitation that the Remuneration The Group met all targets under the staff Report be approved by shareholders.
The targets, described in the report, are based on The Committee is considering the three objectivemeasures of performance introduction of a medium-term incentive and allthree targets were met which would be geared to re ect the orexceeded.
growth ambitions of the Group, but is stillconsulting onthis concept.
Modest pay rises have been awarded, effective from April 2011, for the first time since April 2008 other than in a few exceptional cases, in total amounting to a3%overall increase across the Group.
Ian Henderson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 52 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors Remuneration Report Continued 2010 at a glance Directors Remuneration 2010 Bonus Proportion of Share element Basic salary performance Cash element Restricted shares SIP shares Value Total related pay D. A. Fischel 475,000 95,000 161,710 789 617,500 1,187,500 60% E. M. G. Roberts appointed 3 June 2010 201,474 43,918 66,676 789 256,371 501,763 60% 360,000 72,000 74,999 789 288,000 720,000 50% K. E. Chaldecott The number of shares shown is indicative only, based on an estimated share price of 3.80 per share.
Mr Roberts basic annual salary is 350,000.
Salary increases Mr Fischels base salary was not increased in 2010.
Mrs Chaldecotts base salary was increased from 330,000 p. a. to 360,000p.
a. in 2010 to re ect increased responsibility following the demerger.
No base salary rises were proposed for 2010 forthe Senior Executives other than in a small number of exceptional cases.
2010 was the second year in succession that no pay rises had been awarded to the majority of the Groups employees.
The Committee has approved an increase in basic pay amounting in aggregate to around 3% across the Group tobeeffective from April 2011.
Bonus awards Bonus targets for 2010 were met or exceeded under three objective measures set out in the table on page 57.
As a result aggregate bonuses have been awarded across the Group amounting to approximately 16 per cent of overall base salaries, excluding Executive Directors and six senior executives, payable in a combination of cash, SIP and deferred shares.
Six senior individuals each received an additional bonus award, payable in shares deferred for two years, under the Groups Performance Incentive Plan PIP.
The maximum bonus award for 2010 was capped at 150% of salary, and the cash element of the bonus was capped at 20%ofsalary.
Details of the bonus awards made to Executive Directors are setout in the table above and the Directors emoluments table onpage 53.
Option awards Options over a total of 3,899,000 shares were granted to Directors and staff in May 2010, at an option price of 313p per share.
The Committee is proposing to grant options in 2011 to Directors and staff.
Full details of options granted to Executive Directors in 2010 are set out on page 54 of this report.
The bene ts provided for the Chairman comprise medical insurance.
In addition to the cash bonus shown, the Executive Directors also received awards of SIP and deferred shares in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010.
Details of these awards are set out in the table on page 52.
Aggregate emoluments exclude pension contributions, which are detailed below.
Mr Fischel received a payment of 142,500 in lieu of accruing further bene ts under the Companys pension arrangements included in other.
Mrs Chaldecott received a payment of 88,125 in lieu of accruing further bene ts under the Companys pension arrangements included in other.
Following the demerger in May 2010, Mr Durant stepped down as Finance Director of the Company in order to take up his new role as Chairman of Capital & Counties Properties PLC.
In accordance with his termination agreement, Mr Durant received a payment of 120,219 comprising three months salary, pension contributions at24per cent of salary together with compensation for unused holiday entitlement.
In addition, Mr Durant was awarded a cash bonus of 172,500 representing 75percent of his basic salary in respect of the period of his employment from 1 January 2010 to the date of his resignation.
The bonus was assessed based on bothcorporate and individual performance and included recognition of Mr Durants work towards the successful completion of the demerger.
These amounts are included in the Other including car allowance column in the table above.
54 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Directors interests in share schemes: Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Companys Approved and Unapproved share option schemes.
Following theCompanys demerger in May 2010, all outstanding options under both schemes were adjusted to take into account the Companys reduction in capital which was registered on 7 May 2010.
Adjustments were made to both the option exercise price andthe number of shares subject to the option such that, following adjustment, the value of the award remained equivalent to the pre-adjusted value.
Pre-adjustment exercise prices were: 2004 698 pence: 2009 359 pence.
The performance conditions relating to the 2009 awards cannot be satis ed, and therefore the options cannot be exercised, until 2013.
Details of the options exercised by former Directors during the year are set out in note 48 on page 108.
The standard performance condition for options is as follows: The Companys smoothed earnings are to grow over a three-year period at a rate in excess of 5per centper annum compound.
Smoothed earnings means the percentage increase in underlying earnings per share, adjusted by a excluding exceptional and valuation items and b limiting trading or non-recurring items to 10 per cent of pro t before tax.
The base gure for comparison purposes in respect of both the 2009 and 2010 option grants is the smoothed earnings achieved, after adjustment for the demerger, as at 31 December 2009 of 15.1 pence per share.
Therefore, the performance condition for the 2009 options cannot be satis ed until 2013.
The market price of Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC ordinary shares at 31 December 2010 was 418 pence and during the year the price varied between 301 pence and 421pence.
The interests of Directors in conditional awards of ordinary shares under the annual bonus scheme are detailed in note 48 on pages 107 to 108.
Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 55 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Remuneration The Chairman Non-Executive Directors Committee The Chairmans fee is 350,000 per annum.
The Chairman Basic Other fee Member Chair fees receives no bene ts from his of ce other than fees and entitlement to private medical insurance.
He is eligible to J. G Abel 50,000 jointheCompanys Unapproved Share Option Scheme, R. M. Gordon 50,000 but is not eligible to participate in Group pension arrangements.
I. J. Henderson50,000 5,000 10,000 The terms of the Chairmans appointment broadly re ecttheterms of the three-year appointments of A. J. M. Huntley 50,000 5,000 .
Performance graph The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR for Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC over the five-year period ended 31December 2010, compared with our closest comparator group for this purpose, the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
TSRisde ned as share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
For additional information, a graph showing the TSR for Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC with the FTSE 100 is provided.
T otal Shareholder Return TSR for period 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2010 180 Capital Shopping Centres TSR FTSE 350 Real Estate Index FTSE 100 TSR 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 Jan-06 Dec-06 Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 This graph is based on adjusted data as a result of the Companys demerger in May 2010.
56 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Remuneration Committee composition and policy Members of the Committee Advisers to the Committee The Chairman of the Committee is myself, Ian Henderson, The Committee has appointed and receives advice from withMr Rowley and Mr Sachdev being the other two members KeplerAssociates on market trends, incentive design and of the Committee.
Kepler Associates does not advise theCompany on any other matters.
There were no changes to the composition of the Committee during 2010.
The Committee has also appointed and been advised by Norton Rose LLP during the year on various remuneration matters.
There were three Remuneration Committee meetings in 2010.
Norton Rose does not advise the Company on any other matters.
The agenda for the February meeting included a review of the The Committee makes use of various published surveys to help outcome for the previous year, considering pay, bonus and determine appropriate remuneration levels.
option awards in the light of performance, a review of remuneration policy and objectives, consideration of targets The Chairman, Chief Executive, and Company Secretary are and related matters.
The agenda for the June meeting included invited to attend meetings and provide advice to the Committee a review of Sir Donald Gordons consultancy terms: the to help it make informed decisions.
No Director is present when Committee served 12months notice to terminate the his or her own remuneration is being discussed.
The agenda for the July meeting included a consideration of performance targets and minor Shareholding policy amendments to option scheme rules.
The Committee introduced last year a requirement for Executive Directors to build up, over a 35 year period, and maintain a Responsibilities of the Committee shareholding in the Company with a value equivalent to at least The Committees principal responsibilities, which take full one years annual salary.
The Executive Directors shareholdings account of the recommendations contained within the are as follows: Combined Code the Code are: Multiple of salary Director Shareholding one years salary To determine the overall strategy for remuneration for the Groups Executive Directors and Senior Executives David Fischel 549,322 4.36 To determine the individual remuneration packages for the Matthew Roberts 30,000 0.32 Chairman, Executive Directors and Senior Executives Kay Chaldecott 102,800 1.08 To consider the remuneration policy and rewards across theentire Group, taking comparative data into account Remuneration policy To oversee any signi cant changes to employee bene ts, The Companys remuneration policy aims to attract, motivate including pensions and retain high calibre executives by rewarding them with To approve the design of and targets for performance-related competitive compensation and bene t packages.
incentive schemes The Remuneration Committee has complied with the principles To oversee the operation of all incentive schemes, including and provisions of the Code in developing remuneration policies.
the award of incentives, and to determine whether The policies align directly the interests of Executive Directors performance criteria have been met and senior staff with the performance of the Company and the The Committees terms of reference can be found at interests of shareholders.
co. uk The key objectives of Capital Shopping Centres remuneration As set out in the Corporate governance report, the policy are to: Remuneration Committees performance for 2010 was reviewed Align executive and shareholder interests by an external consultant, Independent Audit.
The report made some useful observations which are being considered by the Reward executives primarily for results Committee: however there were no material matters arising.
Attract, motivate and retain high calibre executives Provide value for money for shareholders Deliver upper quartile total remuneration for upper decile performance Follow best practice as far as possible, and explain any divergence Be simple and exible Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 57 It is the Companys policy that a signi cant proportion, up to In addition, each executive is evaluated on both individual 70per cent of Executive Director and Senior Executive total andoverall corporate objectives.
The individual objectives are remuneration be performance related.
tailored before the beginning of each year and include speci c strategic, financial and implementation goals.
Bonuses are set Past practice demonstrates that the Companys approach on the achievement of those objectives.
to remuneration is responsible and restrained.
Not less than two-thirds of the annual bonus for Executive The components of the remuneration package are: Directors is determined on the basis of objective performance 1 Annual base salary and bene ts Salaries of Executive measures, primarily financial.
Directors and other staff are normally reviewed annually in Following the end of the financial year, the Committee reviews thelight of competitive market practice, including reference to the performance of executives and the Group as a whole comparable data of other companies in the FTSE 100 and the against the set corporate and individual objectives and then real estate sector.
The Committee ensures that pay and determines the level of bonus payable.
employment conditions in the Group as a whole are taken into account and benchmarked against the Companys peer group Part of the bonus is normally awarded, at the Companys when determining executive remuneration.
The main elements election, in the form of shares in the Company, conditional on of the bene ts are pension contributions, private healthcare and the individuals concerned remaining in employment for speci ed the provision of company cars or cash alternative.
The Committee considers that no further performance conditions should be imposed on bonus payments which are 2 Performance-related remuneration Performance-related deferred in the form of shares.
The Remuneration Committee components include annual bonus arrangements as well decides each year on the proportion of cash and shares to be astheannual review of salaries in the light of individual and awarded to employees.
The policy is to place emphasis on  components of each Directors The conditional awards comprise Restricted shares and remuneration, whilst ensuring that the base salary remains Additional shares.
If awarded, Additional shares are equal to competitive.
50per cent of the Restricted shares and SIP shares see below combined.
Employees must remain in employment with the The aggregate cost of annual bonuses which may be provided Company for periods of two years after the date of award for under the Groups annual bonus scheme, excluding employers Restricted shares, and four years after the date of award for National Insurance, is not expected to exceed 40 per cent of the Additional shares, before such shares are released.
aggregate base salaries of all eligible employees.
The Committee pays close regard to the overall remuneration Performance incentive plan culture of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee decides There is also a performance-related bonus plan the Plan in on the appropriate level of bonus award for Directors each year addition to the normal bonus arrangements described above.
depending on Group results and individual performance.
In The Plan is linked to both absolute and relative shareholder relation to the annual share-based bonuses for Directors and returns as well as growth in earnings.
Senior Executives, the Remuneration Committee sets rigorous and challenging additional performance criteria based on personal In addition to supporting the Committees remuneration policy, and corporate targets.
Exceptional performance is also rewarded.
the key objectives of the Plan are to a align the interests of executives with shareholders: b play a vital role in the retention Bonuses may be paid by way of allocation of cash as well as and recruitment of talent: and c encourage additional long-term Restricted and Additional shares with a view to ensuring that share ownership by executives, based on delivering superior the Group has in place effective reward and retention plans.
A detailed description of the Companys bonus arrangements The aggregate pool for the Plan is based on three measures is set out below: which the Remuneration Committee believes are the best indicators of success and are aligned with shareholder value Annual bonus plan creation: total return on shareholders funds: outperformance The corporate performance targets for the annual bonus ofthe Investment Property Databank IPD Capital Growth arrangements are described in the following table: Index: and absolute EPS growth.
Annual bonus targets Comparator A pool is created based on performance each year in terms ofthree measures, expressed as a percentage of opening Shareholders Funds Prior year Shareholders Funds shareholders funds: Asset Performance IPD Monthly Index Pro t before tax, valuation, and Budget and Prior year pro t exceptional items for theyear 58 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Total Return on opening shareholders funds diluted, The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan SIP for all adjusted, calculated by reference to absolute NAV growth eligible employees, including Executive Directors, who may including dividends receive up to 3,000 worth of shares as part of their annual bonus arrangements.
The SIP arrangements offer worthwhile 0.6 basis points awarded for each 1% growth over and tax advantages to employees and to the Company.
of the SIP arrangements, the Company offers eligible employees Relative Return: out-performance in capital growth of the the opportunity to participate in a Partnership share scheme, Groups investment properties, measured relative to capital the terms of which are governed by HM Revenue & Customs growth in the accepted property industry benchmark, the regulations.
IPDindex 5 Service contracts Executive Directors have rolling service 1.8 basis points awarded for each 1% out-performance of contracts which are terminable on 12 months notice on either theIPD index side.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which do not include any notice provisions.
Underlying earnings growth, calculated by reference to adjusted EPS None of the existing service contracts for Executive Directors makes any provision for termination payments, other than for 0.5 basis points awarded for each 1% growth over and above payment of salary and bene ts in lieu of notice.
5%, capped at five basis points In the event of the Company terminating an Executive Directors The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to vary the size contract the level of compensation would be subject to mitigation of the pool by - four basis points.
The total bonus pool is if considered appropriate and legally sustainable.
capped at 20 basis points per annum.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are entitled to Individual awards under the Plan are deferred into shares receive an additional payment of an amount equal to their basic andreleased after two and four years.
Deferred amounts would annual fee in the event of a change in control of the Company.
The following service contracts in respect of Executive Directors At the end of the performance period, the Remuneration who were in of ce during the year are rolling service contracts Committee allocates awards on a discretionary basis from the and therefore have no end date.
pool based on individual performance but having regard to the Date of measures described.
The Committee considers environmental, commencement of social and governance performance when determining both the contract Notice period overall incentive pool at the year end and the allocation of the Current Executive Directors incentive pool to individuals.
D. A. Fischel 24 June 1999 12 Months It is the Committees desire to maintain a near median base salary culture while providing incentives that can deliver E. M. G. Roberts 17 May 2010 12 Months anupper quartile level of total remuneration for signi cant K. E. Chaldecott 6 April 2000 12 Months outperformance.
The net effect is to increase the emphasis onpay for performance.
Former Executive Directors I. C. Durant 17 March 2008 12 Months 3 Executive share option schemes The Remuneration Committee considers that share options closely align the I. D. Hawksworth 1 Sept 2006 12 Months interests of staff with shareholders, and provide a long-term retention mechanism as options can only be exercised after a Contract with CSC Management Services Limited.
minimum of three years from the date of grant.
The performance All Non-Executive Directors with less than nine years service condition, based on growth in the adjusted earnings per share, have been appointed on xed terms of three years, subject to isconsidered by the Committee to be the most appropriate renewal thereafter.
Mr R. M. Gordon, who served as an alternate condition to align the interests of staff with shareholders.
J. Gordon from 1 January 2001 until his appointment The Company has formed a Joint Ownership Employee Trust asa Non-Executive Director on 7 May 2010, is deemed to under which participating employees may elect to receive haveserved for more than 9 years and therefore has a term shareoptions.
This arrangement was structured to preserve ofone year.
shareholders interests and to provide cost-neutrality.
Non-Executive Directors receive no bene ts from their of ce 4 All employee share schemes The Company operates an other than fees.
They are not eligible to participate in Group Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP which has in the past pension arrangements.
used funds provided to purchase shares required under the annual bonus scheme.
Originally weighted 80% retail property, 20% all-property to match the Groupsasset mix, but post-demerger limited to the capital element of theIPDRetail Index only.
Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 59 The following table sets out the dates of appointment of Directors pensions Non-Executive Directors.
The Groups Retirement Bene t Scheme the Scheme was Date of appointment closed to new members in 1997 and was fully closed for future bene t accrual on 19 December 2009: a bulk annuity policy Non-Executive Directors waspurchased from Pension Insurance Corporation PIC in J. G. Abel 2 June 2010 respect of all Scheme liabilities at that time.
No contributions onbehalf of members were made to the Scheme in 2010.
R. M. Gordon 7 May 2010 Individual policies were issued to all members by PIC in I. J. Henderson 7 February 2005 November 2010 and the Scheme had no assets and no liabilities as at 31December 2010.
The Scheme is expected to be fully A. J. M. Huntley 8 July 2009 wound-up in early 2011.
As no Director had accrued bene ts R. O. Rowley 17 May 2004 inthe Scheme during 2010 or had bene ts in the Scheme at31December 2010, no disclosures fall to be made under N. Sachdev1 November 2006 Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and A. D. Strang 8 July 2009 Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 or the UKLAListing Rules.
J. Whittaker 28 January 2011 The Group operates a fide ned contribution Group pension plan In accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate the GPP which all employees are eligible to join.
Contributions Governance Code, all Directors will submit themselves for totalling 27,923 2009 79,200 were made by the Group to re-election at the 2011 AGM with the exception of Mr Roberts the GPP on behalf of Mr Hawksworth resigned 7 May 2010. and Mr Whittaker who stand to be elected for the first time.
Both Mr Durant resigned as a Director 17 May 2010 and MrRoberts appointed as a Director on 3 June 2010 opted Quasi-loan to Director outfrom membership of the GPP and instead elected for contributions equivalent to 24 per cent of annual salary to All employees of the Group are entitled toan interest-free travel bepaid to personal pension arrangements of their choice.
season ticket loan which is repaid overthe year via deductions Contributions were paidas follows: Mr Durant 55,200 of from salary.
Mr Fischel received aloan of 5,000 in November which20,700 was paid on termination as a Director 2009 2009.
The loan was repaid in November 2010 and Mr Fischel 81,600 and Mr Roberts 52,554 2009 nil.
elected not to apply for a furtherloan.
MrRoberts received a loan of 5,000 in June 2010.
Theoutstanding balance of the Both Mr Fischel 2006 and Mrs Chaldecott 2009 had elected loan at 31 December 2010 was2,083.34.
in the year shown to cease accruing bene t in the Scheme: bothreceive an actuarially determined payment subject to PAYE External Non-Executive Directorships and NI deductions as set out in the footnotes to the table on page 53.
During 2010, Mr Fischel received a fee of 29,135 in respect of hisNon-Executive Directorship of FTSE 250 Company Capital &Counties Properties PLC, from which he resigned with effect from 4 February 2011.
Mr Fischel retained the fees paid in respect of his appointment.
Mr Fischel was appointed as a NonExecutive Director of Equity One, Inc. with effect from 4 January Ian Henderson 2011 and retains the fees paid in respect of this appointment.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, No other Executive Director of Capital Shopping Centres Group on behalf of the Board PLC currently serves as a Non-Executive Director elsewhere.
23 February 2011 Payments to former Directors Sir Donald Gordon, Life President, received a total of 350,000 2009 350,000 during 2010 in connection with his Life Presidency and consultancy arrangements.
Sir Donald Gordons consultancy arrangements will terminate on 30 June 2011.
Mr David Bramson retired from the Board on 31 March 2006.
During 2010, Mr Bramson received 10,000 as Chairman of the Trustees of the Liberty International Group Retirement Bene t Scheme.
In addition, Mr Bramson received a further payment of10,000 for additional work required in connection with the winding up of the scheme.
