54 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration report continued Key activities Executive Bonus Scheme Key activities of the Committee are to: The Companys senior executives, including the Executive Directors, participate in the Executive Bonus Scheme.
The maximum bonus award that Carry out an annual strategic review of the remuneration framework for can be achieved is 100% of basic annual salary and on-target amount is 50% Executive Directors and the Executive Committee of basic annual salary.
The Executive Bonus Scheme payment is dependent Determine the remuneration and benefits packages of individual Executive upon the overall Group performance and individual performance measures.
Directors and senior executives within the framework of the Groups 70% of an executives bonus is based on Group performance and 30% is agreed remuneration policy based on the achievement of personal objectives and KPIs set for the role.
Determine the remuneration of the Chairman Group performance, which determines 70% of an Executive Directors maximum bonus, is based upon the Groups underlying operating profit Review remuneration arrangements for the Group against stretching targets set at the start of the year.
This element may Set and review performance targets for Executive Directors and the also be subject to a quality of earnings adjustment as determined by the Executive Committee Committee.
The Committee has agreed to maintain the existing performance parameters for 2011.
Assess annually the Companys and individuals performance against targets to determine the level of executive bonus The criteria used to determine the remaining 30% is based on personal objectives such as customer satisfaction and retention, product development Approve and grant awards under the Companys long term incentive plans and international expansion.
Personal objectives are set by the Committee on Determine and review the contractual terms of Executive Directors an annual basis.
Review the governance arrangements for global remuneration.
The annual bonuses paid to Eric Woolley and Shaun Parker are as stated in the table on page 57 and represent 72% and 73% of base salary respectively.
Remuneration for Executive Directors The Committee agreed to award the Executive Directors these bonuses in The main components of the remuneration package for Executive Directors recognition of achievement of their personal objectives and the Groups are: annual profit performance.
In both cases, 49% is awarded for Group performance and the remainder is for the achievement of individual objectives.
Basic salary Basic salary for each Executive Director is determined by the Committee Whilst all members contribute to the overall Group performance, the taking into account the roles, responsibilities, performance and experience performance of the relevant region will also be taken into consideration in of the individual and pay levels elsewhere in the Group.
A full review was this factor for those executives with regional responsibilities.
undertaken by the Committee with the assistance of independent advisers Regional performance will be assessed following a review of the regional prior to Admission, and as such, the Committee determined that, in line with growth, delivery of regional objectives and a judgement of the financials policy, a broadly median positioning within a pan-sector group of similar-sized against a quality of earnings assessment.
The exact percentage award is FTSE 250 companies was the appropriate salary benchmark for Executive agreed by the Committee and approved by the Board on an individual basis.
Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
The concept of annual bonus clawback applies to bonuses which permits the Salaries were reviewed on listing and are reviewed annually in January.
Company to reclaim or reduce payments if it subsequently comes to light that Following the January 2011 review, the Committee decided on a 3% as per the performance upon which bonuses were paid was incorrect or is required the table below increase in salary which is aligned to the average increase of to be restated.
3% awarded to the wider Group.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan Annual The Committee supports the principle that the payment of some of the annual salary from bonus should be deferred and paid in Company shares as it further aligns Admission to Current salary 31 December effective from executives with shareholders.
2010 1 January 2011 000 000 % increase Accordingly, annual bonuses awarded under the Executive Bonus Scheme are also subject to the Deferred Share Bonus Plan arrangements.
Any bonuses Eric Woolley 400 412 3 awarded up to 50% of maximum potential i. e. up to target bonus will be paid Shaun Parker 260 268 3 as cash.
Where the bonus exceeds 50% of maximum potential i. e. is above target, half of the additional bonus above target will be paid as cash and half Pension arrangements will be deferred into a conditional award over shares under the CPPGroup Plc An employer contribution of up to 15% of base salary is paid into a private Deferred Share Bonus Plan 2010 the DSBP.
Deferred shares will vest pension scheme of the Executive Directors choice.
Where it is not tax on the third anniversary of grant subject to continued employment at efficient to receive a pension payment, the Executive may request a cash the Company.
The Committee does not compensate for changes in the tax consequences of the payment.
As under the Executive Bonus Plan, the concept of clawback applies to DSBP awards.
Benefits Each Executive Director is a member of the Companys flexible benefits fund.
Long term incentive schemes Eric Woolley is entitled to an allowance of 20,000 per annum and Shaun For Executive Directors, only one long term incentive plan operates.
This was Parker a 15,000 allowance per annum.
Each Executive Director is entitled designed by HNBS in conjunction with management and the Committee and to 30 days holiday per annum.
can be summarised as follows: 48051 Blacksun.
