Remuneration report Remuneration report Dear Shareholder, As described in the Business review, 2010 was an outstanding year for Croda, particularly in light of the continuing tough global economic conditions.
The results demonstrate the ability of our business to deliver growth in difficult market conditions and, in particular, the effective leadership of our highly regarded management team.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee consider the remuneration paid to our management team to fairly reflect their performance during the year.
The annual bonus paid out in full arising from the 2010 income, as calculated for the purpose of the bonus scheme, significantly exceeding the maximum targeted income and the 2008 LTIP and BCIP awards performance targets were also met in full which reflected a growth in earnings per share of 155% over the three year period ended 31 December 2010 and a total shareholder return created of over 170% which resulted in Croda being amongst the top five performing FTSE 250 companies over the three year performance period.
As we look to the future, we are making a number of amendments to our remuneration policy for 2011 with a view to ensuring that the Committee is satisfied that it has a remuneration policy in place that enables recruitment, retention and motivation of the quality of executive talent required to continue to successfully deliver sustainable growth in our business and further create returns for our shareholders.
In summary, for 2011, changes to our remuneration policy are to include: l adjustments to base salary levels to reflect appropriate comparative benchmarks, the strong performance of our management team and the promotion of the President of Croda Europe to the Board: l Bonus Co-Investment Plan BCIP matching awards are to take place based on the gross equivalent investment in Croda shares as opposed to the net investment which is reflective of wider market practice this change does not require an increase in the BCIP plan limit : and l seeking shareholder approval at the AGM to increase the normal Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP limit to 200% of salary from 100% of salary to provide flexibility from 2012 to grant awards at above 100% of salary if this is considered appropriate.
Awards in 2011 will continue to be restricted to 100% of salary.
The Committee has agreed to inform major shareholders in advance of the quantum and targets that will apply to future years LTIP awards should it be considered appropriate to grant at above 100% of salary.
In line with investors best practice expectations, the above proposals were the subject of a pre-consultation with our major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies, of whom the overwhelming majority were supportive.
The Committee believes that the revised policy will provide it with sufficient flexibility to meet its objective of retaining and motivating the Companys management team.
In addition, given that a substantial proportion of the total package is weighted towards long-term performance and the deferral requirement that forms part of the annual bonus arrangements, the Committee is comfortable that the current arrangements do not inadvertently encourage undue risk taking.
As a result, the Committee looks forward to your support of our remuneration policy at the 2011 AGM.
S Musesengwa Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 Directors report | Governance Remuneration report The directors present their remuneration report which covers the remuneration of both executive and non-executive directors and certain senior executives.
This report sets out the policy for the financial year just ended, for the forthcoming year and, subject to ongoing review, for subsequent years.
The report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The first section of the report contains unaudited information and the second section audited information.
The report will be subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in April 2011.
Section 1: Unaudited information The role of the Remuneration Committee The Committee reviews and approves the annual salaries, bonus arrangements, service agreements and other employment conditions of the executive directors and certain members of the senior executive management team designated by the Board.
In so doing it takes due account of pay and conditions in the Group as a whole and receives information on pay proposals for other employees throughout the Group.
It also approves the design of, and determines targets for, any performance related bonus pay schemes operated by the Group, approves the total annual payments made under such schemes, reviews the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders and approves the award of long-term incentives.
The Committee has delegated responsibility for setting the remuneration of the Chairman.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are published on the Companys website www.
Membership and operation The Committee comprises all non-executive directors including the Chairman and is chaired by Stanley Musesengwa.
The Group Chief Executive is usually invited to attend all meetings but neither he nor the Chairman attends when their individual remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee met three times during the year.
Other directors and employees of the Company who attended some, or all, of the meetings during the year and provided advice and services to the Committee were Samantha Brook VP Human Resources, Graham Myers Group Financial Controller Treasurer and Louise Scott Company Secretary & Legal Counsel.
All have the appropriate qualifications and experience to advise the Committee on aspects of the Groups policies and practices.
Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS have been appointed by the Committee to provide independent advice on remuneration policy and practice.
During the year, HNBS attended one meeting of the Committee in connection with the remuneration review, details of which appear later in this report.
Policy on directors and senior executives remuneration The key objectives of Crodas executive remuneration policy are: l to ensure that individual rewards and incentives are comparable with those provided by similar companies having regard to the Groups turnover, business sector and market worth and the need for skills to manage international businesses: l to enable the Group to attract and retain high calibre people: l to give full consideration to the relevant principles on directors remuneration set out in the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code: and l to ensure a balance between fixed and performance related remuneration, the latter being related to objective measurement of the financial performance of the Company.
The Committee believes that the interests of shareholders and directors are more closely aligned by the operation of short-term incentives which encourage the achievement of stretching profit targets and under which rewards may be delivered in the form of cash and shares, combined with share-based long-term incentives that reward performance against three year earnings per share and relative total shareholder return targets.
In designing an appropriate incentive structure for the executive directors and senior executive management team, the Committee endeavours to set challenging performance criteria that are aligned with the Groups strategy for the business and the enhancement of shareholder value.
In line with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee ensures that the incentive structure for executive directors and senior executive management will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from taking into account corporate governance on ESG matters and it takes due account of issues of general operational risk when structuring incentives.
The Committee takes due account of remuneration structures elsewhere in the Group when setting pay for the executive directors for example, consideration is given to the overall salary increase budget and the incentive structures that operate across the Group.
29 Remuneration report Remuneration report Balance between fixed and variable pay As described previously, a substantial proportion of the executive directors pay is performance related.
The charts below illustrate the balance between fixed and performance related pay at target and maximum performance levels based on the remuneration policy that is to operate in the current financial year the full policy is described in detail below.
Fixed and Variable Pay: Average Executive Director at Target and Maximum Performance Levels Assumptions Target: annual bonus award of 50% of salary Maximum plus threshold vesting under the LTIP and BCIP the BCIP assumes 50% of target bonus invested in the plan.
Maximum: maximum bonus award plus Target full vesting under LTIP and BCIP the BCIP assumes a maximum bonus award which is invested in the BCIP in full.
Benefits: including pension have been 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% excluded from the analysis for simplicity.
Base salary Annual bonus LTIP & BCIP As can be seen from the charts, a substantial proportion of the total package is weighted towards long-term performance through the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Bonus Co-Investment Plan BCIP long-term incentive arrangements.
In addition, there is a deferral requirement that forms part of the annual bonus arrangements which requires bonus awards in excess of 50% of salary to be deferred into Croda shares for a period of three years.
After taking due account of these factors, allied to the rigorous process that is undertaken in setting incentive plan targets and determining payouts including regular liaison between the Audit and Remuneration Committees as appropriate the Committee is comfortable that the current arrangements do not inadvertently encourage undue risk taking.
In testing the LTIP and BCIP performance targets, independent third party advisors provide information in respect of the extent to which targets are met, with audited results used to determine vesting in respect of EPS targets.
The Committee reviews the remuneration of the executive directors on an annual basis and, as has been the practice in each of the last two years, in 2010 it commissioned HNBS to provide up to date benchmark data to assist in this process.
The 2009 remuneration review had identified that the remuneration of the executive directors was beginning to fall behind comparable market practice and so this needed to be re-examined in the light of the Companys strong financial performance.
Accordingly, the remuneration packages were benchmarked, as had been done previously, against a group of international general manufacturing companies, similar in terms of size including six month average market capitalisation and turnover and scope of international operations, and a separate group of pan sector companies with comparable market capitalisations and international scope to those of Croda.
In general, total remuneration was found to be below market median levels and so increases in base salary have been introduced from 1 January 2011 to redress this position.
In arriving at its decisions on these increases the Committee took account of the salary increases for 2011 proposed for employees throughout the Group and the outstanding performance of the individual executive directors delivered during 2010.
In addition, the revised salary of the President of Croda Europe took into account his promotion to the main Board in July 2010.
It is also proposed to increase the level of awards made under the LTIP to the Group Finance Director and the President of Croda Europe subject to the present maximum of 100% of salary.
No amendments will be made in 2011 to the performance measures, or the range of targets, for the long-term incentive schemes as the Committee considered them to remain suitably challenging.
The Committee recognised that the base year from which future performance will be measured is at a higher point than in previous years and so the targets will be very demanding in the opinion of the Committee.
However, the award structure under the BCIP is to be aligned with market practice so that awards made to executive directors and members of the Group Executive and Finance Committees will in future be made on a gross of tax rather than a net of tax basis this change does not result in an increase in quantum beyond the limits previously approved by shareholders at the time of the BCIPs introduction in 2005.
In addition, the opportunity is being taken to put forward a resolution at this years AGM to increase the maximum award levels under the LTIP from 100% of salary to 200% of salary.
There is no current intention to increase actual award levels in 2011 beyond 100% of salary, but flexibility is required from 2012 to grant at higher levels, particularly given the fact that the Company competes for talent in the international market, where long-term incentive awards are often higher than in the UK.
Major investors and the main shareholder protection bodies were informed of these changes and proposals early in 2011 with the overwhelming majority supportive of the revised policy.
In response to the feedback received, the Committee resolved to notify major investors and the main shareholder protection bodies in advance, in relation to both quantum and targets for LTIP awards, if awards are to be granted above 100% of salary in 2012.
30 Directors report | Governance Remuneration report Components of executive directors remuneration Basic salary The salaries are paid monthly in cash and are reviewed annually with effect from 1 January.
Following the remuneration review described previously, and having taken account of another year of outstanding performance by the Company and the executives and the results of the HNBS benchmarking exercise, the Committee has increased the annual base salaries of executive directors with effect from 1 January 2011.
In setting the revised salary of the President of Croda Europe, the Committee recognised his promotion to the main Board in July 2010.
Current salary levels are set out below: Executive director Basic salary at Basic salary at % increase 31 December 2010 1 January 2011 M Humphrey 560,000 577,000 3.0 M S Christie 309,500 340,000 9.9 S E Foots 260,000 300,000 15.4 Performance-related annual bonus The Company operates bonus schemes for its directors and senior executives.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
The 2010 bonuses for executive directors were calculated by reference to the amount by which the income for the year, which is defined as the Group EBITDA for continuing operations before exceptional items and any charges or credits under IFRS2 Share based payments less a notional interest charge on working capital employed during the year the 2010 Income, exceeded the income for 2009 calculated on the same basis the base income.
Bonuses for 2010 are payable on a graduated scale once the 2010 Income exceeds the base income by inflation defined as the consumer prices index CPI, with maximum bonuses due at CPI plus 11.35%.
Income is measured after providing for the cost of any bonuses.
The target range set for 2011 is considered at least as challenging to that set in prior years given the high base income that was delivered in 2010 and continuing uncertain economic conditions.
The maximum bonuses in 2011 have been set as due at CPI plus 10%.
The Committee has the discretion to take safety, health and environmental performance into consideration in determining the overall level of individual bonus payments and can reduce the bonus award if it considers it appropriate to do so.
The maximum amount of bonus payable to the executive directors is 100% of salary with the net element of any bonus in excess of 50% of salary being compulsorily invested in the BCIP.
Bonuses earned by each director in respect of 2010 are included in the table of directors remuneration on page 35 and represent 100% of basic salary, based on achievement in excess of the maximum bonus targets set at the start of the year.
The Committee was satisfied that a maximum bonus award should be payable in respect of the 2010 financial year in view of actual performance significantly exceeding the maximum target and following a review of the safety, health and environmental performance of the Group.
The maximum bonus opportunities have been set at these same levels for 2011.
The performance targets will require out-performance of the 2010 Income before bonuses become eligible for payment.
The Committee remains comfortable that the structure of the annual bonus does not encourage the pursuit of strategies that may involve inappropriate risk-taking and that the mandatory reinvestment of net bonuses in excess of 50% of salary into shares in any year is considered to strengthen further alignment with shareholders and foster a longer-term link between annual performance and reward.
Long-term incentives Long-term incentives are provided to executive directors through two long-term incentive plans, the BCIP and the LTIP, which were both adopted in 2005.
These replaced the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes.
It is the Committees policy, subject to unforeseen circumstances, that these will comprise the sole long-term elements of the total remuneration package of executive directors for the foreseeable future.
It is also the Committees policy to continue exercising its right to decide the number of LTIP awards to be granted to each executive director subject to plan limits.
BCIP The BCIP operates in conjunction with the annual bonus schemes and allows participants to invest a proportion of their net annual cash bonus in Company shares.
Participants have to agree to hold the invested shares for three years in return for which they receive a conditional award entitling them to additional shares subject to the achievement of the BCIPs performance condition.
The maximum number of shares over which an award can be granted to an employee in a single year is limited to shares having a market value not exceeding 100% of the employees salary.
The levels of awards differ between participants.
Prior to 2011 executive directors and members of the Group Executive and Finance Committees received one matching share for each share invested whilst other participants received two matching shares.
As described in the paragraph headed Balance between fixed and variable pay on the previous page, executive directors and members of the Group Executive and Finance Committees will now receive matching shares based on the pre tax equivalent number of shares invested in the BCIP by participants from their net of tax annual bonus proceeds.
It is compulsory for members of this group, whose gross bonus could exceed 50% of their annual salary, to invest the excess over 50%, net of tax, in shares unless they are within three years of anticipated retirement date.
31 Remuneration report Remuneration report The awards are subject to a performance condition adopted in 2007 which is structured to require the achievement of a challenging sliding scale of adjusted earnings per share growth EPS targets in excess of retail price inflation RPI : Adjusted EPS growth over the three year period Proportion of award vesting Less than RPI 12% No vesting RPI 12% 30% RPI 24% 100% Straight-line vesting occurs between these points If the performance target is met the shares will be transferred to the employee.
If the employee does not retain their invested shares until the release date their award lapses.
It is intended that the same performance target will be applied to any BCIP awards made in 2011.
LTIP Participation in the LTIP is limited to executive directors and senior executives.
Annual awards of shares are made based on varying percentages of salary with the maximum entitlement being shares having a market value of 100% of the employees salary.
As described in the paragraph headed Balance between fixed and variable pay earlier in this report, the Company is seeking shareholder approval at its AGM to increase the maximum entitlement to 200% of salary although, as noted earlier, it is not intended that awards will be granted above 100% of salary in 2011.
Awards are subject to performance conditions measured over a period of not less than three years.
The awards are subject to a performance condition which is split into two separate parts, each with a separate performance condition.
Half of any LTIP award will vest based on a condition measuring the Companys relative total shareholder return TSR against the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
There are a limited number of direct competitors to Croda and the Committee was mindful of the dangers inherent in operating a relative TSR-based performance condition with a comparator group comprised of only a small number of companies.
The FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts was, therefore, considered an appropriate comparator group by the Committee.
Vesting will take place on the following sliding scale: Rank of the Companys TSR against the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts Vesting % TSR part Below median 0% Median 30% Upper quartile 100% Between median and upper quartile 30% - 100% pro rata The remaining half of the awards vest based on the same EPS growth condition that is set for the BCIP, with vesting thus taking place on the following sliding scale: Adjusted EPS growth over the three year period Vesting % EPS part Less than RPI 12% No vesting RPI 12% 30% RPI 24% 100% Straight-line vesting occurs between these points If the performance target is met, the shares will be transferred to the employee.
Awards made in 2011 will remain in line with awards made in 2010 for executive directors in terms of the performance targets.
As described previously, the quantum of awards expressed as a multiple of salary for the Group Finance Director and the President of Croda Europe are being increased to 100% and 87.5% of salary respectively for the awards to be granted in 2011.
The Committee believes that this is necessary in order to create competitive remuneration packages which will incentivise these two executives and bring their remuneration more into line with comparable market practice.
The Chief Executive will continue to receive an award at 100% of salary in 2011 which is consistent with the policy operated in prior years.
The gains arising from LTIP and BCIP awards vesting in 2010 are set out on page 39 with the awards vesting in full due to the performance targets applying to the awards granted in 2007 being achieved in full.
Senior Executive Share Option Schemes Following the adoption of the BCIP and the LTIP, the operation of the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes has been discontinued except in relation to options already granted.
The only options now outstanding were granted in 2002 and 2003.
The options were granted subject to performance conditions which required basic EPS before exceptional items to grow at RPI plus 7% per annum over the performance period for 100% of the options granted to be exercisable.
The performance conditions have been satisfied in full.
Mike Humphrey is the only director who holds these options and details of his options are shown in the table on page 37.
It is the Companys current intention to satisfy awards under the BCIP and the LTIP and the exercise of share options primarily from shares held in the Employee Share Ownership Trust, treasury shares and shares purchased in the market and not by the issue of new shares.
Details of shares held for this purpose are given in note 25 on page 81.
32 Directors report | Governance Remuneration report Pension and other benefits Croda has a number of different pension plans in the countries in which it operates.
Pension entitlements for Crodas executives are tailored to local market practice, the length of service and age of the participants.
The principal pension plans in the UK are defined benefit schemes which provide a pension based on a proportion of final salary.
The Company is flexible in the manner in which pension provision is made for executive directors with the aim of balancing the needs of the director against the liability of the Company.
Hence, it makes contributions either by direct contribution to the Croda defined benefit pension scheme or by way of a cash supplement in lieu of pension benefits to enable the funding of personal pension arrangements.
Other customary benefits such as company cars or car allowances, health benefits, the UK SAYE Scheme and the Croda Share Incentive Plan which are available to all eligible UK employees, are made available to executive directors.
Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
The Committee reviews the individual components and the balance of these components from time to time.
Components of senior executives remuneration The Group Executive Committee and the Group Finance Committee are made up from seven senior executives in addition to the three executive directors.
The reward structure for these senior executives is broadly similar to that of the executive directors although there are some differences in LTIP participation.
Service contracts and external appointments Policy The Committees policy on executive directors service contracts is for them to contain a maximum notice period of one year.
In respect of termination, the Committees policy is to deal with each case on its merits, in accordance with the law and any further policy adopted by the Committee at the time.
In the event of early termination, other than for cause, the relevant directors then current salary and contractual benefits would be taken into account in calculating any liability of the Company.
For clarification, the Companys policy is that no entitlement to unearned bonus will be taken into account when determining payments on early termination.
The principal contractual benefits provided in addition to salary are the provision of a car or car allowance, pension, medical insurance and life assurance.
Annual bonuses and long-term incentives are non-contractual and are dealt with in accordance with the rules of the relevant schemes.
Specific contracts Mike Humphrey entered into a new service contract on 21 December 2005 which is terminable by the Company on one years notice and by Mike Humphrey on six months notice.
The Company may also terminate the contract at any time with immediate effect and Mike Humphrey would be entitled to receive compensation equivalent to twelve months salary plus the value of his pension benefits valued at 20% of basic salary, bonus entitlement 50% based on the assumption that performance targets are deemed to have been achieved and the value of other benefits, payable in equal monthly instalments for twelve months or, if less, the remaining period of any notice period not yet completed.
Such payments would discontinue or reduce to the extent that he obtained alternative employment i. e. any such payments would be phased and subject to mitigation to the extent that any alternative employment was commenced.
As explained in last years report, the Committee has engaged with its major institutional investors and shareholder protection bodies on the issue of the Chief Executives legacy contract but has not felt it appropriate to seek to renegotiate the terms of this contract at a time when the Chief Executive has presided over a sustained period of very strong performance, over a matter which is a legacy issue.
Sean Christie and Steve Foots have service contracts dated 15 December 2006 and 16 September 2010 respectively with substantially the same terms as those of Mike Humphreys contract except that there is no entitlement to bonus on termination by the Company with immediate effect.
External appointments Executive directors are permitted to accept external non-executive appointments with the prior approval of the Board.
It is normal practice for executive directors to retain fees provided for non-executive appointments.
Sean Christie was a non-executive director of Cherry Valley Farms Limited until its sale in April 2010.
During the year he received total payments of 1,506,250 consisting of fees and a bonus connected with completion of the sale.
Apart from service agreements and share schemes, no director has had any material interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiaries requiring disclosure under the Companies Act 2006.
Policy on non-executive directors remuneration The Board is responsible for determining the policy on, and level of, the remuneration of non-executive directors.
The aim is to attract non-executive directors who through their experience can further the interests of the Company through their stewardship and contribution to strategic development.
The Boards policy is to provide cash fees at a level commensurate with companies of Crodas size, set fees to reflect the anticipated time commitment of fulfilling the relevant non-executives duties, not to grant share options to non-executive directors, and to encourage non-executive directors to establish a holding of Croda shares.
33 Remuneration report Remuneration report Components of non-executive directors remuneration Non-executives pay comprises cash fees, paid monthly.
All non-executive directors are reimbursed for travel and related business expenses reasonably incurred in performing their duties.
Non-executive directors fees are determined on the basis of current fee levels in similar businesses and are reviewed by the Board at least every two years.
The Chairmans fees are determined by the Remuneration Committee and since 1 January 2009 these have been 153,000.
The fees of the remaining non-executive directors are determined by the Chairman and the executive directors.
Since 1 January 2009 the basic annual fee for a non-executive director has been 41,000, with an additional 6,000 for chairing a committee and the Senior Independent Director receiving an additional 3,000.
Terms of appointment The Chairman and non-executive directors have letters of appointment for an initial fixed term of three years subject to earlier termination by either party on written notice.
In each case this term can be extended by mutual agreement.
They have no entitlement to contractual termination payments.
The dates of their initial appointments and current term expiry dates are set out below.
Original appointment date Expiry date of current term M C Flower 16 May 2005 28 September 2011 M C Buzzacott 2 August 2004 1 August 2011 S Musesengwa 7 May 2007 6 May 2013 P N N Turner 1 June 2009 31 May 2012 S G Williams 1 July 2010 30 June 2013 Directors interests The beneficial interests at 31 December 2010 of the directors of the Company and their connected persons in the shares of the Company are shown below.
Further information regarding employee share option schemes is given in note 23 to the financial statements on pages 77 to 80 of the annual report.
The BCIP shares comprise 166,237 shares invested by the directors 2009: 134,830 and 166,237 shares which are the subject of conditional awards 2009: 134,830.
The SIP shares comprise 5,857 Partnership shares 2009: 5,446 and 5,857 Matching shares 2009: 5,446.
34 Directors report | Governance Remuneration report Share ownership policy The Company has adopted share ownership guidelines which apply to all executive directors and members of the Group Executive Committee and the Finance Committee.
Executives are required to build up a target shareholding of shares with a market value equivalent to 100% of salary from time to time through a combination of share purchases and the retention of incentive shares.
On the exercise of SAYE and executive share options or the vesting of LTIP and or BCIP awards, executives are required to retain shares from the shares awarded representing 50% of the net of tax gain until the target is met or exceeded.
The target is expected to be reached within five years.
All the executive directors have holdings well in excess of the target shareholdings.
Total shareholder return: Croda International vs FTSE 250 The graph below looks at the value by the end of 2010 of 100 invested in Croda on 31 December 2005 compared with 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 12 2005 31 12 2006 31 12 2007 31 12 2008 31 12 2009 31 12 2010 Croda International FTSE 250 In the opinion of the directors the FTSE 250 is the most appropriate index against which the total shareholder return of the Company should be measured, as it is an index of similar sized companies to Croda International Plc.
2 Although only appointed to the Board on 1 July 2010, Mr Foots was an existing employee and so his remuneration for the whole of 2009 and 2010 is shown.
3 Benefits incorporate all assessable tax benefits arising from employment by the Company and relate in the main to the provision of a Company car or car allowance, fuel allowances and private medical insurance.
4 The bonuses shown relate to the year ended 31 December 2010.
35 Remuneration report Total Shareholder Return Rebased Remuneration report Pension rights Prior to 6 April 2006, Mike Humphrey accrued pension benefits under the Croda International Supplemental Scheme CISS.
The CISS was merged with the Croda Group Pension Scheme on 30 September 2010 to form the Croda Pension Scheme CPS.
Mike Humphrey will be entitled at age 60 to a pension equal to his accrued pension at 5 April 2006 accrued at a rate of two-thirds of his annual pensionable remuneration as at 5 April 2006, pro-rated by the ratio of his actual service accrued prior to 5 April 2006 and prospective service to age 60, increased to age 60 at the rate which applies to all preserved pensions in the CISS section of the CPS.
If Mike Humphrey retires before age 60 a reduced pension is payable unless retiring at the Companys request.
In the event of death, a pension equal to two-thirds of his pension would become payable to his surviving spouse.
Mike Humphreys pension in payment is guaranteed to increase in line with the rate of inflation up to a maximum of 10% per annum.
During 2010, Mike Humphrey was paid 112,000 2009: 109,200 in addition to his basic salary to enable him to make independent provision for his retirement.
This is the same level of contribution expressed as a percentage of salary in respect of salary in lieu of pension that has been provided since 2006.
Sean Christie accrues pension benefits under the CPS with an accrual rate of 1 60th and a normal retirement age of 65.
If Sean Christie retires before age 65 a reduced pension is payable unless retiring at the Companys request.
In the event of death a pension equal to 50% of his pension would become payable to his surviving spouse.
His pension in payment is guaranteed to increase in line with the rate of inflation up to a maximum of 2.5% per annum.
Steve Foots accrues pension benefits under the CPS with an accrual rate of 1 60th and an entitlement to retire at age 60.
If Steve Foots retires before age 61, a reduction will be applied to the element of his pension accrued after 5 April 2006, and if he retires before age 60 a reduction will also be applied to the element of his pension accrued before 6 April 2006, unless in either instance he is retiring at the Companys request.
Steve Foots pension in payment is guaranteed to increase in line with the rate of inflation up to a maximum of 10% per annum for benefits accrued prior to 6 April 2006, and in line with inflation up to a maximum of 2.5% per annum for benefits accrued from 6 April 2006 onwards.
All three executive directors are entitled to death in service benefits from the CPS.
Defined benefit schemes Increase in accrued Increase pension Transfer Transfer Transfer in accrued during value of value of Increase value of the Accrued pension the year accrued accrued in transfer increase in pension at during the excluding pension at pension at value over the accrued 1 2 3 4 4 5 6 31.12.10 year inflation 31.12.09 31.12.10 the year pension 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 7 M Humphrey 311 30 16 7,443 8,440 997 442 M S Christie 21 5 5 180 253 52 39 8 S E Foots 79 15 12 862 1,082 204 135 Notes 1 The figures shown represent: the amount of annual pension benefits based on service to, and pensionable earnings at, 5 April 2006 for Mike Humphrey with standard preserved increases to 31 December 2010 : and the amount of annual pension benefits which would have been preserved for Sean Christie and Steve Foots had they left service on 31 December 2010, based on service to, and pensionable earnings at, that date.
2 The figure represents the difference between the total accrued pension at 31 December 2010 and the corresponding pension at the beginning of the year.
3 The figure represents the difference between the total accrued pension at 31 December 2010 and the corresponding pension at the beginning of the year after an adjustment to exclude inflation is provided as required under paragraph 9.8.
4 Transfer values are quoted on the basis recommended by the scheme actuary for valuation of accrued benefits if the member had transferred benefits to another approved scheme on the relevant date.
The increase in transfer value between 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2010 takes account of changes in market conditions over the period.
5 The figure represents the difference between transfer values of the accrued benefits at 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009, less contributions paid by the director or on his behalf under the Companys salary sacrifice scheme.
6 The figure represents the transfer value of the increase in accrued benefits over the period, adjusted for inflation, less contributions paid by the director or on his behalf under the Companys salary sacrifice scheme.
7 Following a recent review of the administration procedures of the CPS, Mike Humphreys pension as at 6 April 2006 has been recalculated to be 252,725 per annum it had previously been stated as 237,597 per annum.
The figures in the table above relating to the position as at 31 December 2009 are based on an accrued pension of 237,597 per annum as at 6 April 2006, as was disclosed last year.
The figures relating to the position as at 31 December 2010 are based on the revised pension figure of 252,725 per annum as at 6 April 2006.
Consequently, part of the increase in his accrued pension and transfer value during the year is in relation to this amendment to his accrued pension entitlement at 6 April 2006.
8 Steve Foots became a director on 1 July 2010.
The accrued pension disclosed above has been calculated taking into account his entire pensionable service including the period prior to his becoming a director.
Members of the CPS have the option to pay voluntary contributions.
Neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in this table.
36 Directors report | Governance Remuneration report Share options Options are granted over ordinary shares of 10p each under the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes and the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
Senior executive share options Mike Humphrey is the only director who holds options under the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes and details of his options are set out below: Number at Number at 1 January 2010 31 December 2010 Date of grant Earliest exercise date Exercise price 10p shares Exercised in year 10p shares M Humphrey 5 March 2003 5 March 2006 230p 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000 No price was paid for the award of the options and none of the terms and conditions of the share options was varied during the year.
All performance conditions attaching to the share options have been satisfied.
Prior to 2006, the savings contract was traditionally for five years but since that time a three year savings contract has been offered.
The option price is the value of ordinary shares at date of grant discounted by 20%.
Options are normally exercisable for a six month period following completion of the savings contract.
They each save the maximum of 125 per month permitted under the regulations.
Matching shares are allocated on a one for one basis for each Partnership share purchased by the employee.
Shares are purchased on a monthly basis.
During the year they each purchased 137 Partnership shares and were allocated 137 Matching shares.
The average purchase price was 1155.5p.
Since 31 December 2010, Mike Humphrey and Steve Foots have each purchased 16 Partnership shares and Sean Christie has purchased 17 Partnership shares and they have been awarded a corresponding number of Matching shares under the SIP at an average price of 1495p per share.
Otherwise there has been no change in the directors interests in shares or options granted by the Company between the end of the financial year and 8 March 2011.
Gains made on exercise of share options and LTIPs Gain Exercise date Shares exercised Scheme Exercise price Market price before tax M Humphrey 16 March 2010 78,451 LTIP Nil 911p 714,689 16 March 2010 4,857 BCIP Nil 911p 44,247 1 November 2010 1,410 SAYE 328p 1439p 15,665 774,601 M S Christie 9 March 2010 28,731 LTIP Nil 908.5p 261,021 16 March 2010 7,692 BCIP Nil 911p 70,074 331,095 S E Foots 24 February 2010 13,497 LTIP Nil 900p 121,473 16 March 2010 3,076 BCIP Nil 911p 28,022 7 December 2010 1,007 SAYE 328p 1610p 12,910 20 December 2010 363 SAYE 520p 1577p 3,837 166,242 The gains are calculated according to the market price of Croda International Plc ordinary shares of 10p each on the date of exercise, although the shares may have been retained.
The market price of the Companys shares at 31 December 2010 was 1616p and the range of market prices during the year was between 751p and 1616p.
On behalf of the Board S Musesengwa Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 8 March 2011 39 Remuneration report
