Governance Directors Remuneration Report inTROducTiOn This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Accounting Regulations under the Companies Act 2006.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to the Directors remuneration in the Combined Code.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be put to shareholders for approval.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain parts of the Directors remuneration report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting Regulations.
The Report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
infORmaTiOn nOT suBjEcT TO audiT REmunERaTiOn cOmmiTTEE The members of the Remuneration Committee are Mr John St. John Chairman, Mr Peter Bingham and Mr Ennio Sganzerla.
The Remuneration Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference which are available in the Corporate Governance section of the Companys website.
These include: setting and managing a remuneration strategy which will attract, motivate and retain a top quality executive team ensuring outstanding levels of achievement: determining the terms of employment and remuneration for the Chief Executive, Executive Directors and the Executive Team and ensuring that they reflect their individual performance and achievement of Company objectives: setting and maintaining performance parameters which incorporate mechanisms to encourage consistent and sustainable levels of Company performance including growth, shareholder value, risk management and profitability: approval of the design and targets of share incentive plans requiring shareholder approval.
No Director plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept appointments outside the Company providing that the Chairmans permission is sought and fees in excess of 10,000 from all such appointments are accounted for to the Company, except where specific approval is gained from the Board.
The Committee met two times during the year for which each member was present.
Although not a member of the Committee, Dr. Osman Shahenshah was invited to attend both of the Committee meetings during the year but he was not involved in discussions relating to his own remuneration.
Background to afrens Remuneration strategy Afren is a relatively young company with a phenomenal growth record.
It moved from an AIM listing to a full FTSE listing in late 2009 and achieved membership of the FTSE 250 during 2010.
The Company has an ambitious strategy of growth, shareholder return and profitability.
The Committee believes that in order to encourage and support this exceptional performance it needs to reward Directors appropriately for their significant contribution to the business with upper quartile salary positioning and a powerful equity incentive programme linked to shareholder value to enhance the overall value of the business.
Over the last few years there have been a number of statements from shareholder bodies and institutional investors clarifying their expectations for directors remuneration.
This culminated in a revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
As a result of this the Committee, supported by independent external professional remuneration advisors MM & K Limited MM&K, undertook an overall review of the Companys remuneration policies and practices during 2010.
MM&K is not retained to provide advice to any other part of the Company.
A subsidiary of MM&K, Higher Talent Limited, which specialises in the recruitment of HR and Reward professionals, was appointed and received a fee in connection with the recruitment by the Company of HR staff.
The review was instigated following the AGM in 2010 to affirm the Committees commitment to improve the clarity and structure of the Companys remuneration policies.
The results of the review including a revised Remuneration Policy have been discussed and agreed with major shareholders and will be placed before shareholders in General Meeting in 2011.
The main parts of the policy review will be rolled out during 2011.
Afrens remuneration philosophy is to ensure that its remuneration policy is fully aligned with its long term business strategy, its business objectives, its risk appetite and its values whilst recognising the interests of all relevant stakeholders.
The revised policy clearly links equity, bonus and salary awards to individual and Companyperformance.
A Afr fre en n plc plc 75 75 A An nnu nua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 Directors Remuneration Report continued Strategy Policy Package To provide a remuneration package that: Base salaries set at upper quartile levels.
Short Term: Helps to attract, retain and motivate Reward exceptional performance with upper Base salary Is aligned to shareholders interests quartilebonus and equity rewards.
Annual performance bonus Is competitive in the oil and gas industry Balance remuneration between short and long Long Term: Encourages exceptional performance termreward.
Is fair and transparent Share Option Scheme Performance Share Plan Can be applied consistently across the Group.
Benefits: Pension Scheme Life cover Family PHI and Dental cover Critical Illness and Income Protection insurance In assessing the Directors performance, the Remuneration Committee takes into account the general performance of the Company and the prevailing economic environment.
The five main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors are as follows: Base salary Annual bonus Benefits in kind Pension contribution Share and option incentives or other equity instruments The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management team should be performance related to support the long term growth of the Company and ensure the Executive Directors focus strongly on long term value creation.
Base salary progression, annual performance bonus and the long term incentive plan are all based on either individual or Company performance or both.
BasE salaRy The underlying remuneration policy applicable to all employees is to position base salaries at or around the upper quartile for comparable positions in similar companies within the oil and gas industry.
The Company uses the Deloitte Executive Survey and Deloitte Beyond the Board Survey as well as the Mercer UK Oil and Gas Exploration and Production survey in order to benchmark appropriate remuneration levels.
This practice has been established for a number of years and the Committee continues to believe that this is the correct strategy for Afren at the present time.
Directors salaries, detailed below for 2010, are below median and will be increased to levels more in line with competitive requirements for 2011.
Afren 2010 Salary FTSE 250 Median FTSE 250 U Q Chief Executive 462,500 600,000 700,000 Finance Director 290,000 360,000 404.000 Chief Operating Officer 357,600 321,000 408,500 Other Director 260,000 301,500 332,900 Paid in US$ Source: Deloitte Executive Survey 2010 PERfORmancE BOnus schEmE The Bonus Scheme has been revised to incorporate both individual and company objectives.
Bonus targets are based on individual performance as measured by the Companys Performance Management Programme which is completed annually in December, as well as the achievement of challenging corporate targets to ensure aclear link between performance and reward for all employees.
The maximum potential bonus for Directors is 100% of base salary at the time of award of which 80% relates to corporate performance and 20% relates to personal performance targets.
For 2010, no formal key performance indicators were put in place to measure corporate performance and as such the Committee considered the overall performance of the Company including growth, shareholder value, profitability and risk management.
In summary 2010 proved to be a pivotal year for the Company with anumber of extraordinary achievements on the part of the Executive Team and the business: Operationally, the Company continued to outperform pre start-up production expectations at the Okoro field and made significant progress towards first oil at Ebok: Strategically, through associate First Hydrocarbon Nigeria FHN, it realised a significant acquisition in OML26, representing a defining moment in its Nigerian growthstrategy.
Additionally, it acquired significant acreage in East Africa, providing both geographic and E & P diversification, through the acquisition of Black Marlin Energy.
Shareholder value was maximised with a share price appreciation in 2010 of 73%, significantly outperforming the FTSE 250 and the Main Board E & P group.
Proven and probable reserves and resources were increased to a record new high of 136mmboe, representing a reserves replacement of approximately 580% overa three year period.
Recorded first full year post tax profit.
76 76 A Afr fre en n plc plc A An nnu nua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 Governance As a result of this performance, the Remuneration Committee assessed that in 2010 the achievement of Company objectives justified an award of the maximum bonus of 100% of base salary for the Chief Executive, theChief Operating Officer and the Group Finance Director.
For 2011 the maximum performance bonus award will be 100% of base salary for the Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer and Group Finance Director if both personal and corporate performance targets are met.
For 2011, corporate performance will be measured in accordance with a number of key performance indicators: Reserves and resources replacement Production targets Delivery of our exploration programme Delivery of our development programme EHSS performance Financial performance Total shareholder return In consultation with the Remuneration Committee, the personal performance targets for Board Directors, other than the Chief Executive, are set by the Chief Executive and the personal targets for the Chief Executive are set by the Chairman.
The basis upon which the bonus is calculated is the same for all employees, including Board Directors, although the weighting towards Company performance is higher atthe senior levels and towards personal performance at more junior levels.
BEnEfiTs in kind The Executive Directors receive certain benefits in kind, principally private medical insurance, club membership and critical illness cover.
PEnsiOn cOnTRiBuTiOn UK-based Executive Directors are members of the Company pension scheme.
The scheme is a defined contribution scheme and the Company contributes 10% of salary subject to the participant contributing at least 5% of their salary.
The US-based Executive Director receives a Company contribution equal to 10% of their salary and bonus subject to the participant contributing at least 5% of their salary and bonus and subject to statutory limits on contributions.
afREn EquiTy schEmEs The Remuneration Committee believes that the ability of employees to acquire a meaningful equity stake in the Company is an essential element of Afrens overall remuneration policy.
To that end in 2005 the Company adopted a share option scheme and in 2008 a performance share plan PSP in connection with which options and performance share awards have been granted to a wide range of employees.
Afren intends to continue to operate both of these schemes, although it is proposed that the share option scheme will be gradually phased out as a general reward scheme and will in future be used mainly as a recruitment tool for senior staff.
The 2005 share Option scheme The share option scheme was adopted before the companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange plc.
The share option scheme provides for the grant of unapproved options ie options which are not approved by HMRC and so do not confer tax advantages on the option holders to employees, including Directors, selected by the grantor.
It is proposed that the share option scheme should be amended to bring the rules up to date and, to the extent permitted within the relevant legislation, to improve tax efficiency by allowing for the grant of HMRC approved options.
Details of the proposed amendments are included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Copies of the amended rules of the scheme will be available for inspection by shareholders as set out in the AGM notice.
Awards will not exceed 200% of base salary except in exceptional circumstances to recruit a top executive.
Only the Group Finance Director received a grant of options under the share option scheme in 2010 on his appointment as a Director.
No other awards were granted to Directors during the year.
Details of share options granted to Directors are included onpage 81.
A Afr fre en n plc plc 77 77 A An nnu nua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 Directors Remuneration Report continued The 2008 Performance share Plan The Performance Share Plan PSP was introduced in 2008 before the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange plc.
Underthe PSP, eligible employees, including Directors, who have been selected to participate, receive an award of shares in the Company.
Share awards may be made annually and the maximum value of an award for any Director may not exceed 200% of base annualsalary, except that the Remuneration Committee may decide to increase this limit to 300% in exceptional circumstances.
Ordinarily, an award, normally in the form of a conditional share award or a nominal share option, may vest three years after the award date subject to the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to the TSR of a selected peer group of companies.
An award may vest in full only if Afrens position inthe peer group is at or above the 75th percentile.
30% of an award vests for median performance and nothing vests if Afrens TSR is below the median.
There is prorata vesting for performance between the median and upper quartile.
During 2010, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance measure linked to PSP awards and the composition of the peer group in relation to which the Companys performance is measured.
The Remuneration Committee also considered introducing a new form of share-based long term incentive for Board Directors and key senior executives.
Following its review, the Remuneration Committee has decided to retain the PSP, including the relative TSR performance measure to which the vesting of awards is linked.
The revised peer group in relation to which the Companys TSR will be measured in respect of awards granted in 2010 and subsequently comprises the following companies the preceding peer group is also shown below for the purposes of comparison : Revised peer group: Borders & Southern Petroleum Hardy Oil & Gas Salamander Energy Bowleven Heritage Oil Plc Serica Energy Cairn Energy Ithaca Energy SOCO International Desire Petroleum JKX Oil & Gas Sterling Energy EnQuest Melrose Resources Tullow Oil Falkland Oil and Gas Petroceltic International Valiant Petroleum Gulf Keystone Petroleum Premier Oil Gulfsands Petroleum Rockhopper Exploration Preceding peer group: Addax Mart Resources Sterling Energy Bowleven Petroceltic International Stratic Energy Gulf Keystone Petroleum Roc Oil Company Tullow Oil Gulfsands Petroleum Serica Energy Vaalco Energy Hardy Oil & Gas SOCO International Factors the Remuneration Committee took into account when selecting the revised peer group included: The industry within which the Company operates, specifically taking into account both the international nature of the Companys business: The UK listing environment the Company is now part of: and The market capitalisation, turnover and number of countries in which the Company operates.
In the view of the Remuneration Committee, it is important for the Companys performance to be recognised and for Directors to be rewarded for providing, whenmeasured against the Companys peers, above median returns to shareholders.
For the present, the Remuneration Committee believes that the current PSP, which measures Afrens TSR performance against the revised peer group, remains consistent with those aims.
The Remuneration Committee will take into account thecompanys financial performance as well as relative TSR performance in determining the extent such PSP awards should vest.
It is, however, proposed that the PSP should be amended to bring the rules up to date and, to the extent permitted within the relevant legislation, to improve tax efficiency.
Copies of the amended PSP rules will be available for inspection by shareholders as set out in the AGM notice.
No PSP share awards were granted to Directors in 2010.
Details of PSP share awards granted to Directors to date are included on page 82.
78 78 A Afr fre en n plc plc A An nnu nua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 Governance Proposal to Establish an Employee Benefit Trust The Company is proposing to establish an employee benefit trust EBT.
This is a discretionary trust settled by the Company for the purposes of providing benefits to employees including former employees of the Company.
It is common practice for companies to establish an EBT in connection with employees share schemes.
Using funds provided or procured by the Company, the EBT acquires and holds shares pending release to participants in connection with one or more schemes.
TheCompany proposes to establish the EBT to facilitate the operation of its employee share schemes by acquiring ordinary shares either by subscription or purchase inthe market.
The EBT may not at any time hold more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time.
A resolution to adopt the EBT will be included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
A copy of the deed for establishing the EBT will be available for inspection byshareholders as set out in the AGM notice.
diREcTORs cOnTRacTs It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have contracts of an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one years notice.
The Directors have no entitlement to any bonus or other additional payment on severance of their contract.
Each Director would be considered on an individual basis and any payment would be entirely at the Companys discretion.
The details of the Directors contracts are summarised below: Name of Director Date of contract Notice period Egbert Imomoh Non-executive Director and Chairman 1 January 2009 3 months Osman Shahenshah Chief Executive Officer 27 February 2009 12 months Constantine Ogunbiyi Executive Director 12 June 2008 12 months Shahid Ullah Chief Operating Officer 16 April 2008 6 months Darra Comyn Group Finance Director 29 October 2009 6 months nOn-ExEcuTivE diREcTORs All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the Board based on independent surveys of fees paid to non-executive directors of similar companies.
The notice period for all Non-Executive Directors is three months.
The Chairman, in recognition of his role as both Chairman of a main listed company and ambassador for the Company, ispaid a basic fee of 140,000 p. a.
The basic fee paid to each other Non-Executive Director is 47,000 p. a. except the senior Non-Executive Director who receives 50,000 p. a.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the share option scheme, although the awards from 2008 and earlier remain in place, and are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
TOTal shaREhOldER RETuRns TsR TSR since IPO Afren vs Peer Group Average vs E&Y 350 oil and gas index 1000 Afren Rebased to 11 March 2005 Peer Group E&Y Index Constituents 800 Source: Bloomberg 600 400 200 0 Mar-05 Jan-06 Nov-06 Sep-07 Jun-08 Apr-09 Feb-10 Dec-10 The graph shows the relative performance of Afren plc against the Peer Group Average and the Ernst & Young Oil & Gas Index since AfrensIPO.
The selected indices give the most appropriate benchmark for other similar-sized oil and gas companies and the Peer Group is used by the Company for the performance criterion for the 2008 & 2009 Performance Share Plan awards.
The Peer Group comprises BowLeven, Gulfsands Petroleum, Gulf Keystone Petroleum, Hardy Oil & Gas, Mart Resources, Petroceltic International, ROC Oil Company, Serica Energy, SOCO International, Sterling Energy, Tullow Oil, Vaalco and Stratic Energy.
A Afr fre en n plc plc 79 79 A An nnu nua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 Directors Remuneration Report continued audiTEd infORmaTiOn diREcTORs EmOlumEnTs Fees basic Benefits Pension Annual Total Total salary in kind contributions bonus 2010 2009 Name of Director US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 us$000 US$000 Executive Osman Shahenshah 717 15 72 717 1,521 1,127 Constantine Ogunbiyi 403 6 27 349 785 663 Shahid Ullah 564 19 25 563 1,168 1,058 Darra Comyn 414 5 41 449 909 Egbert Imomoh 27 2,098 45 162 2,078 4,383 2,875 non-executive Egbert Imomoh 299 18 317 181 Peter Bingham 73 73 62 John St. John 73 73 62 Toby Hayward 78 78 33 Ennio Sganzerla 73 73 33 Guy Pas 29 596 18 614 400 2,694 63 162 2,078 4,997 3,275 Darra Comyn was appointed to the Board on 24 March 2010.
His bonus was based on 100% of his salary at the date of award December 2010.
Egbert Imomohs fee includes fees and other allowances received for work carried out with related entities and an allowance for the costs incurred working from home, totalling US$81,000 for the period.
Three of the Executive Directors were members of the Companys defined contribution scheme during 2010 2009: two.
80 80 A Afr fre en n plc plc A An nnu nua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 Governance diREcTORs EquiTy inTEREsTs share options Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the Directors.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for the share options during the financial year.
In relation to the grant of share options, John St. John and Peter Bingham were appointed Non-Executive Directors and awarded share options whilst the Company was AIM listed on the basis that their experience and support to the executive team in relation to technical and financial expertise would, and will continue, toadd significant value to the business.
Whilst they retain options granted whilst the Company was AIM listed, the rules have been amended such that no additional share options will be granted to Non-Executive Directors.
No further options have been granted to any Non-Executive Director following admission to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority and the Share Option Scheme Rules were amended in November 2009 to prohibit the grant of share options .
A Afr fre en n plc plc 81 81 A An nnu nua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 Directors Remuneration Report continued The options granted on 28 June 2005, 28 March 2007, 25 April 2008 and those granted to Peter Bingham on 21 June 2007 have no performance criteria attached tothem.
Those granted to John St. John on 21 June 2007 only vest if a closing share price for the Company of over 1.00 has been achieved for a three-month period.
Theoptions granted on 30 May 2006 will only vest if the share price has increased by 40% over the market price at date of grant for a period of ten days.
Theoptions granted on 23 January 2009 and 30 December 2009 will only vest if the share price has increased by 40% over the market price at date of grant for aperiod ofthreemonths.
PERfORmancE shaRE Plan On 1 June 2008 and 19 June 2009, awards were granted to Afren Directors and employees under the Afren Performance Share Plan.
Awards were granted to each eligible member of the scheme that will vest in full only if Afren achieves top quartile performance against its peers of oil and gas upstream companies over athree-year period, based on Total Shareholder Return TSR.
No part of an award will vest if Afren does not at least perform at the median level.
At the median level, 30%ofthe awards will vest and there is a straight-line calculation between the median level and the top quartile.
shaREs On jOining On joining in April 2008, Shahid Ullah was granted 2,025,000 shares to be issued at nominal consideration subject to certain time constraints.
Of these, 1,462,500 were issued during 2009 with 187,500 outstanding as at 31 December 2009.
These final shares were all issued in January 2010. aPPROval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 29 March 2011 and signed on its behalf by: mr john st. john Chairman, Remuneration Committee 29 March 2011 82 82 A Afr fre en n plc plc A An nnu nua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0
