The Board presents the Remuneration Report for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010.
Directors report Role of the Remuneration Committee The Board sets the Companys remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee makes recommendations to the Board within its agreed terms of reference available on the Companys website www.
com or from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The Committee also determines, on behalf of the Board, specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors and for the Chairman.
The Committee administers the Companys share incentive plans for employees and monitors and provides guidance on the level and structure of remuneration for senior management who report to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
No director plays a part in any discussion about their own remuneration.
Mr Giacoletto-Roggio is Chairman of the Committee.
The other current members of the Committee, all of whom are independent non-executive directors within the definition of the Code, are set out on pages 42 and 43.
Mr Mackintosh, Chairman of the Board, attends meetings of the Committee as a member.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
None of the members of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business of the Company.
An evaluation of the performance of the Committee will be conducted with the support of external advisers Remuneration during 2011.
The most recent review, conducted internally, was completed in 2009 and reported in the Corporate Governance report of the Annual Report and Financial Statements of 2009.
Report The Committee has access to detailed external research from independent consultants.
During the year, professional advice has been provided by Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, Slaughter and May, Faegre and Benson LLP,  LLP PwC and Alithos Limited.
Each of the advisers were appointed by the Committee.
Slaughter and May act as legal advisers to the Company generally and each of Faegre and Benson LLP and PwC also provide additional advice to the Company on unrelated matters.
Neither HNBS part of AON Corporation nor Alithos Limited provides other services to the Company.
Terms of engagement with each provider are available from the Company Secretary.
The Committee determines policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and is consulted and provides guidance on the broader remuneration policies for the Group below Board level based on recommendations of the Chief Executive Officer and the other executive directors.
Further information on meetings held and attendance by the members of the Committee is disclosed in the Corporate Governance report on page 52.
The Directors Report on Remuneration for the period ended 1 January 2010 was approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2010.
As required by the Companies Act, shareholders will be invited to approve this report at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 May 2011.
This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to directors remuneration.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain parts of the Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Act.
The Remuneration Report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
In setting the remuneration policy, the Committee takes into account the strategic objectives of the Group and the expected performance of individual directors within their areas of responsibility.
Targets set in association with the performance related elements of pay take into account the strategic objectives of the Company for example in the development and release of particular chips, and the development of strategic partnerships.
These are reviewed each year in the context of the plans set for the Group as a whole and are agreed for each executive director at the start of a financial year.
Summary of key reward philosophies Link to business strategy Performance conditions have been set to align with the long term business strategy and to maximise shareholder value.
The annual bonus continues to support the short-term operational performance of the business by measuring against the fundamental business performance of the year in question, but also including personal performance objectives for the year which are necessary to ensure future performance.
These can for example be meeting defined revenue, profit and cash flow targets and personal performance objectives such as delivery of new products, people development, or expansion into new markets.
The long-term incentive scheme measures performance against: O Earnings per share, which is believed to be an appropriate operational measure: and O Total shareholder return TSR relative to other companies within our sector.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Remuneration Report continued Directors report Remuneration and risk The Committee has reviewed the relationship between remuneration and risk and is satisfied that the policies operated are appropriate and do not encourage undue risk taking as: basic salary levels are targeted at around mid-market levels and are reviewed annually: annual bonuses are capped and targeted to ensure that performance incentives and rewards are set at an appropriate level: and alignment with shareholders is provided through the use of bonus deferral, TSR for long-term share incentives and the operation of share ownership guidelines.
Unaudited information Changes in executive directors With effect from 1 September 2010, Mr James Collier stood down as an executive director of the Company.
With effect from that date, Mr Collier accepted an appointment as a non-executive director and entered into a letter of appointment for that role.
Mr Collier does not serve on any board committees.
As at 1 January 2011, the executive directors of the Board were: Name Position Date joined the Company J A J van Beurden Chief Executive Officer November 2007 D D W Gardiner Chief Financial Officer June 2008 C A Ladas Operations Director May 2000 K Chadha Chief Marketing Officer June 2009 appointed to the Board January 2008.
Remuneration policy for the executive directors Executive remuneration packages are designed in order to attract, motivate and retain employees of the highest calibre required by the Group in order to achieve its objectives, to meet the needs of customers and enhance value to shareholders.
As one of the UKs leading technology companies, CSR seeks to attract, retain and motivate executive directors on a global basis who have experience in working in markets and with technologies which are complementary to CSRs activities and strategic intent.
CSR is a fabless semiconductor company.
Few of CSRs peers are based in the UK, and the majority have their executive teams located in the US.
Each of our executive directors has extensive experience of working outside of the UK including the US, and this breadth of experience is reflected in the executive management team that reports to the Chief Executive, in addition to the breadth and diversity of our employees.
As at 31 December 2010, 54% of employees were based outside the UK.
There are five main elements of the remuneration package for executive directors and senior management, comprising basic annual salary, benefits-in-kind, the opportunity to participate in a money purchase pension scheme, a cash bonus plan and participation in the Companys share incentive plans.
The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the executive directors should be performance-related.
The payment of both cash bonuses and the vesting of share incentives are subject to meeting performance conditions established by the Committee reflecting what, at that time, the Committee considers to be demanding targets.
These targets are set taking appropriate account of the challenging and rapidly evolving market in which the Group operates, and the expectations of the investment community on the Companys potential future performance.
The Remuneration Committee considers corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues and the extent to which these should be incorporated into the performance-related benefits of individual directors.
The Committee looked at the matter at the end of 2010 and determined that, given the Companys current activities and its strategic imperatives for 2011, it was not appropriate to incorporate such matters specifically within the incentive arrangements for any executive director during 2011.
This will be kept under review on an annual basis.
Basic salary An executive directors basic salary is considered by the Committee on appointment and then reviewed usually once a year and when an individual changes position or responsibility.
When making a determination as to the appropriate remuneration, the Committee considers firstly remuneration practices within the Group as a whole and, where considered relevant, conducts objective research on companies within the Companys peers with both an international and UK focus, reflecting that the Company is competing in a global market.
As the Group has continued to evolve, the peer group has also been reconsidered, reflecting the broader international presence and the importance of maintaining an executive team with suitable and relevant industry and international business experience.
The target salary is at mid-market noting that after promotion or appointment to the Board it may take several years to meet this policy, with the opportunity to go above this level, subject to sustained individual performance.
The Committee seeks to ensure that there is an appropriate balance between fixed and variable pay, with a significant element based on performance-related variable reward.
54 55 Remuneration Report continued Directors report The salary of Mr van Beurden and Mr Gardiner is paid in pounds sterling, whilst the salary of each of Mr Ladas and Mr Chadha is paid in US Dollars.
Details of the basic salary of the executive directors who served during the period ended 31 December 2010 are set forth in the table below.
2010 Salary Previous Salary Date of Last Review J A J van Beurden 400,000 300,000 June 2009 J D Y Collier 286,000 275,000 Feb 2010 D D W Gardiner 301,600 290,000 Feb 2010 C A Ladas $ 312,000 $300,000 Feb 2010 K Chadha $ 312,000 $250,000 Feb 2010 As previously reported, salary levels were not adjusted at 1 January 2009 following the review conducted in December 2008.
The Committees decision, which was supported by the Board as a whole, was considered appropriate given the prevailing economic environment and the decision was in keeping with the general pay freeze which had been adopted for the Group.
The Committee kept under review whether any increases were warranted during the year.
The salary for Mr van Beurden was adjusted in June 2009, following completion of the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc.
In keeping with a decision on the review of salaries for the Group as a whole, the salaries for the executive directors were reviewed in February 2010.
For the 2010 year, increases were introduced from 1 April 2010 but taking effect from 1 January 2010.
This adjustment was carried out in 2010 only and applied to all employees.
Current salaries at February 2011 are: J A J van Beurden 400,000 D D W Gardiner 301,600 C A Ladas $312,000 K Chadha $312,000 The Committee is satisfied that the salaries conform to its strategy, whilst remaining competitive against similar roles within the relevant peer group.
Benefits-in-kind The executive directors receive certain benefits-in-kind, comprising private medical insurance, life assurance of four times basic salary, and personal accident insurance and subsistence expenses.
During 2010, Mr Ladas, who lives in the US, was provided with support towards the cost of a UK temporary residence reflecting his frequent travel and stays in the United Kingdom as an important part of the performance of his role.
Mr Ladas and Mr Chadha also receive US-based dental plan insurance.
Pension arrangements Two of the executive directors serving at the year end were members of the Cambridge Silicon Radio Retirement Benefits Scheme the UK Pension Plan which is an HM Revenue and Customs approved money purchase defined contribution scheme operated for eligible employees in the United Kingdom.
One executive director has established their own personal pension plan to which the Company contributes.
One director participates in the US 401K Plan which the Company operates for its US-resident employees.
Contributions are determined as a percentage of the employees gross basic salary.
Details of the actual contributions made by the Group to the UK Pension Plan and the US 401K Plan on behalf of the executive directors are set out in the table on page 61.
Normal retirement age is 65 for employees and executive directors.
Other than basic salary, no element of the directors remuneration is pensionable.
Share ownership Executive directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding in the Company to a level equivalent to 100% of their basic salary.
This shareholding should be satisfied through retention of 50% or more at the discretion of the director concerned of the shares obtained as a result of participating in any Company share plan, net of the shares sold to finance option exercises or to pay a National Insurance or income tax liability or overseas equivalent.
The programme specifically excludes the need for directors to make a personal investment should awards not vest.
Normally the Committee would expect the executive director to achieve the holding within five years following appointment to the Board.
Cash bonus plan The Committee is responsible for determining on what basis to incentivise employees, including executive directors, through a cash bonus plan.
The Committee establishes against defined targets the minimum threshold at which a bonus will be payable and the maximum potential award.
In setting appropriate bonus thresholds and targets, the Committee may refer to the objective research on a comparator group as noted on page 54 under Basic salary.
The performance metrics used for the 2010 cash bonus comprised underlying operating profit and revenue in addition to personal performance objectives.
These targets were set after considering the Companys budgeted underlying operating profit and market expectations on financial performance.
The targets were agreed based upon objectives which were considered to be appropriate and stretching against the background of the prevailing economic conditions and the Companys annual plan for 2010.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Remuneration Report continued Directors report The personal performance objectives for the Chief Executive Officer are determined by the Remuneration Committee and for other executive directors in consultation between the Committee and the Chief Executive.
The objectives combine specific strategic imperatives relevant to the forthcoming year, in addition to targets reflecting the Groups requirements to look beyond that period in order to remain competitive, for example in the development of new technologies and markets.
The Committee looks to ensure that the objectives have direct relevance to the wider objectives of the Group, and to ensure that in seeking to achieve the objectives, the executives should not place too great an emphasis on short term performance against the longer term creation of sustained growth and return from the business.
Actual performance against these targets based on the Companys financial and strategic objectives and the personal performance of individual directors results in determination by the Remuneration Committee of the appropriate size of the bonus.
The maximum potential bonus payable for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010 was 100% of salary for executive directors.
The on-target cash bonus potential was 50% of salary.
For each of Mr van Beurden and Mr Gardiner, in addition to the cash bonus for 2010 the Committee incorporated an additional incentive which provided for the potential, subject to fulfilling performance targets, to receive ordinary shares, which for Mr van Beurden was a maximum opportunity of 120,000 shares and for Mr Gardiner was a maximum opportunity of 100,000 shares.
Both the cash and share elements were subject to satisfying financial, strategic and personal objectives set by the Committee.
The shares will, subject to meeting the performance conditions, vest in March 2011.
Each of Mr van Beurden and Mr Gardiner may elect to sell sufficient shares to satisfy the tax liability on vesting, but are otherwise required to hold the shares they receive for a further period of 12 months Based on the extent to which the targets were achieved, the bonuses stated below were paid.
The extent to which these targets had been satisfied was initially considered by the Audit Committee and then discussed by the Remuneration Committee.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee also considered the extent to which the personal objectives had been satisfied for each executive director in order to assess the amount which should be paid.
Based on this assessment, the amount of the bonus paid to each executive director is as shown below: J A J van Beurden 224,058 D D W Gardiner 168,940 C A Ladas $135,765 K Chadha $135,765 For each of Mr van Beurden and Mr Gardiner, the satisfaction of the performance targets and exceptional individual performance during 2010 resulted in the vesting of shares under the share bonus provision of the 2010 plan.
For Mr van Beurden, 120,000 ordinary shares will vest and for Mr Gardiner 100,000 ordinary shares will vest.
For 2011, the Committee is reviewing arrangements for the annual cash bonus and share incentive plans and will submit proposals to shareholders to vote upon at a General Meeting expected to be held in June 2011.
An explanation of this review is given on page 59 and details will also be provided in a circular to shareholders to be issued in accordance with the requisite notice period and to allow sufficient time for consideration in advance of that general meeting.
As reported in the 2009 report of the Remuneration Committee, in respect of the bonus earned in 2009, Mr Chadha was allotted 16,580 ordinary shares in the form of restricted shares which, subject to his remaining employed by the Company as at 1 March 2011, will be transferred to Mr Chadha at that date.
There are no further restrictions applying to the transfer of the shares and Mr Chadha may elect to hold or sell the shares on transfer at 1 March 2011.
Share option plans The Company has a number of share option plans intended to facilitate the motivation and retention of employees.
Two of the plans were established prior to the Companys flotation, being the Founders Share Option Plan and the Global Share Option Plan.
Whilst not all the awards under these two plans have been exercised, the plans are closed for the purpose of any new awards, and neither plan was used during 2010 for grants to executive directors or to other employees.
Only Mr Ladas amongst the executive directors has an outstanding grant made under either of these plans.
Following shareholder approval at the 2004 Annual General Meeting, the Company established the CSR plc Share Option Plan CSOP.
The reason for the introduction of this plan was to provide a means by which to incentivise the executive directors and employees whilst aligning their interests more closely with those of the Companys shareholders.
The Committee has responsibility for supervising the CSOP and the grant of options in accordance with its rules.
Awards are made to executive directors and other employees at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Awards for directors and other senior employees are subject to a three year retention period and the requirement that, subject to certain mitigating factors, the participant is an employee at the end of the retention period.
Since the introduction of the CSOP, through to and including grants made in 2008, the vesting of shares was subject to a performance target based on the growth over a three year period in the Companys underlying earnings per share.
The performance target for the 2008 grants were not met, and these options therefore lapse.
As disclosed in the report of the Committee for 2008, following a review conducted in December 2008 by the Committee in conjunction with its adviser HNBS, the Committee decided that the target for options under the CSOP would be based on relative Total Shareholder Return of the Company against a peer group over a period of three years.
The peer group is shown on page 57.
For grants made in 2010 to each of Mr van Beurden and Mr Gardiner, based on their performance during 2009, the Committee determined that it was appropriate to make a higher grant under each plan at 200% of salary under the CSOP and 200% of salary under the Share Award Plan.
56 57 Remuneration Report continued Directors report For 2011, the Committee is reviewing arrangements for the share incentive plans and will submit proposals to shareholders to vote upon at a General Meeting expected to be held in June 2011.
Total Shareholder Return comparator group of companies The following basket of comparator companies is used for determining the relative TSR performance of the Company, for grants made in 2010.
ARM Holdings plc GN Store Nord A S QUALCOMM Incorporated Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc. Hewlett-Packard Development STMicroelectronics N. V. Company L. P. ASML Holding N. V. Infineon Technology AG Silicon Laboratories Inc. Analog Devices, Inc. Intel Corporation Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Apple Computer, Inc. Logitech International SA Spirent plc Marvell Technology Group Ltd Synopsys Inc. austriamicrosystems AG Motorola, Inc. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited Broadcom Corporation National Semiconductor Corporation Teradyne, Inc. Cirrus Logic, Inc. Nokia Oyj Texas  Conexant Systems, Inc. PMC-Sierra, Inc. Wolfson Microelectronics plc Dell, Inc. Plantronics, Inc.
The grants in 2009 included additional companies in the comparator group, being Bookham Inc, Dialog Semiconductor plc, Nordic Semiconductor ASA, Research in Motion Ltd and Wavecom SA.
Following the acquisition by Qualcomm Inc of Atheros Communications during 2010, Atheros has been removed from the comparator group.
The Committee decided that the thresholds to be met would be as follows.
None of the options shall vest if the Companys relative position is below median.
30% of a grant shall vest at median, with full vesting of a grant for performance at the upper quartile.
Shares shall vest on a straight-line basis between the median and upper quartile, with no retesting of the performance condition if it is not met at the end of the three year period.
The performance condition was considered by the Committee to be challenging and appropriately aligned with shareholder interests to achieving sustained performance in the return to shareholders over the three year performance period.
For the grants to be made in 2011, the Committee has been reviewing the performance condition in conjunction with advisers HNBS and PwC and also discussions with a number of institutional shareholders.
A final determination on the performance condition will be taken prior to the grants of performance-related options for 2011.
The rules of the CSOP do not allow for options to be granted at a discount to the Companys share price at the date of grant.
The Companys current policy is to grant options to executive directors at the discretion of the Committee up to a maximum of 200% of salary, taking into account individual performance.
Pursuant to the rules of the CSOP, the Committee also reserves to its discretion the right to grant awards at a higher proportion of basic salary which, in exceptional circumstances only, such as recruitment of a new executive or key employee, could be up to 400% of basic salary.
The Company operates an HM Revenue and Customs approved SAYE Share Option Scheme for eligible employees under which options may be granted at a discount of up to 20% of market value.
Executive directors resident in the UK are eligible to participate in the SAYE Share Option Scheme.
Following the acquisition of SiRF, and as approved by shareholders at the General Meeting held on 25 June 2009, the Company introduced an Employee Share Purchase Plan the ESPP specifically for its US employees under which the option to acquire shares in the Company may be granted at a discount of up to 15% of the market value.
US-based employees are invited to participate in the ESPP during an offer period which is expected to be made once every twelve months.
The ESPP allows US employees to save a pre-determined amount from their monthly salary which may at the end of a specified savings period be used towards the purchase of shares in the Company.
US resident directors may participate in the ESPP.
Performance share awards At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2005, shareholders approved the introduction of a Share Award Plan called the CSR Share Award Plan.
Awards are made to executive directors and other employees at the discretion of the Committee.
The performance condition in respect of grants made in 2010 was subject to meeting specific EPS targets in 2012.
In order for 20% of the grant to vest, the Company must achieve an EPS of 58 cents, increasing to vesting at 100% for achieving an EPS of 70 cents.
Above 58 cents up to maximum vesting at 70 cents, the proportion of shares which vests increases on a straight line basis.
The Committee considers that these performance conditions were appropriate for the form of award and were suitably stretching.
The TSR performance target for the grants made in 2008, which were based on Total Shareholder Return were not met, and the Share Awards therefore lapsed.
In accordance with the rules of the CSR Share Award Plan, the Committee reserves the right to grant awards at a proportion of basic salary normally up to a maximum of 100% of salary 200% in exceptional circumstances.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Remuneration Report continued Directors report The table below summarises awards granted in 2010 under the CSR Share Award Plan, and the total awards held by each executive director at 31 December 2010.
The level of award is considered each year in the light of performance.
The Company monitors the awards of shares made under the various share plans which it operates in relation to their effect on dilution limits.
Following shareholder approval at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, the Company is able to make selective share awards while maintaining the traditional overall 10% limit on awards as a proportion of the issued share capital in any rolling ten year period.
Conscious of the need to ensure that the satisfaction of issue of new shares to employees pursuant to its share schemes operates within ABI guidelines, the CSR Employee Benefit Trust the Trust was established during 2007.
The Trust will enable the grant of shares to employees on exercise of vested options to be met by using shares acquired by the Trust in the open market.
The Trust presently holds 4,519,140 ordinary shares in CSR plc which were acquired in the open market.
The purchase of shares by the Trust is satisfied through cash drawn down under the terms of a Loan Facility Agreement established at the time of the creation of the Trust.
During 2010 the Trust did not acquire any shares.
The details of each purchase of ordinary shares in CSR plc and the total holding by the Trust is shown in note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The FTSE 250 index has been selected for this comparison because it is a broad equity index of which CSR plc is a constituent company.
The review has been undertaken to ensure that the Company remains competitive in attracting and retaining senior executives combining the necessary skills, experience and talent within a highly dynamic and competitive environment and recognizing that many of the peers, with whom the Company competes for talent are based outside the UK, predominantly in the US.
The Committee has considered the practice of peers within sectors competing with CSR in the level of grants and associated vesting conditions for executive directors.
Recognising the fact that CSR competes in a global market for key talent, with many companies placing significant emphasis on share options, with larger absolute grants, often with less challenging vesting criteria than presently used by CSR, or no performance criteria at all, the Committee determined it was appropriate to consider alternative incentive arrangements.
This review has been conducted in conjunction with PwC and HNBS as advisors to the Committee.
The review has included engagement with the Companys shareholders.
The proposed changes will be submitted to shareholders for their consideration and approval at a General Meeting expected to be held in June 2011, details of which will be provided in a circular to shareholders to be issued in accordance with the requisite notice period and to allow sufficient time for consideration in advance of that general meeting.
If the proposed arrangements are not adopted, then the Committee will revert to the form of cash bonus plan used in 2010, based on targets effective from the beginning of the 2011 financial year, combining financial and personal performance objectives.
The use of a deferral period or potential clawback provisions in the cash bonus plan would be considered in due course along with other matters raised in the revised Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee will also expect to make grants of options under each of the CSR plc Share Option Plan and the CSR Share Award Plan based on performance conditions set by the Committee.
Directors contracts It is the Companys policy that executive directors should have contracts of an indefinite term.
Each of the directors named in the table below have a service contract which is subject to one years notice from the Company.
Each of Mr van Beurden, Mr Gardiner and Mr Ladas has a service agreement requiring them to give six months notice to the Company.
Mr Chadha is subject to six months notice from the Company and is required to give three months notice to the Company.
The details of the directors service contracts and notice period from the Company under their respective contracts for those in office at the year end are summarised in the table below: Date of service Name of director contract Period of notice J A J van Beurden 29 September 2007 1 year D D W Gardiner 27 February 2008 1 year C A Ladas 12 December 2007 1 year In the event of termination, a director would be entitled to a payment not exceeding one years remuneration.
In an appropriate case, the Company would have regard to the departing directors duty to mitigate against costs to the Company.
Non-executive directors All non-executive directors have specific terms of engagement provided in formal letters of appointment and their remuneration is determined by the Board within the limits set by the Articles of Association and based on independent surveys of fees paid to non-executive directors of similar companies.
The fees for non-executive directors are considered each year.
The non-executive directors are appointed for a three year term, subject to re-appointment by the shareholders.
The terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours on request to the Company Secretary and up to 15 minutes prior to and at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The fees of the non-executive directors and the Chairman were reviewed in February 2010.
It was determined that the basic fee paid to non-executive directors would increase to 45,000.
It was also agreed that the fee payable to Mr Carlisle in his capacity as Senior Independent Director would be adjusted by the payment of a further 8,500 previously 5,500, to Mr Allner in his capacity as chairman of the audit committee by payment of a further 9,000 previously 6,000 and to Mr Giacoletto-Roggio in his capacity as chairman of the remuneration committee 8,700 previously 5,700.
The fee payable to Mr Mackintosh as Chairman of the Board was increased to 180,000.
Non-executive directors do not receive any bonus, do not participate in awards under the Companys share schemes, and are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all non-executive directors will be standing for re-election or, as in the case of Ms Vega who has been appointed to the Board since the last General Meeting, for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Being non-executive directors, they do not have service contracts.
Date of letter Duration of Name of director of appointment appointment R W Mackintosh 30 April 2010 3 years A E C G Carlisle 23 September 2008 3 years S Giacoletto-Roggio 4 January 2010 3 years A J Allner 23 September 2008 3 years J D Y Collier 21 July 2010 3 years Ms T M Vega 27 October 2010 3 years CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Remuneration Report continued Directors report Outside appointments Executive directors are entitled to accept appointments outside the Company provided that the Chairmans permission is sought prior to accepting the appointment.
Whether or not the director concerned is permitted to retain their fees is considered on a case by case basis.
The salary and fees for other directors were paid in Pounds Sterling but denominated in US Dollars for reporting purposes, consistent with the accounting policies of the Company.
Mr Tucker stood down on 27 May 2009.
Other emoluments represents the cost met by the Company for travel to the UK and temporary residence for Mr Ladas, a US citizen and resident in California, in connection with the performance of his duties.
The benefits are consistent with those provided to Mr Ladas prior to his appointment as an executive director.
Mr Ladas heads the Operations function of the Group, a post he has held since 2000, and he is responsible for managing the manufacture and supply of the Companys products in which capacity he is required to undertake extensive travel around the world.
Mr Banatao stood down from 26 October 2010.
Mr Collier stood down as an Executive director on 1 September 2010 and became a non-executive director as at the same date.
Following the decision of Mr Chadha to waive his entitlement to a cash bonus, subsequent to 9 February 2010, the Committee determined to allot Mr Chadha 16,580 ordinary shares in the Company, in the form of restricted shares, which, subject to remaining an employee as at 1 March 2011, will be transferred to Mr Chadha at 1 March 2011.
There are no further performance conditions applying to the transfer of the restricted shares, and Mr Chadha may elect to hold or sell the shares on transfer at 1 March 2011.
Aggregate directors remuneration The aggregate directors remuneration was as follows: 2010 2009 $ $ Emoluments 4,089,478 5,225,054 Gains on exercise of share options 2,870,249 986,565 Money purchase pension contributions 227,556 273,030 7,187,283 6,484,649 60 61 Remuneration Report continued Directors report Directors pension entitlements Contributions paid or accrued by the Group in respect of the directors during the year were as follows: 2010 2009 $ $ J D Y Collier 41,119 74,142 J A J van Beurden 87,387 94,202 D D W Gardiner 65,895 78,186 C A Ladas 24,960 24,000 K Chadha 8,195 2,500 227,556 273,030 Directors share options Aggregate emoluments disclosed on page 60 do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the directors.
Details of the options exercised by directors and of the gains arising on the exercise of options in the 52 week period to 31 December 2010 and the prior period are shown below: Gains on Gains on Market value exercise exercise Name of Grant Date of Number Cost per share per share $ 2009 director description exercise exercised Note i $ J D Y Collier Global 25 Feb 2010 120,000 0.503 4.704 766,187 J D Y Collier CSOP 25 Feb 2010 75,000 2.000 4.704 308,259 J D Y Collier CSOP 25 Feb 2010 62,350 3.210 4.704 141,599 J D Y Collier CSOP 25 Feb 2010 16,940 0.001 4.704 121,094 J D Y Collier Founder Grant 2 March 2009 382,002 0.054 1.880 986,565 K Chadha SiRF Options 30 Mar 2010 214,890 1.650 4.587 952,415 K Chadha SiRF Options 29 Apr 2010 18,525 0.001 4.185 118,606 J A J van Beurden Recruitment Award 19 Nov 2010 25,000 0.001 3.192 127,325 C A Ladas Global 18 Feb 2010 48,751 0.503 4.911 334,764 Note i : The US $ gain represents the number of options exercised multiplied by the market value per share shown in Pounds Sterling and translated at the US $ Pounds Sterling exchange rate prevailing on the date of exercise.
Note ii : Numbers are adjusted to reflect changes to the share capital structure on listing in March 2004.
Note iii : Options granted to Directors under the CSOP scheme in 2004 vest after three years and have certain performance criteria attached.
The options vest in proportions from 10% 100% dependent upon the EPS achieved by the Group for the year ended 31 December 2006, the target EPS was in the range $0.17 to $0.26.
Thereafter the option may be exercised for the rest of its ten year life without further test.
The performance condition was satisfied and the options have vested.
Note iv : Options granted under the SAYE scheme vest after three years and must be exercised within 6 months of vesting date.
Note v : Options granted under the CSOP scheme vest after three years and have certain performance criteria attached.
For options to vest, the EPS growth must be greater than the growth in the RPI plus a compound 4% per annum over a fixed period of three financial years beginning in January 2005.
Options expire on th the 10 anniversary of the date of grant.
Note vi : Shares granted under the Share Award scheme in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 vest after three years and have certain performance conditions attached.
The shares vest in proportions from 30% to 100% dependent on the Companys TSR against a basket of comparator companies established at the start of the three year period and thereafter only if the Companys underlying financial performance has improved to the satisfaction of the Remuneration Committee, details of which shall be disclosed to shareholders in reports of the Remuneration Committee subsequent to the determination of the Committee.
Note vii : Options granted under the CSOP scheme in 2006 also vest after three years and have performance criteria attached.
No options will vest if EPS growth is below a compound 12% per annum plus RPI.
If the Companys EPS growth meets or exceeds a compound of 12% per annum plus RPI, 30% of the share options will vest.
If the Companys EPS growth meets or exceeds a compound 14% per annum plus RPI an additional 50% of the share options will vest.
If the Companys EPS growth meets or exceeds a compound 17% per annum plus RPI all options will vest.
The performance condition for the grant in 2006 has not been satisfied and therefore the options have lapsed.
Note viii : Options granted under the CSOP scheme between 1 January 2007 and 31 August 2007 also vest after three years and have performance criteria attached.
Note ix : To facilitate the recruitment of Mr van Beurden, the Company agreed to award Mr van Beurden 25,000 ordinary shares in the Company.
The award is subject to vesting after the satisfaction of conditions relating to service.
Note x : Options granted under the CSOP scheme between August 2007 and the end of 2008 also vest after three years and have performance criteria attached.
No options will vest if EPS growth is below a compound 5% per annum plus RPI.
If the Companys EPS growth is equal to compound 5% per annum plus RPI, 30% of the share options will vest.
For EPS performance above a compound 5% per annum plus RPI up to a compound 12.5% per annum plus RPI, the proportion of shares that shall vest is determined on a straight line basis pro-rata between 30% and 100%.
If the Companys EPS growth over the three year performance period exceeds a compound 12.5% per annum plus RPI, all the options vest.
Note xi : To facilitate the recruitment of Mr Gardiner, the Company agreed to award Mr Gardiner 20,000 ordinary shares in the Company.
Note xii : Awards granted under the Share Award Scheme in 2009 are subject to a three year vesting period and have performance criteria attached.
No options will vest if the compound EPS growth is less than 7.5% per annum, adjusted for RPI.
30% vests for a compound growth of 7.5% per annum, adjusted for RPI and full vesting occurs for a compound EPS growth of 15% per annum adjusted for RPI.
Share awards vest on a straight line basis for a compound EPS growth between 7.5% and 15% adjusted for RPI.
Note xiii : Grants made in 2009 under the CSOP scheme are subject to a three year vesting period and have a performance condition attached.
This is based on the relative TSR of the Company against a basket of comparator companies established at the start of the vesting period.
The shares vest in proportions from 30% to 100% dependent on the Companys TSR against that basket of comparator companies.
Note xiv : SiRF Options and Awards are replacement options rolled over from the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. at a conversion ratio and exchange rate specified in the merger agreement.
The vesting of each of these grants is not subject to the fulfilment of performance conditions, which is consistent with the prevailing rules of the schemes under which the grants were made.
Note xv : Mr Chadha participates in an Employee Share Purchase Plan which commenced on 6 November 2009.
Mr Chadha has elected to contribute the maximum amounts as allowed under IRS rules into the plan which state that a maximum of 10% of salary can be contributed, capped at $5,000.
In 2010, Mr Chadha purchased 813 shares through the Employee Share Purchase Plan.
Note xvi : Awards granted under the Share Award Scheme in 2010 are subject to a three year vesting period and have performance criteria attached linked to meeting a specific EPS target.
No options will vest if an EPS of less than 58 cents is achieved.
20% vests for an EPS of 58 cents and full vesting occurs for an EPS of 70 cents.
Share awards vest on a straight line basis for EPS of between 58 and 70 cents.
Note xvii : Grants made in 2010 under the CSOP scheme are subject to a three year vesting period and have a performance condition attached.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2010 was 3.56 and the range during the year was 2.81 to 5.05.
This report was approved by the Board of directors and signed on its behalf by: S Giacoletto-Roggio, Chairman, Remuneration Committee 8 February 2011 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
