Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 32 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RemuneRatiOn FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2010 unaudited Remuneration Committee This Committee deals with all aspects of remuneration of the Executive Directors and is also responsible for recommending and monitoring the level and structure of senior management remuneration and setting the Chairmans fees.
Its members are currently Mr P C Ruffles Committee Chairman, Sir Mark Wrightson, Mr C Brinsmead and Sir David Brown.
The Chairman, the Managing Director and the Group HR Director are invited to attend the Committee meetings but do not participate in decisions regarding their own remuneration.
These attendees were present when the Committee considered matters relating to the Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 October 2010.
The Committee met three times during the year.
assistance to the Committee Mercer Human Resource Consulting, Monks and the Group HR Director have provided advice to the Committee on salaries and benefits for the Executive Directors and senior management.
Mercer Human Resource Consulting and Monks have no other connection with the Company.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee seeks to establish remuneration packages that will attract, retain and motivate high-quality Directors.
Salary and benefit packages for Executive Directors are linked to both individual and business performance and are designed to ensure that the Group is managed in the interests of shareholders.
In assessing remuneration, the Committee reviews the remuneration of Directors in businesses with global operations comparable to those of the Group.
The Committee has access to salary surveys of major consultants.
It also takes into account the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Salary Salaries and benefits are established by reference to those prevailing in the employment market generally for executives of comparable experience and skills and take into account the level of responsibility and achievement of the individual.
Broadly, the Committee seeks to pitch base salary at the median level for comparable positions.
The bonus and the Long Term Incentive Plan are then used to ensure that, when performance merits, total annual earnings are in the upper quartile for comparable positions.
annual bonus plan Executive Directors participate in an annual performance related bonus scheme and for the year under review the bonus potentially payable ranged between 0 per cent and 100 per cent of base salary.
The bonus comprised a figure of up to 50 per cent of base salary calculated by reference to the achievement of Group profit and cash generation targets.
In addition, if an Executive Director achieves his personal objectives a multiplier is applied to this figure.
The amount of the multiplier is dependent on the level of achievement and the maximum that can be earned under this element of the bonus scheme is 50 per cent of base salary.
The Committee spends considerable time on setting objectives and looks to ensure they are suitably demanding and aligned with the objectives of the Group.
It also concentrates on ensuring that personal objectives are specific and measurable.
At the end of the year, the Committee carefully reviews performance and consults with the Managing Director regarding the performance of the other Executive Directors.
For the year ended 31 October 2010, the Executive Directors earned bonuses in the range of 88 to 94 per cent of salary.
Shareholding requirement Commencing November 2004, Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a holding of at least 40,000 Domino shares.
Shares held in trust under the Long Term Incentive Plan 1997 are not counted towards this requirement.
Each Executive Director holds more than 40,000 shares.
long term incentive Plans Long Term Incentive Plan 1997 Under this plan, which expired in March 2007, the Remuneration Committee made conditional awards of shares annually to all the Executive Directors and certain senior managers.
There was no maximum award value stated in the plan but in practice a limit was adopted of 60 per cent of the individuals base salary.
The deferred element of the award referred to below was included in this maximum.
The Committee set objective performance conditions for each award.
After three years the shares comprised in the conditional award are allocated if, and to the extent that, the performance conditions are met.
The performance conditions for the awards of shares to the Executive Directors that have been made under the plan are as follows: Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 33 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements i 50 per cent of the award shares are allocated to a participant if the percentage increase in the Groups total shareholder return TSR over three years exceeds the percentage increase in the FTSE Mid 250 Total Return Index the Index over the same period plus 8 per cent.
12.5 per cent of the shares are allocated if the increase in TSR is no less than that of the Index.
Below this, no shares are allocated under this provision.
Between these two points, allocation occurs on a straight-line basis.
For conditional awards made prior to 2005, 12.5 per cent of the shares were allocated if the increase in TSR was no less than 2 per cent below that of the Index.
ii 50 per cent of the award shares are allocated if the percentage growth in the Groups earnings per share EPS over three years exceeds the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index RPI over the same period plus 25 per cent.
For conditional allocations made prior to 2003, this figure was 45 per cent.
12.5 per cent of the shares are allocated if the increase in EPS is no less than that of the RPI plus 6 per cent.
For awards made prior to 2006 basic EPS was used for this performance condition.
For awards made in 2006 and 2007 underlying EPS is used.
The graph below shows the Groups performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE Mid 250 Total Return Index for the period 1 November 2005 to 31 October 2010.
Five yeaR tOtal ShaRehOldeR RetuRn PeRFORmanCe 250 Domino Printing Sciences plc 200 FTSE Mid 250 Total Return Index 150 100 50 0 Oct-05 Oct-06 Oct-07 Oct-08 Oct-09 Oct-10 Five year period from 1 November 2005 to 31 October 2010 Any shares allocated to participants are held in trust for a further three years.
During this period, additional awards are made annually based on the number of shares allocated, giving a possible maximum addition of 72 per cent of the original award.
This deferred element is included in assessing the value of the original conditional award.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 This plan was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 19 March 2008.
Under the terms of the plan the Remuneration Committee may grant awards to the Executive Directors and employees of the Company or other Group companies.
Unless the Committee otherwise decides, the aggregate value of the shares awarded in each year will not exceed an amount equal to the recipients annual basic salary.
The awards will be subject to performance conditions to be met over a performance period of three years or more.
At the end of the performance period the awards will vest to the extent the performance conditions have been satisfied.
The performance conditions for each grant of awards will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
For the awards made in 2008 and subsequent years the performance period is three years and the performance conditions are as follows: EPS performance condition 12.5 per cent of award shares will vest if the increase in the Groups underlying EPS over the performance period is no less than the increase in RPI over the same period plus 12 per cent.
If the increase in the Groups underlying EPS is less than this figure no shares will vest under the EPS performance condition.
TSR per cent from 1 November 2005 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RemuneRatiOn continued FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2010 50 per cent of award shares will vest if the increase in the Groups underlying EPS over the performance period exceeds the increase in RPI over the same period by 30 per cent or more.
Between these two points, the proportion of the award that will vest will increase on a straight-line basis from 12.5 per cent to 50 per cent.
For the purposes of measuring underlying EPS, the underlying EPS figure reported in the audited results of the Group for the last complete financial year ending before the start of the performance period and the last complete financial year ending before the end of the performance period will be used.
TSR performance condition A comparator group will be used consisting of trading companies which have been in the FTSE 250 throughout the performance period.
12.5 per cent of award shares will vest if the increase in the Groups TSR over the performance period places it in the median position in the comparator group.
If the Groups position in the comparator group is less than the median no shares will vest under this condition.
50 per cent of award shares will vest if the increase in the Groups TSR over the performance period places it in the top quartile of the comparator group.
Between these two points, the proportion of the award that would vest will increase on a straight-line basis from 12.5 per cent to 50 per cent.
For the purpose of measuring increases in TSR, the average of the Groups closing mid-market share price over the three months preceding the start of the performance period and preceding the end of the performance period will be used.
Participants in the LTIP schemes Awards are made annually to the Executive Directors and certain senior managers who are in a position to influence significantly the performance of the Group.
In determining the size of LTIP awards, the Remuneration Committee takes into account the extent to which the participant is in a position to influence the performance of the Group and the need to provide effective and competitive incentives.
All costs of the Long Term Incentive Plan are borne by Domino Printing Sciences plc and recharged to appropriate operating companies.
Assessment of performance measures The EPS performance measures are assessed by reference to the RPI published by the Office for National Statistics.
The TSR for the comparator group and for Domino is taken from the Return Index produced by Datastream.
Selection of performance measures The performance measures were selected because they are simple and transparent and align the interest of participants with those of shareholders.
FTSE 250 indices were selected because they were considered the most appropriate for a company of Dominos size and sector.
executive and Save as you earn Saye share option schemes The Company has operated Executive share option schemes since 1985.
Executive share options are currently granted to subsidiary general managers and other senior managers.
Executive share option grants have not been made to Directors since the introduction of a long term incentive plan in 1997 and no Executive Directors now hold Executive share options.
The exercise of executive options granted prior to 2004 is conditional on EPS growth over a three year period exceeding the level of growth in the RPI over the same period, plus 6 per cent.
For executive options granted after 2003 the exercise of the options is conditional on EPS growth exceeding the level of growth in the RPI plus 9 per cent.
For options granted before 2005, basic EPS was used for the performance condition.
For options granted in 2005, and subsequent years, underlying EPS is used.
Achievement of EPS performance conditions is assessed by reference to earnings per share as reported in the Groups audited results and the RPI published by the Office for National Statistics.
All UK-based employees including Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the SAYE scheme.
This is not subject to any performance conditions.
Since this is a standard, HMRC approved scheme open to all employees it was not considered appropriate to include such conditions.
Pensions Executive Directors are members of a defined contribution scheme that is available to all Domino UK employees.
For the year commencing 1 November 2009, the Company contribution was 25.5 per cent and the Executive Directors contribution was 4.5 per cent.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 35 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Performance related elements The payment of basic salary and benefits comprising pension, health insurance and the provision of a car or car allowance are not performance related.
Payments under the annual bonus scheme and awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan are performance related.
Service contracts It is the Companys policy to enter into open-ended service contracts with Executive Directors that are terminable by notice not exceeding one year.
All the Executive Directors have open-ended service contracts that are terminable by the Company on 12 months notice and by the Director on six months notice.
The Company reserves the right to pay salary in lieu of notice.
The service contracts are dated 7 November 2008.
The service contracts provide for predetermined compensation to be payable on termination by the Company or by the Director in the event of a change in control.
If termination occurs within two years of any change in control of the Company, the Director is entitled to payment in lieu of notice and compensation for contractual benefits and loss of bonus.
Compensation for loss of bonus accruing during the year in which termination occurs is calculated at the highest bonus rate payable for that financial year pro rated for the period served in that financial year.
In addition, the Director is entitled to a payment equal to the average of the bonus percentages awarded to him over the three years prior to the termination date, under the bonus scheme applied to the Directors base salary as at the termination date.
Payments on termination The Committees approach to payments on termination is to consider the specific circumstances of the case including the reasons for termination, the Companys contractual obligations and the rules of the relevant share schemes.
To the extent practicable, the Committee would seek to apply mitigation.
non-executive directors Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the full Board, although individual Directors do not participate in the determination of their own fees.
It is the Boards policy that Non-Executive Directors should not participate in any of the Groups bonus, share option or other incentive schemes and should not have contracts of service.
The Board seeks to set the fees at the level paid for comparable roles.
No additional fees are paid for committee membership.
The Non-Executive Directors are entitled to receive six months notice of the termination of their appointment.
Remuneration throughout the Group The Group seeks to establish remuneration packages that will attract, retain and motivate high-quality employees.
Salary and benefit packages are linked to both individual and business performance.
All employees participate in bonus schemes, which, together with salary reviews linked to business performance, enable all employees to share in the success of the Group.
Share incentive Plan SiP The Company operates a HMRC approved SIP to enable employees to invest in the Companys shares in a tax efficient way.
This plan is open to all UK-based employees.
audited Further information Note 7 to the accounts on pages 60 to 62, which constitutes part of this report, gives details of the remuneration of each of the Directors and details of interests in the Companys option schemes and Long Term Incentive Plan.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
PhiliP RuFFleS Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 January 2011
