Report on Directors remuneration Dear Shareholder Despite the tough economic conditions in the UK and Ireland, the FY2010 results illustrate the ability of our business to continue growing, to further increase the profile of our brand, the strong and effective leadership of our management team, the talents of our franchisees and the commitment of both corporate and franchisee staff.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee and I believe that the remuneration paid to senior management in FY2010 fairly and reasonably reflects the efforts and the achievements of the senior team, which led to the delivery of the very impressive financial results described in more detail in the business review.
This meant that the stretching annual performance bonus targets were surpassed and bonuses paid out in full.
We have endeavoured to ensure that the Company can attract and retain senior managers of the highest quality, who we incentivised to deliver business goals, building on the Companys long term position as the UK and Irelands leading pizza home delivery business, in a manner consistent with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
We have been careful not to encourage excessive risk taking or short termism which would not be in the long term interests of the Companys shareholders.
However, our remuneration strategy ensures that a material part of senior managers packages are performance related.
The Companys remuneration strategy continues to provide a base salary that is at or below appropriate comparative median benchmarks with an incentive opportunity that enables an upper quartile total remuneration positioning to be achieved for the delivery of superior performance.
This approach operates for the current Executive Directors and the same principles were applied by the Committee when structuring Lance Batchelors remuneration package which is to apply from his appointment as the new Deputy Chief Executive Officer from 27 June 2011.
With regard to the remuneration package that will apply to the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, it has been purposefully weighted towards the delivery of the Vision 2015 mid-term strategic vision of the Company, with the quantum awarded taking into account the value of incentives that are to be forfeited on joining the Company from his previous employer.
The mid term strategic vision is described in more detail in the Chief Executive Officers report on page 7.
In addition, for 2011 only, exceptional awards are to be made under the LTIP to the current Executive Directors that reflect the need to retain and motivate our highly regarded management team during a period of executive change at the most senior level of the Company, as the Company focuses on the delivery of its mid-term strategic vision.
The Committee has again taken into account risk in its annual review of senior management remuneration for 2011.
Given the Groups franchise led business model and the need to recruit and retain executives of the calibre required to take the business forward, the balance between fixed and variable pay set for 2011 for all Executive Directors is considered appropriate by the Committee with a substantial proportion of the total remuneration package linked to the delivery of challenging long-term performance targets that are aligned with the Companys mid-term strategic vision for the Company.
For achievement of target levels of performance, more than 40% of total remuneration is delivered from performance related elements of our remuneration structure, and for performance above target levels, a higher proportion over 60% of total remuneration is delivered via performance related pay and, particularly, through long-term incentives.
The Committee believes that the 2011 remuneration packages of the senior team strike an appropriate balance between risk and reward.
The Committee looks forward to your support at the 2011 AGM.
John Hodson Independent Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Remuneration Committee 48 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie Introduction This report sets out the Companys policy on Directors remuneration for the forthcoming year, and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years, as well as information on remuneration paid to Directors in the financial year to 26 December 2010.
The report complies with the requirements of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations and has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the Code and the UKLA Listing Rules.
The Regulations require the Companys auditors to report on the Audited Information in the report and to state that this section has been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
For this reason, the report is divided into audited and unaudited information.
This report has been prepared by the Committee and has been approved by the Board and will be put to shareholders for approval at the 2011 AGM.
Part I: Unaudited Information The Remuneration Committee The Committee is responsible for determining policy on remuneration for Executive Directors and senior managers.
The Committee is, within this policy, responsible for determining on behalf of the Board the remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors including the Chairman of the Company and for approving the design and operation of all share-based incentive schemes for Executive Directors and senior managers.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available for inspection on our website.
During the year under review, the Committee consisted solely of the Companys independent Non-Executive Directors, John Hodson chairman, Michael Shallow, Dianne Thompson until 30 March 2010 Peter Klauber, and Lance Batchelor from 21 September 2010.
Lance Batchelor was not involved in any Committee discussions in relation to his remuneration package as Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee met twice during the year under review to consider and agree, amongst other matters: review and approval of all new LTIP awards by the trustees of the EBT to the Executive Directors and senior management: committee terms of reference: approval of the FY2009 Directors Remuneration report: review of and approval of total reward framework for Executive Directors and senior management, including long-term and short-term incentives and any associated performance measures: annual review of Executive Directors and senior managers base salaries and benefits: and remuneration arrangements for the new Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
No Committee member had or has any personal financial interest, conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships, or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
During the year, the Committee has consulted the Chairman of the Company on issues where his experience and knowledge have been of benefit to its discussions and he attends the meetings from time to time by invitation.
The Chief Executive Officer has also been consulted on proposals concerning the remuneration of senior management and likewise he attends the meetings by invitation.
Neither the Chairman of the Company nor the Chief Executive Officer attended the part of the meetings dealing with matters relating to their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and attends meetings save where his own remuneration is under consideration.
The Committee continued to retain the services of Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, an independent external consultancy with wide experience of executive remuneration in UK listed companies.
This advice related to developing its remuneration policy, particularly in relation to the production of bespoke benchmarking data in respect of the remuneration of Executive Directors and senior management.
HNBS has no other connection with the Group and nor does Aon Corporation, the ultimate parent company of HNBS.
BDO LLP also provided a broad range of tax, share scheme and advisory services to the Group during 2010.
Report on Directors remuneration Remuneration philosophy and principles The Committee is committed to the principles of accountability and transparency to ensure that remuneration arrangements evidence a clear link between reward and achievement.
The Committees remuneration policy for senior management, including Executive Directors has, at its core, the following core objectives: to align the interests of senior managers with those of shareholders: to set total remuneration at a level sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and senior employees of the highest calibre, whilst controlling cost: to weight a significant proportion of remuneration towards variable pay with at or below median base salary vis--vis comparable benchmarks and above market incentive opportunity linked to the delivery of superior performance: to have short and long term performance targets that are specific, measurable and fully aligned with the Companys business objectives to provide strong linkage between remuneration and performance: and significant opportunities to acquire Company shares should be provided as part of encouraging a wider share ownership culture.
It is intended that this policy, which has applied throughout the reporting year, will continue to apply for 2011.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 49 Report on Directors remuneration continued Remuneration policy is reviewed on a regular basis against the objectives set out above and the recommendations included in the Code.
The Committee also takes due account of relevant institutional investor and shareholder representative bodies best practice guidelines.
The current policy is considered to remain appropriate in light of these guidelines, our corporate strategy and the New Code.
The Board sets stretching performance targets for both the business and its senior managers.
Exceptional performance must be delivered to achieve or surpass the targets set.
The annual performance bonus aims to reward the delivery of short term financial goals with appropriate levels of remuneration.
The purpose of the LTIP is to reward long term sustained performance and create alignment with the delivery of value for shareholders.
In designing an appropriate and sustainable incentive structure for the Executive Directors and senior management, the Committee endeavours to set challenging performance criteria that are aligned with the Groups strategy for the business as described earlier in this Annual Report and the enhancement of shareholder value.
Under both schemes, if the demanding targets are met, substantial awards may be earned.
The Committee believes that it continues to take into account the principles of sound risk management when setting pay.
Regular liaison takes place between the Remuneration and Audit Committees as appropriate as part of an effective remuneration risk assessment process.
The Committee has to ensure that the Company is able to attract and retain senior managers of the highest quality, individuals who can not only deliver the required financial results but also appropriately manage risk and behave in an ethical manner.
In line with the Association of British Insurers ABI Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee ensures that the incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior management will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from taking into account corporate governance on ESG matters and it takes due account of issues of general operational risk when structuring incentives.
The Committee also takes due account of remuneration structures elsewhere in the Group when setting pay for the Executive Directors for example, consideration is given to the overall salary increase budget and the incentive structures that operate across the Group.
Overview of remuneration framework for senior management, including Executive Directors Elements for award Objective Performance period Summary details Base salary Provide threshold level of Not applicable Reviewed annually, external benchmarking remuneration set with due undertaken as appropriate reflecting size and nature consideration given to: of role, individuals performance, increases awarded relevant benchmarks to other employees, economic climate, market other elements of pay conditions and Company performance Annual Incentivises year on year delivery One financial year Award subject to achievement against a challenging performance bonus of short term performance goals sliding scale of adjusted Group PBT targets No element of compulsory deferred shares Long Term Incentive Incentivises long term value creation.
Historic LTIP awards Historic LTIP awards were subject to challenging Plan LTIP As the primary long term incentive, were subject to a 5 adjusted EPS and PBT targets aids retention of senior management year performance period The LTIP is subject to a challenging range of Targets set are motivating and adjusted EPS performance targets.
Awards are demonstrably linked to Company Since 2008 LTIP discretionary and participation is reviewed annually performance.
Provides focus has had a 3 year on increasing the Companys performance period share price over the medium to longer term Pension Provide a market competitive Not applicable Cash allowance paid as a percentage of salary retirement benefit Other benefits Provide market competitive benefits Not applicable Benefits include private medical insurance, life insurance and use of a Company vehicle or cash equivalent Share ownership Require Executive Directors to build Not applicable Executive Directors required to hold shares equivalent guidelines and maintain a significant to 100% of salary within a maximum of 5 years from shareholding taking office Supports alignment with shareholder interests Adjusted profit before tax means profit before tax and before operating and non operating exceptional items.
Adjusted earnings per share means diluted earnings per share before operating and non operating exceptional items.
50 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie The extent to which the performance conditions that apply to the performance related elements of the remuneration framework are met is assessed by the Committee, following sign off of the audited Annual Report and Accounts.
This process ensures that incentive payments are made following independently audited results being known.
Remuneration received in respect of each of these elements by the Executive Directors is shown on pages 57 to 59.
The Committee considers the above remuneration framework, when taken as a whole, to ensure there is an appropriate balance between reward for short term success and long term growth.
Balance between fixed and variable pay Based on the remuneration structure that applied in 2010, for achievement of target levels of performance, more than 40% of total remuneration will be delivered from business performance related elements of our remuneration structure.
Therefore remuneration will increase or decrease in line with performance.
For performance above target levels, a higher proportion of total remuneration will be delivered via performance related pay.
The performance conditions for each variable element are the same for each Executive Director.
For 2011, an even greater proportion of the total package will be performance related.
The variable elements of remuneration are dependent upon the achievement of performance measures that are identified as important sustainable growth drivers for the business and that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
The balance achieved in the packages is significantly more performance related than that operated in comparatively sized leisure companies and FTSE All-Share companies of a comparative size more generally, particularly at high levels of performance.
The following charts show the total remuneration package for Executive Directors split between pay at risk and fixed pay for on target and maximum performance in FY2010.
1 On Target Chris Moore Lee Ginsberg Pay at risk: Annual Bonus Pay at risk: Annual Bonus Pay at risk: LTIP Pay at risk: LTIP Fixed pay: Salary Fixed pay: Salary Fixed pay: Pension Fixed pay: Pension 2 Maximum Performance Chris Moore Lee Ginsberg Pay at risk: Annual Bonus Pay at risk: Annual Bonus Pay at risk: LTIP Pay at risk: LTIP Fixed pay: Salary Fixed pay: Salary Fixed pay: Pension Fixed pay: Pension 1.
I n calculating on target performance, the annual performance bonus is valued at 60% of salary with LTIP awards assumed to vest at the threshold of 25% of the total award with, for the purposes of illustration, share price growth assumed at 9% per annum above RPI.
Maximum performance assumes maximum annual bonus awards payable with full vesting under the LTIP, for the purposes of illustration, share price growth is assumed at 12% per annum above RPI.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 51 Report on Directors remuneration continued Base salaries and benefits for Executive Directors In setting the base salary of each Executive Director, the Committee takes into account salary levels in comparably sized companies, individual performance and experience, any changes in size and nature of the role and remuneration policy within the Group.
Base salaries are set at or below median.
With regard to benchmarking Executive Directors remuneration for the purposes of setting pay for the 2011 financial year, similar sized companies were considered from the FTSE Travel & Leisure Sector and from across all FTSE sectors more generally.
This approach was similar to that taken in prior years.
In addition to base salary, the Executive Directors also receive benefits in kind which principally comprise pension contributions, life assurance, a healthcare scheme and use of a company car.
In setting the base salary for the new position of Deputy Chief Executive Officer, the Committee, in conjunction with the Nomination Committee, took advice from HNBS about salary levels in appropriately sized comparator companies, alongside the other component parts of the package, to attract the desired calibre of individual.
Following the 2011 salary review, the salaries that will apply for the current Executive Directors in the 2011 financial year are set out below.
Chief Executive Officer: 420,000 2010: 315,000 Chief Financial Officer: 245,000 2010: 230,000 The salary increase awarded to the Chief Executive Officer was the final staged increase following his promotion to the role in January 2008 to a threshold level of base salary for a chief executive officer of a company of Dominos size, given the calibre of the individual and his performance in post.
Due account was also taken of the salary set for the Deputy Chief Executive Officer when finalising the Chief Executive Officers salary for 2011.
The Company delivered another record year in terms of turnover and profitability in 2010 under the current Chief Executive Officers leadership and, as a result, the Committee considered it appropriate to award the increase noted above.
The increase remains consistent with the Committees policy of providing a salary that is at or below median versus companies of a comparable size with an incentive opportunity that enables an upper quartile total remuneration positioning to be achieved for the delivery of superior performance.
The increase awarded to the Chief Financial Officer maintains a threshold salary positioning for a Chief Financial Officer in a Company of Dominos size with the increase also taking into account his continued strong performance in post and the salary increase budget more generally.
With regard to the recently announced appointment of Lance Batchelor as Deputy Chief Executive Officer, he will receive a basic salary of 350,000 on appointment to the role 27 June 2011.
This level of salary was set by the Committee to secure the employment of a high calibre candidate and remains consistent with the Companys overall remuneration policy.
Annual Performance Bonus APB Each year, the Committee set annual incentive targets to take account of current business plans and conditions, and there is a threshold performance below which no award is paid.
The purpose of the APB is to incentivise participants year on year delivery of short term performance goals that are based on stretching targets set by the Committee in the previous year with reference to the annual operating plan.
In 2010, bonus awards were based solely on achieving and exceeding challenging adjusted PBT growth targets.
Under the APB in 2010, the maximum bonus opportunity available was 150% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 125% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
The table below summarises the structure of the 2010 APB and the awards receivable for performance in 2010.
Actual 95% of 100% of 102.5% of 110% of bonus Executive Director target target target target achieved Chris Moore % salary payable 20% 60% 100% 150% 150% Lee Ginsberg % salary payable 20% 60% 100% 125% 125% Actual APB awards made to Executive Directors for 2010 are shown on page 57.
Adjusted PBT growth performance of 27.3% led to a maximum payout for the Executive Directors exceeding the target by 16.9%.
The actual profit delivered during the year under review was, for the second year running, a record result for the Company and an exceptional result given it was delivered against a background of continuing difficult economic circumstances.
52 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie With regard to the 2011 bonus structure, a similar sliding scale of bonus targets will operate and in order to achieve their respective maximum potential of 150% and 125% of salary, the Executive Directors will again have to significantly surpass the adjusted PBT budget figure for 2011, which itself again represents a significant stretch on the record adjusted PBT figure achieved in 2010, for a maximum bonus to become payable.
The Committee considers the 2011 bonus structure to be extremely challenging.
For 2011, adjusted PBT will be retained as the sole performance measure.
On becoming Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Lance Batchelors entitlement to an APB for 2011 will be set at 125% of salary with the same targets applying as per the current Executive Directors.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Since 2004, the Executive Directors and senior management have been eligible, at the discretion of the trustees of the EBT that holds shares for the purpose of operating the Companys share plans, to be awarded an interest in the growth in value of a specific sub-fund of the EBT reversionary interests, represented by the increase in value of the Companys shares.
The economic impact of the arrangement from a participants perspective is such that, subject to achieving the LTIP performance targets, the increase in value of the said sub-fund may be settled on vesting, in the form of shares.
This type of plan has been designed to incentivise Executive Directors and senior managers to strive for long term sustainable performance.
Awards have typically been made on an annual basis with the level of award considered for each year.
The Chairman, as a former Executive Director, did receive awards under the LTIP until 2007, and, as set out in the table on page 58 still has an award made in 2007 that he can call for the vesting of.
Between 2004 and 2008 awards normally operated with a five year performance period with vesting determined by performance against challenging adjusted EPS and adjusted PBT targets.
For vesting to take place, the Companys adjusted PBT and adjusted EPS were required to double by the end of the five year performance period.
However, vesting could be accelerated if at any time during the performance period, the EPS and PBT targets set were achieved following the publication of the relevant set of Annual Report and Accounts.
Following a review in 2008 of the Companys long term incentive arrangements vis--vis institutional investors best practice guidelines specifically those of the ABI and the recommendations set out in the Code, a new LTIP arrangement was introduced in anticipation of the Companys move to the Official List.
Since 2009, awards under the revised LTIP have been structured as a reversionary interest in the growth in value of a sub-fund of the EBT, as represented by the Companys shares.
As with the previous LTIP, the economic impact of the arrangement from a participants perspective is such that, subject to achieving the LTIP performance targets, the increase in value of the said sub-fund may be settled on vesting, in the form of shares i. e. only the growth in value of the initial award may ultimately be delivered to the participant.
The key features of this current version of LTIP are as follows: Maximum Award Limit An individuals award is limited to an interest in the growth in value of a sub-fund of the EBT to 300% of salary in any financial year 600% of salary in exceptional circumstances such as recruitment or retention.
Granting awards at up to a value of 300% of salary in normal circumstances is considered appropriate by the Committee to ensure that the total remuneration package is competitive and the Company is to be able to continue to recruit, retain and motivate senior executives of the necessary calibre.
This is considered particularly important given the Companys approach to setting base salary at or below the median of appropriate benchmarks, which was a key issue discussed with the Companys major institutional investors and the key shareholder representative bodies ahead of the first awards under the revised LTIP in 2009.
Performance Conditions for awards in 2010 As in 2009, performance is tested over three years subject to the following challenging adjusted EPS growth condition: Average annual compound EPS growth Level of Vesting Less than RPI 9% 0% RPI 9% 25% RPI 12% or better 100% Between RPI 9% and RPI 12% Straight-line vesting between 25% and 100% Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 53 Report on Directors remuneration continued For the avoidance of doubt, this condition can only be tested at the end of three years with the award lapsing if the condition is not met at that time.
EPS is a key internal long term measure of financial performance used by the Board.
As a result, the Committee considers it to be the most appropriate measure to use to incentivise and reward Executive Directors and senior management.
In each year, the Committee has reviewed the adjusted EPS growth conditions prior to making any awards and has retained the same range of targets since 2009.
The Committee considered the above targets to be challenging given awards have been granted off a base adjusted EPS figure 16.75p for the financial year ending 26 December 2010 that itself represented a record for the Company.
Proposed LTIP Awards for 2011 For 2011 only, the Committee proposes that exceptional awards are to be made under the long-term incentive plan to the current Executive Directors that reflect the need to retain and motivate the current highly regarded management team during a period of executive change at the most senior levels in the Company.
The Company continues to set ambitious growth objectives over the medium term and the current management team is considered crucial in continuing to build the platform for its delivery and executing the Boards mid-term strategic vision.
As a result, awards are to be granted up to 600% of salary in 2011 to retain and motivate the current Executive Directors.
The targets to apply to awards granted in 2011 will be the same range of growth targets as set for the 2010 awards.
The Committee is comfortable that awards up to 600% of salary are appropriate given i the need to retain the current highly regarded management team that have delivered market leading returns to the Companys shareholders and are considered best placed by the Committee to deliver the Companys mid-term strategic vision, ii the EPS growth targets will once again be set from a base EPS that is a record year and the range of targets are very challenging by market standards and iii only the growth in value of the initial award under the LTIP may ultimately be delivered to the participant.
In addition, the Committee is mindful of the fact that the current Executive Directors now have to retain one third of vested LTIP awards as Company shares for at least two years post vesting.
In relation to the recruitment of the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, a special recruitment incentive will operate.
The recruitment incentive will include an initial award over the growth in value of assets held in a sub-fund of the EBT to the value of one million shares on appointment as Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
A further award will also be granted when Lance Batchelor becomes Chief Executive Officer which would also be structured as the growth in value of assets held in a sub-fund of the EBT to the value one million shares.
With regard to both awards, the increase in value of the said sub-fund may be settled on vesting, in the form of shares.
The structure of the awards is similar to the current LTIP.
The first award made to Lance Batchelor will be the subject of a three year performance target and the second award will be the subject of a five year performance target.
The Committee felt it was appropriate to distinguish the awards in this way, so that on becoming an Executive Director, Lance Batchelors first award is consistent in terms of vesting period as the other Executive Directors, but that on becoming Chief Executive the vesting period is aligned to not just the end of the mid-term strategic vision but also the next stage of the Companys growth beyond that.
It is intended that the performance target for the first award will be set from the adjusted EPS figure from 2010 financial year and the second award will be set from the adjusted EPS figure from the prior year to the year of grant, tested over three and five years respectively with the same sliding scale of vesting as per the awards made in 2010.
In respect of the second LTIP award made upon Lance Batchelor becoming Chief Executive Officer, based on the extent to which the performance targets are met at the end of the five year performance period for the award, 75% of the award will be eligible for vesting immediately with 25% eligible to vest after a further year.
In addition, there will be a shareholding requirement that Lance Batchelor must build a shareholding equal to 100% of basic salary within five years of becoming Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
In respect of the recruitment incentive, the Committee considered it necessary to facilitate Lance Batchelors appointment.
The size and structure of the two awards took into account the incentives that will be forfeited from his former employer on joining the Company along with the Committees objective of fully incentivising him to work towards delivery of the Boards mid-term strategic vision.
The awards will be granted under Listing Rule 9.4.
It is currently intended that further LTIP awards will not be granted to Lance Batchelor in 2013 and only modest awards in 2014, 2015 and 2016.
Whilst it is currently intended that the above mentioned awards under the current LTIP scheme will be made during 2011, in light of the proposed changes to the taxation of incentive structures as set out in the Finance Bill, the Committee is reviewing the ongoing use of the LTIP.
Any changes made to the LTIP scheme arising from this review that are not minor alterations permitted by the LTIP scheme rules to be made without the prior consent of shareholders will be set out and disclosed to shareholders at the appropriate time.
54 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie Other share option plans Each eligible employee with at least 6 months service, including each Executive Director, has the opportunity to participate in the HMRC approved savings-related share option scheme Sharesave on the same terms.
Participants can save a fixed sum of up to 250 a month for three years and may use the sum generated by their savings contracts to exercise options to acquire shares which are usually granted at a 20% discount to market price.
Further details on this share plan are provided in Note 32 to the financial statements.
Performance targets do not apply to Sharesave.
Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the CSOP currently in place for other employees within the Company.
Share-based awards and dilution We ensure that the aggregate of all share-based awards does not exceed the guidelines laid down by the ABI.
These guidelines provide that outstanding awards granted to employees over new issue shares under the Companys employee share schemes when aggregated to new shares issued in relation to exercised historic share awards should not exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital in any 10 year rolling period.
Shares issued or to be issued under awards or options granted before the Company was admitted to trading on AIM in 1999 are excluded from this limit.
Share Ownership Guidelines All Executive Directors are currently required to build and maintain over a defined period of time a shareholding of at least one times their annual salary.
This policy reflects the Boards belief that its most senior leaders should also be shareholders.
In addition, the Committee determined in 2009 that from 2010 awards onwards, the current Executive Directors would be required to hold, on the actual vesting of each LTIP award, one third of the award in the Companys shares for a minimum period of two years following vesting.
The current status of the Executive Directors shareholding requirement is shown in the table on page 56.
Pension provision The Committee reviews the pensions arrangements for the Executive Directors to ensure the benefits provided are consistent with those provided by other similar companies and take account of changes in relevant legislation.
The Company does not offer a defined benefit pension scheme.
Instead, it makes contributions to an approved pension scheme of the Executive Directors choice.
In 2010, the Company contribution to each Executive Director was 15% of basic salary to the pension plan of their choice.
Save as set out above, there are no other pension arrangements for the Executive Directors.
Executive Directors outside appointments We recognise that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors in other companies and that these appointments can enhance their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Company.
Subject to pre-agreed conditions, and with prior approval of the Board, each Executive Director is permitted to accept one appointment as a non-executive director in another listed company.
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such service.
However, none of the Executive Directors currently hold a directorship of another listed company.
Service Agreements It is the Companys policy for the notice periods of Executive Directors to normally be of 12 months or less.
The Executive Directors current contracts provide for rolling 12 month periods, terminable by the Company giving one years notice, or by the Executive Director giving six months notice.
The contracts include provisions on non-competition and non-solicitation.
If an Executive Directors employment is terminated other than pursuant to the notice provisions in the service agreement or by reason of resignation or unacceptable performance or conduct, for any unexpired notice period, the Company will pay a sum calculated on the basis of basic salary and any accrued annual bonus entitlement for the period of the year served to the date of termination taking into account bonus payments in the previous three financial years, together with benefits.
For the purposes of clarity, there is no payment in lieu of any unearned bonus on termination.
There would be no special payments made after a change in control.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 55 Report on Directors remuneration continued Chairman and Non-Executive Directors policy, terms and fees Unless otherwise determined by the Board, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for terms of three years with a maximum term of nine years.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company but their terms are set out in letters of appointment.
There is no provision for termination payments and the appointments are terminable on one months notice by either party.
Due to their respective lengths of service on the Board, since 2008 both Colin Halpern and Nigel Wray have been putting themselves forward for re-election at each AGM, taking into account the Code provisions A.
Colin Halperns and Nigel Wrays appointments as Non-Executive Directors were renewed at the 2010 AGM of the Company.
With effect from the 2011 AGM, all Directors wishing to continue will retire voluntarily and submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders every year.
The next review of Non-Executive Director and Chairman fees is likely to take place in December 2011 with any changes expected to take effect on 1 January 2012.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee with additional fees for chairing of the Committee and the Audit Committee.
No additional fee is paid for chairing the Nominations Committee.
The Senior Independent Director is also paid a fee given the additional responsibility and time commitment required of this position.
The fees are determined and approved by the Board on the recommendation of the Executive Directors.
There was a review of Non-Executive fees during 2009 which saw fees rise to a 38,000 base fee with an additional fee of 7,000 payable for chairmanship of the Committee and the Audit Committee and an additional fee of 5,000 for the position of Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 January 2010.
The annual fee payable to the Chairman is 191,000.
The Companys policy on Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors fees can be summarised as follows: the Chairman and Non-Executives should not participate in any of the Companys incentive schemes: the fees should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain first class non-executives: and the fees are reviewed in light of other companies of a similar size, anticipated work load and responsibilities.
Colin Halpern, the Non-Executive Vice Chairman, is seconded to the Company from HS Real LLC under the terms of a management agreement originally entered into in 1999.
Colin Halpern has played an integral part for 18 years in building our business and continues to provide regular advice and assistance to the Executive Directors, with a specific focus on acting as an international ambassador for the Company.
As disclosed in previous years, the management fees are reviewed annually.
The figure for 2010 was agreed and equated to 260,000, including expenses.
Date of initial Commencement date Expiry date of Non-Executive Director appointment to Board of current term current term Colin Halpern 15 November 1999 Rolling Annual N A Nigel Wray 15 November 1999 1 June 2005 8 May 2011 John Hodson 14 February 2005 14 February 2008 14 February 2011 Michael Shallow 1 January 2006 1 January 2009 1 January 2012 Peter Klauber 29 September 2008 29 September 2008 29 September 2011 Lance Batchelor 13 July 2010 13 July 2010 13 July 2013 Lance Batchelor will move to the executive position of Deputy Chief Executive Officer on 27 June 2011.
Shares and other interests The beneficial interests of the Directors in office at 26 December 2010 in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown in the table below.
Ordinary shares As at 27 December 2009 As at 26 December 2010 or date of appointment Chairman Stephen Hemsley 3,991,170 4,042,782 Executive Directors Chris Moore 2,517,706 2,517,706 Lee Ginsberg 100,320 100,320 Non-Executive Directors Colin Halpern 4,757,900 5,007,900 Nigel Wray 18,295,368 24,995,368 Michael Shallow 48,000 48,000 John Hodson 48,000 48,000 Peter Klauber Dianne Thompson retired 30 March 2010 Lance Batchelor appointed 13 July 2010 56 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie Total Shareholder Return The following graph illustrates the performance of the Company 600 measured by total shareholder return TSR for the five years to 26 December 2010 against the TSR performance of the AIM Index and the 500 FTSE 250 Index over the same period.
TSR is the product of the share price plus reinvested dividends.
As required by The Large and Medium- 400 sized Companies and Groups Account and Reports Regulations 2008, the Companys TSR performance is required to be shown 300 against a recognised share index.
The AIM index has been selected for this comparison because up until admission to the Official List on 19 May 2008, this was the index in which the Companys shares were 200 quoted and it provides a broad based comparator group of retail and non retail companies.
The FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts 100 has been selected for this comparison because this is the index in which the Companys shares have been quoted since admission to the Official 0 List.
TSR provides a useful, widely used benchmark to illustrate the 30.12.10 01.01.12 01.01.13 01.01.14 01.01.15 Companys performance over the last five years.
Dominos FTSE 250 FTSE AIM Source: Thompson Datastream Part II: Audited information Supplementary information on Directors remuneration Directors remuneration 1 Salary or fees Bonus Benefits Total Total 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended ended ended ended 26 December 26 December 26 December 26 December 27 December 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Stephen Hemsley 191 48 37 276 417 Christopher Moore 315 473 21 809 672 Lee Ginsberg 230 288 32 550 516 Non-Executive Directors 2 Colin Halpern 260 31 291 291 3 Nigel Wray 38 38 36 John Hodson 45 45 42 Michael Shallow 50 50 42 4 Dianne Thompson 12 12 36 Peter Klauber 38 38 36 5 Lance Batchelor 17 17 Total 1,196 809 121 2,126 2088 1 The value of benefits relates primarily to the provision of a company car or equivalent allowance.
2 Colin Halpern is not remunerated by the Company.
A management fee of 260,000 2009: 260,000 was paid to HS Real Company LLC in respect of his services.
A further benefit of 31,000 2009: 31,000 relating to life insurance premiums was paid to HS Real Company LLC during the year.
3 Nigel Wray was not directly remunerated by the Company.
A management fee of 38,000 2009: 36,000 was paid to Brendon Street Investments Limited, a company of which Nigel Wray is a director and has a controlling interest, in respect of his services.
4 Dianne Thompson retired on 30 March 2010.
5 Lance Batchelor was appointed on 13 July 2010.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 57 TSR Rebased to 100 Report on Directors remuneration continued Pension contributions Pension Pension contributions 52 contributions 52 weeks ended weeks ended 26 December 27 December 2010 2009 000 000 Stephen Hemsley 0 19 Lee Ginsberg 34 32 Christopher Moore 47 39 Total 81 90 Reversionary interests and share options The following is a summary of the awards made to Directors under the LTIP: At At 27 December Vested during Awards made 26 December 2009 the year during the year 2010 No.
In addition, the performance conditions for the 2007 award to Stephen Hemsley have been met and therefore are eligible for vesting but Stephen Hemsley has yet to call for vesting and therefore the award is outstanding.
As at 26 December 2010 987,978 shares would have been eligible to vest at a value of 5,424,000 based on the year end share price of 549.00p under this award, if called.
58 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie The following is a summary of the performance criteria and vesting conditions relating to the reversionary interests granted to the Directors: Initial 2 price per Adjusted EPS 1 share on required for Adjusted PBT grant vesting required for vesting 4 Potential vesting period Pence Pence 27 April 2006 27 April 2009 February 2011 151.56 9.66 22,300,000 6 March 2007 6 March 2010 February 2012 210.00 12.50 28,600,000 22 February 2008 22 February 2011 February 2013 212.00 16.40 37,000,000 2 June 2009 2 June 2012 206.25 Note 3 N A 17 February 2010 17 February 2013 327.00 Note 3 N A 1 Adjusted PBT means profit before tax and before operating and non-operating exceptional items.
2 Adjusted EPS means diluted earnings per share before operating and non-operating exceptional items.
3 Performance condition is achievement of annual compound growth in adjusted EPS at between RPI plus 9% and RPI plus 12% or more to get 100% of award.
4 Absent a person being declared a Good Leaver, a Relevant Transaction occurring or the early attainment of the Performance Condition each as defined in the LTIP Deed of Appointment.
The performance conditions for the reversionary interests granted during February 2008 as represented 2,010,000 Ordinary shares have been met but will not be capable of vesting until February 2011.
Based on the year end share price of 549.00p, the increase in value of the reversionary interests will be met on vesting by 1,233,826 Company shares and these have been included in the diluted earnings per share see note 12.
The vesting of the interests will be met with Company shares as follows: Eligible to vest Value at Eligible to Value at during 26 December vest during 27 December 2011 2010 2010 2009 No.
Directors interests in share options Interests of the Executive Directors in the 2009 Sharesave Scheme.
Interests at Exercise Expected 26 December price date for which 2010 pence exercisable Stephen Hemsley 6,682 135.81p February July 2012 Christopher Moore 6,682 135.81p February July 2012 Lee Ginsberg 6,682 135.81p February July 2012 On behalf of the Board John Hodson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 5 February 2011 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 59
