32 Remuneration Report Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and has been approved by the Remuneration Committee the Committee and the Board.
It represents the Companys policy on executive remuneration for the year under review and, subject to on-going review by the Committee, subsequent years.
The Committee comprises four Independent Non-Executive Directors: Quintin Oliver, Malcolm Simpson, Roger Aylard and is chaired by Tracy Clarke.
The Committee is governed by formal terms of reference which are reviewed annually and available on the Companys website.
The Committee continues to focus on ensuring that in designing and implementing the Companys executive remuneration strategy: the interests of shareholders are protected and enhanced: the unique ethics and characteristics of Eaga, developed through its ownership structure are maintained: and the views of all shareholders, customers, Partners and other stakeholders in the business receive appropriate attention.
The Company has a strong desire to be responsible in its approach to executive pay whilst ensuring that the remuneration policies are sufficient to attract and retain appropriately qualified and highly motivated Executive Directors.
Role of the Remuneration Committee The Committee is responsible for approving and monitoring the specific remuneration packages and terms and conditions of employment of the Companys Executive Directors, Executive Committee members and certain other senior managers.
The Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, is responsible for determining which senior managers are included for this purpose, such determination to be approved by the Board as a whole.
The Committee is also responsible for agreeing Eagas overall remuneration policy and has oversight of the governance process for remuneration generally.
The Committee has delegated responsibility for setting the Chairmans remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration is set by the Executive Directors in consultation with the Chairman.
The Committee is responsible for the appointment of independent external advisors to give advice on all matters relating to executive remuneration.
During the year the Committee has taken advice from Hewitt Associates Limited trading as Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS including advice on recruitment benchmarking, management share incentive plans and Directors remuneration packages.
The Company had no other relationship with that firm.
HNBS terms of business are available from the Company Secretary.
There were five meetings of the Committee held in the year to 31 May 2010.
Remuneration Policy The Committee aims to ensure that the total remuneration package for the Executive Directors is soundly based, internally consistent, externally competitive and fully aligned with the interests of shareholders for both the short and long-term.
No Director takes any part in decisions regarding their personal remuneration.
The Committee has agreed a balanced executive remuneration framework, which includes typical market incentives.
The Committee considers that this framework is appropriate for the purpose of recruiting and motivating executive talent and comprises: basic salary: annual cash bonus: long-term incentive schemes Management Incentive Plan and Share Incentive Plan : retirement benefits: and other benefits.
In line with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee will ensure that the incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior management will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from taking into account corporate governance on ESG matters and takes due account of issues of general operational risk when structuring incentives.
When setting remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and senior executives for the current financial year, the Committee considered pay and employment conditions elsewhere within Eaga.
The Committee was informed of the proposed salary budget for Eaga as a whole and the changes to pay practices and staffing levels that took place during the year.
These factors were considered at the time of setting the Executive Directors salary levels and other elements of remuneration in conjunction with pay data supplied by HNBS see below and the need to retain and motive our highly regarded team within the parameters of our remuneration policy.
In light of the recent publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee has resolved to undertake a review of the existing remuneration policy during the current year and, as a minimum, will report in next years Remuneration Report on any revisions arising from this review.
Should the review suggest substantive changes to be appropriate, the Committee would seek to engage with the Companys major shareholders.
Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration Report 33 Basic Salary The current basic annual salaries paid to the Executive Directors are as follows: Drew Johnson 410,000 Willie MacDiarmid 350,000 Ian McLeod 275,000 Dave Routledge 275,000 In order to further strengthen the executive team, on 14 December 2009, Willie MacDiarmid was appointed as Chief Operating Officer.
Upon Willies appointment, the Committee took the opportunity, to review the package of the CEO and remaining Executive Directors using data supplied by HNBS as it felt it critical to apply a market consistent approach to salaries for all Executive Directors.
The external benchmarking was against comparable companies to ensure that our packages remain externally competitive, taking into account the requirements of the roles, the performance of individuals, the size of the Company and its complexity.
An increase of approximately 10% was proposed and accepted by the Executive Directors in December 2009.
This concluded the Committees strategy of increasing salaries to an appropriate mid-market level after a period of salary freezes for the Executive Directors from April 2006 until December 2008.
The Committee is now comfortable that the remuneration arrangements for the executive team are appropriate and no further catch-up salary increases are envisaged.
Now that an appropriate mid-market level for salaries has been achieved, the Committee will next review Executive Directors salaries in August 2011.
In future years, August is to be the annual review date for Executive Directors and senior managers with salaries set having due regard to salary levels and inflation elsewhere at Eaga, the performance of the Group, the individual executive and to external benchmark data.
As announced on 24 June 2010 Ian McLeod is to step down from the Board at the AGM to be replaced as Chief Financial Officer by Giles Sharp from that date.
Giles Sharp is to receive a base salary of 233,750 which reflects his recent appointment and will be next reviewed, along with other Executive Directors, based on his performance in post in August 2011.
Ian McLeod is to continue his employment with Eaga for a further period of time to complete his work towards securing and embedding the financial infrastructure for the Groups solar PV project.
For this period of time Ian McLeod will continue to be paid at his current rate of salary on a monthly basis until the solar PV financing is complete.
He will not be eligible for incentives during his continued employment.
No further payments have or will be made in relation to his departure from the Board and leaving service as an employee.
Annual Cash Bonus As disclosed last year, the Committee has approved an annual cash bonus for Executive Directors up to a maximum of 100% of annual basic salary for the delivery of exceptional performance against a balanced scorecard of results.
Certain senior managers, as agreed with the Board, have a maximum opportunity of up to 75% of annual basic salary upon also delivering exceptional performance.
The bonus to be awarded depends on the achievement of respective divisional and Group EBITA targets together with a number of individual personal objectives including leadership, health and safety and risk management.
The Annual Cash Bonus Plan is designed to be self-funding in so far as the bonus targets are inclusive of the potential cost of the bonus payable.
Although Eaga enjoyed another strong year the bonus trigger points were not met and therefore no cash bonuses will be paid to Executive Directors or Executive Committee members.
The Plan will operate on the same basic terms for the financial year commencing on 1 June 2010.
Long-Term Incentive Schemes Management Incentive Plan MIP The MIP allows the granting of performance shares to Executive Directors and certain senior managers.
Under normal circumstances the maximum market value of shares over which individual awards could be made is 100% of salary.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the authority to award up to 200% of salary.
The Executive Directors other than Willie MacDiarmid have elected not to participate in the MIP since its establishment in 2008 believing that their personal shareholdings align their long-term interests with those of other shareholders.
On 2 February 2010, Willie MacDiarmid was granted an award under the MIP of 200% of salary along with the recruitment award detailed on page 35 to facilitate his recruitment.
The Committee was satisfied that this exceptional award was appropriate to recruit an executive of his calibre.
It is envisaged that Willie MacDiarmid will receive annual awards of up to 100% of salary going forwards subject to performance in accordance with the stated policy for Executive Directors under the MIP.
34 Remuneration Report continued Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration Report continued Long-Term Incentive Schemes continued Management Incentive Plan MIP continued Vesting will normally take place at the third anniversary of the grant date subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions described below.
It is expected that any other newly appointed Executive Director would also participate in the MIP.
Performance conditions have been reviewed during the period and the Committee are satisfied that these continue to be appropriate.
In total 1,704,335 nil cost options were awarded to certain senior managers in October 2009 and 494,245 to Willie MacDiarmid in February 2010 and will vest subject to the performance conditions set out below.
To hedge against this and previous awards under the MIP the Group purchased 1.4m Ordinary Shares on 22 October 2009 at a cost of 2.1m.
The vesting of any awards made under the MIP are subject to the achievement of Group performance targets intended to enhance shareholder value.
For the most senior participants, half of any award will vest depending on TSR Total Shareholder Return, being the change in share price plus dividends paid being reinvested performance relative to the FTSE mid 250 excluding Investment Trusts and half of the awards against adjusted diluted eps performance.
Less senior participants receive awards wholly subject to the eps condition.
The Committee believes the use of these targets will improve the financial performance of the Company and deliver value to shareholders.
The performance period is three years beginning at the start of the financial year during which awards are made.
The start and end points used to establish the vesting of awards is based on the average of the quoted daily closing share price in the three months preceding the beginning and end of the relevant performance period.
In normal circumstances, no awards will become vested before the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The vesting under each part of the award will be as follows: TSR performance relative to the FTSE mid 250 Percentage of award Below median 0% 2 At median 16 3% 2 Between median and upper quartile 16 3% to 50% on a straight line Upper quartile 50% Adjusted diluted eps performance compound annual increase Percentage of award Below 10% 0% At 10% 10% 10% to 20% 10% to 50% straight line Above 20% 50% In relation to the current financial year, awards are to be granted to Willie MacDiarmid at 100% of salary.
As has been the case in prior years, the other current Executive Directors have elected not to receive awards in the current financial year.
Giles Sharp, Chief Financial Officer Designate is also to receive an award at 100% of salary.
As required by the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2008, the Company reports performance measured by TSR against an appropriate market index.
The Committee has determined that the FTSE mid 250 excluding Investment Trusts is the appropriate market index since it is the index within which Eaga currently resides.
This comparison of TSR performance is illustrated in the following graph: Eaga plc 120 FTSE mid 250 excluding investment trusts 100 80 60 40 20 0 Source: Datastream 7 June 2007 31 May 2008 31 May 2009 31 May 2010 Percentage Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration Report continued 35 The performance of the Group in terms of eps performance is illustrated below: 900 16 eps pence Turnover 800 15 700 14 600 13 500 12 400 11 300 10 200 9 100 0 8 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Recruitment Award On 2 February 2010, in addition to his performance related MIP award described above, Willie MacDiarmid was also granted a one-off share award of 100% of salary which represented a conservative estimate of the value lost as a result of his leaving his previous employer.
The Committee felt that the award was appropriate in connection with Willies recruitment to provide compensation for share arrangements forfeited in the process of joining Eaga plc and, in doing so, assist with his recruitment and alignment with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
The award was granted in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2, the principal terms of the award are summarised below.
The award will lapse in the event of cessation of employment by reason of resignation or dismissal for gross misconduct prior to the exercise of the award or relevant vested portion thereof.
In the event of a takeover or winding up of the Company the award will vest early at such time.
The award granted was a nil cost option over 247,122 Ordinary Shares.
Subject to the terms of the award, the award will ordinarily vest as to one half on 2 February 2011 and as to the remainder on 2 February 2012.
Therefore at 31 May 2010 no awards had vested 2009: N A and no awards had lapsed 2009: N A.
Once vested, subject to the terms of the award, the award may be exercised over the relevant shares until the fifth anniversary of the grant of the award.
The award will not be transferable save on death or pensionable.
The award may only be satisfied with market purchased shares, no newly issued shares may be used in connection with the award.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The Company operates an HMRC approved SIP for the benefit of all qualifying Partners, including the Executive Directors.
All qualifying Partners are beneficiaries of the Eaga Partnership Trust EPT.
EPT is the vehicle in which shares in the Company and other assets are held in trust for the benefit of all qualifying Partners.
The activities of EPT are subject to a constitution and trust deed and are independent to the Company.
EPTs affairs are managed by two corporate trustees, each governed by a board of directors including: independent trustees, Partners elected by the Eaga Partners Council and one director nominated by the Eaga Board Nomination Committee.
EPT waived its interim dividend in relation to the year to 31 May 2010 and final dividend relating to the year to 31 May 2009, amounting to 3.3m.
These funds have been used by the Company to finance the free share award under the SIP.
On 30 October 2009, the Company awarded 2,017,278 nil cost shares to Partners in the business.
The accounting charge required for the nil cost shares issued to Partners was 4.2m 2009: 1.6m as further set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
To fund the award, the Company purchased 1.8m Ordinary Shares on 29 October 2009 at a cost of 2.7m.
Until these shares are exercised by the individual, they are shown as own shares held in trust, as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
The SIP has been well received by Partners with over 91% participation.
The incumbent Executive Directors declined to participate in the SIP in the current year.
The cost of implementing and administering this plan is borne by EPT.
Revenue m Adjusted diluted eps pence 36 Remuneration Report continued Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration Report continued Retirement Benefits The Executive Directors are members of the Companys group personal pension plan, a defined contribution scheme, under which the Company makes an annual contribution or salary supplement of up to 15% of basic salary.
This may be supplemented by each member as desired, and as permitted under current pension legislation.
Annual bonuses are not pensionable.
Other Benefits Other benefits include fully expensed company car, permanent health insurance and life assurance.
The range of benefits and their value are considered to be broadly in line with similar companies in the FTSE mid 250.
Directors Letters of Appointment and Contracts of Service The Executive Directors have rolling contracts which may be terminated by twelve months notice in writing on either side.
In the event of termination of any Executive Directors service contract the termination payment will be based upon base salary plus benefits.
Variable pay will not be reflected in any termination payment and any amount due will be assessed under general principles with due regard to the duty of mitigation.
Contracts do not provide additional compensation for severance as a result of a change of control.
The Company has adopted a policy whereby Non-Executive Directors are appointed up to a maximum of six years and thereafter on annual terms up to a maximum of nine years total.
Appointments may be terminated by three months notice on either side.
The following table summarises the Boards current Service Contracts: Date of current letter of appointment contract Unexpired term Non-Executive Charles Berry 23 March 2009 16 months Tracy Clarke 17 September 2007 1 month Quintin Oliver 27 January 2010 4 months Malcolm Simpson 27 January 2010 28 months Roger Aylard 6 March 2009 17 months Executive Drew Johnson 31 May 2006 Rolling 12 months Willie MacDiarmid 14 December 2009 Rolling 12 months Ian McLeod 31 May 2006 Rolling 12 months Dave Routledge 31 May 2006 Rolling 12 months Non-Executive Fees The letters of appointment set an expectation of a 20 day per annum commitment of Non-Executive Directors and 35 for the Chairman and provide for payment of a daily fee to the extent that this commitment is exceeded.
To date, no such additional payments have been claimed by the Directors.
Non-Executive Directors fees are benchmarked against the FTSE mid 250 and include base fees with supplemental fees dependent upon additional responsibilities such as: Senior Independent Director, Committee Chair or Committee members as summarised below: Current fees per annum 000 Chairman 125.0 Non-Executive Director 32.1 Supplements: Senior Independent Director 7.0 Chair Audit Committee 9.5 Chair Remuneration Committee 7.0 Chair Nomination Committee 3.5 Committee Member 1.5 These fees were reviewed in the period using benchmarked data from independent advisors.
With the exception of the Chairman, no change was made to Non-Executive Directors base fees however, Committee Chairs were increased to bring them to around median.
Fees for the Chairman were increased to reflect the increasing responsibilities associated with the regulatory framework and to bring total fees in line with median for FTSE mid 250 bottom half.
Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Remuneration Report continued 37 External Appointments The Company recognises that its senior executives and the Company can benefit from its Executive Directors serving in a personal capacity as non-executive directors of other companies.
Subject to approval by the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to hold one external non-executive directorship and retain any fees received for holding such a position.
Such appointments will only be approved if there is no potential conflict of interest and the time commitments do not interfere with the Executive Directors duties and performance.
Currently Drew Johnson holds a non-remunerated post for a Sunderland AFC Childrens Charity.
Currently Dave Routledge holds a non-executive appointment on a pro-bono basis for the Employee Ownership Association, a not for profit organisation dedicated to the development and expansion of employee ownership.
In addition he holds a non-remunerated post for the Strategic Advisory Board of the Newcastle Business School.
Audited Information Directors emoluments Information subject to audit Pension Pension Total Total contributions contributions Salary Fees Benefits 2010 2009 2010 2009 Year ended 31 May 2010 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive 1 Drew Johnson 457 457 349 2 1 Willie MacDiarmid 190 190 1 Ian McLeod 311 311 286 Dave Routledge 262 15 277 255 39 36 3 John Clough MBE 380 Non-Executive 4 Roger Aylard 42 42 7 Charles Berry 105 105 83 Tracy Clarke 39 39 41 Quintin Oliver 37 37 36 Malcolm Simpson 41 41 45 1,220 264 15 1,499 1,482 39 36 1 Includes amounts relating to pensions and car allowance paid as salary 2 From date of appointment on 14 December 2009 3 Resigned in the prior year 4 Appointed in the prior year Long-Term Incentive Schemes and Share Options With the exception of Willie MacDiarmid the Executive Directors have not participated in the MIP or SIP.
At 31 May 2010 the Directors have no other options under any of the Groups share plans.
The awards granted to Willie MacDiarmid were nil cost options over 247,122 Ordinary Shares in relation to the recruitment award and 494,245 nil cost options over Ordinary Shares in relation to the MIP.
Subject to the terms of the award, the recruitment award will ordinarily vest as to one half on 2 February 2011 and as to the remainder on 2 February 2012 and the MIP will vest on the third anniversary of the MIP award.
The Directors interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the Report of the Directors.
Tracy Clarke, Chair, Remuneration Committee 2 September 2010
