Directors remuneration report Information not subject to audit: remuneration Committee and advisers The Companys Remuneration Committee the Committee is composed entirely of independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Mrs Murray, its other members being the three non-executive directors.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest in the matters being decided.
Mr Reid and Mr Tuppen attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee except when their own remuneration is being discussed.
The Committees key objectives are to: n determine and recommend to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, an overall remuneration package for executive directors.
n monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Committee has been constituted and operated throughout the year in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance while also taking account of the relevant provisions of the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008.
The Committee seeks advice relating to directors remuneration from Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, whose ultimate parent company is Aon Corporation who were appointed by the Committee.
Neither HNBS, nor any other part of Aon Corporation, provide other services to the Company save in respect of advice in connection with the operation of the Companys incentive schemes and executive remuneration more generally.
During the year, HNBS assisted the Committee with a number of matters, including: n consultation with shareholders following the full review of executive remuneration conducted during the latter part of 2009 concerning in particular the level of awards to be made as long-term and short-term incentives and applicable performance conditions.
n a review of executive director remuneration for the financial year 2010 2011 including base salaries and once again the suitable level of awards to be made as long-term and short-term incentives and applicable performance conditions.
n a review of executive remuneration for Chief Financial Officers to assist with the recruitment of Mr Smith and the implications of the retirement of Mr George.
n advice and assistance in connection with the technical operation of the Companys incentive arrangements to take account of changes in the tax regime.
Ernst & Young LLP E&Y have also been appointed by the Committee to provide technical and administrative advice to both the Committee and the Company on the operation of the Companys incentive plans.
E&Y are the Groups auditors and also provide advisory services in respect of non-audit matters and taxation.
However, the Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives from E&Y is robust, independent and objective.
In line with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on responsible investment disclosure, the Committee will ensure that the incentive structure for the executive directors and senior management will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it from taking into account ESG matters or, indeed, any other operational financial risks that relate to the Companys business.
The Committee Chairman liaises with relevant senior managers in the Group to ensure that pay and employment conditions e. g. base salary levels increases, pension provision, the structure of annual bonus long-term incentive provision in the Group as a whole are taken into account when framing the executive remuneration policy.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 33 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Directors remuneration report remuneration policy executive directors The Committee regularly reviews the executive directors remuneration packages to ensure they take due account of the Companys specific circumstances, market practice, the views of its shareholders and are aligned to the Companys key strategic objectives.
When considering market practice both in terms of the size and structure of executive remuneration, the Committee considers pay practices adopted amongst two comparator groups of companies, i a group of listed companies in the Travel and Leisure sector and ii a broader group of listed companies from the wider market.
Both groups are comprised of companies of a broadly similar size to Enterprise Inns.
In addition, wider FTSE 250 practice is also taken into account.
As reported last year, a detailed review of the Companys executive remuneration policy was undertaken, with the assistance of HNBS.
The Committee concluded that the existing policy and approach remained both relevant and appropriate in terms of the balance between i fixed and variable pay, ii short-term incentive and long-term incentive pay and iii cash-based and share-based remuneration.
However, following a consultation with the Companys major shareholders, certain changes were made to the executive remuneration policy: n the basic structure of the annual bonus in terms of the use of both challenging EPS targets and individual strategic targets with the latter now subject to a threshold level of EPS performance, with a significant element of deferral into shares, should remain unchanged.
However, it was agreed to reduce the bonus opportunity of Mr Tuppen in relation to the year under review to 100% of salary from 125%.
n the current approach to long-term incentive provision, which is provided via the regular annual grant of awards under the Companys 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan that only vest in full five years after grant subject to challenging performance conditions, should also be continued.
However, it was agreed that i the performance targets for the awards made in the year under review should be primarily based on the Companys relative TSR performance versus the FTSE 250, albeit subject to a financial underpin and ii Performance Share award levels for that year should be reduced to 100% of salary from 150% of salary.
It was also decided that there should be no increase in base salaries or pension provision for the financial year beginning 1 October 2009.
The Committee has once again reviewed this policy and approach and has concluded that it remains relevant and appropriate.
The Remuneration Committees policy will, therefore, continue to be designed to ensure that the level and structure of remuneration arrangements allows the Company to attract, retain and motivate the exceptional individuals required to enhance shareholder value.
It is the Committees policy that the performance-related elements of the package, comprising short-term cash and deferred share bonuses and long-term share-based awards, should comprise a significant portion of total remuneration for the executive directors.
The Committee believes that these performance-related incentive arrangements provide rewards which reflect an appropriate balance between Group and individual performance and align the rewards to executive directors with the long-term interest of shareholders.
The current policy is for share-based awards to be satisfied by the use of existing shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust further details are set out in the Directors Report on page 13.
The executive directors may accept outside appointments provided that such outside appointments do not in any way prejudice their ability to perform their duties as executive directors of the Company.
The extent to which any executive director is allowed to retain any fees payable in respect of such outside appointments, or whether such fees are remitted to the Company, will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
34 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Directors remuneration report The details of individual components of the remuneration package and service contracts are as follows: Basic salary and benefits Basic salary is a fixed cash sum payable monthly.
The basic salary and benefits are reviewed annually against appropriate comparators and taking account of individual performance.
Benefits include car allowances or the use of a motor car, fuel, private medical insurances and professional fees.
In determining the basic salary for the executive directors the Committee takes account of the changes to individual responsibilities, benchmark data received from its remuneration advisers, current market economic conditions and the general level of workforce salary increases.
Following a recent review by the Committee of pay levels and structure, it was decided that there will be no increase in basic salary levels for the financial year beginning 1 October 2010.
This follows a similar salary freeze in the year under review, which means that there have been no increases in base salaries since 1 October 2008. pensions The pension contributions for the executive directors equate to 25% of basic salary.
As previously reported the Committee agreed that, from 1 October 2006, Mr Tuppen could receive a sum equivalent to 25% of basic salary in lieu of his pension contributions as a salary supplement this is not included in any bonus and share incentive award calculations.
No changes have been made to executive pension provision following the Committees recent review.
Current Enterprise Inns Incentive plans the Incentive plans For the year under review the Company had the following relevant Plans: n the Enterprise Inns 2005 Annual Bonus Plan: and n the Enterprise Inns 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan together referred to as the Incentive Plans The Incentive Plans were adopted at the 2005 Annual General Meeting and provide for participants to earn non-pensionable cash bonuses and share-based short-term and long-term incentives.
Further details of the Incentive Plans are set out below.
Short-term cash and share incentives the Bonus plan Under the terms of the Bonus Plan executive directors are eligible to participate in an annual cash bonus scheme as determined by the Committee.
For the year under review the maximum award level under the Bonus Plan for the Chief Executive and the other executive directors was 100% of salary notwithstanding the fact that the normal policy bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive is 125% of salary.
Awards under the Bonus Plan are subject to demanding performance targets.
For the year under review, 80% of the executive directors bonus was subject to a sliding scale of challenging annual adjusted EPS growth targets, with 20% subject to challenging individual strategic targets, although no bonus is payable under this element of the Bonus Plan irrespective of performance against these targets unless a threshold level of EPS performance is delivered.
In the normal course, 60% of any bonus earned is paid in cash, with the remaining 40% deferred into shares a Deferred Share Award.
Deferred Share Awards may not ordinarily be exercised for 36 months after the end of the performance period.
Awards between the minimum and maximum limits are calculated by reference to performance achieved against the pre-set targets.
The Deferred Share and cash bonus awards for the year are shown in the remuneration table on page 39.
The bonuses paid range from around 86% to 88% of salary and were paid for the achievement of annual adjusted EPS targets with the actual EPS delivered being above budget and for performance against the challenging individual strategic objectives that were set at the start of the year.
More particularly, these individual strategic objectives related to matters such as refinancing bank debt, debt reduction, pub disposals, improving operational performance and increasing the number of pubs on substantive agreements.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 35 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Directors remuneration report As was the case with the bonuses paid last year it has been decided that, to further strengthen the alignment of interests between executives and shareholders, the entire bonus of Mr Tuppen and Mr Townsend shall be payable as a Deferred Share Award, notwithstanding the fact that the rules of the Bonus Plan require only 40% of any bonus to be deferred.
Given the fact that Mr George will step down from the Board on 20 January 2011 and will cease employment on 31 July, it was considered appropriate to pay his full bonus in cash.
Following the Committees recent review of executive remuneration, it was decided to retain the core elements of the executive directors bonus opportunity for the forthcoming year.
As a result, for the financial year beginning on 1 October 2010 i there will be no change in maximum bonus opportunity i. e. Mr Tuppens bonus opportunity will remain at 100% of salary notwithstanding the fact that his normal policy bonus opportunity is 125% ii at least 40% of any bonus earned will be payable as a Deferred Share Award and iii 80% of the total bonus opportunity will be payable by reference to performance against a sliding scale of adjusted EPS targets and 20% will be payable for performance against individual strategic targets subject also to achievement of a threshold level of EPS performance.
Mr George will not participate in the Bonus Plan as he is to step down from the Board.
In addition, the Committee has agreed to introduce a clawback provision under which an appropriate means of redress can be applied in relation to the payment of a past bonus in certain circumstances.
Further details will be disclosed in due course.
Long-term share incentives under the Incentive plans Under the Incentive Plans, two types of long-term incentive awards can be made under the Enterprise Inns 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP : n an award of Performance Shares worth up to 150% of salary each year : and n an award of Matching Shares linked to the co-investment of up to 25% of salary in Investment Shares, which are then matched on a 2:1 basis.
Shares that can count as Investment Shares are: n shares subject to the Deferred Share Award under the Bonus Plan: and n shares acquired by participants using their cash bonus or other funds, up to the 25% of salary maximum.
LTIp awards made prior to 2009 10 Awards made under the LTIP prior to the award made for the 2009 10 financial year do not vest in full until five years after grant and are subject to challenging adjusted EPS as to 50% and relative TSR as to 50% based performance conditions measured over the three year period following grant.
The EPS-based condition measures the Companys average compound annual adjusted EPS growth by comparing the Companys adjusted EPS for the year prior to the date of grant the base year with the adjusted EPS for the third financial year following the base year.
The EPS growth targets to which pre 2009 10 awards are subject are as follows: Level of match under the relevant percentage of relevant portion of Matching Share Award Average three year compound portion of performance Share Matching Award Shares: annual adjusted EpS growth Award that vests Investment Shares Less than 7% 0% 0:1 7% 20% 0.4:1 15% 100% 2:1 Straight-line vesting occurs if average compound annual adjusted EPS growth is between 7% and 15%.
