ComPany oveRview Business Review GoveRnanCe finanCial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 61 Remuneration report I am pleased to present the first Remuneration report Responsibilities of Essar Energy.
The Remuneration Committees key objective The Remuneration Committee recommends the policy for the is to determine a remuneration package that reflects our Executive Directors remuneration and determines the levels of performance driven culture and rewards our people remuneration for the Executive Director, the Chairman and the appropriately.
It takes into account the geographical locations Vice Chairman.
Additionally, the Remuneration Committee and markets of our operations and the need to attract, motivate recommends and monitors the level and structure of and retain our people.
remuneration for members of key management personnel.
In 2010, the Remuneration Committee undertook the following The Remuneration Committee also reviews and approves the key activities: operation of share and share option schemes and the granting agreement of the initial remuneration philosophy for the of share awards.
It also reviews and advises the Board on any Board and key management personnel: major changes in wider employee benefits.
confirmation of the remuneration package for the Board and The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined key management personnel for the Companys first year of operations, following independent advice: and by the Board as a whole.
No Director participates in the approval of the Employee Stock Option Plan and granting determination of his own remuneration.
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed Going forward, we will review our remuneration arrangements periodically and are available on the Companys website.
to ensure that they encourage enhanced performance in a fair and responsible manner and reward contributions to the Deloitte LLP was independently retained by the Committee as advisors and have provided information on relevant current continuing success of the Group.
market practice and developments in best practice guidance.
subhash lallah Deloitte LLP also provided audit and other services compatible with their roles as auditors to the Group, as set out in Note 8 to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the financial statements and described more fully in the 18 March 2011 Corporate Governance report.
Remuneration philosophy This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Executive remuneration Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
It also meets the The Companys policy is to ensure that the Board and key relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial management personnel are fairly rewarded with regard to responsibilities undertaken taking into account appropriate Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles of good governance as set out in the Combined market practice.
Code relating to Directors remuneration.
Further information regarding the Companys Board and its committees can be Corporate and individual performance is taken into account in found in the Corporate Governance report.
setting the pay level for the Chief Executive as the sole Executive Director of the Company, and will be reviewed on an The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to the annual basis to ensure it remains appropriate.
In addition, our Companys members on certain parts of this report and to policy is that base pay should represent 50-75% of total state whether in their opinion those parts have been properly remuneration and be incremented annually based on prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The performance, inflation and market rates.
report has therefore been divided into separate sections for unaudited and audited information.
Annual Performance Linked Incentive plan The Remuneration Committee has also put in place an Annual unaudited information Performance Linked Incentive scheme where variable Remuneration Committee remuneration may be paid on fulfilment of a range of individual The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Subhash and corporate performance targets up to a maximum of 41.7% Lallah, and its other members are Mr Simon Murray and Mr of base salary.
The performance targets are grouped within Philip Aiken, all of whom are considered by the Board to be four key performance areas: independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the managing the financial results and achievement of budgeted recommendation of the Combined Code.
Other members of financial targets: the Board or those with responsibilities over Human Resources driving innovative manufacturing operations and marketing matters may be invited to attend meetings except when their excellence: own remuneration is discussed.
The details of the frequency the timely completion of projects and the integration of new and attendance of Remuneration Committee meetings are set assets: and out in the Corporate Governance report.
providing leadership, governance and organisational development.
Within each area a number of indicators and metrics have been identified that are taken into account by the Remuneration Committee when determining the amount of Annual Performance Linked Incentive to be awarded.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 62 Remuneration report continued employee stock option Plan non-executive remuneration The Company established its first share scheme in 2010 with The remuneration of the Chairman, Vice Chairman and the introduction of the ESOP for the Chief Executive and Non-Executive Directors was determined by the Board prior to certain other key management personnel.
The scheme entitles the IPO in accordance with the Companys policy.
Deloitte LLP the holder to acquire up to a maximum number of ordinary provided the Company with relevant market data.
shares of the Company at a market value exercise price, provided certain performance criteria are met.
The ESOP has a The Chairman, Vice Chairman and Non-Executive Directors performance period of three years where the following are not entitled to participate in the Companys bonus or percentage of options will vest depending on the growth in share plans.
Earnings per Share EPS : Directors interests Percentage The Directors interests are set out in the Directors report.
of option ePs Growth that vests Performance graph 5% per annum 30% The Remuneration Committee has elected to compare the total 10% per annum 100% shareholder return on the Companys ordinary shares against the FTSE 100 Index principally because this is the index of which the Company is a constituent member.
The values Between an EPS growth per annum of 5% and 10% the indicated in the graph show the share price growth from a percentage of option that vests is calculated on a straight line basis.
None of the option vests below 5% per annum 100 hypothetical holding of ordinary shares in the Company EPS growth.
and in the index, from IPO date to 31 December 2010 and have been calculated using daily closing values.
Components of remuneration Total Shareholder Return Main Features 160 Base salary Reviewed on an annual basis 150 Review takes into account the individuals skills and experience in the context of the relevant market 140 annual Performance linked incentive Annual incentive Based on a range of financial and non-financial, corporate and 130 individual performance criteria Target 33.3% of Base Salary up to a maximum of 41.7% for stretch 120 performance esoP Annual grants 110 Market value options Subject to 3 years growth in EPS performance condition 100 Grant values up to 100% of Base Salary for Executive Directors with a maximum of 300% in exceptional circumstances 90 Pension alternative Essar Cash supplement in lieu of pension FTSE100 80 10% of Base Salary May 10 Jun 10 Jul 10 Aug 10 Sep 10 Oct 10 Nov 10 Dec 10 ComPany oveRview Business Review GoveRnanCe finanCial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 63 audited information The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and Directors remuneration package and service contract The following table summarises amounts paid to Directors in at the AGM for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
2010 from their dates of appointment to 31 December 2010.
All amounts are in pound sterling.
Information regarding the The Chairman and the Vice Chairman are entitled to an annual fee of 300,000 and 175,000, respectively, for their services.
various elements of the Directors annual remuneration package, service contract and terms is further discussed below.
The Non-Executive Directors are each entitled to an annual fee of 60,000 together with an additional fee of 15,000 per Base salary annum for chairing a Board Committee or alternatively 10,000 name and fees Bonus total per annum for serving on a Board Committee.
Chairman Mr Ravi Ruia 225,000 225,000 The Chairman and the Vice Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not receive any additional payments from vice Chairman subsidiaries of the Company other than those noted above.
Mr Prashant Ruia 131,250 131,250 Chief executive Chief executive 1 Mr Naresh Nayyar 689,713 104,450 794,163 Naresh Nayyar is entitled to a salary of 682,870 per annum under his service agreement with Essar Energy Services non-executive Director Mauritius Limited.
He is entitled to a cash payment equal to Mr Philip Aiken 63,750 63,750 10% of his basic salary to provide for long term financial Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula 63,750 63,750 planning into retirement and to provide for any dependants Mr Simon Murray 71,250 71,250 in the event of his death, and private medical insurance.
Mr Subhash Lallah 71,250 71,250 He is eligible to participate in an Annual Performance Linked total 1,315,963 104,450 1,420,413 Incentive scheme which provides a payment of up to 284,530 at stretch level subject to the achievement of certain 1 Naresh Nayyar remuneration includes fixed pay of 126,345 and a bonus of 57,502 for his services as the Managing Director of Essar Oil Limited in India.
Amounts paid in India performance targets relating to corporate and personal have been converted at a rate of 1 INR 69.78. performance with 227,624 for achieving target performance.
No payments have been made under the Annual Performance Chairman, vice Chairman and non-executive Directors Linked Incentive scheme in 2010, as the Company has not yet The appointment of the Chairman, Vice Chairman and each of completed its first 12 months of operations.
In accordance with the Non-Executive Directors commenced on 6 April 2010 and employment laws in Mauritius, Naresh Nayyar has received a will continue until the Companys first AGM.
The details of the bonus of 46,948 equivalent to one month of his base salary Boards re-election are provided in the Directors report.
The from Essar Energy Services Mauritius Limited during the year.
appointment may also be terminated at any time by the Company in accordance with its Articles of Association or the Mr Nayyar is also eligible to participate in the Essar Energy Companies Act 2006.
Upon termination, none of the Chairman, ESOP, for which he has been granted an option to acquire up the Vice Chairman or any of the Non-Executive Directors is to a maximum of 204,444 shares ordinary shares of 5 pence at entitled to any damages for loss of office and no fee shall be an exercise price of 523 pence.
payable in respect of any unexpired portion of the term of the appointment.
market value Date from of shares on which Date of number of shares Date of grant grant exercisable expiry 204,444 15 11 2010 523p 15 11 2013 15 11 2020 Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 64 Remuneration report continued As indicated on IPO it was the Remuneration Committees The payment in lieu of notice shall be paid within one month intention to grant options to key executives under the ESOP of the date of termination of the Executives employment or shortly following IPO at around the Listing price of 420 pence.
in equal instalments from the date of termination of the The Remuneration Committee was unable to make these Executives employment until the relevant period.
The payout option grants until 15 November 2010, but the market price of shall be paid net of tax and subject to such deductions as may the Companys shares rose strongly in the intervening period.
Mr Nayyar is subject to a confidentiality In order to ensure the Chief Executive and key management undertaking without limitation in time and to non-competition, personnel were not disadvantaged by the delay in granting non-solicitation, non-dealing and non-hiring restrictive options to them, the Remuneration Committee awarded each covenants for a period of 12 months after the termination individual concerned an additional cash right.
This right is of his employment.
exercisable in conjunction with or in place of the share option, depending on the share price at exercise.
The salary multiple In addition to his duties as Chief Executive, Mr Nayyar has used in determining the number of shares under these options continued to undertake his role as Managing Director of Essar has been calculated by reference to the 420 pence listing price, Oil.
Under this service agreement he is entitled to fixed pay of not the share price shortly before the grant date.
12,840,000 approximately 184,000 per annum and is eligible to receive a payment of up to Rs.
4,012,000 The Remuneration Committee indicated on IPO that the grant approximately 57,502 at 125% stretch level under the Annual of options to Mr Nayyar would be based on a value equal to Performance Linked Incentive Scheme subject to achievement 100% of his annual base pay under his service agreement with of certain performance targets relating to corporate and Essar Energy Services Mauritius Limited 682,870.
Essar Oil has also made payments to a the Remuneration Committee considered his contribution in provident pension fund of Rs.
433,350 approximately 6,210 bringing the Company to Listing and determined that the award on behalf of Mr Nayyar in 2010.
This remuneration is in addition should be based on his total annual base pay under his service to that paid to him under his service agreement with Essar agreements with both Essar Energy Services Mauritius Energy Services Mauritius Limited.
In the event of termination Limited and Essar Oil Limited.
of the service agreement with Essar Oil, which is terminable by either party on service of six months prior written notice, Mr Nayyars service agreement is terminable by either party on Mr Nayyar is entitled to six months remuneration.
service of six months prior written notice.
The Company has the ability to terminate the agreement by the payment of a cash sum in lieu of notice equal to the salary and other contractual benefits, excluding bonus, payable for any unexpired portion of the notice period.
