BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com The Company has implemented Filtrona Group Safety Awards which Priorities goals reward manufacturing sites with gold, silver or bronze status on the basis of annual performance assessed against stringent criteria set by Secure continuous improvement in the FHSEC.
There are strict criteria governing these awards, based upon: health & safety achieving a high Filtrona audit score: OHSAS standard accreditation: regular health & safety meetings: availability of suitably trained employees on site: completion of all critical risk assessments and achieving accident reduction targets.
These standards were maintained How do we manage it?
during 2010 and are subject to continual review.
For 2010, all sites have risen to the challenge resulting in 15 gold awards 2009: seven, five silver - Secure OHSAS 18001 accreditation awards 2009: 11 and two bronze awards 2009: one.
The achievements at principal manufacturing sites in 2010, compared to 2009, continue to be evidence of the health & - Establishing group standards for safety commitment and progress being made internationally across improvements and results Filtrona businesses.
It is the recommendation of the FHSEC that the criteria for achieving these awards during 2011 to 2013 period be raised - Extending the data collection and to a higher level thus driving continuous improvement.
workplace investigations to include near misses During 2010 a Certificate of Health & Safety Conformity was introduced - Encouraging employee initiatives to for all sales & distribution and office administration locations.
This award reinforce Company training was structured in a similar way to the Group safety awards with a strict set of criteria.
85% of the relevant locations received an Excellent rating with the balance achieving a Merit status.
The Filtrona Chief Executives Special Award for Health & Safety recognises the achievements of the division or site that best meets the - Established Group standards for following criteria: non-manufacturing sites Demonstrates a significant impact on work methods or behaviours - Appointed divisional HSE co-ordinators resulting in improvements to employee perception of health & safety for all divisions standards within a site Involves the majority of employees on the site or in the division - Ran the Group safety campaign Utilises novel or inter-active media or methods in its propagation Hand in Hand - Continued to monitor incident data This Award is made to the division or site which has shown the most and issue safety alerts successful or innovative safety communication campaign or initiative.
- Commenced reporting of non work In 2010, the award was won by Porous Technologies.
This achievement related injuries reflects the commitment of the management team and employees to the occupational safety awareness campaign sustained over the last two years.
Employees - Additional behavioural training to be Filtronas employees are a vital resource in the pursuit of operational introduced in 2011 and beyond excellence and the provision of quality products and service to its customers.
The skills and expertise of Filtronas employees drive the - Introduce corporate health & safety innovation which enables the Company to provide added value to its training for all employees customers, enhance supply chain logistics with its suppliers and reduce - Identify other training needs the environmental impact of its operations.
The Group regularly reviews its organisational structure to ensure that the business has the necessary personnel to deliver its strategic priorities.
The Group was again forced to make a number of redundancies, including in Venezuela.
This was a difficult process but one that was handled with professionalism both by the staff affected and the Human Resources team.
Where possible employees were internally deployed but, if appropriate, assistance was given in finding work outside the Group.
Filtrona is guided by its aim to deliver a competitive and fair employment environment and the opportunity to develop and advance employees subject to personal performance and business opportunity.
Filtrona encourages its employees to develop and manage their own careers.
It facilitates this by providing relevant job training and, where appropriate, aiming to fill vacancies with existing staff where employees are suitably qualified and experienced.
38 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility Filtronas commitment to the growth of its employees as individuals, Priorities goals challenging them to fulfil their potential through investment, in training and personal development, is fundamental to the recruitment, Ensure highest standards of business motivation and retention of people with the talent and energy to integrity and conduct drive Filtronas growth as a profitable business.
Filtronas training programmes are designed to secure continuous improvement, with the Companys businesses benefiting from the How do we manage it?
increase in the capabilities of its employees.
Filtrona seeks to ensure that the training opportunities are extended beyond the development of - Promote Filtrona Values skills focused on fulfilling a particular role within the current operations.
- Establish clear policies and guidance - Secure employee awareness and Filtrona is committed to improving employee engagement and learning more about staffs needs.
Filtrona believes it is a good employer, but is engagement aware of the need to listen to employees to ascertain how it can become - Facilitate the Right to Speak policy an even better place to work.
In addition to the impact of the training and development programmes, employee engagement is enhanced by the communication practices which have been adopted across the businesses.
- Improved communication of core polices Filtrona values highly the commitment of its employees and recognises the importance of communication to good working relationships and - Implemented new compliance systems practices.
The Company seeks to ensure that employees are informed - Established new training programmes on matters relating to their employment and on financial and economic - Designed new whistleblowing factors affecting the businesses.
This is achieved through management procedures briefings, internal announcements, the Filtrona website and by the distribution of public announcements.
Various initiatives, including the use of regular newsletters detailing progress and key news across the divisions, focus on the dissemination of important information and messages to employees.
The Company seeks feedback and ideas from How will we do it?
employees to improve its operations and forums appropriate to Filtronas local businesses have been established to allow employees - Respond to new risks and requirements to voice their views on how the Company should fulfil the demands of - Provide further learning all its local and international stakeholders.
The Companys European - Drive employee responsibility Information and Consultation Forum facilitates the discussion of issues - Seek increased assurance across all of its operations in the European Union.
- Investigate complaints The Company recognises the importance of, and the benefits to be derived from, diversity across its global operations and is committed to offering equal opportunities to all people without discrimination of any form.
Filtrona remunerates fairly with respect to skills, performance and local market conditions.
By adhering to the Filtrona Values, the Company conducts its business in a manner designed to ensure individuals are treated equally and fairly and that all employment, training and career development decisions are made on job-based criteria.
Recruitment procedures avoid the employment of underage staff.
Harassment in any form is not tolerated in the workplace.
The Company gives full and fair consideration to employment applications by disabled persons.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that the training, career development and promotion opportunities enjoyed by disabled persons are as far as possible identical to that of other non-disabled employees.
Throughout its global activities Filtrona supports human rights as set down by the UN Declaration and its applicable International Labour Organisation conventions.
Operations based in India, Indonesia, Jordan and Thailand are also accredited to SA8000 which details fundamental principles of human rights.
Marketplace Filtronas reputation with its customers and suppliers and within the communities where it operates is based not only on the quality of its performance, but also on the integrity in its management of the workplace and the environment and its ethical and responsible conduct in the marketplace.
The development and continuation of long-term business relationships reflects the trust placed in the Company and such commitments are an important component in the ongoing success of the Company.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Filtronas Code of Business Ethics policy is applicable to all its businesses around the world.
The policy details the standards expected by Filtrona in the conduct of its business and its relationships with third parties, including free and fair competition, the prohibition of bribery and political donations and provides general guidance on honest and fair dealings with suppliers, customers and local and national authorities.
Filtrona is committed to working with its suppliers to ensure the welfare of workers and employment conditions within its supply chain meet or exceed internationally recognised standards.
Environment Filtrona applies a structured approach to minimising its environmental impact by: Implementing and maintaining formal environmental systems accredited to ISO14001 on a global basis Measuring consumption and emissions and setting targets to improve performance Carrying out environmental impact assessments and developing site management plans Providing training to employees and engaging with customers and suppliers to raise environmental awareness Providing facilities to segregate and reuse or recycle waste Filtrona continues to be committed to reducing its environmental impact and is actively managing responses to the challenges that the UK Governments latest targets present to the business, as well as complying with wider environmental issues and legislation.
Filtrona is listed in the FTSE4Good Index which is designed to measure the performance of companies striving to meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards and to facilitate investment in those companies where corporate responsibility issues are an influencing factor in an investors decision-making process.
The FTSE4Good Committee annually reviews the list for continual compliance with the criteria as laid down by the Committee.
During the, year the FTSE CDP Carbon Strategy Index Series the Series was introduced which aims to support investors in incorporating climate change risks into their investment strategy.
It features future-orientated criteria that assess the exposure of individual companies to higher future costs associated with greenhouse gas emissions.
The FTSE CDP Carbon Strategy 350 Index is a carbon-risk tilted version of the FTSE 350 Index where the constituent companies remain the same but the weights of the companies are varied on the basis of their exposure to carbon risk relative to their sector peers and, for the 2010 Series, Filtrona was ranked number 30.
With the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC legislation becoming effective in April 2010, Filtrona achieved the Carbon Trust Standard at all its UK manufacturing sites.
This standard ensures commitment to improved carbon footprint and enhanced reputation.
CRC is designed to drive energy efficiency and carbon reduction by giving organisations a financial incentive through emissions trading.
Filtrona is applying the principles of the Carbon Trust Standard to its global operations and will be well placed to address future anticipated legislative changes in its operating regions.
Filtrona supports the activities of the Carbon Trust and, during 2010 participated in the 8th annual Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, environmental impact survey.
It is the Companys intention to participate in the CDP survey during 2011.
40 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility To ensure that Filtrona is continuously improving its understanding of its How did we do?
environmental impact and how it can improve its global environmental 2010 2009 % change performance, focus has to be, and will continue to be, placed on 1 collating and analysing a wide cross section of environmental data.
The Carbon emissions 132 144 8.3% strategic environmental focus for Filtrona is to reduce its environmental 2 General waste 2,293 2,795 18.0% impact through a decrease in emissions, preventing pollution and 3 Recycled factory waste 1,041 836 24.5% improving efficiency in the use of resources including energy, water, 4 3 3 Water 250m 350m 28.6% packaging and other raw materials.
1 tonnes of CO per million of Group revenue 2 2 tonnes of waste to landfill Filtronas ongoing challenge is to determine how, through current 3 tonnes of production waste initiatives and current technology, and with further projects and future 4 per million of Group revenue innovation, it can achieve this within a realistic financial framework and appropriate timeframe in a manner relevant to, and meaningful in the context of the Companys overall strategic objectives and financial performance.
Given the diversity of Filtronas global operations, local management drive environmental performance based on divisional objectives set in accordance with Filtronas environmental policy.
Copies of the policy can be found on the Companys website www.
The Company continues to improve data collection on all environmental aspects and aims to set realistic control targets.
Filtrona uses a variety of indicators relevant to each of the operating divisions to monitor environmental performance, but the following core impacts are identified for the Group as a whole.
greenhouse gas emission from energy use, including electricity, natural gas, heating fuel, transport and travel use of resources including water generation and disposal of waste Filtrona has identified that climate change may be the single most important environmental constraint impacting on the future of its businesses and continues to closely monitor the environmental impact of its operations and recognises that a carbon tariff can be assigned to energy used in a wide range of activities associated with its operations.
The management of these environmental impacts is focused on methodologies to reduce that impact, and the development of initiatives to secure both economic and environmental benefits and sustainability.
Increased reporting procedures reinforce the accountability of the businesses for the consequences of their operations on the environment.
Filtrona is continually seeking to ensure reduction in the use of natural resources and have established research & development facilities in the UK, Asia and the US to investigate the use of renewable resources and recyclable bio-degradable versions of products.
Filtrona seeks to ensure good environmental practice at all its locations and in its operational processes and investment decisions.
Filtronas principal manufacturing sites are ISO 14001 accredited and all of the Companys European businesses comply with EU and domestic waste management regulations.
A range of initiatives is being undertaken to drive the efficiency of Filtronas energy consumption and the Company has developed bespoke software to monitor the effect of such projects, as well as identifying potential future opportunities for further improvements.
Landfill is being reduced as local initiatives seek to recycle waste materials or explore alternative uses with third parties.
Due to the scale of Filtronas global operations, the use of energy has both environmental and commercial importance.
Where possible, and financially viable, energy from renewable resources is utilised to limit environmental impact, commercial risk and costs.
Business travel made by Filtrona employees is not considered to have a major environmental impact.
However, because of a growing international presence, the Company has invested in video conferencing facilities to connect key sites, both in the UK and overseas.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Filtrona actively engages with its employees, customers, and suppliers to exploit opportunities offered by new technologies, improved process operations and new materials to further reduce environmental impact and improve profitability.
Supplier standards are subject to review by the Company employees who audit their environmental credentials.
The FHSEC provides an opportunity to share best environmental practices and waste minimisation initiatives across all the Group sites.
Filtrona is committed to being a good corporate citizen respecting the environment and seeking practical ways to lessen the impact of business.
The Group Environmental Award has been designed to give enhanced recognition to those sites with projects or campaigns that further that objective and is given to the most successful and innovative environmental improvement or initiative on a site or division which meets one or several of the following criteria: reductions in emissions recycling of waste product waste reduction energy efficiency efficient use of raw material use of bio-degradable materials And which impacts one or all of: local community local ecology public perception of the business profitability of the Company For 2010 the Group Environmental Award was won by the Filter Products division.
Details of the initiatives introduced can be found within the divisional operation review on page 30.
Community Filtronas commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen extends through to the support for appropriate non-political and non-sectarian projects across a range of organisations and charities.
Regardless of regional or national boundaries, the Company aims to support the creation of prosperous, educated, sustainable and healthy communities in the countries and cultures within which it operates.
In its attempts to bring benefits back to those communities whose support provides a basis for Filtronas success, the Company has focused on education and enterprise, health and welfare and the environment.
The Groups support for the communities it operates in is driven at a local rather than a corporate level.
The approach, adopted across the globe, is to support and enhance employee efforts in their communities through the application of the Groups resources.
In pursuit of its aims within the community, the Company has developed targeted programmes for local communities, often involving commercial sponsorship and significant employee engagement through direct involvement or secondment.
By way of example, as part of the ongoing corporate social responsibility programme Filthai employees planted 500 mangrove trees in association with a local nature education centre.
The aim of the planting was to increase the number of mangrove forested areas to maintain the balance of the mangrove ecosystems, which provide a habitat to many marine animals and help to prevent coastal erosion, reducing damage from storm surges as well as acting as a natural water filter.
Employees received training on planting and maintenance and immersed themselves in the muddy coastal shores to complete the planting initiative.
Applying Filtronas principles The Chief Executive is the Director with primary responsibility for the implementation and integration of Filtronas Corporate Responsibility across the Company.
The Director of Group Human Resources, supported by the Company Secretary & General Counsel, is responsible for co-ordinating the operation of the detailed policies on human resources, health & safety, ethics and the environment which support Filtronas commitment to its Corporate Responsibility principles.
Further details of those policies can be viewed via the Corporate Responsibility page on the Companys website at www.
42 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Group Operating Committee L-r: Alan Tidy, Rob Purcell, Mark Harper and Jon Green.
Mark Harper Chief Executive The biographical details of Mark Harper are shown on page 45.
Jon Green Company Secretary & General Counsel Jon Green, a solicitor, joined Filtrona in March 2005 and was appointed Company Secretary in July 2005.
Prior to Filtrona, he worked as an in-house lawyer for several large international businesses, including Unilever and Hays plc.
Jon is a member of the Executive Committee and Chairman of the Risk Management Committee.
Alan Tidy Director of Group Human Resources Alan Tidy joined Filtrona as Director of Group Human Resources in 2005.
He was previously group HR director at Wagon plc and prior to that held divisional HR roles within Caradon plc and Rio Tinto plc.
Alan is a member of the Executive Committee and Chairman of Filtronas UK Pension Trustee Boards and the Filtrona Group Health, Safety and Environment Council.
He is a Chartered Member of the Institute of Personnel and Development.
Rob Purcell Divisional Managing Director Protection & Finishing Products Rob Purcell joined the Moss business in 1996 from Low and Bonar where he had been managing director of their technical textiles business.
Rob became responsible for the entire Protection and Finishing Products division in 2003.
Rob has been a Trustee of the Filtrona Senior Pension Scheme for a number of years.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com L-r: Matthew Gregory, Russ Rogers, Steve Crummett, PT Sreekumar and Tony Edwards.
Steve Crummett Group Finance Director The biographical details of Steve Crummett are shown on page 44.
Russ Rogers Divisional President Porous Technologies Russ Rogers joined the Company with the acquisition of the American Filtrona Corporation in September 1997 and performed increasingly important roles in engineering, logistics, purchasing and manufacturing before being appointed President in June 2003.
Tony Edwards Divisional Managing Director Coated & Security Products Tony Edwards was previously Finance Director of the Filtrona business area within Bunzl and was appointed to his current role in 2002.
Prior to that he was Finance Director of the Payne business when it was bought from Norcros plc in 1996.
Tony is a Chartered Accountant having qualified with Price Waterhouse in 1988, after which he worked for Rio Tinto plc.
PT Sreekumar Divisional Managing Director Filter Products PT Sreekumar joined Filtrona from Godfrey Philips, an Indian tobacco company, in 1995.
Sreekumar was initially responsible for the Indian joint venture within Filtrona.
In 2002 he was appointed as Regional Director for Asia Pacific responsible for the business in Asia and the Middle East before moving into his current role early in 2005.
Matthew Gregory Director of Corporate Development Matthew Gregory joined the group in 2003 as Finance Director, Moss Plastic Parts, having previously held senior finance positions within The Rank Group plc.
In August 2010, after four years as Finance Director, Protection & Finishing Products division, he was appointed Director of Corporate Development.
Matthew is a Chartered Accountant, having qualified with Ernst & Young and worked in both the UK and Italy.
44 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Board of Directors L-r: Paul Drechsler, Jeff Harris and Steve Crummett.
Jeff Harris Non-executive Chairman Jeff Harris was appointed Chairman in May 2005.
He was chairman of Alliance UniChem plc from 2001 until 2005, having been the finance director of UniChem plc from 1986 to 1992, chief executive from 1992 and chief executive of the enlarged Alliance UniChem plc from 1997 to 2001.
Jeff was a non-executive director and chairman of Bunzl plc until February 2010.
With effect from 1 April 2010 Jeff was appointed to the board of Cookson Group plc, becoming chairman from 13 April 2010.
Jeff is also the Chairman of the Companys Nomination Committee.
Paul Drechsler Senior Independent Non-executive Director Paul Drechsler was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Filtrona in May 2005.
He is chairman and chief executive of Wates Group, having been appointed to the position of chief executive in 2004.
Paul spent 25 years at Imperial Chemical Industries PLC including chairmanship of the ICI pension fund and appointment to the ICI board as an executive director in 1999.
He is Chairman of the CBI Energy Policy Committee.
Paul is Chairman of the Companys Remuneration Committee.
Steve Crummett Group Finance Director Steve Crummett joined Filtrona in May 2007 as Director of Corporate Development and was appointed Group Finance Director in March 2008.
Prior to that, he was Group Director of Mergers and Acquisitions at Exel plc and held senior finance roles within McKechnie plc and Logica plc.
Steve is a Chartered Accountant having qualified with Arthur Andersen.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 45 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com L-r: Lars Emilson, Terry Twigger and Mark Harper.
Mark Harper Chief Executive Mark Harper joined Filtrona in 1986 and held a number of general management positions, including managing director of Moss Plastic Parts in Europe and president of Alliance Plastics in the US, before becoming Managing Director of Filtrona in 1996.
Mark was an executive director of Bunzl plc from 2004 until he was appointed Chief Executive of Filtrona in May 2005.
Mark is a non-executive director of BBA Aviation plc.
Terry Twigger Non-executive Director Terry Twigger was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Filtrona in June 2009.
He is currently Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC, having previously been group finance director.
Prior to joining Meggitt PLC he spent 15 years with Lucas Aerospace.
He is a Director of ADS and member of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
Terry is a Chartered Accountant, having trained with Deloitte & Touche, and is Chairman of the Companys Audit Committee.
Lars Emilson Non-executive Director Lars Emilson was appointed a Non-executive Director of Filtrona in May 2007.
He was formerly chief executive of Rexam PLC from 2004 to February 2007.
Lars has spent the majority of his working life in the packaging industry.
In 1970 he joined PLM, a leading Swedish packaging company, where he held various senior positions.
In 1999 he joined the Rexam board, becoming group director of the worldwide beverage can business.
Lars is currently non-executive chairman of Charter International plc and a director of East Capital Explorer AB, a Swedish listed company.
46 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 The Directors present their Report and audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Principal activities The principal activities of Filtrona are the light manufacture and supply of speciality plastic and fibre products.
The principal activity of the Company is a holding company.
Business Review This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 which requires the Company to provide a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2010, including i a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the Groups business at the end of the financial year, and ii the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the business including a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group the Business Review.
The purpose of the Business Review is to enable the shareholders to assess how the Directors have performed in carrying out their duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006.
The information that fulfils the Business Review requirements can be found on the pages referred to below.
All the information detailed is incorporated by reference and deemed to form part of this Report.
Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 5 Chief Executives Review on pages 6 to 9 Key Performance Indicators on pages 10 to 11 Management of Principal Risks on pages 12 to 15 Review of Operations on pages 16 to 31 Financial Review on pages 32 to 34 Corporate Responsibility on pages 35 to 41 Cautionary forward-looking statement This Report contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause actual results to differ from any future results or developments expressed or implied from the forward-looking statement.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this Report.
The Company accepts no obligation to publicly revise or update these forward-looking statements or adjust them to future events or developments, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.
Results and dividends The accompanying financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 which were approved by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2011 are set out on pages 70 to 110.
The Company has paid the following dividends in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010: Per share Total p m Interim dividend paid 29 October 2010 3.00 6.2 The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 6.00p 2009: 5.08p per share be paid, making a total dividend distribution for the year of 9.00p 2009: 7.78p.
The final dividend, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 28 April 2011 to shareholders on the register at 15 April 2011.
Directors During the year ended 31 December 2010, the Board of Directors comprised: Jeff Harris Non-executive Chairman Mark Harper Chief Executive Steve Crummett Group Finance Director Paul Drechsler Senior Independent Non-executive Director Lars Emilson Non-executive Director Terry Twigger Non-executive Director The Company is adopting the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code June 2010 formerly the UK Combined Code in relation to Directors appointments and in particular the annual re-election of all Directors.
Therefore in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code all the Directors, except for Mark Harper, will retire at the AGM and being eligible offer themselves up for re-election.
As previously announced, Mark Harper will be retiring as a Director of the Company immediately following the AGM.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Colin Day will be appointed as a Director and the Chief Executive on 1 April 2011.
Colin will be standing for election at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Colin was previously the chief financial officer of Reckitt Benckiser plc from September 2000 to March 2011 having previously been the Group Finance Director of Aegis Group plc.
Colin is currently a non-executive director of WPP plc and AMEC plc.
None of the Non-executive Directors have service contracts.
In accordance with the Companys Conflict of Interests policy, Directors are required to review their potential conflict of interests at least on an annual basis and to notify any changes to the Company Secretary & General Counsel as soon as possible.
The current register was approved by the Board in June 2010 and no material conflict of interests were identified during the year.
At no time during the year has any Director had any material interest in a contract with the Group, being a contract of significance in relation to the Groups business.
A statement of Directors interests in shares of the Company is on page 61.
Share capital The issued share capital of the Company is shown in note 19 to the financial statements.
The concept of authorised share capital was abolished from 1 October 2009, following the implementation of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution was passed at the AGM held in April 2010 adopting new Articles of Association, which removed the limit created by the statement of authorised share capital and other references.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, and the provisions governing the appointment and replacement of, as well as the powers of, the Companys Directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company, except, in the case of transfers of securities: a certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and b whereby, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, certain employees of the Company require approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares No persons hold securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Substantial shareholders At the close of business on 23 February 2011, the Company was advised of the following voting rights attaching to Filtrona shares in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: % of total voting rights Prudential plc 7.56 Oppenheimer Funds 7.00 Schroders plc 5.57 Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.35 Newton Investment Management Limited 5.05 Cazenove Capital Management 4.99 JPMorgan Chase 4.84 Invesco Limited 4.79 Allianz SE 4.73 Legal and General Group 3.93 Ignis Asset Management 3.92 Hermes Specialist UK Focus Fund 3.88 BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 3.65 Property values In the opinion of the Directors, there was no significant difference between the market and book values of the property held by the Group, as shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2010.
Charitable and political contributions The Company made no political contributions during the year ended 31 December 2010 2009: nil.
Donations to UK charities amounted to 0.1m 2009: 0.1m, of which nil were made by the Company 2009: nil, with all contributions being made by its subsidiary companies.
