Remuneration Report REMUNERATION REPORT Introduction This report sets out information about the requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys remuneration of the Directors of the Company Listing Rules.
Part II of this report has been audited and the work of the Remuneration Committee for by  LLP in accordance the year ended 31 December 2010.
This report with the Regulations.
"has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies As required by the Regulations, this report will and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2008 the ""Regulations"" in line with the relevant Companys forthcoming annual general meeting."
Part 1 Unaudited Information Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee determine and agree with the Board the framework are Stuard Detmer Chairman, Ezio Bracco and or broad policy for the remuneration of the Groups Anne Belvze, all of whom are independent NonChief Executive Officer, the Executive Chairman, executive Directors.
the Company Secretary and such other members of senior management as it is designated to consider.
Terms of reference have been approved for the The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is a Remuneration Committee and its primary duty is to matter for the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: Assess and set compensation levels for Executive Directors and senior managers.
Review Executive Directors and senior managers share and other incentive plans prior to award.
Review compensation levels for Executive Directors and senior managers at least annually.
Make recommendations to the Board on matters relating to the remuneration and terms of employment of the Directors of the Company and on proposals for granting of share awards pursuant to any share awards plan in operation from time to time.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and external advisers may be invited to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee but do not take part in the decision making.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Companys website, www.
com Attendance at meetings of the Remuneration Committee by individual members is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 37.
28 Exillon Energy Remuneration Report Advisers The Remuneration Committee has not, to date, appointed any advisers to assist it in formulating the Groups remuneration policy as it has felt it is too early to do so.
Remuneration Policy Exillon Energys remuneration policy continues During 2010, the remuneration of the Groups to be developed with the intention of enabling senior executives consisted of basic salary, share the Group to attract, motivate and retain talented awards and benefits in kind.
executives to help drive the future growth and performance of the business.
As the remuneration policy is developed, it is expected to have the following objectives: To align executive and shareholder interests To link a proportion of remuneration to performance To provide competitive rewards assessed against the relevant market to attract, motivate and retain talented executives In determining Exillons remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee will take into account the particular business context of the Company, the geography of its operations, the relevant talent market for each executive and best practice guidelines set by institutional shareholder bodies.
"Employee Share Plan As outlined below, an Employee Share Plan is in period although the Participants will be entitled place for granting awards of shares ""Awards"" to to receive dividends paid by the Company in eligible employees including Executive Directors, respect of those Ordinary Shares prior to the date but excluding the Chairman."
"Share Plan specifies that the Remuneration Committee will determine those eligible Alternatively, awards may be in the form of employees to whom Awards are to be granted conditional share awards, being a conditional ""Participants"", and the number of Ordinary right to acquire Ordinary Shares for no payment, Shares comprised in each Award."
Awards that will vest subject to, and to the extent that, may be in the form of restricted shares, being performance criteria determined at the time of Ordinary Shares transferred to the Participant grant have been satisfied Conditional Share on grant subject to restrictions which will lapse Awards.
No payment will be required for the at the end of the vesting period, provided that grant of a Conditional Share Award.
"Participants the Participant is still in employment within will have no voting rights or rights to receive the Group ""Restricted Share Awards""."
No dividends in respect of the Conditional Share payment will be required for the grant of a Awards before such awards vest.
Restricted Share Award or for the transfer of shares comprising the Restricted Share Award.
During the year a total of 302,880 shares were The Participants will not be entitled to vote using granted to new employees joining the Group the Ordinary Shares subject to the Restricted in the form of Restricted Share Awards.
No Share Awards until after the end of the vesting Conditional Share Awards have been granted.
29 Remuneration Report Timing of Grant of Awards The Remuneration Committee may grant Awards at any time during the period of six weeks following the Companys announcement of its results for any period, or at such other time as the Remuneration Committee considers that exceptional circumstances exist which justify a grant.
Performance Measures Restricted Share Awards will be granted on the basis of the Remuneration Committees determination of the eligible employees performance over the previous year.
Vesting and Lapse of Awards A Restricted Share Award will vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, provided that the Participant is still employed within the Group on the date of vesting.
On vesting, the employment restriction attaching to the Ordinary Shares subject to the Restricted Share Award will lapse.
The Ordinary Shares comprised in any Restricted Share Award which does not vest will be forfeited.
Employee Benefit Trust Share awards under the Employee Share Plan are to acquire ordinary shares for the purpose of delivered through the Exillon Energy plc Employee satisfying awards that may be granted in future by Benefit Trust.
The Trust is administered by the the Company under the Employee Share Plan.
On Trustees, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, for the Listing the Trustees subscribed for 3,765,624 shares benefit of employees.
The Trustees have the power in the Company.
Admission Share Awards On Admission to the London Stock Exchange death, injury, disability, redundancy, the sale of in December 2009, nine employees including the business or company in which the employee one Director, Alessandro Manghi, were awarded is employed, or such other circumstances as the Ordinary Shares in the Company subject to Remuneration Committee considers appropriate in certain conditions.
The aggregate number of its discretion.
shares awarded to employees on Admission the Admission Shares constituted 1% of The employees will not be entitled to vote the the Companys share capital as of the date of Admission Shares until after the end of the Retention Admission.
The Admission Shares are subject to Period but will be entitled to receive dividends paid restrictions on sale and a forfeiture provision for by the Company in respect of the Admission Shares.
"a period of three years after grant the ""Retention Four of the nine employees left the Company within Period""."
An employee will forfeit his or her one year of the IPO, forfeiting their Admission Admission Shares in the event that his or her Shares.
Alessandro Manghi received 138,826 employment with the Group terminates during Ordinary Shares as Admission Shares.
the Retention Period, other than by reason of 30 Exillon Energy Remuneration Report Annual Bonus The Remuneration Committee may determine an annual bonus structure for Executive Directors which is appropriate for the business.
Such a structure may be developed in conjunction with modification of the Employee Share Plan.
Service agreements, notice periods and termination payments The Service Agreements for the Executive the Company terminates the employment of an Directors are for no fixed term and may in normal Executive Director by exercising its right to pay in circumstances be terminated by the Company lieu of notice, the Company is required to make giving three months notice and the Executive a payment equal to the aggregate of basic salary Directors twelve months notice, at any time.
and the cost to the Company of providing other The Company reserves the right and discretion contractual benefits for the unexpired portion of to pay an Executive Director in lieu of notice.
If the duration of any entitlement to notice The key terms of the Executive Directors service agreements are as follows: Name Position Date of contract Notice period Current salary p. a. Twelve months from the 10 December employee: three months Maksat Arip Chairman 2009 from the employer US$300,000 Twelve months from the Alessandro Chief Executive 10 December employee: three months Manghi Officer 2009 from the employer US$290,000 Benefits-in-Kind Under their service agreements, Mr Arip and Mr Manghi are entitled to medical, travel and related insurance and accommodation allowances in connection with work activities in accordance with the Companys policy on expenses.
Pensions The Group does not have a pension scheme that is open to all employees.
Social contributions are withheld from employees of Exillon TP and Exillon WS and are payable directly to local state funds.
None of the Directors is entitled to pension provision at the Companys expense.
Non-executive Directors The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors entitlement.
The Non-executive Directors do not consists of fees that are paid monthly in arrears.
have service contracts with the Company: however The Chairman and Non-executive Directors do not each has entered into a letter of appointment with participate in any long-term incentive or annual the Company.
bonus schemes, nor do they accrue any pension 31 Remuneration Report Non-executive Directors Letters of Appointment Anne Belvze, Ezio Bracco and Stuard Detmer the Director concerned may give less than three have each signed a letter of appointment with the months notice of termination of the appointment.
They have each been appointed for an initial period of three years and their appointments The Non-executive Directors fees have been set at will be renewed on a three-yearly basis, subject to a level to reflect the time commitment and level of re-election by the Company in a general meeting.
involvement that they are required to make in the Unless otherwise determined neither the Board nor activities of the Board and its committees.
The key terms of the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are as follows: Date of Director Appointment Notice Period Duration of term Fees p. a.
17 November Anne Belvze 2009 3 months 3 years 50,000 17 November Ezio Bracco 2009 3 months 3 years 50,000 [M Communications to prepare graph setting out the performance of the Companys share price since its Listing compared to the most appropriate indices for comparative purposes] 17 November Stuard Detmer 2009 3 months 3 years 50,000 External Appointments It is the Boards policy to allow the Executive No amounts were received in respect of external Directors to accept directorships of other quoted directorships during the period under review.
companies provided that they have obtained the consent of the Chairman of the Company.
Any such The Directors biographical details are set out on directorships must be formally notified to the Board.
Performance Review 280 Exillon Energy PLC: Comparative share price 260 development since 1 January 2010 240 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 01.01.1001.02.10 01.03.1001.04.10 01.05.1001.06.10  01.10.1001.11.10  01.03.1101.04.11 Exillon Energy FTSE 250 Index FTSE E&P Index 32 Exillon Energy Remuneration Report Part 2 Audited Information Directors remuneration for the period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 Salary, Annual Bonus and other benefits Salary BenefitsTotal Total US$ Fees in-Kind 2010 2009 Chairman Maksat Arip 300,000 534,308 834,308 34,961 Executive Director Alessandro Manghi 290,000 1,574 291,574 17,150 Non-Executive Directors Anne Belvze 77,146 - 77,146 9,955 Ezio Bracco 77,146 - 77,146 9,955 Stuard Detmer 77,146 - 77,146 9,955 Directors in prior years Shynar Dikhanbayeva - - - 68,888 Thomas Johnson - - - 32,455 Nurlan Assilbekov - - - 91,258 Total 821,438 535,882 1,357,320 274,577 For accommodation in Moscow and Dubai 33 Remuneration Report Directors interests in Ordinary Shares The interests of Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company during the year were as follows: 1 January 2010 31 December 2010 see note Maksat Arip 78,777,407 69,036,454 Anne Belvze - - Ezio Bracco - - Stuard Detmer - - Alessandro Manghi 138,826 138,826 restricted shares restricted shares Note On 25 June 2010 the Company placed new ordinary shares with institutional investors.
As part of the placing, the Companys Chairman and principal shareholder sold 9,740,953 ordinary shares in which he had a beneficial interest.
In March 2011, the Group placed 23,438,000 new ordinary shares to institutional investors in a private placing.
The price per share was 400 pence, resulting in proceeds to the Company of US$150.0 million.
As part of the placing, the Companys Chairman and principal shareholder sold an additional 20,313,000 ordinary shares at 400 pence.
Following the share placement in March 2011, the Companys Chairman and principal shareholder was left with a beneficial interest of 30.2% in the Companys outstanding issued share capital.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 21 April 2011.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
L. Stuard Detmer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 34
