Fidessa group plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued Directors remuneration report Introduction This report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders in accordance with the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined Code, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the reporting requirements of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
Consistent with previous years, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be presented for approval.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys members on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with s421 of the Companies Act 2006 together with the Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited information Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Ron Mackintosh, Philip Hardaker and Elizabeth Lake, all independent nonexecutive directors, the Chairman of the Committee being Ron Mackintosh.
None of the members of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than possibly as shareholders, conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships, or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration, other benefits and terms of employment, including performance-related bonus schemes and oversight of share incentive schemes, for the executive directors and senior management.
During the year, the Committee conducted a review of a number of external remuneration consultants and as a result it commissioned Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS to advise on the Groups remuneration philosophy, policies and structures and to review employee and senior executive share incentive plans and where appropriate to advise on replacements to ensure that they meet the needs of the Group going forward.
HNBS has not provided any other services to the Group during the year and the terms of its engagement are available on request.
The Committee is mindful of the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced in June 2010 and applying to financial years beginning on or after 29th June 2010.
The performance of the Remuneration Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process during the year and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Its terms of reference are available at www.
During the year the Committee met to discuss issues including the extent of vesting of the 2007 award under the Share Bonus Plan, the levels of remuneration and the remuneration structure for the senior management team, the annual grant of share incentives to employees and directors and the design of the proposed new share incentive plans.
Remuneration philosophy The Groups remuneration philosophy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the executive directors and senior management should be performance-related, so that management is clearly focused on the financial performance of the Group.
Remuneration comprises a relatively lower base salary and a higher bonus than comparative companies.
The Committee is focused on the issue of balancing risk and reward.
The remuneration philosophy requires long-term as well as short-term measurement for delivery, so as to avoid excessive short-term risk taking and to encourage consistent performance over multiple years.
As performance hurdles and measurement periods increase, the probability of an incentive vesting decreases and the Committee recognises that for these situations the potential rewards should be higher.
The Committee continually reviews the bonus and share incentive schemes to ensure they support the business strategy and do not reward inappropriate risk taking either in the shortor long-term.
Part of this review ensures that Fidessa group plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 the performance metrics, levels of awards and eligible participants remains appropriate.
The Committee considers how each element of the overall remuneration may negatively or positively influence an employees attitude towards excessive caution or risk.
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration of the executive directors and the Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee also recommends and monitors the quantum and structure of remuneration for other members of senior management.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee reviews the performance of the individual concerned and takes account of comparative market data from other companies in the IT sector.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the executive directors and senior managers should be rewarded fairly and competitively according to their performance and at a similar level to directors and senior managers in comparable companies at a level that will attract, motivate and retain individuals of an appropriate calibre to deliver value to shareholders.
This approach has been demonstrated to be successful when viewed in relation to the Groups overall performance.
The package of the directors and senior managers is reviewed on a regular basis and will generally contain the following elements: a base salary, performance-related bonus payments, other benefits and share based incentives.
The aim is that these elements combine to provide a balance over the short, medium and longer term for rewarding successful performance.
In deciding on the levels of remuneration for directors and senior managers, the comparative pay and employment conditions of employees across the Group are taken into account.
In particular, the Committee takes into account the level of salary increases across the wider workforce when deciding upon any increases in remuneration for the directors and senior management.
The Groups remuneration policy is aligned with Group strategy in that it is important to the Group to deliver value and strong growth for shareholders whilst managing the extent of risk.
For this reason as stated below, directors salaries are set at reasonable but below mid-market levels so that long-term incentive schemes and bonuses, focused on performance, close the gap and constitute a large percentage of the remuneration package.
Targets under long-term incentive plans have accordingly been based on growth in earnings per share, growth in TSR and on other business development goals.
Current remuneration structure Short-term Salary This provides certain receipt but at a relatively low level.
Bonus constitutes the higher value element of the short-term reward and is closely focused on successful performance.
Medium-term Share Bonus Plan 3 year vesting.
This provides limited reward at target levels similar to those in share schemes of many companies.
Long-term Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan Exceptional targets requiring continuous performance 5 year vesting, developed in extensive over the long-term and therefore providing higher consultation with shareholders.
reward if the targets are met.
Fidessa group plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued Basic salary Each executive directors basic salary is set at a below mid-market level.
It is reviewed annually taking into consideration the fact that it needs to be at a reasonable level so as to be compatible with the bonus and is based on business and individual performance, achievement of objectives, comparative salaries and periodic reviews from the Companys remuneration advisers.
During 2010 the Remuneration Committee took into account the uncertain market conditions and pay conditions elsewhere in the Group and, in seeking to ensure that remuneration policies remained appropriate, directors salaries for 2010 were frozen once again.
There is not expected to be any significant change in the directors salary structure during 2011.
Bonus The focus of remuneration for executive directors is rewarding for successful performance.
The first element of this is the annual bonus.
Chris Aspinwall is entitled to a cash bonus based on the Groups operating profit excluding any items that the Remuneration Committee considers to be exceptional or inappropriate.
The terms of the bonus are reviewed if there is a material acquisition in any period and it is subject to an upper limit of four times base salary.
This year it was calculated, as in previous years, using a flat percentage of the adjusted operating profit of the Group for the year.
This flat percentage is reviewed each year and counter balances the below mid-market base salary he earns and ensures that his short-term pay is competitive but only if the Group achieves a reasonable level of profit in the year.
Andy Malpass is entitled to a cash bonus but, in order to maintain his independence as Finance Director, it is not linked directly to the Groups operating profit but is instead measured against his performance against a series of financial and management objectives and is also subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
His bonus is capped at not more than 150% of base salary.
This year the objectives included cash management, financial reporting targets, further systems improvements and the restructuring of parts of the finance team.
Share based incentives Share based incentives are believed to be an important form of overall compensation when judiciously combined with other forms of remuneration.
Share based incentives are also key in aligning directors remuneration with the interests of shareholders.
The share incentive plans that the directors participate in, reward them for consistent performance in the mediumand long-term as well as providing limited reward for performance similar to that for the sector and more substantial reward for exceptional performance.
The details of these schemes are provided further down in this Directors Remuneration Report.
Other benefits Benefits are very limited as the Remuneration Committee strongly believes in focusing directors remuneration on types of remuneration that can be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Benefits provided include the provision of medical insurance and life assurance.
Directors do not participate in the Group defined contribution pension scheme nor do they receive any other pension provision.
Proposed remuneration structure Following the review by HNBS, the Remuneration Committee has proposed changes to the future policy and framework of annual and long-term incentive arrangements.
Part of the aim of the proposals is to encourage executives to invest some of their bonuses in direct shareholdings in the Company and the Committee has consulted with the ABI, RREV NAPF and the Companys major shareholders on the proposals.
The aim is to introduce: Fidessa group plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 conditional share awards for senior staff under a new performance share plan: a monthly share purchase and matching plan that will apply to the majority of employees in the Group: deferral of an element of annual bonuses through deferred shares for senior managers and executives: as a matter of policy, all executive directors and senior managers will be expected to retain a minimum shareholding in the Company: for Chris Aspinwall this will be at least equal in value to 200% of his salary and for Andy Malpass this will be at least equal in value to 150% of his salary.
The proposed share plans will be put to the shareholders for approval at the 2011 Annual General Meeting full details of which will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011.
The shares awarded pursuant to those share plans will be satisfied through a mixture of new issue and market purchases so that the maximum dilution of 10% in 10 years limit is adhered to.
This limit will operate from 1 January 2011 looking forward covering plans adopted at and after the Annual General Meeting and contingent with a maximum annual allocation which will not exceed 1.6% of total issued share capital.
Summaries of the plans are set out below.
Performance share plan This will be structured as an annual grant of conditional shares with a zero exercise price.
The vesting period will be four years from the date of grant.
These awards will vest based on the satisfaction of an earnings per share growth performance condition, which requires the cumulative four year adjusted basic earnings per share to be greater than the equivalent total achieved by applying the annual growth rates in the table below to the base earnings per share year preceding date of grant.
At the lower threshold, 25% of an award will vest with a straight-line scale to 100% vesting at the higher threshold.
Compound annual growth in EPS % of award vesting Less than 8% 0% 8% 25% Between 8% and 15% Between 25% and 100% Greater than 15% 100% The awards will have to be called for by an employee normally within three years of vesting thereby leaving a maximum seven years life from grant.
The Remuneration Committee will have ultimate discretion on the determination of a good leaver, although guidance is provided in the plan rules.
If the Remuneration Committee determines that a participant is a good leaver, awards will continue to run for the entire performance period but will be pro-rated according to the period elapsed from grant date to the date employment ceased.
A claw-back provision will be introduced into the plan for reasons of financial misstatement.
The duration of the plan will be 10 years with a review taking place after five years.
The Remuneration Committee will make a fixed annual allocation of shares to individuals.
For executives this will be equal to no more than shares with a value of 500,000 per annum per executive at the date of grant.
However, for 2011 it is not proposed that this will exceed 16,000 shares per executive.
The maximum number of shares available to any other individual will normally be limited to 5% of the maximum annual allocation.
Fidessa group plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued Change of control provisions will allow for time pro-rating of awards but with discretion for the Remuneration Committee to disapply if appropriate.
Monthly share purchase plan The monthly share purchase plan will follow principles similar to the UK tax approved Share Incentive Plan SIP and will apply to the majority of employees across multiple regions.
The SIP will continue to be operated in the UK with the monthly share purchase plan being used for any higher levels of monthly purchase.
Employees will be able to purchase up to a set value of shares each month into a trust.
There will be a small number of bands determining an individuals minimum and maximum limit of contribution per month.
Overseas employees will contribute in local currency equivalent.
The band that each employee falls into will be set prior to the start of the year and will then apply for the whole of the year.
Trust purchases of shares will take place once a month and after three years an equal number of matching free shares will be applied so long as there is continued employment throughout.
There will be no performance criteria attached to any of the matching shares, most of which will be purchased in the market and placed in the trust.
Deferred annual bonus In addition to the above schemes, it is proposed to introduce a deferred annual bonus scheme that will apply to a limited number of senior employees.
Under this scheme senior managers will in future receive a percentage of their annual bonus in the form of deferred shares instead of cash.
The shares will normally vest to the employee after three years subject only to continued employment with the Group through the period.
There will be good leaver rules so that the shares will vest early in defined circumstances.
The deferral period can be shorter or longer than three years which will enable the plan to be used to buy out existing entitlements for senior new recruits rather than paying them cash or the less flexible conditional performance share awards.
There will be no additional cash or accounting cost in respect of these shares as they will be a direct replacement of a cash bonus.
Subject to the implementation of the new share incentive structure, it is the intention of the Remuneration Committee to make no further awards under the Company Share Option Plan 2006 CSOP, Share Bonus Plan SBP and Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan EGRIP going forward and employees will instead be eligible to participate in the monthly share purchase and matching plan, deferred annual bonus and performance share plan as applicable.
Service contracts The contracts of service for Chris Aspinwall and Andy Malpass are for an indefinite term providing for 12 months notice by either party.
These contracts were entered into on 2nd June 1997 and amended on 3rd October 2003.
In the event of termination the director is eligible to salary, applicable bonus and benefits during the notice period and payable in equal monthly instalments subject to the director using reasonable endeavours to obtain suitable alternative employment.
The reason for the inclusion of bonus payments in the severance payment is that the Remuneration Committee believes that it would be inequitable to pay only salary and benefits to a director in the event of termination as a good leaver as these constitute a reasonably small percentage of total annual remuneration of the directors.
This is due to the below Fidessa group plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 mid-market level base salary payable to the directors.
However, the level of bonus that would be payable in such situations is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and would be based on the historic performance of the director during the portion of the bonus calculation period in which he had held office.
The contract of service for John Hamer was entered into on 2nd June 1997 and is for an indefinite term providing for six months notice by either party.
Philip Hardaker in February 2008 signed a new letter of appointment that provides for a further period of three years, subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
Philip Hardaker has been asked to serve for a further three year term commencing in 2011 and we are pleased to report that he has agreed to do so.
Ron Mackintosh signed a new letter of appointment during 2010 for a further term of three years, also subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
Elizabeth Lake signed a letter of appointment in October 2008 providing for a term of three years, subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
Non-executive fees The Board determines the non-executive directors fees.
The non-executive directors are not involved in decisions about their own remuneration.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are not eligible for performance-related remuneration or participation in share based incentives.
Non-executive directors receive a base fee of 36,000 per annum for membership of the Board and then a further 2,000 for membership of each of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee receive a further 5,000 each for the additional responsibility entailed in these roles.
Interests in contracts During the year no director had any interest in any contract of significance with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings other than the directors deeds of indemnity with the Company.
Total shareholder return performance graph The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 require the presentation of a performance graph of total shareholder return compared to a broad equity market index for a period of five years.
The total shareholder return is the share price plus dividends re-invested on the ex-dividend date over the period of the graph.
The Board believes that the TechMARK All-Share Index, of which Fidessa group plc is a constituent, provides the best benchmark for comparison.
The Company share price and the TechMARK All-Share Index are both set to 100 at the start of the five year period.
Total shareholder 300 return performance 250 200 150 100 50 Fidessa Jan 06 July 06 Jan 07 July 07 Jan 08 July 08 Jan 09 July 09 Jan 10 July 10 TechMARK All-share Source: Fidessa Fidessa group plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued Audited information Directors remuneration Details of the remuneration of the directors are set out below: Base fees & salaries Benefits Bonus Total Year ended 31st December 2010 000 000 000 000 Chairman John Hamer 135 1 136 Executive Chris Aspinwall 200 1 653 854 Andy Malpass 200 1 230 431 Non-executive Ron Mackintosh 45 45 Philip Hardaker 45 45 Elizabeth Lake 40 40 Total 665 3 883 1,551 Base fees & salaries Benefits Bonus Total Year ended 31st December 2009 000 000 000 000 Chairman John Hamer 135 1 136 Executive Chris Aspinwall 200 1 640 841 Andy Malpass 200 3 210 413 Non-executive Ron Mackintosh 45 45 Philip Hardaker 45 45 Elizabeth Lake 36 36 Total 661 5 850 1,516 Fidessa group plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors interests The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company, all of which were beneficial, were as follows: 31st December 31st December 2010 2009 Number Number John Hamer 15,579 353,522 Chris Aspinwall 38,680 736,649 Andy Malpass 56,545 102,560 Ron Mackintosh 10,000 10,000 Philip Hardaker 2,000 2,000 Elizabeth Lake Nil Nil Between 31st December 2010 and the date of this report the interests of John Hamer, Chris Aspinwall and Andy Malpass have each increased by 8 shares as a result of a regular monthly purchase by the Fidessa group plc Share Incentive Plan.
The share sales in 2010 were conducted to take advantage of the then existing tax legislation and each individuals position with respect to tax.
Provided circumstances permit, both John Hamer and Chris Aspinwall have stated that they intend to reinvest a proportion of the proceeds back into the shares of the Company in the future.
Share incentives The Company has share option schemes whereby employees of the Group are granted options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company subject to the vesting of their awards in accordance with the terms of the schemes.
The executive directors participated in the share option schemes up to 2000 but since then have been restricted from the grant of share options by their participation in the SBP and, since 2006, the EGRIP.
The interests of the directors in share options were as follows: At At 1st January Exercised 31st December 2010 in year 2010 Option price Vesting date Expiry date Andy Malpass 2,334 2,334 Nil 12.85 2003 and 2004 2010 The mid-market price of the shares in the Company at 31st December 2010 was 1550p 1175p at 31st December 2009 and the range in the year was 1210p to 1722p.
Total permitted dilution under the CSOP, further detail of which is set out further down in this report, is 8% during the life of the plan and at 31st December 2010, 4.1% of this had been used.
For the EGRIP total dilution under the life of the plan is 6% and the current potential dilution under existing awards is 5.5% and no further awards can now be made under this plan.
The levels of dilution under the CSOP and the EGRIP were put together in extensive consultation with shareholders before being approved by a large majority of the shareholders EGRIP 88% of votes cast and CSOP 89% of votes cast at the Extraordinary General Meeting held in February 2006.
There were four elements to the vesting of the award as follows: i.
The earnings per share element: this was satisfied in full and accordingly 25% of the award vested.
The business development element: this was satisfied in full and accordingly 25% of the award vested.
Continued employment element: this was satisfied and 25% of the award vested.
Total shareholder return element: this condition was only partially satisfied, due in part to market volatility during the measurement period, and the proportion of matching shares was 12.5%.
It is too early to estimate the potential vesting of other grants made under the Share Bonus Plan.
The first awards under the EGRIP are due to vest in 2011.
As at 31st December 2010 it is expected that there will be full vesting of the 2006 grant.
It is too early to estimate the potential vesting of other grants made under the EGRIP.
Share options Share options are granted on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee on a discretionary basis.
Grants of options under the Company Performance Related Share Option Plan were made between 1997 and 2005.
All grants of options from 2006 onwards have been from the CSOP.
Fidessa group plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Company Performance Related Share Option Plan This plan was introduced in 1997 on the float of the Company and the last grant was made in September 2005.
The vesting of share options granted under this plan was conditional on continued employment of three and four years after the grant of the option.
These share options were granted periodically, typically once each year to eligible employees.
The Company had shareholder approval under this plan for share options of up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital subsequent to the listing on the London Stock Exchange, and 5.8% was used.
At 31st December 2010 the outstanding share options under this scheme represented 0.8% of the issued share capital.
Company Share Option Plan 2006 Shareholders approved the implementation of the CSOP at the Extraordinary General Meeting in February 2006 with over 89% of the votes cast being in favour of the plan.
This plan superseded the Company Performance Related Share Option Plan.
All employees and full-time working directors of the Company or any subsidiary are eligible to receive options under the CSOP: however, an employee or full-time working director who has received an award under the EGRIP or SBP in any financial year will be ineligible to receive a CSOP option in that financial year.
Share options granted under this plan are subject to performance conditions set by the Board taking into account the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
In relation to grants made under the CSOP, the performance conditions relate to adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS growth and will be achieved in relation to an option if the Actual Cumulative EPS during the Measurement Period is greater than the Target Cumulative EPS during the Measurement Period.
The Actual Cumulative EPS during the Measurement Period is the sum of the EPS for each financial year of the Measurement Period.
The Target Cumulative EPS during the Measurement Period is the sum of the EPS figures obtained by increasing the Base Year EPS at the rate of 5% per annum for each financial year of the Measurement Period.
EPS under the scheme means the diluted earnings per share of the Company for any financial year before exceptional items being such items which the grantor determines to be exceptional in relation to any financial year and shall be calculated by reference to the Group Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial year ended immediately prior to the Date of Grant the Base Year EPS and those calculated from the four subsequent preliminary results announcements.
The Measurement Period is the period commencing at the beginning of the financial year in which an award is made and ending on the last day of the fourth consecutive financial year including the financial year in which that award was made.
The performance conditions can be waived or amended if the Board determines after consultation with the Remuneration Committee that a change of circumstances means that the performance conditions cannot be fairly and reasonably met.
On 8th September 2010 the first award under the CSOP, made in September 2006, vested in respect of employees still employed by the Group at the vesting date.
The Company has shareholder approval under this plan for share options of up to 8% of the issued share capital of the Company.
For the purpose of the 8% limit no account will be taken of rights to acquire shares which have been released, lapsed or otherwise become incapable of being exercised or of options or awards granted under any other Fidessa employee share scheme.
In addition, account will be taken of any shares which a trustee has a right to subscribe to satisfy options and of any treasury shares used, or to be used, to satisfy options or awards.
At 31st December 2010 the used and outstanding share options under the CSOP represented 4.1% of the issued share capital.
Share Bonus Plan At the 2003 Annual General Meeting shareholders approved the creation of the Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Plan.
In summary, the plan allows the Company to make awards to executive directors and senior managers a participant.
An award provides that, should a participant purchase ordinary shares in the Company up to the value of their award, Fidessa group plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued then they have the opportunity to receive a share bonus.
A share bonus constitutes the right, subject to certain vesting conditions, to call for free matching shares.
The maximum number of free matching shares comprised in a share bonus is equal to the number of shares purchased by the participant.
The maximum value of shares which any one participant is permitted to acquire is limited to the value of the award.
The plan rules limit the maximum value of individual awards to 100,000.
All awards made under the Share Bonus Plan are settled using market purchased shares.
For all awards from the Share Bonus Plan a participants right to a share bonus will vest subject to, and to the extent that, a combination of four performance conditions are satisfied as follows: the Company achieving compound annual growth in earnings per share in excess of defined hurdles over a period of three financial years, commencing with the financial year in respect of which an award is made.
In relation to awards made in any financial year, the specified hurdle rates are: i if compound annual growth in EPS is equal to or greater than UK retail price index RPI plus 3% but less than RPI plus 4% then 6.25% of the Share Bonus shall vest: ii if compound annual growth in EPS is equal to or greater than UK RPI plus 4% but less than RPI plus 5% then 12.5% of the Share Bonus shall vest: iii if compound annual growth in EPS equal to or greater than UK RPI plus 5% but less than RPI plus 6% then 18.75% of the Share Bonus shall vest: iv if compound annual growth in EPS equal to or greater than UK RPI plus 6% then 25% of the Share Bonus shall vest: the Company achieving an objective business development target.
The nature of this target will not, necessarily, be a measure of the financial performance of the Company and will be determined by the Remuneration Committee from time to time.
The specific target has varied for different awards: some have been focused on the share of overall volume for a particular market being traded through Fidessa software, some awards have been a growth measurement for an element of revenue and some awards have related to overall user numbers of Fidessa software.
If this condition is fully satisfied, then 25% of the Share Bonus will vest: the Company achieving compound annual growth in total shareholder return TSR, the share price plus the cumulative dividends reinvested, in excess of defined hurdles over a period of three years commencing with the year in respect of which an award has been made.
In relation to awards made the specified hurdle rates have been: i if compound annual growth in TSR is more than 3% but less than or equal to 5% then 6.25% of the Share Bonus shall vest: ii if compound annual growth in TSR is more than 5% but less than or equal to 7% then 12.5% of the Share Bonus shall vest: iii if compound annual growth in TSR is more than 7% but less than or equal to 9% then 18.75% of the Share Bonus shall vest: iv if compound annual growth in TSR is more than 9% then 25% of the Share Bonus shall vest: and continued employment within the Group until the third anniversary of the date on which the participant purchased the shares relating to a particular award.
If this condition is satisfied, then 25% of the Share Bonus shall vest.
The final continued employment performance condition is an overriding performance condition.
Therefore, it must be satisfied in order for any of the other performance conditions to be satisfied.
Fidessa group plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 In exceptional circumstances, where events occur which cause the Remuneration Committee to reasonably believe that some or all of the performance conditions relating to an award are no longer fair taking into account the original purpose of the performance condition s, then the Remuneration Committee may procure that a recommendation be made to the trustee of the plan for the relevant performance conditions to be amended or waived in such manner as the Remuneration Committee believes to be fair and reasonable provided that the amended performance condition is not easier or more difficult to achieve than the original performance condition was considered to be when it was first set.
Where a change of control event occurs prior to the vesting of a share bonus, the Remuneration Committee will take into account the amount of progress made by the Company towards achieving the performance conditions as at the time of the change of control, the extent and likelihood of the performance conditions being satisfied by the date on which the share bonus would have vested in the absence of the change of control event occurring and any other relevant factors which the Remuneration Committee considers, in its absolute discretion, to be relevant such as time elapsed since an award was made.
Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan In 2005 the Remuneration Committee and its external advisers reviewed the Companys share incentive schemes as a whole and as a result the EGRIP was formulated.
This was voted on by the shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company in February 2006, with over 88% of the votes cast approving the adoption of the plan.
All executive directors of the Company are eligible to receive awards under the EGRIP as are any employees of the Group selected by the Remuneration Committee.
However, an executive director or selected employee who has received an award under the CSOP in any financial year will be ineligible to receive an EGRIP award in that financial year.
An EGRIP award Award or Awards represents a right to acquire i. e. call for shares in the Company at the call price subject to the terms and conditions of the EGRIP.
Under the rules of the EGRIP, Awards may only be made in relation to the years ending 31st December 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010.
The first performance condition requires the average Company share price plus dividends reinvested over the five year period commencing on the date on which an Award is made calculated using the daily closing price on each trading day over the five years to be greater than the average derived if the share price were to increase on a uniform basis of 20% per annum compound growth over the same five year period.
The starting share price is the average share price plus dividends reinvested for the 12 months prior to the date on which the Award is made.
The second performance condition requires the Companys cumulative diluted EPS before any items which are deemed to be exceptional over the five financial years commencing with the financial year in which an Award is made to be greater than the equivalent total achieved over a five year period by applying a growth rate of 10% per annum to the EPS achieved in the year prior to the Award.
The third performance condition requires the Companys annualised TSR over the five year period commencing on an Award date to be greater than the annualised equivalent achieved by the FTSE TechMARK All-Share Index, during the same five year period, plus 5%.
For all Awards made the call price of a share is the nominal value of a share, i. e. 10 pence.
The maximum number of shares subject to Awards made to any one participant in a year is limited to 15% of the maximum share allocation for that year.
Fidessa group plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report continued The share allocation for each year has been: Year Allocation Awards made 2006 1.6% of the issued share capital of the Company 523,512 2007 1.4% of the issued share capital of the Company 483,940 2008 1.2% of the issued share capital of the Company 415,400 2009 1.0% of the issued share capital of the Company 357,250 2010 0.8% of the issued share capital of the Company 288,000 If a participant ceases to be an employee of the Group prior to the end of the period over which the performance conditions are measured in relation to any of his subsisting Awards, those Awards will lapse upon such cessation.
However, where a participant ceases to be an employee after the end of the period over which the performance conditions are measured in relation to any of his subsisting Awards, those Awards will not lapse and will continue to subsist under the terms and conditions of the EGRIP.
If a change of control of the Company occurs including a takeover, scheme of arrangement or voluntary winding-up of the Company subsisting unvested Awards will become vested subject to the satisfaction of modified performance conditions which take into account the period of time which has elapsed since the relevant date of Award and the Companys performance up to the time of the change of control.
The extent to which Awards vest will be pro-rated to reflect the time that has elapsed from the date of the Award to the date on which a change of control event occurs.
All vested Awards will become exercisable within specified periods of time following the relevant change of control event.
ESG The Remuneration Committee considers corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues ESG issues when setting remuneration of executive directors.
It has endeavoured to ensure that the incentive structure for senior management is appropriate in that it does not raise ESG issues or risks by motivating excessive risk taking or other irresponsible behaviour and does not provide for reward in the event of failure both at Board level and senior management level.
Approval This report was approved by the Board on 11th February 2011 and signed on its behalf by: Ron Mackintosh Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
