62 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors remuneration report at 31 December 2010 This report, prepared on behalf of and approved by the board, provides details of the remuneration of each of the directors and sets out the companys remuneration policies for the current fi financial year and, subject to ongoing review, for subsequent fi financial years.
The report will be put to the companys Annual General Meeting for approval by the shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee met six times during the period under review.
The members of the committee, all of whom are considered tobeindependent, are Lord Condon chairman, Mark Elliott, Bo Lerenius, Mark Seligman and Clare Spottiswoode.
Ms Spottiswoode was appointed tothecommittee on 14 June 2010.
The committee is responsible for setting all aspects of the remuneration of the chairman, the executive directors, theeight other members of the group executive committee and the company secretary.
It is also responsible for the operation of the companys share plans.
Its terms of reference are available on the companys website.
1 During the year, the committee received advice from Towers Watson UK Limited Towers Watson as the committees appointed advisors on executive andsenior management remuneration matters.
Towers Watson has also provided management remuneration information and retirement benefi ts advice tothe company during the period under review.
In this regard, the committee is satisfi ed that any potential confl icts are managed appropriately.
Their terms 1 of appointment are available on the companys website.
In addition Alithos Limited Alithos has been appointed by the committee to verify the calculation of certain elements of payments due under the companys performance share plan.
Alithos has not provided any other services to the company during the period under review.
Nick Buckles, chief executive, provided guidance to the committee on remuneration packages for senior executives within the group.
Further guidance was received from the groups HR director, Irene Cowden.
Neither Mr Buckles nor Mrs Cowden participated in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Remuneration policy The policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and the executive management team aims to achieve: k the ability to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives: k a strong link between executive reward and the groups performance: k alignment of the interests of the executives and the shareholders: and k provision of incentive arrangements which focus appropriately on both annual and longer-term performance.
In terms of market positioning, the overall objective is to achieve remuneration levels which provide a market competitive base salary with the opportunity to earn above market norms through the companys incentive schemes on the delivery of superior performance.
Asignifi cant proportion of total remuneration is therefore related to performance, through participation in both short-term and long-term incentive schemes.
On average, the performance-related element of remuneration for executive directors amounts to around 50% of the total package for target performance and around 65% of the total package for stretch performance.
The committee believes that the current balance is appropriate given its desire to ensure a strong link between performance and remuneration whilst, at the same time, avoiding a system which might incentivise inappropriate risk-taking.
The balance between long and short-term incentives, and between basic salary and performance-related bonuses, is therefore kept under close review, but the committee is satisfi ed that the existing long-term incentive scheme, allied to the claw back processes and minimum shareholding requirements which were introduced last year, provide suitable controls and incentives which are designed to avoid rewarding excessive risk taking or behaviour aimed at short term, unsustainable gains.
The committee does not anticipate any change to this policy in 2011.
Target performance Stretch performance Q Base salary Q Base salary Q Annual bonus Q Annual bonus Q Long-term incentive Q Long-term incentive The committee is also satisfi ed that the incentive structure for the board does not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Bonus payments do not form part of salary for pension purposes.
1 Towers Watson and Alithos have each given, and not withdrawn, their written consent to the issue of this document with the inclusion of the reference to their respective names in the form and content in which they appear.
Copies of the consent letters are available for inspection at the companys registered offi ce.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 63 Elements of remuneration a Base salary and benefi ts The salaries of the executive directors are reviewed with effect from 1 January each year.
Interim salary reviews may be carried out following signifi cant changes in responsibility.
The salaries take account of a benchmarking exercise based on similarly sized companies with a signifi cant part of their business overseas and also refl ect responsibility, individual performance, internal relativities and salary and other market information supplied by Towers Watson.
Benefi ts include pension arrangements and the provision of a company car or a cash allowance in lieu of a car, health insurance and life assurance.
Basesalaries for the executive directors have trailed competitive mid-market norms for some time and were frozen in 2009 and again in 2010 in view of the wider economic environment.
As indicated in last years report, this position was not consistent with the companys long-standing competitive market remuneration policy.
Having carefully taken into consideration the pay and employment conditions across the group as well as the commercial needs of the business, the committee has decided to increase base salaries in 2011 for Messrs Buckles, and Dighton to 830,000 and 510,000 respectively and for MrGibson to $917,112 and 53,444.
The impact of these changes is to align total remuneration for executive directors more closely with the committees overall remuneration policy.
b Performance-related bonus scheme For the year under review, the executive directors participated in an annual performance-related bonus scheme, payments under which were dependent on the attainment of defi ned PBTA profi t before tax and amortisation targets of the group, adjusted for the effect of any exceptional items and discontinued operations and using constant exchange rates.
The committee believes that PBTA best refl ects the various key drivers of business success within the group.
The maximum bonus entitlement for the executive directors is an amount equal to 125% of base salary 150% in the case of the chief executive.
60% of maximum bonus entitlement was payable on achievement of the budgeted target and the amount of bonus increased on a straight-line basis up to 100% of maximum bonus entitlement for achievement of a stretch profi t target.
Any bonus due above 50% of the individuals maximum bonus entitlement would be awarded as deferred shares which would not vest for three years.
For achievement of a threshold level of profi ts which is at least 95% of thebudgeted profi t target, a bonus payment of 35% of maximum bonus entitlement was due, with no bonus payable for performance below threshold.
For achievement between the 95% threshold and on-target performance, the level of bonus payable increases on a straight-line basis.
A claw back provision applies under which any deferred awards under the scheme can be clawed back if the years profi t fi gures are restated materially in line with a recommendation by the Audit Committee within two years of the year end.
The group performed well in 2010 in what were again very diffi cult economic conditions, PBTA increased by 23m 17m at 2009 constant exchange rates exceeding the threshold of 411.9m, but falling below the target which was 433.6m.
The committee has therefore agreed that the resulting bonus payment will be at 52.95% of maximum bonus entitlement.
The PBTA target used for the above scheme is the same as the companys budgeted PBTA for the corresponding period assuming constant exchange rates.
The PBTA target is adjusted for any material, non-budgeted changes which take place during the year, such as acquisitions, disposals etc.
Thus, for example, should a planned disposal not be completed by the year end, the committee reserves the right to reinsert the operating profi t or loss forthe business in question in the actual and budgeted PBTA targets.
For 2011 only, the maximum bonus entitlement will remain unchanged, although threshold and budgeted target bonus opportunity will be equivalent to 50% and 75% respectively of maximum bonus entitlement.
c Performance Share Plan long-term incentive plan The Performance Share Plan PSP was introduced in July 2004.
Under the PSP, the executive directors and certain other senior executives receive conditional allocations of the companys shares which are released to them only on the achievement of demanding performance targets.
The maximum annual award of shares payable under the PSP is two and a half times base salary.
The annual award approved by the committee for the year under review is two times base salary for the chief executive, one and a half times base salary for the other executive directors and one times salary for senior executives below board level.
The extent to which allocations of shares under the PSP vest is determined, as to two-thirds of the award, by the companys normalised earnings per share EPS growth relative to the UK retail prices index UK RPI over a single three-year period and, as to the remaining third of the award, by the companys ranking by reference to TSR total shareholder return: being share price growth plus dividends paid using a bespoke global group of 16 support services companies as a comparator group, again over a single three-year period.
The following targets apply to two-thirds of awards, with the three-year EPS period ending on 31 December in the third year sofortheyear under review, the period ends on 31 December 2012 : Average annual growth in EPS Proportion of allocation vesting Less than RPI 6% per annum Nil RPI 6% per annum 18% over three years 25% RPI 611% per annum Pro-rata between 25% and 100% RPI 11% per annum 33% over three years 100% In respect of awards made from March 2011 onwards, the infl ation measure applied to EPS will be CPI weighted according to the groups geographical revenue sources and the lower end of the range will be plus 4% per annum rather than the existing plus 6% per annum.
The following targets apply to the remaining one third of each award granted: Ranking of the company against the bespoke comparator group by reference to TSR Proportion of allocation vesting Below median Nil Median 25% Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata between 25% and 100% Upper quartile 100% In addition, participants in the PSP will receive a further share award with a value equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid in respect of future PSP awards vesting at the end of the performance period.
Furthermore, there will only be a transfer of shares under the fi final third if the Remuneration Committee is satisfi ed that such a transfer isrefl ective of the companys underlying performance.
Shareholder information Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview 64 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors remuneration report continued Elements of remuneration continued c Performance Share Plan long-term incentive plan continued The committee believes that a combination of EPS growth and TSR targets is the most appropriate performance measure for the performance share plan, asit provides a transparent method of assessing the companys performance, both in terms ofunderlying fi financial performance and returns to shareholders.
The company calculates whether the EPS performance targets have been achieved byreference to the companys audited accounts which provide an accessible and objective measure of the companys earnings per share, whilst TSR ranking is determined by Towers Watson whose fi findings are verifi ed by Alithos.
Awards will not normally vest where an employee ceases to be employed within the group unless cessation of employment is due to death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or following a change of control of, or sale outside the group of, his or her employing company.
In these situations, vesting will occur inthe normal course and the performance targets will need to be satisfi ed.
Such awards would be pro-rated relative to 36 months, based on the number ofmonths which have elapsed from the award date to the date of leaving, rounded up to the next month.
The committee does however retain the ability toallow for a greater award to vest if it considers it to be appropriate in exceptional circumstances.
Following a review of the vesting conditions by the committee in the year, PSP awards from March 2011 will include an infl ation measure applied to EPS based on consumer price indices CPIs weighted according to the groups geographical revenue sources rather than UK RPI.
The committee believes this approach more accurately refl ects the global profi le of the group.
The EPS range will be international CPI plus 4% per annum to 11% per annum which the committee believes is required to maintain an appropriate degree of challenge and stretch in the plan in light of the companys future prospects in a challenging economic climate.
The TSR comparator group will also be expanded to 17 companies in respect of awards made from March 2011 onwards.
The companys current policy is to use market purchased shares to satisfy performance share plan awards.
The Remuneration Committee believes that continued shareholding by executive directors will strengthen the alignment of their interests with shareholders interests.
Accordingly, a formal policy has been adopted under which executive directors are required to retain 50% of after-tax PSP vestings until a total shareholding equal to 100% of base salary 150% for the chief executive is achieved.
Fees, service contracts and letters of appointment The chairmans annual fee is 270,000.
The annual fee for the non-executive directors, which is set by the chairman and the executive directors, is 54,100, with a further 44,550 for the role of deputy chairman, 16,700 for the chairmanship of each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and 10,000 forthe role of senior independent director.
No other fees are paid for membership of the board committees.
These fees are subject to periodic review which takes into account comparative fee levels in other groups of a similar size and the anticipated time commitment for the non-executive directors.
The service contracts of those who served as executive directors during the period are dated as follows: Nick Buckles 2 June 2004 Trevor Dighton 2 June 2004 Grahame Gibson 6 December 2006 The contracts of Messrs Buckles, Dighton and Gibson are terminable by the company on 12 months notice.
The contracts are terminable by the executive directors on 12 months notice.
There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation payable upon early termination, but the company reserves theright to pay salary in lieu of notice.
The directors contracts do not provide for the payment of a guaranteed bonus in the event of termination.
Itisthecompanys policy that it should be able to terminate service contracts of executive directors on no more than 12 months notice and that payments for termination of contract are restricted to the value of salary and other contractual entitlements for the notice period.
The Remuneration Committee would consider the application of mitigation obligations in relation to any termination payments.
The committee issatisfi ed that the current arrangements are appropriate and in line with best practice.
The chairman and the other non-executive directors do not have service contracts but letters of appointment.
Ms Spottiswoodes and Ms Foks two-year terms of appointment began on 14 June 2010 and 1 October 2010 respectively.
Mr Elliott and Mr Seligman have each been granted two-year extensions totheir terms of appointment.
Those extensions began respectively on 1 September 2009 and 1 January 2011.
The other non-executive directors have eachbeen granted two-year extensions to their letters of appointment, such extensions having begun on 19 May 2010.
All continuing directors are required tostand for re-election by the shareholders at least once every three years, although they have agreed to submit themselves for re-election annually inaccordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It is the companys policy that executive directors may each hold not more than one external non-executive appointment and may retain any associated fees.
Mr Buckles was a non-executive director of Arriva plc until 27 August 2010 for which he received fees of 52,500 in the year ended 31 December 2010.
Neither of the other executive directors currently holds an external non-executive appointment.
Performance graph This performance graph shows the total cumulative shareholder return of 220 thecompany over the fi five years to the end of December 2010, based on a G4S plc FTSE 100 Index Peer group hypothetical shareholding worth 100, compared with the return achieved 200 bythe FTSE 100 constituent companies over the same period.
Thedirectors believe this to be an appropriate form of broad equity market index against 180 which to base a comparison given the size and geographic coverage ofthecompany and the fact that the company is itself a member ofthe 160 FTSE100.
The graph also compares the companys performance over the same period with the bespoke group of companies which is used now for 140 comparative total shareholder return purposes in the companys performance share plan.
The values attributable to the bespoke comparator group 120 companies have been weighted in accordance with the market capitalisation ofthe companies calculated at spot exchange rates as at eachyear end.
100 The peer group currently comprises: Atkins, Brambles, Brinks, Bunzl, Capita, Compass, Garda, G4S, Hays, MITIE, Prosegur, Rentokil Initial, Rexam, Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Securitas, Serco and Sodexo.
The benefi ts paid to directors included the provision of a company car or a cash allowance in lieu thereof, private medical insurance, income protection on long-term disability, life assurance, pensions advice and, in Mr Gibsons case, certain housing costs.
Any bonus due above 50% of the individuals maximum entitlement 150% of base salary for Mr Buckles and 125% for Messrs Dighton and Gibson will be awarded as deferred G4S shares.
The number of shares which will be awarded will be the amount of bonus in question divided by the average of the closing prices of the companys ordinary shares over the three days immediately following the date of the companys preliminary results announcement on 15 March 2011.
The company paid air fares amounting to US$ 22,592 for fl ights between the UK and the USA for Mr Gibsons wife and children.
This sum is taxable in the USA and not included in the fi gures above.
Mr Gibson receives part of his salary in sterling and part in US$.
The US$ element has been translated into sterling for the purposes of his salary at the exchange rates prevailing in each month in which Mr Gibson was paid.
The annual base salaries of the executive directors and the annual fees of the non-executive directors at 31 December 2010 were: Executive directors Nick Buckles 761,400 Trevor Dighton 475,240 Grahame Gibson 51,887 & $890,400 Non-executive directors Alf Duch-Pedersen chairman 270,000 Lord Condon 125,350 Mark Elliott 54,100 Winnie Fok 54,100 Thorleif Krarup retired 31 January 2011 54,100 Bo Lerenius 54,100 Mark Seligman 70,800 Clare Spottiswoode 54,100 Directors interests in Performance Share Plan Shares awarded Market price conditionally Date of at date Vesting 2007 At 31.12.09 during year award of award date awards At 31.12.10 Nick Buckles 1,987,612 587,500 22.03.10 261.90 p 22.03.13 483,250 2,091,862 Trevor Dighton 1,002,877 275,023 298,860 979,040 Grahame Gibson 1,107,298 301,117 336,480 1,071,935 Shareholder information Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview 66 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors remuneration report continued Directors interests in Performance Share Plan continued The conditions subject to which allocations of shares vest under this plan are described under c Performance Share Plan on pages 63 and 64.
During the year under review the following performance share plan awards vested: Nick Buckles 483,250 shares gross 100% vested: 414,446 shares released after tax and NIC Trevor Dighton 298,860 shares gross 100% vested: 256,309 shares released after tax and NIC Grahame Gibson 336,480 shares gross 100% vested: 259,019 shares released after tax, NIC etc The market price at date of award 6 June 2007 was 212.50p per share, Messrs Buckles and Dighton paid the tax liabilities associated with the EPS portion oftheir awards in cash at the time of the accelerated vesting of those awards on 23 March 2010 and so did not rely on the sale of part of their award to fundthat liability.
The TSR portion of their awards, and all of Mr Gibsons award, vested on 7 June 2010 and shares were sold to meet PAYE liabilities arising therefrom.
The market prices at these vesting dates 23 March 2010 and 7 June 2010 were 263.20p and 266.50p per share respectively.
Directors interests in shares of G4S plc unaudited including awards of deferred shares but excluding shares awarded conditionally under the performance share plan as shown above At 31.12.10 At 31.12.09 Nick Buckles 2,083,147 1,602,194 Lord Condon 2,029 2,029 Trevor Dighton 1,339,558 1,052,061 Alf Duch-Pedersen 128,560 128,560 Mark Elliott 25,000 25,000 Winnie Fok 20,000 Grahame Gibson 868,033 927,382 Thorleif Krarup retired 31 January 2011 3,206 3,206 Bo Lerenius 16,000 16,000 Mark Seligman 75,496 50,496 Clare Spottiswoode All interests shown above are benefi cial.
There have been no changes in the directors holdings since 31 December 2010.
As at 31 December 2010, each of Nick Buckles, Trevor Dighton and Grahame Gibson also had a deemed interest in 5,029,315 ordinary shares held intheG4S Employee Benefi t Trust.
Directors pension entitlements For the period under review, both Nick Buckles and Trevor Dighton participated in non-contributory categories of the groups defi ned benefi t pension schemes with a normal retirement age of 60.
Mr Dighton accrued pension at a rate of 1 30ths and Mr Buckles accrued pension at a rate of 1 52ths of their fi final pensionable salaries.
Their rates of accrual have not changed in the time since they joined the Scheme.
An actuarial reduction is applied to pensions payable before normal retirement age.
Pension can continue to accrue at the same rates beyond normal retirement age.
For death before retirement a capital sum equal to four times pensionable salary is payable, together with a spouses pension of 50% of the members prospective pension at the age of 60 plus a return of any contributions paid prior to the admission to the non-contributory category.
For death in retirement, a spouses pension of 50% of the members pre-commutation pension is payable.
Post retirement pension increases are payable at the rate of 5% per annum in respect of pension earned up to 31 December 1994 and in line with theincrease in the Retail Prices Index subject to a maximum of 5% per annum in respect of pension earned after that date.
With effect from 6 April 2006, Mr Gibson opted for enhanced protection and receives a salary supplement in lieu of pension of 40% of his basic salary.
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as follows during the 12 months ended 31 December 2010 all fi gures are in 000s : Increase in Value of net Total change Transfer value Transfer value Gross increase accrued pension Total accrued increase in in transfer of accrued of accrued in accrued net of pension at accrual over value during pension at pension at 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 pension infl ation 31 12 10 period period 31 12 10 31 12 09 Nick Buckles 15 4 361 69 852 7,106 6,255 Trevor Dighton 16 13 115 305 378 2,742 2,364 Grahame Gibson 7 230 125 357 4,041 3,684 Notes i Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year with the exception of Mr Gibson whose accrual ended on 5 April 2006. ii Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the current transfer value basis adopted by the trustees of the G4S Pension Scheme.
iii The value of net increase 4 represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service terminated at the year-end.
It is based ontheincrease in accrued pension 2 with the exception of Mr Gibson whose accrual ended on 5 April 2006. iv Mr Gibson receives a salary supplement in lieu of pension of 40% of his base salary.
Lord Condon Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 14 March 2011 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect ofthe annual report and the fi financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group and parent company fi financial statements in accordance with applicable law andregulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company fi financial statements for each fi financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group fi financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company fi financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the directors must not approve the fi financial statements unless they are satisfi ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profi t or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent company fi financial statements, the directors are required to: k select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: k make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: k for the group fi financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: k for the parent company fi financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company fi financial statements: and k prepare the fi financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suffi cient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the fi financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its fi financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and fi financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of fi financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors Responsibility Statement Each of the directors, the names of whom are set out on pages 52 and 53 of this annual report confi rm that, to the best of his or her knowledge: the fi financial statements in this annual report have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, fi financial position and profi t of the company and the group taken as a whole: and the directors report, including the Business Review on pages 10 to51, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
The statement of directors responsibilities was approved by a duly authorised committee of the board of directors on 14 March 2011 and signed on its behalf by Trevor Dighton, Chief fi financial offi cer.
Trevor Dighton Chief fi financial offi cer 14 March 2011 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
