Genus plc Annual Report 2010 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 2 25 5 Corporate Governance & Financial Statements 25 Corporate 41 Financial Governance Statements 26 Directors Report 41 Independent Auditors 29 Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statement Statements 33 Audit Committee Report 42 Group Income Statement 35 Directors Remuneration 43 Group Statement of Report Comprehensive Income 40 Directors Responsibilities 44 Group Statement of Statement Changes in Equity 45 Group Balance Sheet 46 Group Statement of Cash Flows 47 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 85 Independent Auditors Report Parent Company Financial Statements 86 Parent Company Financial Statements 87 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 96 Five Year Record Consolidated Results 97 Notice of Annual General Meeting Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 26 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate Governance Directors Report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors report, for the year ended 30 June 2010.
Principal Activities The principal activities of the Group comprise the global application of quantitative genetics and biotechnology to animal breeding in the bovine and porcine sectors.
The principal subsidiary and associated undertakings are listed in note 38 to the financial statements.
Business Review A review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 30 June 2010, the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group can be found within the Business Review on page 21.
The Business Review also includes details of expected future developments in the business of the Group, an indication of its activities in the field of research and development and details of the key performance indicators used by management, together with details of the Companys approach to corporate responsibility.
The Business Review also contains a description of treasury policies and financial instruments used by the Group, which should be read in conjunction with note 27 to the financial statements.
Dividends The Directors are pleased to recommend the payment of a dividend of 12.1 pence per ordinary share payable on 7 January 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 December 2010.
Directors The Directors, who served throughout the year and to the date of signing of this report were as follows: John Hawkins Non-Executive Chairman Richard Wood Chief Executive John Worby Group Finance Director Nigel Turner Senior Non-Executive Director Mike Buzzacott Non-Executive Director Barry Furr Non-Executive Director In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all Directors of the Company will offer themselves for annual re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Board considers that all Directors make an effective and valuable contribution to the Board and demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
Biographical details on the Directors of the Company can be found on page 24.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Matters Reserved for the Board, copies of which are available on request, and the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 29 to 32.
Directors Interests The Directors who held office at 30 June 2010 had the following interests in the shares of the Company: At At 30 June 30 June 2010 2009 No No John Hawkins 5,100 5,100 Richard Wood 60,856 60,566 John Worby 10,000 10,000 Nigel Turner 15,000 15,000 Mike Buzzacott 2,000 1,000 Barry Furr 8,000 8,000 Total 100,956 99,666 No changes took place in the interests of Directors between 30 June 2010 and the date of this report.
Directors Share Options and Share Awards Details of Directors share options and share awards are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 39.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 27 Supplier Payment Policy The Companys policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment.
Trade creditors of the Group at 30 June 2010 were equivalent to 29 days purchases 2009: 26 days, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Charitable and Political Contributions During the year the Group made no charitable donations 2009: nil.
Capital Structure Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 32.
The Company has one class of ordinary share.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions either on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
Details of the Companys employee share schemes are set out in note 31.
In connection with these schemes, the Genus plc Employee Benefit Trust holds shares in the Company from time to time and abstains from voting in respect of any such shares held.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 3 September 2010, the following material interests in the Companys issued ordinary share capital were held: Lansdowne Partners 13.95%, NFU Mutual 10.17%, Baillie Gifford 9.46%, Franklin Templeton 7.97%, Legal & General Investment Management 4.49% and Scottish Widows 3.13%.
No other person has notified an interest in the ordinary shares of the Company which is required to be disclosed to the Company.
Acquisition of the Companys Own Shares At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under the shareholders resolutions of 12 November 2009, until the earlier of 18 months after the passing of such resolutions or the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting, to buy back shares on the open market to a limit of 595,252 in nominal value, representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the resolution at a price between 10 pence exclusive of expenses and 105% of the average of the middle market quotation for ordinary shares in the Company for the five business days prior to the date of purchase exclusive of expenses.
No shares were bought back by the Company in the period since 12 November 2009 and the date of this report.
Corporate Governance The Companys Corporate Governance Statement is set out on pages 29 to 32 and forms part of this Directors Report.
Corporate Social Responsibility Details of the Companys approach to corporate social responsibility are contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Business Review on pages 22 and 23.
Ordinary and Special Business at the Annual General Meeting At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 November 2010 resolutions 1 to 10 are termed ordinary business, while resolutions 11 to 13 will be special business.
The ordinary business includes: approval of the Companys audited financial statements and directors and auditors reports for the year ended 30 June 2010 resolution 1 approval of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2010 resolution 2 declaration of a final dividend of 12.1 pence per ordinary share resolution 3 re-election of Directors in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code resolutions 4 to 8 re-appointment of the Companys auditors and the agreement of their remuneration resolution 9 grant of authority to the Directors to allot authorised and unissued ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,631,086 without having to obtain prior approval from shareholders on each occasion resolution 10 The special business covers the following matters: partial dis-application of pre-emption rights attaching to the Companys shares resolution 11 renewal of the Companys authority to buy back the Companys shares resolution 12 the ability to convene general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 days notice resolution 13 The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 97 to 100.
The passing of resolution 10, as an ordinary resolution, will permit the Directors for a period expiring at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting to allot relevant securities up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 1,631,086 being 16,310,865 ordinary shares of 10 pence each representing 27% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 30 June 2010.
The Directors do not have an intention to exercise this authority at the present time.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
The passing of resolution 11, a special resolution, will permit the Directors for a period expiring at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting to make issues of equity securities for cash by way of rights issue or similar pre-emptive offer.
In addition, they may issue equity securities for cash on a non pre-emptive basis, provided the shares so issued are limited to shares with a nominal value of 298,392 being 5% of the equity share capital in issue as at the date of the notice.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 28 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued The passing of resolution 12, a special resolution, will permit the Directors, until the earlier of 18 months after its passing or the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting to buy back shares on the open market to a limit of 596,785 in nominal value, representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the notice.
The minimum price payable per share will be 10 pence exclusive of expenses and the maximum will be the higher of a 105% of the average of the middle market quotation for ordinary shares in the Company for the five business days prior to the date of purchase: and b the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 exclusive of expenses.
The passing of resolution 13, a special resolution, will allow the Company to call a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting, on not less than 14 clear days notice subject to certain conditions being satisfied as required by section 307A Companies Act 2006.
The annual passing of this resolution will allow the Company to continue to call general meetings on 14 clear days notice following the implementation of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 that requires all general meetings of the Company to be held on 21 days notice unless such a resolution is passed.
In the opinion of the Directors, the passing of these resolutions is in the best interests of the shareholders.
The directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the proposed resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Going Concern As described more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 40, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Provision of Information to the Companys Auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 Companies Act 2006.
Appointment of Auditors Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Belvedere House Basing View Basingstoke RG21 4HG By order of the Board Ian Farrelly Group Company Secretary & General Counsel 6 September 2010 Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 29 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code Genus is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
Throughout the year ended 30 June 2010, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in section 1 of the June 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
This Statement together with the Audit Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 39 describe how the Company has applied the principles of corporate governance as set out in the Code.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees The Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and currently comprises two Executive Directors, the Non-Executive Chairman and three other Non-Executive Directors.
Biographies of the Directors appear on page 24.
The Board considers that the Directors have a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring effective judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resourcing and standards of conduct which are vital to the success of the Group.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent.
The Board met six times in the period of this report and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval including setting and monitoring Group strategy, reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining major capital expenditure projects and acquisition possibilities, approval of material contracts, formulating policy on key issues and reporting to shareholders.
Additional Board meetings can be held if necessary to consider matters that are time critical.
The Board delegates authority to the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Chief Operating Officers and their regional management teams to make day-to-day operating decisions to ensure the proper management of the Groups business and implementation of the Boards approved strategy.
In turn, they recommend strategy and plans to the Board, make routine decisions on resources and ensure that robust operational and financial controls are in place.
Members of the regional management teams are invited on a regular basis to make presentations to the Board and participate in certain aspects of strategic reviews.
The Chairman, John Hawkins, has primary responsibility for running the Board.
The Chief Executive, Richard Wood, has executive responsibility for achieving operational and financial targets and for executing the Groups strategy.
Clear divisions of accountability and responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive have been agreed by the Board and are set out in writing.
The Companys Senior Non-Executive Director is Nigel Turner who is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel and to independent professional advice as required.
In addition, the Company ensures that the Directors receive appropriate training as and when necessary.
To ensure the Board is able to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information, with Board packs being issued to all Directors well in advance of Board meetings.
The Group Company Secretary & General Counsel ensures that Board procedures are followed and that statutory and regulatory requirements are complied with.
The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2010 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman Non-Executive John Hawkins 5 6 3 4 4 1 1 Executive Directors Richard Wood 6 6 3 4 1 1 John Worby 6 6 3 2 n a Non-Executive Directors Nigel Turner 6 6 3 3 4 4 1 1 Mike Buzzacott 6 6 3 3 4 4 1 Barry Furr 6 6 3 3 4 1 Note: Figures in brackets indicate maximum number of meetings in the period when the individual was a Board member.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
