DIRECTORS REPORT:CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and has been approved by the Remuneration Committee and the Board.
Ernst andYoung LLP have audited certain parts of this report.
Where disclosures have been subject to audit, they are indicated as such.
The auditors opinion is included in their report on page 78.
The Board supports the principles of good corporate governance sufficient to attract, retain and motivate high calibre Executive relating to Directors remuneration and, in preparing this report, the Directors for the benefit of the Groups shareholders.
Considerable Remuneration Committee has followed the provisions of the emphasis is placed on performance-driven compensation where Combined Code.
targets are aligned with the Groups strategic objectives and targeted shareholder returns.
An ordinary resolution to receive and approve this Directors Remuneration Report will be proposed at the Companys Annual In considering the Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee General Meeting to be held on 28 October 2010. follows the Combined Code in designing performance-related remuneration schemes.
In setting the framework for remuneration, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the Committee also has regard to the pay practices of its major commercial competitors, to the wider pay market in the FTSE 250 COMPOSITION OFTHE COMMITTEE and to other factors specific to the Group and to each Director.
Details of the members, the number of meetings and attendees in The Committee recognises that, for the Groups business, shareholder the year and the activities of the Remuneration Committee are value is dependent on factors not all necessarily appearing within the shown on page 65. published financial statements, although their effect on later financial The Committee has appointedTowers Watson Limited formerly statements can be significant.
Leading these factors are safety, control Watson Wyatt Limited to advise on all aspects of Board of risk and other executive actions of a strategic nature that may take remuneration.
In addition to advising the Committee, Towers Watson several accounting periods to show changes in shareholder value.
The Limited are also consulting actuaries toThe Go-Ahead Group Pension Executive Directors are encouraged to take environmental, social, Plan and advise the Company on various pension related issues.
governance and strategy matters extremely seriously and always to consider the long term implications of their decision making.
The Acceptance by the Board of Remuneration Committee has regard to these factors, as well as the annual reported Committee proposals financial statements, in arriving at the overall remuneration and in During the year, the Committees recommendations were all accepted considering the mix between fixed and variable pay.
unanimously by the Board and implemented without amendment.
In accordance with the Remuneration Committees policy, a substantial proportion of the Executive Directors pay is EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY performance-related.
The chart on page 67 shows the balance It is the responsibility of the Remuneration Committee to set the between fixed and performance-related pay at maximum remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Committee is also performance levels.
Maximum performance assumes achievement informed of the pay, incentives and benefits packages of senior of maximum cash bonus and full vesting of shares under the Long managers in the Group and its operating companies.
The overall policy Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
adopted by the Committee is to ensure that the Group is paying Executive Directors Remuneration Elements Commentary Basic salary fixed Salary is determined by reference to the individuals performance and experience in post, using comparable mid-market data for guidance.
Performance-related cash bonus variable Bonus is performance-related, with 80% financially driven and 20% driven by personal performance.
Bonus payments are based on the achievement of specified objectives.
LongTerm Incentive Plan LTIP variable The LTIP provides for the award of options to acquire shares, exercisable at the end of a three year performance period subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Pension fixed The policy is to provide market competitive retirement benefits or, depending on individual circumstances, a cash alternative.
Only basic salary is pensionable.
Other benefits fixed Includes a car replacement allowance and private medical insurance.
com As reported last year, for the year ending 3 July 2010 only, the financial performance against budget and 20% by personal proportion of performance-related pay increased as a result of an performance against a number of qualitative objectives agreed with increase in the performance-related cash bonus and an additional each Executive Director at the beginning of the year.
As reported last discretionary bonus award.
Page 68 illustrates the actual year, while the fundamental structure of the performance-related remuneration for the Executive Directors for the year ending 3 July bonus targets remains unchanged, for the year ending 3 July 2010, the 2010 compared to the previous year.
For subsequent years, the Committee resolved that an additional 15% of basic salary would be policy will revert to that shown in the chart below.
achievable in relation to a specific strategic target, which was to dispose of the majority of the aviation division.
For this year only, the Fixed and performance-related pay at maximum maximum performance-related cash bonus potential was 115% of performance levels basic annual salary.
For the year ending 3 July 2010, the Executive Directors were both Basic salary excluding pension awarded the maximum performance-related cash bonus of 115% contributions and benets 29% of basic salary.
The Groups profit substantially exceeded budget, Value of LTIP shares awarded 29% triggering a bonus of 80% for financial performance against budget.
Performance-related cash bonus Both Executive Directors met their qualitative objectives and so received a bonus of 20%.
An additional 15% was payable following the successful disposal of the majority of the aviation division.
In subsequent years, the maximum bonus potential will revert to 100%.
42% ADDITIONAL DISCRETIONARY BONUS As reported last year, following the year ending 27 June 2009, and in BASIC SALARY recognition of the significant achievement in retaining the Southern Each of the Executive Directors is paid an annual basic salary which is franchise, the Committee exercised their discretion and resolved to reviewed in April each year.
At the review in April 2009, and in view of award an additional discretionary bonus to the Executive Directors.
wider economic conditions, the Committee decided that no increases The Committee felt that it was appropriate to recognise the in basic salary should be awarded.
In considering the pay review in importance of the retention of the franchise to the Group outside the April 2010, the Committee remained mindful of the continuing normal annual bonus structure, with a deferred share element to difficult economic conditions and the general level of interest and provide long term alignment with shareholders interests.
concern over executive salaries, in addition to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Out of a total discretionary award of 100,000 each payable to the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, 50% At the review in April 2010, and in consultation withTowers Watson 50,000 each was payable in November 2009 as an additional nonLimited, the Committee decided that the Group Chief Executive pensionable cash bonus.
The remaining 50% 50,000 each was used should be awarded an increase in line with inflation 2.5%.
The to purchase 3,498 shares each, under a Deferred Share Bonus Plan, Committee also decided that the Group Finance Director should be subject to a holding provision of three years.
The deferred share awarded an increase beyond inflation based on clear evidence that his awards will lapse if the Executive Director leaves the Company during existing salary was not competitive in relation to his performance and the deferral period for any reason other than redundancy, retirement experience in post.
PERFORMANCE-RELATED CASH BONUS Each of the Executive Directors also has the opportunity to earn additional remuneration under a performance-related cash bonus arrangement.
The bonus is non-pensionable and is paid in cash.
This opportunity is normally capped at a maximum bonus of 100% of basic annual salary.
Of the bonus potential of 100%, 80% is driven by The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT C CO ON NT TIIN NU UE ED D Actual remuneration for the Executive Directors Current Performance Conditions Awards granted under the LTIP from the 2009 10 financial year will Keith Ludeman vest based solely on a comparison of the Groups three year Total Shareholder Return TSR performance with that of the companies within two comparator groups: the Transport Sector 2008 09 500 318 49 75 23 Comparator Group Arriva plc, FirstGroup plc, National Express Group plc and Stagecoach Group plc and the constituents of the 2009 10 FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
Specifically:- 503 589 100 73 75 23 Basic salary Transport Sector Comparator Award one half Performance-related cash bonus One half of the award requires a comparison of the Groups TSR Discretionary deferred cash share award with the TSR of other companies in the transport sector - this is a LTIP highly relevant but small peer group comprising five companies only Pension including the Group.
This half of the award is calculated as follows: Other benets if the Groups TSR is midway between the TSR of the comparator Nick Swift companies with the highest and the lowest TSRs, the award vests as to 25% 12.5% of total potential award : 2008 09 if the Groups TSR is higher than the TSR of the comparator 275 175 37 20 company with the highest TSR, or is less than that TSR by not more than 25% of the difference between the TSRs of the 2009 10 284 357 100 38 20 comparator companies with the highest and the lowest TSRs, the award vests in full 50% of total potential award : and Basic salary Performance-related cash bonus if the Groups TSR falls between those two positions, the Discretionary deferred cash share award proportion of the award that vests increases, on a straight-line Pension basis, from 25% to 100%, the higher the TSR of the Group 12.5% Other benets to 50% of total potential award.
Based on actual value of LTIP shares vesting.
FTSE 250 Comparator Award one half Based on employer contributions or cash alternative.
The other half of the award is based on a comparison of the Groups TSR with the TSR of companies excluding investment LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP trusts that comprise the FTSE 250 index of companies.
This half of Following its approval by shareholders in October 2005, the LTIP the award is calculated as follows: has been the Groups sole long-term share incentive plan for the Executive Directors.
The LTIP provides for the award of nil-cost if the Groups TSR is placed at the median position, the award options to acquire shares, exercisable at the end of a three year vests as to 25% only 12.5% of total potential award : performance period, subject to the satisfaction of performance if the Groups TSR is placed in the top quartile, 100% of the conditions.
The Executive Directors are eligible to receive an award award vests 50% of total potential award : and of shares up to an equivalent of 150% of their annual basic salary each year.
if the Groups TSR is placed between those two positions, the proportion of the award that vests increases, on a straight-line basis, from 25% to 100%, the higher the TSR of the Group 12.5% to 50% of total potential award.
com Historic Performance Conditions OTHER BENEFITS Awards granted under the LTIP for the 2008 09 financial year are The Group does not allocate company cars to any employees, such that only half of the award is linked to comparative TSR against including the Executive Directors.
Instead, employees who would have the two comparator groups and the other half is linked to real been allocated a company car as part of their benefits, or to growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS.
Awards granted in accomplish their work, are given a car replacement allowance.
Such relation to the financial years up to and including the 2007 08 allowances are non-pensionable.
financial year are based on current performance conditions with an additional minimum requirement that the Group should achieve an PENSION FUNDS increase in adjusted EPS over a three year period of not less than Under the terms of their service agreements, the Executive Directors are the increase in the retail prices index RPI plus 3% per year.
If this entitled to become members of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan.
target is not met, no part of these awards will vest and, accordingly, The Group Chief Executive opted out of The Go-Ahead Group participants will not acquire any shares.
There is no ability to retest Pension Plan with effect from 1 December 2006, but retained a salary any performance conditions.
link in relation to his accrued benefit which was provided separately All changes to the LTIP involve consultation with major through an individual non-registered unfunded pension arrangement shareholders.
The most recent consultation was last year, when the UURBS.
In lieu of future benefits, he receives a non-pensionable Committee concluded that it was no longer appropriate to use an salary supplement.
This salary supplement is not included with basic EPS target given the current economic uncertainty, and that the salary for the purposes of calculating performance-related cash bonus most suitable way to set a stretching but motivating target was to or LTIP awards.
With effect from 1 April 2010, the Group Chief align with returns to shareholders, namely TSR.
Executive began receiving his benefits from the Plan and UURBS see page 72 for further details.
It is the Committees view that the structure of LTIP ensures that the Executive Directors continue to be rewarded if they achieve The Group Finance Director is a member of The Go-Ahead Group substantial improvements in the Groups underlying financial Pension Plan.
performance and perform well relative to other companies in the FTSE 250.
The Committee considers that the LTIP is aligned to the SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES long term interests of the Group, with performance conditions that Shareholder guidelines are in place for the Executive Directors which are relevant, challenging and designed to enhance shareholder provide for them to build up a personal or spouses shareholding value.
Awards will vest in full only if exceptional performance has equal to one years basic annual salary over a period of five years.
the end of the financial year, the Group Chief Executive had been in post for four years and held 34,829 shares.
Based on the closing share SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN price on 3 July 2010, this equates to 72% of his basic salary held in The Group operates a Share Incentive Plan in which the Executive shares of the Company.
The Group Finance Director had been in post Directors are eligible to participate, under terms identical to any other for three years and held 12,586 shares, equating to 43% of his basic participating Group employee.
Any such participation would not be salary.
separately regulated by the Remuneration Committee.
The Executive Directors do not currently participate in the Share Incentive Plan.
There are no other share option or long term incentive schemes available to the Executive Directors.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 69 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT C CO ON NT TIIN NU UE ED D Director Date of service contract Notice period NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Sir Patrick Brown February 1999 6 months REMUNERATION The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set by the Chairman and Rupert Pennant-Rea October 2002 6 months the Executive Directors following an annual review in April each year.
Andrew Allner October 2008 6 months The review takes account of fees paid for similar positions in the Katherine Innes Ker July 2010 6 months market, the time commitment required and any additional Keith Ludeman December 2006 1 year responsibilities undertaken.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive pension entitlements or performance-related remuneration Nick Swift July 2007 1 year and may not participate in share option schemes.
The Remuneration Date of service commenced 9 July 2010.
Committee considers the remuneration of the Chairman in his absence.
In accordance with the provisions of the new UK Corporate Governance Code, from the 2010 Annual General Meeting onwards, No increase in such fees was made following the annual reviews in all Directors will be subject to re-election on an annual basis.
Details of the fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are below: PERFORMANCE GRAPH 1 April 2010 1 April 2009 Fees 000 pa 000 pa The following graph shows a comparison of The Go-Ahead Group plcs total cumulative shareholder return against that achieved by the Sir Patrick Brown 150 150 Groups peers and the FTSE 250 Index for the last five financial years Rupert Pennant-Rea 44 44 to 3 July 2010.
In assessing the performance of the Groups TSR the Andrew Allner 44 30 Board believes the comparator groups chosen represent an Date of service commenced 24 October 2008. appropriate and fair benchmark upon which to measure the Groups performance for this purpose.
The members of the Remuneration Committee have no personal Total shareholder return rebased to 100 interests in the matters to be decided by the Committee other than as shareholders, and have no conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships.
250 200 DIRECTORS CONTRACTS It is the Groups policy to restrict the notice periods for Executive 150 Directors to a maximum of 12 months.
In line with this policy, the Executive Directors have service contracts with an undefined term 100 but which provide for a notice period of 12 months.
There are no 50 provisions for special pension benefits, such as beneficial early retirement terms.
Other than the notice periods specified, the 0 Executive Directors are not due any contractual compensation 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 payments in the event of loss of office.
1 Go-Ahead TSR Peer Group TSR FTSE 250 TSR Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment which 1 TSR peer group consists of Arriva plc, FirstGroup plc, National Express plc and Stagecoach Group plc.
provides for a notice period of six months.
The terms of appointment contain no entitlement to compensation for early termination.
The This graph is included to meet the relevant legislative requirements letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys and is not directly relevant to the performance criteria used for the Registered Office during normal business hours and will also be available Companys LTIP.
However, the indices used were selected as the for inspection prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
Directors believe that they are the most appropriate and representative indices against which to measure the Companys performance, in terms of both the size of the Company and the nature of its business.
2 The non-pensionable cash element of the additional discretionary bonus paid to the Executive Directors, as described on page 67 is shown above.
The deferred share award element of this bonus is shown in the Deferred Share Plan table on page 72 3 The only benefits in kind received during the financial year was the provision of private medical insurance for the Executive Directors, their spouses, and their children under the age of 24.
During the financial year, no sums that were chargeable to UK income tax were payable to any Director of the Company by way of an expense allowance in respect of qualifying services.
Long Term Incentive Plan Balance Awards.
Balance End of period at 27 June lapsed granted price at vested price at at 3 July when Award 2009 in year in year date of in year date of 2010 conditions date No.
Taking advice from Towers Watson Limited formerly known as Watson Wyatt Limited on the extent to which the TSR and EPS tests had been met, the Committee determined that 5,319 of the shares should be allowed to vest to Keith Ludeman on 28 October 2009 in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
2 The awards granted on 10 September 2007 will vest following a period of three years from the award date and will be upon the satisfaction of the historic performance conditions as set out on page 69, covering the period commencing with the start of the 2006 07 financial period and ending with the end of the 2009 10 financial period.
3 The awards granted on 24 October 2008 will vest following a period of three years from the award date and will be dependent upon the satisfaction of the historic performance conditions as set out on page 69, covering the period commencing with the start of the 2007 08 financial period and ending with the end of the 2010 11 financial period.
4 The awards granted on 30 October 2009 will vest following a period of three years from the award date and will be dependent upon the satisfaction of the current performance conditions as set out on page 68, covering the period commencing with the start of the 2008 09 financial period and ending with the end of the 2011 12 financial period.
DIRECTORS SHARE OPTIONS No share options are held by or have been granted to the Executive Directors during the financial year.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 71 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT C CO ON NT TIIN NU UE ED D Deferred Share Plan The Executive Directors held awards over ordinary shares of the Company which were granted under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan: Awards Awards Deferred vested lapsed Deferred share awards during during Balance at Share Award granted year the year 3 July 2010 Date of Date No.
Vesting Keith Ludeman 17 Nov 09 3,498 3,498 17 Nov 12 Nick Swift 17 Nov 09 3,498 3,498 17 Nov 12 The awards granted on 17 November 2009, as part of the additional discretionary bonus, are held in trust on behalf of the beneficiaries for a period of three years.
No further awards will be made under this arrangement.
Please refer to page 67 for further details.
Directors pension funds The following disclosures are included to meet the relevant legislative requirements in relation to the Directors final salary pension benefits: Accrued pensions Keith Ludeman Nick Swift 000 p. a.
Accrued pension 27 June 2009 285 8 Accrued pension 3 July 2010 204 14 Increase in the accrued pension during the year 5 Increase in the accrued pension during the year in excess of inflation 5 Transfer values and notional contributions Keith Ludeman Nick Swift 000 000 Transfer value of the accrued pension at 27 June 2009 3,703 49 Transfer value of the accrued pension at 3 July 2010 5,021 103 Directors notional contributions during the year 24 Increase in transfer value over the year net of Directors notional contributions 1,318 30 Transfer value of the increase in the accrued pension in excess of inflation and Directors notional contributions 16 Notes 1 In light of changes to legislation and market conditions and upon taking actuarial advice, the Trustees of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan reviewed and amended the basis for the calculation of cash equivalent transfer values with effect from 25 November 2009.
The transfer values at the year end have been calculated in accordance with this basis.
2 Keith Ludeman and Nick Swift were members of the Groups approved final salary pension during the financial year.
In addition, part of Keith Ludemans benefit is provided separately through an individual unapproved unfunded pension arrangement UURBS.
3 Keith Ludeman opted out of the Groups approved final salary arrangement from 1 December 2006 but retained a salary link in relation to his accrued benefit.
On 1 April 2010, Keith Ludeman began receiving his benefits from both the approved and unapproved arrangements.
The above figures reflect both of these defined benefit arrangements.
His pension entitlement from the Plan was calculated in line with standard practice, which included reducing his pension to reflect the fact that his benefit had come into payment in advance of the Plans normal retirement age.
The accrued pension at 3 July 2010 is Keith Ludemans immediate early retirement pension as at 1 April 2010, after commutation for a tax-free cash lump sum of 406,000.
The transfer value as at 3 July 2010 is based on market conditions at 3 July 2010, but calculated at the date Keith Ludeman took early retirement.
Consequently, his annual accrued pension has decreased over the financial year, but the value of this benefit has increased due to its immediate vesting.
4 In lieu of future pension benefits, Keith Ludeman receives a non-pensionable salary supplement of 15% of basic salary which amounted to 75,469 during the financial year.
5 Nick Swift participated in the pensions salary sacrifice arrangement operated by the Group during the year.
The notional contributions shown in the table above are those he would have paid had he not participated in this arrangement.
For and On Behalf of the Board Rupert Pennant-Rea, Chairman of Remuneration Committee 1 September 2010 72 www.
