Halfords Group plc Online version 71 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com responsibilities Directors Remuneration Report This report, prepared by the Remuneration Committee the Responsibilities Committee on behalf of the Board, has been drawn up in accordance The Remuneration Committees core responsibilities include: with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Schedules 5 and Reviewing and recommending the remuneration policy of executive 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts Directors and senior managers: and Reports Regulations 2008 and the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
Within this policy agreeing individual remuneration packages for the Chairman, executive Directors and senior executive managers, The report has been approved both by the Remuneration Committee including the Company Secretary: and by the Board, and a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company on Reviewing and recommending the terms and conditions to be 27 July 2010. included in service agreements for executive Directors and senior executive managers: PART A UNAUDITED INFORMATION Reviewing and recommending any employee share-based incentive Remuneration Committee schemes and any changes to the rules of such schemes: Membership Reviewing and recommending appropriate performance conditions The Committee comprised the following non-executive Directors during and targets for the variable element of remuneration packages for the financial period to 2 April 2010: the executive Directors and senior executive managers: and Keith Harris Committee Chairman Reviewing annual and long-term performance against targets to Dennis Millard Appointed 28 May 2009 determine the level of reward that should be delivered to executive Bill Ronald Directors and senior executive managers.
Nigel Wilson During the year the Committee conducted an internal effectiveness Details of non-executive Directors experience and their other roles review and it was concluded that there were no items of concern are set out in the Directors biography section on page 61.
The Board that needed to be considered by the Committee.
The Committee will believes that these Directors have suitable experience to serve on the continue to review effectiveness of an annual basis.
Advisers Meetings During the year the Hay Group have continued to provide advice to During the financial period to 2 April 2010 the Committee met on the Committee on matters relating to remuneration, including market six occasions.
The executive Directors are invited to attend the comparison data and best practice.
Hay Group does not provide any Committees meetings, when appropriate, but are not present when other services to the Group.
The Committee also received advice from their own remuneration is discussed.
The Company Secretary is the Deloitte LLP on the design of the share-based long-term incentive secretary to the Committee.
plans and other remuneration matters.
Deloitte do not provide any Role other services to the Group.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee responsibility received by Hay and Deloitte is independent.
for reviewing and recommending the pay and benefits and contractual During the year the Committee also consulted with the Chief Executive arrangements of the Chairman, executive Directors and the Company and was supported by the Director of Human Resources and the Secretary and such other senior managers as the Board may designate Company Secretary who is secretary to the Committee.
and for overseeing the Groups share schemes.
The Remuneration Committee is committed to principles of accountability and transparency to ensure that remuneration arrangements demonstrate a clear link between reward and performance.
In its work, the Committee considers fully the principles and provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and its terms of reference are available on the Groups website halfordscompany.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
