Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 18 report oF the reMUNeratioN coMMit tee Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board and the Remuneration Committee, I am delighted to present this years Remuneration Report.
You will see that we have continued to In addition, since my last letter, the produce a report that aims to maintain and Remuneration Committee has: improve the quality of our dialogue with you as our shareholders by striving to be clear, continued to exercise restraint in Executive transparent and concise.
We will be seeking Director pay increases and has decided that your approval of the report at the AGM on Executive Directors will receive no base 20 June 2011.
Together with the rest of your package increases in 2011.
This means JohN Mcleod Board, I will be available at the AGM to that Executive Directors will have received answer your questions on the Remuneration only one modest base package increase c h a i r M a N o F t h e Committees activities and the Groups in the four financial years following the r eM U N er at i o N executive remuneration policy.
Companys listing on the LSE: coMMittee determined that the maximum bonus During the past year, executive remuneration opportunity will remain unchanged at has remained a prominent topic with 300% of base package for Executive shareholders, regulators, commentators Directors and that this level of bonus and the general public.
This has resulted in would only be awarded for truly significant changes to corporate governance exceptional performance: requirements, including an increased focus on determined that 2010 bonus payments risk and the link between corporate strategy to Executive Directors will be 100% of and executive remuneration.
As a Committee, base package one-third of the maximum and together with the rest of the Board, we potential, reflecting operational and are mindful of our obligations in these areas.
financial performance during the year, Whilst we recognise that, as a result of the including progress made towards the Executive Directors notice periods, we are discovery of a major gas field at the Miran not fully compliant with the Combined Code, West-2 well.
Last year, the Remuneration we continue to make further progress towards Committee decided to divide the normal complying with UK best practice in the area bonus for 2009 into two parts, the second of executive remuneration, as you will read in of which would only become payable this report.
subject to completion of the sale of the Groups interests in Uganda.
Whilst the Against this background, the Remuneration Ugandan Assets were disposed of during Committee has continued to monitor the 2009, the Committee decided that this executive reward policy, and its application, bonus should only become payable when to ensure that both remain appropriate and the sale completed.
This was achieved are consistent with the implementation of during 2010, resulting in significant value our business strategy.
The past year has being generated for shareholders, and the seen Heritage return significant value to its corresponding part of this bonus equating shareholders by way of a special dividend.
to 150% of base package was paid to During the year, we also made real progress executives during 2010: in our Miran West-2 well, in Kurdistan.
This resulted in the subsequent discovery of a major gas field, which represents a valuable asset given both its size and location and has the potential to generate further substantial value to our shareholders.
Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 19 The past year has seen Heritage return significant value to its shareholders by way of a special dividend.
undertaken a review of the requirements We believe that the move to annual LTIP of the new 2010 Code with regard to awards is appropriate at this stage of the executive remuneration policy and businesss development.
The new LTIP will practice.
Whilst the Company is not enable us to move closer to UK best practice required to report on its compliance with whilst maintaining our focus on the delivery the 2010 Code in the year under review of strategy and value to shareholders.
as the 2010 Code only applies to financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010, The rest of this report provides further detail the Committee has taken the 2010 Codes on our remuneration arrangements.
provisions into account when setting forward-looking policy.
As part of this JohN Mcleod process, the Committee has commissioned c h a i r M a N o F t h e its independent executive reward consultants, the Hay Group, to carry out a r eM U N er at i o N risk evaluation of executive remuneration coMMittee by auditing both the policy and the various 18 april 2011 elements of pay at the Executive Director and the other senior levels: and undertaken a general review of executive remuneration, in the light of corporate governance developments and Heritage now having been listed in London for three years, in order to ensure that executive reward policy and practice remains appropriate and reflects the Boards view, corporate strategy, the current situation of the business and the views of our shareholders.
As part of this review, the Remuneration Committee considered the implications for executive reward of the current LTIP expiring in June 2011 and, in order to avoid a gap in remuneration arrangements and to maintain a focus on long-term performance, has decided to propose a new LTIP.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in June, the new LTIP will provide annual awards of performance shares at a lower level than was the case under the 2008 LTIP.
The vesting of these awards will be dependent on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to that of its peers.
More details on the new LTIP will be included in the Notice of AGM.
Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 20 report oF the reMUNeratioN coMMit tee coNtiNUed environment, the financial and operational performance of the MeMbers oF the reMUNeratioN coMMittee Group and the remuneration policy and levels for the wider employee John McLeod, Chairman population.
In particular, the Remuneration Committee considers Salim Macki how pay levels in the wider employee population compare against General Sir Michael Wilkes the market and is mindful of the pay differentials between top executives and roles at different levels in the structure.
In addition, the MaiN respoNsibilities Remuneration Committee has aimed to ensure that any pay rises for to set the remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Executive Directors do not exceed the level of increases applied to other Directors and senior executives: Group employees.
to assess and determine total compensation packages available to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors: The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined Terms of to monitor the remuneration of senior management other than the Reference which conform to the requirements of the Combined Code Executive Directors whose remuneration it sets: and are available on the Companys website www.
to determine policy and scope for pension rights and any The Terms of Reference were reviewed during the year, with compensation payments and ensure compliance with the advice from our external advisers, and part of this review involved Combined Code and, going forward, the 2010 Code, in this consideration of what was considered to be good practice in other respect: and listed companies.
to make recommendations to the Board for its approval, and that of shareholders, on the design of LTIPs and making advice to the reMUNeratioN coMMittee recommendations for the grant of awards to executives under The Chairman of the Board, CEO and CFO provide internal such plans.
support to the Remuneration Committee and attend meetings at the This report has been prepared with reference to the UK Large and Committees invitation except where matters associated with their own remuneration are being discussed.
Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations and meets the relevant The Remuneration Committee has access to external advice as requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
During the year, the Committee continued to receive independent advice from external executive reward consultants, In preparing this report, consideration has also been given to the Combined Code and the Guidelines of the Association of British the Hay Group, on matters under consideration by the Committee.
In addition, the Hay Group facilitated the Boards assessment process Insurers on Executive Remuneration Policies and Practices.
The Remuneration Committee has also considered the requirements of as described in this Corporate Governance Report and provided updates on market practice.
No other services were provided to the the 2010 Code, which will apply to the Company with effect from the financial year started 1 January 2011.
Company by the Hay Group during the year.
The report has been divided into different parts for unaudited and execUtive reward policy During the year, the Remuneration Committee has continued to audited information.
The first part, which is not required to be audited, details the role of the Remuneration Committee and our executive monitor the executive reward policy and principles which were put in place in 2008 to ensure that they remain appropriate and continue reward policy, with particular reference to the link between our reward policy and the business strategy.
The second part, which has been to support the business strategy.
These broad principles, which the Remuneration Committee believes remain appropriate in the current audited in accordance with the Regulations, contains details of the Directors emoluments, performance share awards, options and climate, are designed to ensure that the Company: pension arrangements.
has an executive reward framework to help drive future value growth: A resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 20 June 2011. retains and, when necessary, recruits management talent of the required ability and experience: UNaUdited iNForMatioN provides overall levels of reward that are appropriate for the reMUNeratioN coMMittee Company given its Premium Listing in London, international The Committee met four times during 2010 and the attendance operations and the global nature of the oil and gas industry: record of individual Committee members is shown on page 12 of this follows UK best practice in so far that such standards support and Corporate Governance Report.
enhance the Companys ability to generate value for shareholders: and maintains a balance between fixed base package and benefits and All members of the Remuneration Committee, including the variable reward short and long-term incentives that is appropriate Chairman, are considered by the Board to be independent as explained and motivates the right behaviours see chart on page 22. in this Corporate Governance Report on page 10.
Within this broad framework, and in order to decide the appropriate The Remuneration Committees main responsibilities are executive remuneration policy for 2011 and beyond, the Remuneration described above.
Committee has undertaken a major review which took into account the Groups performance over the last year, the business strategy of the In setting the remuneration policy and total compensation package Group going forward, the impact of remuneration on risk, the external levels for Executive Directors and other senior executives, the environment and the views of our major shareholders.
Remuneration Committee gives consideration to the economic Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 21 sUMMary oF cUrreNt reMUNeratioN As part of this review, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed c o M p o N e N t s the comparator groups against which overall reward levels are Within the overall reward policy, the manner in which each component benchmarked, in the light of the current stage of business development.
of executive reward is aligned to the overall business strategy is shown As a result, the following benchmarking groups have been used in in the following table.
reviewing levels of remuneration: Component a comparator group comprising both UK and international oil and of executive Policy for Alignment to gas companies of a similar size and scale to Heritage: reward Executive Directors corporate strategy a peer group comprising those oil and gas companies that are often used by equity analysts to evaluate Heritages performance: and Base package Typically reviewed Market competitive the constituents of the FTSE 350 Oil and Gas index.
annually pay levels enable us Benchmarked to recruit and retain It remains the Remuneration Committees opinion that, in light of against UK and the best available the geographic areas in which the Company operates, the relatively international oil and talent for Heritage small number of executives at the Company and the roles conducted gas peer companies Base package freeze by the Executive Directors, an upper quartile level of total reward is No base package supports focus on appropriate.
However, upper quartile levels of reward are only available increase in 2011 performance-related mainly through participation in the LTIP for truly exceptional levels elements of performance.
Annual bonus Maximum of 300% Promotes a highThe policy review confirmed the Remuneration Committees of base package performance culture determination to maintain a strong focus on long-term performance.
Based on achieving Maximum levels As a result, the Committee has decided to adopt a new, annual LTIP, exceptional of bonuses are which will be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in June, which will corporate targets no only available for replace the current, one-off LTIP that is expiring in June 2011. individual element exceptional financial and operational In addition to driving a high-performance culture and maintaining performance a long-term focus, this new LTIP will be a further step in the Remuneration Committees ongoing efforts towards compliance with 2008 One-off award Alignment with UK best practice.
LTIP covering a three year long-term corporate period of annual performance and More details on these proposals can be found in the following pages grants shareholder value and the Notice of AGM.
Relative TSR Absolute growth performance targets requirement ensures underpinned by rewards are only requirement for 20% available if the share share price growth price increases None of the awards significantly vest unless TSR Upper quartile performance is close rewards are to the upper quartile available only for exceptional levels of performance Vesting of any award subject to significantly tougher performance conditions than is market typical Pension Allowance of 10% of Below market base package lower quartile and in line with our performance-driven culture Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 22 report oF the reMUNeratioN coMMit tee coNtiNUed balaNce betweeN Fixed aNd perForMaNceaNNUal boNUs related reward The annual bonus, which is payable wholly in cash, has a maximum The charts below show the balance between fixed base package and limit of 300% of base package and is payable to Executive Directors benefits and variable bonus and long-term incentives elements of solely for the achievement of exceptional corporate targets.
There are reward for each of the Executive Directors.
no individual targets for Executive Directors.
As in previous years, at other levels in the Company, targets which relate to performance in coMpoNeNts oF execUtive directors reward an individuals geographical area of operation or function are utilised but, for any bonus to be paid out at all, a minimum level of Company 80% 74% performance must be achieved.
The Remuneration Committee recommends the level of annual bonuses paid to the Executive Directors.
Based upon the financial and operational performance of the Company during the year, including progress made in drilling in the Miran West-2 well in Kurdistan, the 26% 20% Committee has recommended, and the Board has approved, a bonus of Fixed reward CFO Variable reward CEO 100% of base package one-third of the maximum potential.
Fixed reward includes base package and value of benefits Further, last year, the Remuneration Committee decided to divide the including pension.
normal bonus for 2009 into two parts, the second of which would only become payable subject to the completion of the sale of the Groups Variable reward includes 2010 bonus and the annualised fair value of entire interests in Uganda.
Whilst the Ugandan Assets were disposed long-term incentive awards apportioned over the life of the LTIP.
of during 2009, the Committee decided that this bonus should only become payable when the sale completed.
The sale was completed base pack age on 26 July 2010, resulting in significant value being generated for As a general policy, base packages reflect the Remuneration shareholders and the corresponding part of this bonus equating to Committees assessment of the appropriate market rates for executive 150% of base package was subsequently paid to executives.
positions in peer organisations, as well as the individuals level of responsibility, criticality and value to the business.
Salaries are The payments to individual Executive Directors are shown in the therefore set at a level to enable the Company to recruit and retain the Directors Emoluments table on page 26. best available talent.
loNg-terM iNceNtives Following the review of remuneration undertaken during the year, the 2008 ltip Remuneration Committee has decided that base packages for Executive The LTIP was approved by shareholders in June 2008, shortly after the Directors should not be increased in 2011.
In making this decision, the Companys flotation on the LSE.
The main features of the awards to Committee had due regard to the salaries of, and the increases awarded Executive Directors are: to, all Group employees, the views of institutional shareholders and the desire to emphasise the importance of the performance-related one-off awards of performance shares reflecting the equivalent of elements of the package.
three years of award: a face value of 1,200% of base package for the CEO and 800% Accordingly, the Executive Directors base packages will remain of base package for the CFO, reflecting the equivalent of annual unchanged for 2011, as illustrated in the table below.
As a result, awards for three years: Executive Directors will have received only one modest base package the performance conditions, measured over the three year period increase in the four financial years following the Companys listing on starting with the date of the award, are relative TSR versus a group the LSE.
of international oil companies and a requirement for the share price to increase by at least 20% between the date of the award and the 2011 2010 end of the vesting period: Name Base package Base package Increase none of the awards will vest unless comparative TSR performance is Anthony Buckingham 708,750 708,750 0% close to the upper quartile level of the comparator group, as shown Paul Atherton 525,000 525,000 0% in the table below: and there is an additional holding period of one year following the vesting of the awards.
Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 23 Awards vest according to the following schedule: Proportion of award vesting Typical UK TSR Performance versus comparator group of 18 companies Heritage practice 3rd place the upper decile and above 100% 100% 4th place 80% 100% 5th place the upper quartile 50% 100% 6th place 30% 85% 7th place 0% 70% 8th place 0% 55% 9th place 0% 40% 10th place the median 0% 25% Below 10th place 0% 0% Long-term incentive award levels have been set with reference to the upper quartile of the Companys comparator groups.
However, the vesting schedule is designed to only deliver the whole value of the award for truly exceptional performance, at a standard higher than that which is normal for the UK.
The additional performance condition, requiring the share price to increase by 20% or more, is also above and beyond what is common in both the UK and Canada.
The combination of the two performance measures ensure that no reward will be available to Executive Directors unless performance is exceptional in both relative and absolute terms.
In the light of the performance conditions described above, the Remuneration Committee determined at the time the LTIP was introduced that the award levels, which reflect the equivalent of annual awards for three years, were appropriate for the Executive Directors because: a one-off award provided better alignment of the Executive Directors with current and potential shareholders following the Companys reorganisation and listing on the Main Market of the LSE than annual rolling awards would: a one-off award encouraged sustained performance over the first three key years following the Companys listing in London.
Annual awards can have the effect of encouraging staggered or delayed performance, e. g. not maximising investments and performance as soon as possible in any given year so as to ensure that new awards benefit from any uplift such investments and performance will create.
The Remuneration Committee believes that it is in the best interest of shareholders for maximum value to be accrued as soon as possible: a one-off award covering three years of annual grant provided a greater retentive effect than annual grants and ensured continuity in management following the Companys listing in London: and whilst the Remuneration Committee was keen to move to UK standard annual grant patterns as soon as practicable, providing a one-off award equivalent to three years of annual awards counterbalanced the Remuneration Committees decision to remove annual vesting for long-term incentives, replacing it with a three year vesting period and an additional one year holding period.
The comparator group companies were selected on the basis of their size and scale of operations, market capitalisation and geographic spread.
The original comparator group comprised the following companies: Aminex plc Imperial Energy plc Premier Oil plc Bowleven plc JKX Oil and Gas plc SOCO International plc Dana Petroleum plc Mariner Energy Inc. Stone Energy Corp. Dominion Resources Inc McMoRan Exploration Co.
Swift Energy Co. Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. Melrose Resources plc Tullow Oil plc Hunting plc Oilexco Inc. Venture Production plc No further awards to Executive Directors have been made since the initial award in June 2008 and the plan will expire in June 2011. proposed 2011 loNg terM iNceNtive plaN the 2011 ltip Following its extensive review of remuneration policy and levels during 2010, the Committee determined that, in order to avoid a gap in remuneration arrangements and to maintain a focus on long-term performance, a new LTIP should be put in place for Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Subsequently, the Company is proposing that the 2011 LTIP be adopted by shareholders at the AGM in June.
The main features of the proposed plan are summarised below: annual awards of performance shares at a lower face value than was the case under the 2008 LTIP: the performance condition will be relative TSR, measured against a group of peer companies from the oil and gas sector over three years: and in line with the 2008 LTIP, there is an additional holding period of one year following the vesting of the awards.
Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 24 report oF the reMUNeratioN coMMit tee coNtiNUed The Remuneration Committee believes that moving from a one-off arrangement to an annual cycle of rolling awards is now appropriate given the Companys current stage of development and the fact that Heritage has now been listed on the LSE for over three years.
The proposals also reflect the views of UK institutional investors who strongly favour annual awards as opposed to end-to-end plans.
The 2011 LTIP will be described in more detail in the Notice of the AGM.
2008 replaceMeNt share optioN scheMe HOC implemented The Heritage Oil Corporation Plan the Original Plan following approval by its shareholders in 2004 and granted options under the Original Plan to its Executive and Non-Executive Directors and other employees and consultants at that time.
The grant of options included all the then current Executive and Non-Executive Board members and so does not include General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim Macki.
As a result of the Group reorganisation and subsequent listing on the Main Market of the LSE, all the Board members were entitled to retain their options under the Original Plan and exchange them for options to acquire 10 Ordinary Shares of the Company for every one Common Share they held under option.
The Original Plan was then cancelled and on 18 March 2008, the Company adopted The Heritage Oil Limited 2008 Replacement Share Option Scheme the Replacement Scheme which is substantially in the same form as the Original Plan.
The purpose of the Replacement Scheme is to act as a replacement to the Original Plan and to honour the options granted under it by granting holders the option to purchase Ordinary Shares.
The Replacement Scheme is administered by the Board and no further options will be granted under it.
The maximum number of Ordinary Shares which may be issued under the Replacement Scheme was 24,545,340, being the equivalent number of shares required to replace the options granted under the Original Plan that were still in existence prior to their cancellation.
All options under the Replacement Scheme have now vested and the Company will not grant any further options under this scheme.
peNsioNs Executive Directors receive pension contributions of an annual amount equal to 10% of their base package into a personal pension scheme nominated by the executive.
other beNeFits The Companys policy is to provide Executive Directors with private medical insurance, life insurance and school fees for dependents but no other benefits in kind which would be typical in the UK, such as a company car.
In addition, both Executive Directors are entitled to housing allowances of 100,000 Anthony Buckingham and 77,500 Paul Atherton.
shareholdiNg gUideliNes At present the Committee has not established formal Executive Director shareholding guidelines as, in the opinion of the Committee, these would be superfluous at this time.
The Executive Directors hold a substantial number of shares in the Company and have interests in shares under various share incentive arrangements as shown in the table below as at 18 April 2011: Anthony Paul Buckingham Atherton Shares held 84,540,340 1,140,000 Shares vested under the 2008 Replacement Scheme yet to be exercised 10,129,510 2,875,000 Interest in shares under the 2008 LTIP 2,347,826 1,159,420 Total 97,017,676 5,174,420 1 Notional value of shares at year end, 420,798,113 19,783,873 Total value as a multiple of base package 601 times 38 times 1 The full vesting of 2008 LTIP and share options is assumed.
Cost of exercise is 14,520,199 for Anthony Buckingham and 3,433,750 for Paul Atherton.
service agreeMeNts The Executive Directors service agreements with the Company are for no fixed term.
In normal circumstances, the agreements may be terminated by the Company giving no less than 24 months notice and the Director giving six months notice.
These arrangements were in place during their time as Executive Directors of HOC and were inherited by the Company.
The Board feels that these notice periods were appropriate to recruit and retain the Executive Directors although it recognises that they are not in line with current UK market practice.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the Executive Director employment contracts as part of the extensive review of executive remuneration arrangements which it undertook during 2010.
After taking into account the view received from its external advisors, Hay Group, the external commercial environment, the importance of the Executive Directors to the business and the other changes proposed to the executive remuneration package including an effective reduction in cash and total remuneration levels available, the Committee has decided, for commercial reasons, to retain the existing Executive Director notice period structure.
We believe that this policy protects the interests of our shareholders in the current environment, but we are committed to keeping this issue under review.
Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 25 Date of Unexpired Notice period Notice period Executive Director contract term by Company by Director 1 Anthony Buckingham 28 March 2008 Rolling contract 24 months 6 months 1 Paul Atherton 28 March 2008 Rolling contract 24 months 6 months 1 The Executive Director was appointed previously as indicated on page 10 and this became effective on the Companys listing on the LSE on 28 March 2008.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, if the Executive Directors resign or the Company terminates their appointment within 24 months of such an event, they will each be entitled to an immediate payment in lieu of notice of a sum equivalent to three times their annual base package.
In addition, they will be entitled to a payment of Cdn$75,000 in the event they are asked to resign from the Board of HOC in any event other than as a result of a change of control.
The Company also may terminate the agreements and make payments in lieu of notice.
Currently the Executive Directors service contracts do not provide for mitigation in the event of early termination.
The Executive Directors do not have service contracts with any Group subsidiary.
NoN-execUtive directors The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but their terms are set out in a letter of appointment.
Their terms of appointment may be terminated by each party giving three months notice in writing.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Chairman and the Executive members of the Board.
The Companys policy is to set levels for Non-Executive Directors remuneration so as to ensure that they are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate high quality Directors.
As disclosed in the 2009 Remuneration Report, fees for Non-Executive Directors have been equalised at 80,000 per annum including any fees paid by HOC to those Non-Executive Directors who are also Directors of that company.
Fee levels for 2010 and 2011 are set out below.
Actual fees paid for the year ended 31 December 2010 are shown in the Directors Emoluments table on page 26.
2011 2010 Michael Hibberd 120,000 120,000 Salim Macki 80,000 80,000 General Sir Michael Wilkes 80,000 80,000 Gregory Turnbull 80,000 80,000 John McLeod 80,000 80,000 Additional fee for each day worked in excess of the agreed 20 days per annum 2,000 2,000 With the exception of General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim Macki, all of the Non-Executive Directors will be entitled to a payment of Cdn$75,000 in the event they are asked to resign from the Board of HOC in any event other than as a result of a change of control.
Terms of appointment and reappointment are set out below: Date of Notice Last Non-Executive Director contract period re-election 1 Michael Hibberd 28 March 2008 3 months 2010 AGM 1 Gregory Turnbull 28 March 2008 3 months 2009 AGM 1 John McLeod 28 March 2008 3 months 2009 AGM 1 General Sir Michael Wilkes 28 March 2008 3 months 2008 AGM Salim Macki 12 August 2008 3 months 2009 AGM 1 The Non-Executive Director was appointed on 18 March 2008 and this became effective on the Companys listing on the LSE on 28 March 2008.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys pension arrangements.
Although they may have previously received grants of options, they will not receive any further grants or participate in any other long-term incentive arrangements.
Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 26 report oF the reMUNeratioN coMMit tee coNtiNUed p e r F o r M a N c e g r a p h The following graph shows the Companys TSR since trading of the Companys shares began on the LSE on 31 March 2008 against the FTSE 250 Index.
The Remuneration Committee has selected the FTSE 250 Index as it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company forms a part of and therefore provides a good indication of the Companys general performance.
The figures also include housing allowances of 100,000 Anthony Buckingham and 77,500 Paul Atherton but exclude pension contributions.
2 The Non-Executive Directors charged an additional 10 days time in 2009 for additional work incurred in connection with an aborted acquisition.
3 During 2009 Michael Hibberd, Gregory Turnbull and John McLeod also received fees of Cdn$22,500 paid by HOC as Directors of that company.
These fees have been included in the above table.
In 2010, the Company accrued $7.7 million in general and administrative expenses, in relation to an arbitration settlement to a former director of HOC whose services were terminated in 2006. lt i p p e r F o r M a N c e s h a r e s Conditional awards of performance shares were granted to Executive Directors on 19 June 2008 under the LTIP, subsequent to the Plans approval at the Companys AGM that year, as shown below.
execUtive directors iNterests iN perForMaNce shares Number of Number of Earliest Share price shares as at shares as at Date of vesting at date 31 December 1 January award date of grant 2010 2010 Anthony Buckingham 19 June 2008 18 June 2011 345p 2,347,826 2,347,826 Paul Atherton 19 June 2008 18 June 2011 345p 1,159,420 1,159,420 Corporate Governance 2010 heritage oil plc 27 The table below sets out the direct and indirect interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company as at 18 April 2011: Percentage of Number of voting share 1 Director Ordinary Shares capital Michael Hibberd 125,000 0.04% 2 Anthony Buckingham 84,540,340 29.4% Paul Atherton 1,140,000 0.4% Gregory Turnbull 350,070 0.12% John McLeod 20,000 0.01% General Sir Michael Wilkes 0 0% Salim Macki 138,752 0.05% 1 Includes Exchangeable Shares.
2 Anthony Buckinghams Ordinary Shares include the Ordinary Shares held by Albion as at the date of this document, a company owned and controlled by Anthony Buckingham.
Notes: On exercise of each option, the holder is entitled to receive the 100 pence per share dividend paid in August 2010.
The final exercise prices were converted into GB pounds sterling on the Companys reorganisation and listing on the Main Market of the LSE using the exchange rate in effect on that date.
No options were granted, exercised or lapsed during the year.
The closing share price on 31 December 2010 was 4.49.
During the year the highest closing share price was 5.81 per share and the lowest was 2.97 per share.
This report was approved by the Board on 18 April 2011 and signed on its behalf by: JohN Mcleod chairMaN oF the reMUNeratioN coMMittee 18 april 2011
