Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 CorPorAte GovernAnCe rePort Continued The report to the Board included the aggregated data, the comments Nomination Committee from all completed questionnaires and the trends emerging from them.
The Nomination Committee consists of two Independent Non-Executive Lintstock presented these results including the context of the review and Directors Sir David Rowe-Ham Committee Chairman and Michael provided clear and independent feedback.
From these results the Board Ashton and the Executive Vice Chairman, Mazen Darwazah.
resolved certain action points to enhance performance.
The results of As required by the Corporate Governance Principles, the majority the evaluation process formed part of the Chairmans appraisal of the of the members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive overall effectiveness of the Board and its members.
Overall the review Directors and an Independent Non-Executive Director holds the concluded that the Board functions well, with good communication, Chairmanship of the committee.
aninclusive and constructive approach to the consultation and debate, The Nomination Committee is responsible for succession planning, all ofwhich promotes effective decision-making.
including progressive refreshing of the Board, and for ensuring that During 2011 the Board will continue to review the overall process all appointments to the Board are made on objective criteria and and the areas on which it focuses in light of issues arising and make that candidates have sufficient time to devote to their prospective enhancements in respect of the next evaluation.
In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee willconsider whether to undergo a fully moderated evaluation with is required to take into account the skills, knowledge and experience of independent face-to-face Director interviews and Board meeting review.
the Board in making its decisions and is able to use external search firms The Board considers that the new process should assist in its development or open advertising to compile shortlists of candidates for the Board.
and direction, with the aim of adding value to the Boardsoperations.
It is also charged with reviewing the appropriateness of the size, In addition to the matters set out above in respect of all Directors, structure and composition of the Board.
the Senior Independent Director met with the Non-Executive Directors The Nomination Committee met three times during the year, with toundertake a formal appraisal of the performance of the Chairman.
It met to discuss and review Board and Committee This review addressed the effectiveness of his leadership, the setting composition, director and executive succession planning and to discuss ofthe Board agenda, communication with shareholders, internal the performance evaluation and appraisal system for the Board.
The Non-Executives concluded Remuneration Committee thatthe Chairman gave clear leadership and direction to the Board, The Remuneration Committee consists of the Companys four andthat the Board is run in an appropriate and effective manner.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Michael Ashton Committee directors service arrangements and terms of appointment Chairman, Breffni Byrne, Sir David Rowe-Ham and Ronald Goode.
Details of the Executive Directors service arrangements and The Remuneration Committee therefore complies with the membership Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are contained in the requirements set out in the Corporate Governance Principles.
Remuneration Report on pages 64 and 66.
The terms of appointment The Committee met six times during the year with full attendance.
of all Directors are made available for inspection before the Annual The Committee is responsible for setting and reviewing executive General Meeting and during business hours at the Companys registered remuneration and that of the Company Secretary and is able to take office at 13 Hanover Square, London.
advice from external consultants when required.
A full report on theroleof the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors directors remuneration Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 68.
During the year under review, Details of the remuneration of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors there has been close co-operation between the Corporate Vice President are contained in the Remuneration Report set out on pages 55 to 68. for HR and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
This close co-operation seeks to ensure that executive remuneration policies and Board committees structure are appropriate and adequately reflect the remuneration In accordance with the principles of good corporate governance and in structures and policies in place for the Groups employees as a whole.
compliance with the Combined Code and the Markets Law, the Board maintains three committees the Audit Committee, Nomination Audit Committee Committee and Remuneration Committee.
During 2010, in response The Audit Committee consists of four Independent Non-Executive to the expanding compliance requirements in all areas of the Groups Directors Breffni Byrne Committee Chairman, Michael Ashton, business, the Board formalised its oversight in this critical area by Sir David Rowe-Ham and Ronald Goode.
The Audit Committee forming a new committee, the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics therefore complies with the membership requirements set out in Committee CREC.
Each of the three Combined Code committees and the CREC has The Committee met nine times during the year with full terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year.
A full report of the role of the Audit Committee and details published on the Groups website at www.
com and are available of how it carried out its duties is set out in the Audit Committee report for inspection at the registered office.
The Chairmen give regular reports on pages 49 to 51. of the Committees business to the Board.
