Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee Committee advises and makes recommendations to the Board on an appropriate remuneration policy within the agreed terms of reference which are available on the Companys website at www.
During the year the members of the Committee have been the Chairman, Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown.
The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration packages of each of the Executive Directors.
This includes basic salary, annual bonus, level of awards under the Groups share incentive arrangements Awards and the terms of any performance conditions to apply to the exercise of such rights, pension rights, determining their terms and conditions of service, and any compensation payments and to ensure that such remuneration levels are appropriate and acceptable.
Olswang provided legal services in relation to share incentive plans, Matthew Arnold Baldwin provided general employment advice and the Companys Independent Financial Advisor, JLT formerly HACL advised on pension matters.
The Committee also obtained a number of independently published remuneration surveys to assist in setting the overall packages of senior management.
The remuneration of Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown is established by the Executive Directors of the Board.
The Committee also has discussions with the Board in relation to the Boards annual report to shareholders on the Groups policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors and in particular the Directors Remuneration Report, as required by the Companies Act 2006, the Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
No Board member is involved in deciding his own remuneration package.
Remuneration Policy The Committee has given full consideration to the Principles of Good Governance as set out in the Code with reference to Directors remuneration.
The main objectives of the policy are to ensure that pay and benefits packages are sufficiently competitive to attract, develop and retain high calibre executives.
The Committee will continue in the future to ensure that a competitive and well-balanced package is maintained.
It also seeks to align individual reward and incentives with the performance of the Group and, hence, with the interests of the shareholders.
When carrying out its role the Committee will consider corporate performance on environmental, social and corporate governance issues.
Directors Remuneration The main elements of the Executive Directors remuneration are: Basic salary To review and determine the specific levels of basic salary, the Committee draws on a wide range of relevant data, market conditions, as well as Group and individual performance.
Share Incentives The Committee aims to ensure that Executives and senior employees are fairly rewarded for their contribution to the success of the Group.
The Group is currently operating an Employee Share Plan ESP and a Save As You Earn SAYE plan, both of which were approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2006.
The Committee continues to believe that appropriate share incentives provide the best form of long term incentive needed to motivate and retain employees and to encourage employee share ownership.
At the AGM in 2009, the Company made changes to the ESP to enable it to make ESP awards that are more tax-efficient and also to make share option grants under a Company Share Option Plan in order to give it increased flexibility in the type of share incentives it may award to Group employees.
There are a number of share options outstanding under the Groups old schemes, including approved and unapproved key employee schemes, an Enterprise Management Incentive EMI scheme and a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP scheme.
The discretionary Awards under the ESP have performance criteria.
The conditions for the awards under the ESP in 2007 are based on the increase in the Group share price relative to the increase in the FTSE All Share Index and an increase in the royalty income over a three year period.
The awards under the ESP in 2008 are related to the share price relative to the increase in the FTSE All Share Index and growth in gross profit over a three year period.
The awards under the ESP in 2009 have a performance condition for 50% of the award and this is related to the growth in the Groups share price over a three year period.
In December 2009 the Chief Executive Officer was awarded a specific share award which the Board believed was necessary for retention and to provide appropriate motivation.
This award is over a five year period.
The Group consulted major shareholders before making this award.
This share award, made under the provisions of the Listing Rules 9.4.
2.2, is for 2,250,000 shares and, subject to the performance conditions see page 47, will vest in three tranches: 750,000 shares after three years, 750,000 after four years and 750,000 after five years.
43 The discretionary options that were all granted before the adoption of the Employee Share Plan have performance criteria based on the achievement of targets in the market price of Imagination Technologies Group plc shares, and those options issued to Directors have the performance conditions attached to them as set out on page 46.
The SAYE scheme does not have performance conditions.
Discretionary options were granted at market value with SAYE options issued at a 20% discount to market value.
"Share Bonus The cash bonus awards, which were originally granted to the Executive Directors in September 2006 and were replaced with equivalent Share Appreciation Rights ""SARs"" in November 2007 Hossein Yassaie was awarded 244,000 shares and Trevor Selby awarded 64,500."
50% of each SAR was subject to the same performance targets as apply to the other awards granted under the Employee Share Plan in September 2006 as referred to on page 46.
This element of the SARs when aggregated with equivalent bonuses across other employees shall not exceed 10% of the Groups earnings before interest in the financial year 2008 09.
The remaining 50% of each SAR was payable based on the Groups earnings before interest and tax in the financial year 2008 09.
50% of this element of the SAR was payable if the Groups earnings before interest and tax was 5m.
100% of this element of the SARs was payable if the Groups earnings before interest and tax was 10m.
If the Groups earnings before interest and tax were between 5m and 10m, the percentage would be calculated on a straight line basis between 5m and 10m.
The maximum payment for both elements was capped at the equivalent of 3.00 per share.
The above performance conditions were measured on vesting in September 2009.
50% of the performance conditions was linked to share price and royalties, with 91.7% vesting.
The other 50% of the performance conditions related to the Groups earnings did not vest.
As a result the awards vested at 45.8%, with cash payments made to the Executive Directors in September 2009.
Cash Bonus The Group has an annual cash bonus plan for key Executives.
Awards under the annual bonus plan are split into two portions, a portion that is discretionary based on performance and a portion that relates to the achievement of budgeted profit.
No payments were made under the annual bonus plan in the year.
Pension policy The Group does not run its own pension scheme and Executive Directors are eligible to become members of the Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a defined contribution scheme.
There are no special arrangements for Executive Directors and the same employer contribution of 7.5% of executive basic salary applies.
A Pension Salary Sacrifice scheme is in place for all members of the pension scheme, including Executive Directors and this has impacted the amounts stated in Directors Emoluments on page 45.
Service contracts The Executive Directors have ongoing service contracts all dated 31 March 1998 which may be terminated by either party on six months notice.
The Committee regards the notice period in these contracts as being appropriate.
In the event of termination of an Executive Directors service contract there are no specific compensation entitlement provisions in the contracts with respect to termination, other than the notice period.
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors remuneration consists of fees for their services in connection with Board and Committee meetings and where appropriate for devoting additional time and expertise for the benefit of the Company.
NonExecutive Directors have letters of appointment.
Ian Pearsons and David Hurst-Browns letters are dated respectively 14 April 1998 and 4 August 2000.
Non-Executive Directors are re-elected as Directors, and thereby reappointed, at least every three years.
Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown will seek re-election at this years AGM since they have been NonExecutive Directors for more than nine years and under the Combined Code a Non-Executive Director is required to be reelected annually if he has served the board for more than nine years.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for pension scheme membership and do not participate in any of the Groups annual cash bonus or other share incentive schemes.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Executive Directors of the Board and no element of their fees is performance-related.
44 Other directorships Any other directorships of the Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 32 with the directorships of Geoff Shingles, who carries out his executive duties with the Group on a part time basis.
The Board is satisfied that these directorships do not interfere with the performance of Directors duties for the Company.
Total shareholders return In the total shareholder return analysis the TechMark All-Share Index has been chosen to compare the performance of the Companys share price against an index of comparable companies.
The following information has been audited: Directors Emoluments The following table is intended to bring together the value of the various emoluments of remuneration received by each Director during the year.
45 Both Hossein Yassaie and Trevor Selby participate in the Companys Pension Salary Sacrifice Scheme which is offered to all employees.
Directors Share Incentives The following table sets out the share-related incentives the Directors have in the shares of Imagination Technologies Group plc.
Options issued under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Options issued under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE.
Awards made under the Employee Share Plan ESP.
Performance Share Awards PSA made to CEO.
The mid-closing price of the shares on 30 April 2010 was 275.5p and the range during the financial period was 81p to 286p.
Executive Directors Share option and share awards performance conditions: A. LTIP share options are exercisable if the share price growth is at least greater than an annual compound increase of 15% per annum in the share price over the four year period following the date of grant and there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee.
B. ESP awards for 2006 and 2007 have two performance conditions: 1.
The first 50% of the Award was subject to the performance of Group shares.
It was dependent on the percentage growth in the value of a share in the Group compared to the percentage growth of the FTSE All Share Index over the three year period commencing on the date of grant of the Award.
If the performance of a share in the Group against the Index was 150% then all 50% of the Award would vest, if the performance of a share in the Group against the Index was between 125% and 150% of the Index then pro-rata on a straight line basis between 25% and 50% would vest, and if the performance of a share in the Group against the Index was below 125% of the Index then there is no Award: and 2.
The second 50% of the Award was calculated by reference to the royalty income generated by the Group.
25% of the Award would vest if the average annual increase in royalty income over the three year period commencing on 1st April 2006 the Performance Period exceeded 30%.
50% of the Award would vest if the average 46 annual increase in royalty income over the Performance Period equalled or exceeded 50%.
The Award would vest prorata on a straight-line basis between 25% and 50% for average annual growth in royalty income between 30% and 50%.
There would be no vesting in respect of this part of the Award if the average annual increase in royalty income was less than 30%.
C. ESP awards for 2008 have two performance conditions: 1.
The first 50% is the same as the ESPs for 2007 regarding Group share price: and 2.
The second 50% of the Award is calculated by reference to gross profit.
"Vesting is calculated by reference to the gross profit generated by the Group as derived from the Companys audited report and accounts prepared on a consolidated basis ""Gross Profit""."
"The Gross Profit will be measured over the three financial periods commencing 1 May 2008 the ""Performance Period""."
The growth in Gross Profit will be measured for each financial period against the previous financial period and then averaged at the end of the Performance Period.
In the case of the first financial period in the Performance Period, the Gross Profit for that year will be compared to the Gross Profit for the period to 30 April 2008.
The following shows the vesting of the share awards: If the average growth in Gross Profit over the performance period is 15% then 40% of the share award will vest, if the average growth in Gross Profit over the performance period is 19% then 70% of the share award will vest and if the average growth in Gross Profit over the performance period is 23% or more then 100% of the share award will vest.
D. ESP awards for 2009 have one performance condition which is the annual cumulative growth in the Groups share price over a three year period from the date of grant.
If the annual cumulative growth of the Groups share price is less than 7.5%, no part of the award will vest.
If the annual cumulative growth of the Groups share price is more than 7.5% and less than 15% the performance target will be satisfied pro-rata on a straight line basis and if the annual cumulative growth of the Groups share price is 15% or more, all 100% will vest.
E. Performance Share Award for the CEO award for 2009 has one performance condition related to the annual cumulative growth in the Groups share price over a three, four and five year period from the date of grant.
If the annual cumulative growth of the Groups share price is less than 7.5%, no part of the award will vest, if the annual cumulative growth of the Groups share price is more than 7.5% and less than 15% the performance target will be satisfied pro-rata on a straight line basis and if the annual cumulative growth of the Companys share price is 15% or more, all 100% will vest.
F. SAYE share options do not have any performance conditions.
Directors Share Dealings The following directors dealings took place during the year.
Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan Trevor Selby exercised 150,000 shares options granted at 0.64 in August 2003 on 15 July 2009 at market price of 1.44.
Under the Employee Share Plan 2006 Hossein Yassaie - 119,327 shares vested on 7 September 2009 at the market price of 1.55, he sold 94,327 shares and retained 25,000 shares.
Trevor Selby - 64,253 shares vested on 7 September 2009 at the market price of 1.55, he sold 49,253 shares and retained 15,000 shares.
Under the Employee Share Plan 2007 Hossein Yassaie - 22,971 shares vested on 18 February 2010 at the market price of 2.41, he sold 17,471 shares and retained 5,500 shares.
Trevor Selby - 22,971 shares vested on 18 February 2010 at the market price of 2.41, he sold 17,471 shares and retained 5,500 shares.
Under the Save as Your Earn Scheme 2006 Geoff Shingles, Hossein Yassaie and Trevor Selby all exercised 6,435 share options at 0.605 on 2 November 2009.
The market price on the date of exercise was 2.12.
47 Directors Interests Interests of the Directors in the shares of Imagination Technologies Group plc were as follows: Ordinary shares of 10p beneficially owned at 30 April 2010 2009 G S Shingles 164,133 230,698 H Yassaie 487,702 450,767 T Selby 133,702 86,767 I R Pearson 35,112 39,722 D A Hurst-Brown 70,000 100,000 As at 23 June 2010 there had been no changes in the above interests.
This report was approved by the Board on 23 June 2010 and was signed on its behalf by: I R Pearson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 48
