Strategy Performance Governance Financials Directors Remuneration Report Overview The Remuneration Committee believes The Groups remuneration policy is intended to attract and our remuneration practices link closely retain high quality employees throughout the organisation, encourage loyalty and motivate them to achieve a high level with our sustainable sales growth of corporate performance in an increasingly demanding, strategy without encouraging competitive and international environment.
management to take undue risks.
Performance related rewards reflect the business performance delivered by the Board and senior management in a year of significant achievement that included a revised Remuneration Committee strategic focus towards our sales growth agenda and the further integration of our Altadis acquisition.
For the financial year ending 30 September 2011 the overall structure of the Groups remuneration policy will remain unchanged.
Subject to shareholder consultation, to further motivate the achievement of strategic objectives the Executive Directors potential maximum annual bonus has been increased dependent on the achievement of stretching measurable strategic objectives.
The increase will be delivered in deferred shares.
In addition, the entire bonus Pierre Jungels Chairman willbe subject to claw-back.
These changes are discussed in the Revisions to Executive Directors Remuneration Members section on page 92.
Dr P H Jungels Chairman Mr M R Phillips General Counsel & Company Secretary from 1 October Introduction Mr M H C Herlihy 2010 Group Corporate and Legal Mr C F Knott to 17 July 2010 We have prepared this Report in accordance with the Affairs Director, acts as Secretary to the Committee Ms S E Murray Companies Act 2006, Statutory Instrument 2008 410 The Large Mr M D Williamson and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations and to meet the Responsibilities requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include: Wedescribe how the principles of good governance relating determination of the Remuneration Policy for Executive todirectors remuneration set out in the Combined Code on Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee Corporate Governance the Code are applied in practice.
The from 1 October 2010 the Operating Executive : provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010, apply to the Group recommendations to the Board in respect of the with effect from its financial year commencing 1 October 2010.
Chairmans remuneration: The Regulations require our Auditors to report to shareholders on determination of targets for performance related pay elements: the audited information within this Report and to state whether, in their opinion, the relevant parts of the Report have been prepared policy for Directors pensions and contracts: in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Auditors oversight of the overall policy for senior opinion is set out on page 97 and we have clearly marked the management remuneration: audited sections of the Report.
oversight of disclosures in the Remuneration Report: and oversight of the Groups employee share plans.
