BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Directors Report: Governance Directors report on remuneration Directors report on remuneration Compliance We discussed four key principles for remuneration design: This report complies with Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the t ensure remuneration helps attract and retain the talent Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts required, and motivates them to deliver the strategic plan: and Reports Regulations 2008 and other relevant requirements t use the annual bonus to focus executives on driving revenue of the FSA Listing Rules.
The Remuneration Committee believes and profits: that the Company has complied with the provisions regarding the remuneration matters contained within the Code.
t put in place long term incentives that drive growth in earnings per share EPS and return on capital employed ROCE : Details of those who served on the Remuneration Committee the Committee during the year and information on Kepler t provide the right balance of reward that delivers median Associates, who acted as remuneration consultants during the pay for median performance, upper quartile pay for upper year, can be found in the Remuneration Committee Report on quartile performance and upper decile pay for upper page 40. decileperformance.
We also discussed the detailed proposals for the new Remuneration policy performance share plan, and the specic changes proposed for Over the last few years, the Groups remuneration policy has the annual bonus and co-investment plan.
evolved to ensure it supports the business strategy.
During the downturn, the Committee took a number of measures to reduce The key changes proposed to the remuneration structure for costs and conserve cash: 2011 are as follows: t no bonuses paid for 2008 performance: t introduce revenue growth in the annual bonus, together with operating profit and Net Promoter Score NPS : t salaries frozen for both 2009 and 2010: t steepen the relationship between pay and performance such t cash-based measures introduced into both the annual bonus that maximum opportunities increase from 120% to 150% for cash ow from operating activities CFOA in 2009, working delivering more stretching performance targets with a smaller capital in 2010 and option plan CFOA in 2009 : increase at target from 50% to 60% of salary : t co-investment plan suspended in 2009 and 2010: and t deliver any bonus above 100% of salary in shares: t option awards made at 50% of normal grant levels in 2010. t offer a voluntary co-investment opportunity in 2011, with 3 year As the Group moves into the recovery cycle, it is equally EPS growth and ROCE replacing Economic profit to determine important to use the remuneration policy to drive recovery the vesting of matching shares: and growth.
Our strategy has now shifted towards a balanced t reduce vesting at threshold performance from 1:1 to 0.5:1: focus between commercial initiatives to grow revenue ahead of the competition and cash initiatives to grow profit and t replace options with performance shares, vesting 75% based operating cash faster than revenue.
With this in mind, and as on 3 year EPS growth and 25% on ROCE: we committed to our shareholders last year, the Committee t link a portion of the performance shares to exceptional EPS undertook a comprehensive review of its remuneration growth targets.
In conducting its review, the Committee had regard to the following objectives: Pay mix chart The chart below shows the relative importance of each element t continue to align with and support the Groups evolving of the package for Executive Directors.
business strategy: t enable the Company to motivate and retain its executive Proportion of package delivered through xed and management whilst having regard to pay and conditions performance related reward.
throughout the Group: t provide a remuneration structure that encourages the right 100 behaviours, drives performance and rewards results: t recruit executives of high quality: and 80 t align the remuneration package of executives with shareholder interests.
60 Shareholder consultation 40 Over the last few months, the Committee has consulted with Salary shareholders and shareholder representative bodies to explain Pension 20 Annual bonus the developments in the business strategy and the changes COIP proposed to the remuneration policy to support this.
The revised 'Normal' performance shares 0 'Enhanced' performance shares incentives are consistent with the Groups strategic focus CEO CFO CEO CFO described earlier: to grow revenue ahead of the competition Target expected value Maximum value and to grow profit and operating cash faster than revenue.
com 41 Directors Report: Governance Directors report on remuneration Directors report on remuneration continued 2011 summary In summary, performance-related remuneration arrangements for our most senior executives are shown below and in the Pay Mix Chart on page 41: Element Objective Structure Award level Annual bonus t incentivise growth and a t a matrix structure rewarding t maximum opportunity for return to peak earnings: simultaneous delivery of Executive Directors of 150% of growth in revenue and salary for achieving stretch t motivate outstanding operating profit, heavily performance against all performance: specically, weighted towards delivery of measures: reward sustainable growth in profit growth: profits, i. e. growth that comes t 60% of salary payable for from the top line as well as t Net Promoter Score that target performance.
from improving margins: falls below target levels of performance will detract t reward profitable growth from the bonus earned: whilst maintaining exceptional levels of t any bonus earned above customer service.
100% of salary will be paid in shares and automatically invested into shares under the co-investment plan.
Co-investment t encourage executive share t offer executives a voluntary t Executive Directors may invest plan ownership: investment opportunity in up to an overall maximum of return for a performance 50% of salary after tax: t ensure a balance between based match: growth and returns.
t maximum match of t replace the Economic profit 2:1, threshold reduced from performance condition with a 1:1 to 0.5:1 combination of EPS and ROCE.
Performance t ensure remuneration is robust t introduce a new performance t awards for the CEO in 2011 share plan to market downturns and share plan, with share awards will be 150% of salary in volatility: vesting based on 3 year EPS normal awards and 50% of and ROCE performance: salary in enhanced awards.
t deliver median pay for For the CFO these will be 125% median performance: upper t executives will receive two and 25% of salary respectively: quartile pay for upper quartile types of awards: normal performance: and upper awards linked to stretching t going forward these decile pay for upper decile performance targets and opportunities will be xed as performance: an enhanced award of a number of shares, subject shares linked to exceptional to an overall cap of 300% of t strengthen alignment with performance.
salary, so that the face value shareholders.
of awards will fall if the share price falls and vice versa.
42 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Illustration of bonus structure for Executive Directors The UK Corporate Governance Code Financial performance matrix % of salary payout The Committee considered the UK Corporate Governance Code requirement regarding remuneration incentives being compatible with the Groups risk policies and systems.
The NPS Stretch 30% 90% 150% Committee is satisfied that the approach to setting the structure multiplier of remuneration packages for senior executives underpins the effective and proper management of risk by rewarding Target 20% 60% 120% executives fairly for sustainable profit growth and long term Revenue 0.8 1.0 X returns to shareholders and delivering a significant proportion of senior executive remuneration in shares.
Note: In this way, Threshold 15% 45% 90% 20% of total bonus is The Committee has no current intentions to make significant based on NPS the changes to the remuneration design for 2012, although it will customer measure of course keep this under review, with reference to both the Threshold Target Stretch business strategy and external market developments.
Operating profit Base salary Our policy is to pay competitive salaries i. e. at or around median when compared with those organisations of similar size, complexity and type, that are sufficient to attract and t increase the leverage in the annual bonus by steepening the motivate talent.
Salaries are reviewed annually and salaries relationship between pay and performance.
This will increase for members of the Executive Committee were frozen for a the maximum opportunity to 150% of salary for Executive second consecutive year in 2010.
The Committee considered Directors but with very stretching performance targets which this decision was in keeping with the need for the Company to require both revenue and operating profit stretch hurdles to be continue its focus on costs and margins.
achieved in order for the bonus to pay in full: For 2011, the Committee will review executive salaries prior to t increase the target bonus opportunities from 50% to 60% of the normal review date of 1 April, taking into account pay and salary to bring total cash into line with market and reect the conditions elsewhere across the Group, and relevant market more stretching nature of a matrix of targets: and data.
Benchmarking is carried out on a total remuneration basis.
t deliver any bonus earned above 100% of salary in shares.
Annual bonus Performance share plan For 2010, the annual bonus was based on stretching operating The Committee is proposing to replace the current executive profit targets, but with 35% of the bonus also subject to achieving share option plan with a new performance share plan.
The working capital targets and a further 30% subject to achieving Committee believes this change would provide a more robust targets for NPS.
During 2010, the Group delivered operating profit and motivating long term incentive as well as reect changes growth of 22.2% over the prior year, which resulted in meeting the in market practice since the introduction of the executive share stretch target in full.
Strong performances were also achieved option plan.
The Committee is therefore seeking approval at the on both working capital targets and NPS so no reductions were 2011 Annual General Meeting for the adoption of the Inchcape applied to the bonus.
Overall, Executive Directors therefore Performance Share Plan PSP.
The proposal to adopt the PSP received bonuses for 2010 of 120% of salary.
has the full support of the Committee and the Board as a whole The review of remuneration during 2010 identied that while and the Committee intends to make grants pursuant to this operating profit and NPS remain core to the Groups strategy, plan following the 2011 Annual General Meeting, subject to the strategic focus moving forward has now shifted from cash shareholder approval.
management, during an unprecedented global downturn, to The key features of the PSP are as follows: revenue and profit growth as the Group moves into the recovery business cycle.
t annual awards of normal performance-vesting shares, vesting 75% on 3 year EPS growth, and 25% on 3 year average ROCE.
To help drive this growth, the Committee felt it would be appropriate to increase the targets and amend the For 2011 awards, targets will be as follows: measurement criteria.
The Committee also identied the 3 year EPS growth p. a. Vesting Percentage opportunity to encourage ownership and alignment with shareholders by re-instating the co-investment plan and Less than 7% 0% requiring partial payment of the annual bonus in shares.
7% 25% Additionally, the Committee is aware that bonus opportunities 15% 100% have fallen below market for companies of similar size.
Between 7% and 15% Straight line basis The Committee has therefore made the following changes to annual bonus arrangements for 2011: 3 year average ROCE Vesting Percentage Less than 18% 0% t incorporate revenue growth, and combine with operating profit in a matrix: 18% 25% 21% 100% t NPS will act only as a downwards adjustment: if financial performance thresholds are not met, there will be no payment Between 18% and 21% Straight line basis against NPS performance.
This structure is intended to reinforce the objective of rewarding profitable growth, whilst maintaining exceptional levels of customer service: www.
com 43 Directors Report: Governance Directors report on remuneration Directors report on remuneration continued t awards of enhanced performance shares vesting on stretch EPS PSP awards, as previously described.
This represents a reduction targets, over and above those attached to normal performance in vesting at threshold from a 1:1 match under the previous shares.
For the first cycle these would be set as follows: arrangements to a 0.5:1 match under the proposed scheme.
The maximum investment opportunity in 2011, with respect to 3 year EPS growth p. a. Vesting Percentage bonuses earned for 2010, will remain at 50% of post-tax salary for Less than 15% 0% the CEO, but will increase from 40% to 50% of salary for the CFO.
20% 100% The maximum matching opportunity will remain at 2:1, based Between 15% and 20% Straight line basis on performance over 3 years.
For annual bonuses earned in respect of 2011 onwards, any t the first normal performance share awards under the PSP will be granted at c. 150% of salary for the CEO and c. 125% of amounts above 100% of salary will automatically be paid in shares and invested in the COIP.
If this amount is less than the salary for the CFO, with enhanced awards of up to 50% and 25% of salary for the CEO and CFO respectively: maximum investment opportunity allowed under the COIP, Executive Directors may make further voluntary investments up t these awards will then be expressed as a number of shares to the 50% of salary limit.
Invested shares can be withdrawn at which will be xed for 2012, subject to an overall cap of 300% any time, but would lose any entitlement to a match if withdrawn of salary as dened under the plan rules: before the end of the relevant 3 year performance period.
t dividends, if any, would accrue on PSP share awards over the The Committee is asking shareholders to approve the renewal of vesting period and would be paid only on those shares that vest: the COIP at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
t for good leavers, or on a change of control, awards No changes to the existing rules are being proposed.
would be pro-rated for time and performance, subject to Committeediscretion: Executive share option plan During 2010, Executive Directors received grants of executive t the Committee can also reduce or prevent vesting in the share options at half of the normal levels 100% of salary with a event of a material restatement of the Group Financial view to reducing operating costs for the Company.
These options statements or gross misconduct.
vest on 3 year EPS growth, as follows: EPS has been retained as the primary long term incentive EPS growth per annum Vesting Percentage measure as the Committee continues to believe that this is the best measure of long term performance for the Group.
It Less than RPI 3% 0% provides strong line of sight for executives, who are familiar with RPI 3% 25% the existing basis of EPS performance measurement and is RPI 8% 100% consistent with our long term strategy focusing on sustainable Between RPI 3% and RPI 8% Straight line basis profit growth.
The introduction of ROCE, combined with EPS, is intended to provide a balance between growth and returns.
There will be no retesting of performance.
This vesting schedule The 2011 targets have been set taking into account a range also applies to all options granted prior to 2009.
However, for of reference points including the strategic plan and broker executive share options granted in 2009, CFOA was selected forecasts both for the Group and other sector peers.
The as the performance measure, rather than EPS, to provide better Committee believes that these targets are very stretching, and alignment with the Companys business strategy during the that the maximum overall award of 200% of salary for the CEO period.
These options vest according to the following sliding scale: 150% of salary for the CFO is appropriate given that it will only CFOA Vesting Percentage be available for truly outstanding performance.
The Committee Less than 70% of target 0% feels that xing the award sizes as a number of shares provides strong alignment with shareholders, as the face value of awards 70% to 99% of target 25% will fall if the share price falls and vice versa.
In order to provide 100% of target 100% exibility to follow this policy, while recognising our shareholders Between 70% and 100% Straight line basis desire for a cap on potential awards, the PSP rules contain an individual limit of 300% of salary.
However, the Committee will The cumulative CFOA for 2009 and 2010, for the purposes of the continue to review award sizes prior to each grant to ensure 2009 executive share option grant is 651.7m which is 74.2% they are appropriate in light of market data and individual and higher than target.
Details of options granted to Executive Directors are shown on Co-investment plan page 47.
The co-investment plan COIP was introduced during 2008 Subject to gaining approval for the PSP, the Committee currently after receiving shareholder approval in 2007.
In 2010, it was has no intention to grant any further options to Executive recommended that the COIP be suspended since the Directors under this plan.
performance conditions were not felt to be stretching enough Save as you earn when viewed in the context of the recovery phase, and to address any shareholder concerns around the opportunity for Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys windfall gains.
However, the Committee intends to re-instate the save as you earn SAYE scheme on the same terms as other COIP for 2011, but replace the Economic profit performance employees.
Participants make monthly savings, to a maximum condition with a combination of EPS and ROCE, as these of 250 per month, over a three year period.
At the end of the measures are better understood by participants whilst continuing savings period the funds are used to purchase shares under to recognise the benets of balancing growth and returns.
The acquisition of shares under this scheme is not simplicity and alignment, the performance targets against each subject to the satisfaction of a performance target.
of these measures will be exactly the same as for the normal 44 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Executive share ownership Service contracts To emphasise the importance the Committee places on The Companys policy is for Executive Directors service contract executive share ownership, Executive Directors are required to notice periods to be no longer than 12 months, except in hold a fixed number of shares equivalent to 200% of base salary.
All current contracts contain notice Each Executive Director has five years from 2007, or date of periods of 12 months.
In the event of termination the Company appointment if later, to reach this shareholding target.
As at 31 will seek fair mitigation of contractual rights.
Within legal December 2010, Andr Lacroix and John McConnell held 217% constraints, the Committee tailors its approach, in the event of and 142% respectively of base salary in shares.
early termination, to the circumstances of each individual case.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of Retirement benefits three years, which may be extended by agreement with the Our policy is to provide market competitive pension benefits.
Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme UK Scheme provides benefits for Executive Directors and certain senior executives at No Non-Executive Director is engaged on a service contract with normal retirement age of 65, equal to a maximum of two thirds the Company.
of final base salary, where salary has scheme specific ceiling Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired team of 123,600 in the 2010 11 tax year, subject to completion of Andr 1 September 05 12 months from To normal between 20 and 40 years service.
Pensions in payments are Lacroix the Director: retirement guaranteed to increase in line with the lesser of 5% and the 12 months from age increase in the RPI.
The UK Scheme requires members who join the Company after March 2005 to contribute 7% of base salary up to the scheme specific ceiling of 123,600 in the 2010 11 tax year.
John 1 October 09 12 months from To normal McConnell the Director: retirement Executive Directors, whose base salary is higher than 123,600, 12 months from age are paid a monthly cash supplement to enable them to make the Company additional pension arrangements.
John McConnell received such supplements in 2010.
Details of the amounts paid are By order of the Board shown on page 46.
Andr Lacroix received a cash supplement of 40% of his base salary in lieu of a formal pension provision.
He is not a member of the UK Scheme except in respect of the life assurance benefit for death in service.
A lump sum life assurance benefit of four times full base salary Nigel Northridge, is provided on death in service.
For pension scheme members, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee a spouses pension of either half or two thirds of the prospective 7 March 2011 members pension may also be payable.
Childrens pensions may also be payable, up to half of the members pension.
Taxable and other benefits These include items such as company cars, medical care and life assurance premiums.
These benefits are in line with the remuneration policy framework outlined in this report.
Total Shareholder Return The total shareholder return TSR graph is shown in the investor relations section of the Corporate Governance Report on page37.
com 45 Directors Report: Governance Directors report on remuneration Notes to the Directors report on remuneration audited 1.
This payment was subject to tax.
c The payment of 79,920 2009 19,980 was paid to John McConnell to allow him to make his own pension arrangements outside the Companys pension plan.
d The details shown include fees at the rate of 10,000 per annum for the Audit, Remuneration and CR Committee Chairmanships and fees at the rate of 4,000 per annum for each of the Audit, Remuneration and CR Committee memberships.
e Taxable and other benets comprise such items as company car, medical care, life assurance premiums, petrol allowance and relocation expenses.
All Executive Directors are entitled to such benets.
No Directors waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 2009 none.
Directors pension entitlements Transfer value less directors Increase in Increase in Accumulated Accumulated contributions of Difference in accrued pension accrued pension total of accrued total of accrued the increase in Transfer value of Transfer value of transfer value less during the year during the year pension at pension at accrued benefit accrued benets accrued benets any contributions 000 net of ination 31.12.09 31.12.10 net of ination at 31.12.10 at 01.01.10 made in the year John McConnell 4.1 4.1 1.0 5.2 48.6 71.5 12.0 50.8 The transfer value has been calculated in accordance with the Retirement Benets Scheme Transfer Values GN 11, 6 April 2002.
The transfer values of the accrued benets represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the Directors pension benets.
The transfer values do not represent sums payable or due to the individual Directors and therefore cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
No Directors made any contributions to their pension in respect of the above during the year.
46 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 3.
t The options granted in 2007 did not meet the performance targets set at the time of grant and lapsed in full.
Andr Lacroix also gave up his oneoff option award granted in 2009. b Under the Inchcape SAYE Share Option Scheme.
t There were no option exercises by Executive Directors during 2010. c Exercise prices are determined in accordance with the rules of the relevant share option scheme.
t All options were granted for nil consideration.
t Exercise prices are shown after the adjustment for the Share Consolidation.
t The table shows Executive Directors options over ordinary shares of 1.0p at 1 January 2010.
After the Share Consolidation the options are over ordinary shares of 10.0p at 31 December 2010. t The mid market price for shares at the close of business on 31 December 2010 was 356.6p.
The price range during 2010 was 24.5p to 368.1p.
t Options under the Inchcape 1999 Share Option Plan are granted on a discretionary basis to certain full time senior executives based within and outside the UK including Executive Directors of the Company.
t Such options are normally exercisable between three and ten years of grant.
t Details of performance targets are given on page 44. t The Inchcape SAYE Share Option Scheme is open to employees in the UK with at least three months service.
t Participants make monthly savings for a three year period.
At the end of the savings period options become exercisable within a six month period.
com 47 Directors Report: Governance Directors report on remuneration Notes to the Directors report on remuneration continued 4.
Deferred bonus plan co-investment plan Awarded Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Awarded ordinary shares lapsed during exercised during awarded during ordinary shares 31.12.10 the year the year the year 01.01.10 Date of grant Exercise Period Andr Lacroix 886,360 886,360 1 Jan 07 Jan 2010 Jun 2010 John McConnell 124,130 124,130 1 Jan 07 Jan 2010 Jun 2010 Total 886,360 124,130 1,010,490 Notes on the deferred bonus plan Executive Directors will become entitled to award shares if they remain employed by the Company for three years and retain the shares purchased with their bonus throughout that period and the performance targets are met.
Growth in the Companys EPS over a three year period must exceed the increase in RPI over the same period by 3.0% per annum with no opportunity to retest in order for the award to vest.
Special rules apply on termination of employment and change of control.
As John McConnell was not an Executive Director at the time the award shares were granted he was not subject to the performance targets.
The market price on the date of vesting, 1 January 2010, was 30.0p.
Awards granted on 1 January 2007 were purchased at 578.0p.
Awarded shares Awarded Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares held after Awarded ordinary shares lapsed during exercised awarded 1 for 10 Share ordinary shares 31.12.10 the year during the year during the year Consolidation 01.01.10 Date of grant Exercise Period Andr Lacroix 190,524 190,524 1,905,240 1 Jan 08 Jan 2011 Jun 2011 John McConnell 29,669 29,669 296,690 1 Jan 08 Jan 2011 Jun 2011 Total 220,193 220,193 2,201,930 Notes on co-investment plan Executive Directors will be entitled to matching shares if they remain employed by the Company for three years and retain the shares they have purchased under the Plan throughout that period and the performance targets are met.
The Companys Economic Profit EP must exceed the increase in RPI over the same period by 3.0% per annum to receive a one for one match.
If that Companys EP exceeds the increase in RPI over the same period by 12.0% per annum the match is two for one.
Special rules apply on termination of employment or change of control.
Awards granted on 1 January 2008 were purchased at 396.8p each.
Awards were adjusted on a 1 for 10 basis in line with the Share Consolidation.
By order of the Board Nigel Northridge, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 March 2011 48 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
