68 Directors Report: Governance governance Framework continued The Company Secretary is Robert Welch, who joined the Group of Directors can dominate the decision-making process and in 2006 as Deputy Company Secretary and was appointed to his that the interests of the minority shareholders are protected.
He is an Associate of the Institute Biographies of all Directors are set out on pages 64 and 65. of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and is secretary Board composition to all of the Board Committees except the Audit Committee.
The secretary to the Audit Committee is Stephen Hodges, Executive Directors 3 Deputy Company Secretary, who joined the Group in 2007 Independent and is also an Associate of the Institute of Chartered non-executive Secretaries and Administrators.
Directors 5 Non-independent Chairman and Chief executive non-executive The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities Directors 1 between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and other Directors are clearly defined so that no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
The Chairman is responsible for the strategic direction of the Group, overseeing the responsibilities of management, It is Kazakhmys policy that at least half the Board should leadership of the Board and the relationships with the be independent non-executive Directors.
Other than Government and business community in Kazakhstan.
As Daulet Yergozhin, the Board considers each of its current part of the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman, non-executive Directors to be independent in character and the Board remains satisfied that the Chairman is able to judgement.
In reaching its determination of independence, the fulfil all of the commitments required of his role.
Board has concluded that each provides objective challenge to Further details of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, management, is willing to stand up and defend their own beliefs Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director are set out and viewpoints in order to support the ultimate good of the on page 67.
Company and there are no relationships or circumstances likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgement of Philip Aiken, Clinton Dines, Simon Heale, Peter Hickson and Lord non-executive Directors Renwick.
The Board carries out a review of the independence The non-executive Directors provide a strong independent of its Directors on an annual basis.
Daulet Yergozhin is not element on the Board and a solid foundation for good considered by the Board to be independent from his date corporate governance.
Although all Directors are equally of appointment as he is a representative of the Government accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of of Kazakhstan, a 26% shareholder in the Company.
the Companys affairs, the non-executive Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate accountability.
They have a particular The independent non-executive Directors are: responsibility to examine critically the strategies proposed Philip Aiken by the executive Directors, scrutinise the performance of He is chairman of Robert Walters plc, and a non-executive management in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and director of National Grid PLC, Miclyn Express Offshore play a leading role in the functioning of the main Board Limited and Essar Energy plc.
He was formerly president, committees.
Between them, the current non-executive UK of BHP Billiton plc, having previously been group Directors bring experience, expertise and independent president of BHP Billitons energy business, president, judgement from a variety of business sectors and public life.
BHP Billiton Petroleum, an executive director of BTR plc The Board was sad to announce the death of Vladimir Ni, and held a number of senior positions in BOC Group plc.
one of its non-executive Directors, on 9 September 2010 Clinton Dines after a short illness.
His contribution, prior to and since the He is executive chairman Asia of Caledonia Private Companys Listing in 2005, in securing the positive outcome Investments Pty Limited and a non-executive director of of a number of transactions has been a vital and integral part Zanaga Iron Ore Company Limited.
He has been involved in of the success of Kazakhmys.
business in China since 1980, including senior positions with the Jardine Matheson Group, Santa Fe Transport Group and Board independence Asia Securities Venture Capital.
In 1988, he joined BHP as Effective management and good stewardship are led by the their senior executive in China and, following the merger of Board, which currently consists of nine Directors, all of whom BHP and Billiton in 2001, he became president, BHP Billiton served throughout the financial year.
Including the Chairman, China, a position from which he retired in 2009 prior to his there are three executive Directors, five independent nonappointment with Kazakhmys.
executive Directors and one non-independent non-executive Director: this balance ensures that no individual or small group Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 69 Simon Heale The attendance of Directors at scheduled meetings of the He is a non-executive director of The Morgan Crucible Board which they were eligible to attend and the number Company plc, Panmure Gordon & Co plc, Marex Group of meetings attended during 2010 is shown below: Limited and PZ Cussons plc.
He was formerly chief executive Number of of The London Metal Exchange, chief operating officer of scheduled Board Number of meetings eligible scheduled Board Jardine Fleming Limited and deputy managing director of Directors during the year to attend meetings attended Cathay Pacific Airways.
He is also a trustee of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Vladimir Kim 5 5 Peter Hickson Oleg Novachuk 5 5 He is chairman of Communisis plc and Chemring Group PLC, David Munro 5 5 and senior independent director of London & Continental Philip Aiken 5 5 Railways Limited.
He was previously chairman of Anglian Water Group Limited, group finance director of Powergen plc Clinton Dines 5 5 and a non-executive director of Telent plc, Scottish Power plc Simon Heale 5 5 and RAC plc.
He is also a trustee of ORBIS Charitable Trust and a director of ORBIS International Inc.
He will step down Peter Hickson 5 5 as a Director at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual Vladimir Ni 4 3 General Meeting.
Lord Renwick 5 5 Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG He is deputy chairman of Fleming Family & Partners Limited Daulet Yergozhin 5 1 and a non-executive director of Compagnie Financire 1 Vladimir Ni missed one Board meeting due to ill health and Daulet Richemont SA and Vallar PLC.
He was formerly British Yergozhin was only able to attend one meeting due to a number Ambassador to the United States and to South Africa, and of conflicts in schedule arising from his commitments as a minister a non-executive director of SABMiller plc, BHP Billiton plc, in the Government of Kazakhstan.
British Airways plc and Liberty International plc.
He is vice In addition to the five scheduled meetings of the Board chairman, Investment Banking of J. P. Morgan Europe and during the year, three further meetings were arranged at vice chairman of J. P. Morgan Cazenove, who are brokers and short notice to deal with specific matters and it was not financial advisers to the Company: he has no involvement in always possible for all Directors to attend such meetings.
the provision of broking or financial services to the Company.
Re-election of Directors Attendance at Board meetings New Directors appointed by the Board must submit All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting themselves for election by shareholders at the Annual and each meeting of the committees of which they are General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter, members, unless there are exceptional circumstances the Companys Articles of Association require that all which prevent them from doing so.
Scheduled Board and Directors stand for re-election at least every three years.
committee meetings are arranged at least a year in advance Although the Company is currently reviewing the provisions to allow Directors to manage their other commitments.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code the New Code and All Directors are provided with the papers for consideration will report fully on its compliance with the New Code in the and other relevant information in advance of each meeting.
Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended If a Director is unable to attend a meeting because of 31 December 2011, it is anticipated that all Directors will be exceptional circumstances, he will still receive the papers submitted for re-election on an annual basis commencing and other relevant information in advance of the meeting and from the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2012. will have the opportunity to discuss with the chairman of the meeting or the Company Secretary any matters he wishes to induction, training and information raise to ensure his views are given due consideration and, if Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive necessary, follow up with the decisions taken at the meeting.
a comprehensive and structured induction tailored to their The Chairman, Chief Executive and Company Secretary are individual requirements.
The induction programme, which is always available for the Directors to discuss any issues relating arranged by the Company Secretary, includes visits to some to a Board or committee meeting or other matters.
Reasons of the Groups businesses and meetings with senior managers for non-attendance are generally prior business and personal and advisers as appropriate.
The programme is designed commitments or illness.
to facilitate their understanding of the Group, the key drivers of business performance, the role of the Board and its committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures, and provides them with appropriate training and guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a public limited company.
com Corporate Governance 70 Directors Report: Governance governance Framework continued To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, During the year, the Chairman held a number of meetings there are procedures to provide them with appropriate with non-executive Directors without executive Directors and timely information, including information between being present.
The Senior Independent Director also led meetings about developments in the Groups business the non-executive Directors in evaluating the performance and financial performance, so that they can discharge of the Chairman.
their duties on strategic, financial, operational, compliance and governance issues.
Conflicts of interest From 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 introduced Where appropriate, additional training and updates on a new statutory duty requiring a director to avoid a situation particular issues are arranged.
For example, over the last in which he has or can have a direct or indirect interest that 12 months, members of the Board have made visits to the conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Groups operations in Kazakhstan and have received specific Company.
This duty is in addition to the existing duty that briefings by management on the introduction of the UK a director owes to the Company to disclose to the Board Corporate Governance Code and the UK Bribery Act 2010. any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the To ensure the Board as a whole remains fully informed of Company.
The Companys Articles of Association include the views of shareholders, the Board receives regular reports provisions giving the Directors authority to approve such on shareholder sentiment from the Head of Corporate situations and to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in Communications.
Although not part of their induction a similar way to the position that existed prior to the coming programme, all non-executive Directors have a standing into force of this legislation.
There is no breach of duty if the invitation to attend shareholder meetings and analyst relevant situation has been so authorised in advance.
presentations, and shareholders may meet informally The Board has a procedure when deciding whether to with Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest.
Under this procedure, Directors are required to declare all Performance evaluation directorships or other appointments outside of the Group A full Board performance evaluation process was undertaken and which could give rise to a conflict or potential conflict of in early 2011 in respect of the calendar year 2010 with fully interest.
In consideration of each conflict or potential conflict documented results being presented to the March 2011 of interest declared by a Director, firstly, only independent Board meeting.
The process was carefully structured but Directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter being pragmatic, designed to bring about a genuine debate considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and of issues that are relevant, and assisted in identifying any secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in potential for improvement in the Companys processes.
a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to It entailed the completion of internally produced tailored promote the Companys success.
In addition, the Directors questionnaires on the performance of the Board, its will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving committees and its executive and non-executive Directors authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
by each Director and the preparation of a composite report.
The Company Secretary minutes the consideration of any The Board questionnaire focused on the performance conflict or potential conflict of interest and authorisations of the Board throughout the past year in the areas of granted by the Board are recorded by the Company Secretary Board dynamics and arrangements, leadership, Board in a register of conflicts of interest.
On an ongoing basis, the room conduct, strategy, and risk management and internal Directors are responsible for informing the Company Secretary control processes.
The evaluation report concluded that the of any new, actual or potential conflicts that may arise or, if Board and its committees continue to operate effectively and there are any changes in circumstances that may affect an each Director is contributing effectively and demonstrates authorisation previously given.
Even when provided with commitment to his role.
While being satisfied with its overall authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his duty to performance, the Board is developing action plans in respect promote the success of the Company.
of certain areas identified for improvement including, for example, a greater focus on risk management and strategy Furthermore, the Companys Articles of Association include throughout the year.
further provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at Board meetings and availability of Board In line with the Companys policy and in compliance with papers to protect a Director being in breach of duty if a the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply Company is proposing that its Board performance evaluation where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has process for 2011 will be facilitated by an external consultant, as it previously been authorised by the Directors.
was in 2008, and as it will be at least every three years thereafter.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 71 The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in establishing uK Bribery Act 2010 the Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its The UK Bribery Act 2010 received Royal Assent on 8 April 2010 effectiveness.
To identify and manage key risks, the Board and was expected to come into force in April 2011.
The UK has established a number of Group-wide procedures, policies Bribery Act 2010 establishes criminal offences of bribing and standards, has set up a framework for reporting matters of another person, being bribed, bribery of foreign officials, and significance, has authorised the Audit Committee to review the the failure of a commercial organisation to prevent bribery.
The Groups approach to risk management and the effectiveness of Group has established an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Steering the Groups financial reporting, internal control and assurance Group, chaired by the Company Secretary, which will review systems, has developed a system of regular reports from the Groups internal guidelines on anti-bribery and corruption management and has reserved specific key matters for its and guide the development and implementation of a Group decision.
The process is designed to provide assurance by Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme to assist in the way of cumulative assessment.
prevention of involvement of individuals or Group entities in unlawful activities.
The Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Key elements of the Groups system of internal control which Programme will include: a clear statement of an anti-bribery have operated throughout the year are: and anti-corruption culture fully and visibly supported by the Group financial, treasury, operating and administrative Board, corruption risk assessments across the Group, clear and policies and procedures which incorporate statements practical policies and procedures, due diligence of business of required behaviour: partners, training, monitoring and assurance.
continuous review of safety, operating and financial The Company notes that the coming into force of the UK performance of the Groups businesses: Bribery Act 2010 has been delayed due to a review of the legislation being ordered by the UK Government.
The regular reports to the Board and Group Health, Safety Company will monitor the results of the UK Governments and Environment Committee on health, safety and review as part of the development and implementation of environmental matters: its Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme.
monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting system, including monthly results, periodic short-term internal control forecasts, annual budgets and long-term plans: The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing well-defined procedures for appraisal, approval, control the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system is designed to and monitoring of major capital projects, including identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks associated acquisitions and disposals: with the Groups achievement of its business objectives, with an established methodology for ranking the level of risk a view to safeguarding shareholders investments and the in each of its business operations and the significant risk Groups assets.
This system is designed to meet the Companys issues associated therewith: particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, and is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
Because of the implementation of appropriate strategies to deal with limitations inherent in any system of internal control, such a significant risks, including measures such as insurance system can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance and use of external specialists: against material misstatement or loss.
a centrally coordinated internal audit programme The Board confirms that, throughout the year ended to support the Board in its role of ensuring a sound 31 December 2010 and up to the date of approval of this control environment: Annual Report and Accounts, there have been processes in regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant and effectiveness of internal control: and risks faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance as amended by the Flint Review.
a remuneration policy for executives which motivates them, without delivering excessive benefits or encouraging excessive risk taking.
The Board, in conjunction with management, continues to review and further develop the internal control environment where appropriate.
Details of initiatives in the area of financial risk management can be found in the Financial Review commencing on page 48, and initiatives in the area of health, safety and the environment can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report commencing on page 35. www.
com Corporate Governance 72 Directors Report: Governance governance Framework continued All acquired businesses will be brought within the Groups The Audit Committee receives reports from the head of system of internal control as soon as practicable and in internal audit on the departments work and findings and the any event within 12 months of acquisition.
ENRC PLC, in effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed and which the Group has a 26% shareholding, has not been discussed on an annual basis with the head of internal audit.
incorporated into the Groups system of internal control.
Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal controls together with agreed management action internal audit plans to resolve the issues raised.
Internal audit follows up Internal audit advises management on the extent to which the implementation of recommendations and reports systems of internal control are adequate and effective to progress to senior management and the Audit Committee.
manage business risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and A review of the internal audit function was performed during ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
the year by an external consultant which covered key areas It provides objective assurance on risk and controls to senior related to the operation of the internal audit department management, the Audit Committee and the Board.
including: i managing internal audit activities: ii quality Internal audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to assurance programme: iii engagement planning and the Group and its mandate and programme of work is performance: iv communicating the results: and approved by the Audit Committee.
Based on the approved v monitoring the progress of the implementation of audit plan, internal audit has undertaken a number of audits recommendations.
A detailed report of the findings across operations and functions to facilitate improvement of will be presented to the Audit Committee meeting the Groups internal controls, reporting findings to relevant in May 2011. operational management.
The head of internal audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee and the chairman of the Audit Committee reviews the remuneration of the head of internal audit.
Risk governance structure Board oversight Board Assurance Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management Internal audit programme Approves overall Group risk appetite Internal audit department: Assesses management Group Health, Safety and Audit Committee Remuneration Committee assurance processes Environment Committee Advises on the adequacy and Reviews the adequacy and Reviews reports of Establishes a remuneration effectiveness of effectiveness of the Groups significant health, safety policy for the Groups senior systems to manage internal control system and environmental risks and management which enables business risk actions being taken to remove them to share in the long-term Reviews reports on significant or mitigate them success of the Group risks and controls without encouraging Receives and reviews reports excessive risk taking from internal audit Identication, assessment and mitigation Risk Proling Site Assessment Risk proling exercises are conducted Risk assessments of key sites conducted by the by operational management in conjunction Group Risk Manager and independent experts with the Group Risk Manager to identify, assess and control business risks Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 M o n i t o r s s e s s A R e s 73 How we prole our risk reporting management of risk The Group, in the course of its business activities, is exposed to strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
Overall management of these risks is vested in the Board, with the Audit Committee having delegated authority for reviewing the Groups risk management framework.
The Board has approved a formalised but pragmatic Group risk management framework.
This framework is designed to provide assurance that risks are being identified and managed in a manner appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
It comprises risk identification, assessment and management processes, together with risk response and monitoring activities.
0 1 2 3 Probability significant risks Closely monitored risks Risk Management shareholder communications Framework The Board recognises the importance of good communications with shareholders and maintains an active dialogue with its key financial audiences, including institutional shareholders, sell-side analysts and potential shareholders.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer are closely involved in investor relations and the Head of Corporate Communications has day-to-day responsibility for such matters.
The Company has approved a communications policy which has been adopted throughout the Group.
The executive Directors are available, through the Head of Corporate Communications, to discuss the concerns of major The Group Risk Manager coordinates the risk assessment shareholders at any time during the year and the Chairman and identification activities, and facilitates the development is available to discuss governance and strategy with major of appropriate responses to identified risks.
Non-executive Directors, and in particular process for identifying and managing the Groups risks is set the Senior Independent Director, will continue to make out on page 72 and further information of the risks identified themselves available to attend meetings with shareholders are set out in the Risk Factors section on pages 12 to 15. in order to develop an understanding of their views.
The Company responds as necessary to requests from individual How we profile our risk shareholders on a wide range of issues.
Once the Groups significant risks have been identified, each risk is then assessed as to its probability of occurrence There is regular dialogue with key institutional shareholders and impact on the Group.
Each risk is then placed onto the and sell-side analysts to discuss strategy, financial performance Group risk map and regularly reviewed to ensure that its and investment activities throughout the Group, who also positioning continues to be an accurate representation as to from time to time visit the Groups operations.
During 2010, its probability and impact on the Group.
There are also other executive Directors and senior management met with risks which have been identified by management but which institutional investors in the UK, continental Europe, United are not considered as one of the Groups significant risks at States of America, China, Hong Kong and Singapore.
These risks are also placed onto the Group number of roadshows also took place during 2010 and risk map but are identified as risks being closely monitored attendance at several United Kingdom, European and by management.
A graphic representation of the Group risk American conferences provided a comprehensive dialogue map is shown opposite.
com p o n s e y f i t n e d I M a n a g e Impact 1 2 3 Corporate Governance 74 Directors Report: Governance governance Framework continued The Company issues quarterly production updates and All members of the Board excluding Vladimir Ni and Daulet interim management statements normally in April and Yergozhin who were unable to attend due to conflicts in October to the market.
These, together with copies of schedules attended the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
institutional analyst presentations each half year, the Groups At the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman provides a preliminary and half-yearly results and all announcements brief summary of the Companys activities for the previous issued to the London Stock Exchange, are available on the year to the shareholders.
All resolutions at the 2010 Annual Companys website www.
Furthermore, the General Meeting were voted by way of a poll.
The procedure Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within for voting on a poll follows best practice and allows the the Companies Act 2006 allowing the website to be used Company to count all votes rather than just those of as the primary means of communication with shareholders shareholders attending the meeting.
As recommended by where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
the Combined Code, all resolutions were voted separately The Company now produces an annual Super Summary and the voting results, which included all votes cast for, which is sent to all shareholders who have not requested against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged hard copy documentation to advise them of the availability prior to the meeting, were reported at the meeting and the of the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of Annual final results were made available on the Companys website General Meeting on the Companys website.
as soon as practicable after the meeting.
As in previous years, the Form of Proxy made it clear that a vote withheld is not The Shareholder Information section on pages 176 and 177 a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the contains further details on electronic communications together proportion of votes for or against a resolution.
with more general information of interest to shareholders which is also included on the Companys website.
The Directors responsibility statement for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts is set out on page 93.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 business days prior to such a Board committees meeting and it is Company policy not to combine resolutions.
The four principal committees of the Board are the Audit, All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Group Health, Safety and Environment, Nomination and Meeting at which there is an opportunity for individual Remuneration Committees.
Board committee members are shareholders to question the Chairman and, through him, appointed by the Board upon the recommendation of the the chairmen of the principal Board committees.
After the Nomination Committee, which reviews the composition of Annual General Meeting, shareholders can meet informally each committee regularly.
Committee members are expected with the Directors.
Furthermore, all shareholders are entitled to attend each committee meeting, unless there are to receive dividends, when declared, to appoint proxies to exceptional circumstances which prevent them from doing attend any general meeting of the Company and to exercise so.
The Company Secretary, Robert Welch, is secretary to voting rights.
None of the Companys shares carry any special the Group Health, Safety and Environment, Nomination rights with regard to control of the Company and there are no and Remuneration Committees and the Deputy Company restrictions on voting rights.
Major shareholders have the Secretary, Stephen Hodges, is secretary to the Audit same voting rights per share as all other shareholders.
The terms of reference of each committee are available on the Companys website www.
com and on request from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
The terms of reference of each committee are reviewed annually.
Each committee reports on its activities to the next Board meeting following its meeting.
Kazakhmys Board of Directors group Health, safety Audit nomination Remuneration and environment Committee Committee Committee Committee Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 75 Role of the Audit Committee Audit Committee Key roles and responsibilities of the Audit simon Heale Committee include: Chairman, Audit Committee monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of other members the annual and half-yearly results, interim management Clinton Dines statements and any other formal announcement Peter Hickson relating to financial performance, including a review of the financial reporting judgements which they contain: reviewing the Companys internal financial controls, The Committee is primarily responsible for reviewing internal control and risk management systems: and monitoring the integrity of financial reporting by the Company, for reviewing the Groups internal control and monitoring the role and effectiveness of the internal risk management systems, for monitoring the effectiveness audit function: of the Groups internal audit function and for overseeing the relationship with the external auditor.
establishing and overseeing the Companys relationship with the external auditor, including the monitoring of their independence and expertise, the terms of governance reference of their engagement and fees, and assessing Simon Heale and Peter Hickson have recent and relevant the effectiveness of the audit process: financial experience: their biographies are set out on page 65.
The other member of the Committee, Clinton Dines, has broad agreeing the scope of the external auditors annual commercial experience and knowledge of international audit programme and reviewing the output: businesses which he brings to the Committees deliberations.
considering and making recommendations to the Board The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary, on the appointment and re-appointment of the head of internal audit and the external auditor are normally external auditor: and invited to attend Committee meetings.
reviewing annually the Committees own performance, At the end of each meeting the Committee normally meets constitution and terms of reference.
separately with both the external auditor and head of internal audit, without management present, to facilitate the discussion of any matter relating to its remit and any issues arising from Activities in 2010 internal audits.
Arrangements have also been adopted to At its meetings in 2010, the Committee considered, ensure that the head of internal audit has direct access to the amongst other matters, the following: Committee chairman and is accountable to the Committee.
Furthermore, the chairman of the Committee meets from time Financial reporting: to time with the external auditor and senior management to reviewed annual and half-yearly results and interim ensure a full understanding of relevant issues.
management statements, including accounting policies, significant financial reporting estimates and judgements applied in preparing them and the transparency and Attendance at Audit Committee meetings clarity of the disclosures within them: The attendance of members at scheduled meetings of the Audit Committee which they were eligible to attend and the received reports from management and the external number of meetings attended during 2010 is shown below: auditor on accounting, financial reporting and taxation issues: and Number of scheduled Audit Number of reviewed the basis for preparing the Group accounts Committee scheduled Audit meetings eligible Committee on a going concern basis.
members during the year to attend meetings attended internal control: Simon Heale 6 6 received reports from management on the implementation of enhanced financial reporting procedures and controls, Clinton Dines 6 4 and IT systems: Peter Hickson 6 6 reviewed the design and effectiveness of the Groups In addition to the six scheduled meetings of the Audit system of internal control as set out on page 71 and Committee during the year, two further meetings were the disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts arranged at short notice to deal with specific matters.
com Corporate Governance 76 Directors Report: Governance governance Framework continued reviewed and recommended to the Board a revised Group other matters: Treasury Policy: and received reports from management on the establishment of a Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme reviewed the Groups processes for disclosing information which will include updated whistleblowing arrangements to the external auditor and the statement concerning such by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts.
possible legal, regulatory or other improprieties in matters of financial reporting and other matters: Risk management: reviewed and challenged the Groups significant risks reviewed the relevant disclosures in this Annual Report identified by management in the Group risk map, and and Accounts: reviewed the effectiveness of the Group risk management framework as described on page 73, and reports arising reviewed the Committees effectiveness and terms out of the risk management process: of reference: and monitored the Groups significant insurance arrangements: and received a report by an external consultant on a review of the operation of the Committee and reviewed received a presentation on a risk management review of the recommendations contained therein and the Groups operations in the East Region.
internal audit: The Committee also receives reports on developments commissioned an external review of the operation of the in financial reporting practices, legislative and regulatory internal audit function in late 2010: changes and other relevant matters so as to assist it in fulfilling its responsibilities.
approved the internal audit departments three-year strategic and annual operational plans and reviewed The Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services reports from the internal audit department relating to by the external auditor and their associates includes the control issues: and identification of certain non-audit services which the external reviewed the level of resources allocated to the internal auditor is prohibited from providing and a process through audit department to ensure the annual operational plan which other non-audit services are approved.
All non-audit could be delivered as part of the overall assessment of services require the agreement of the Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the internal audit department.
and the approval of the Committee chairman for certain engagements over 50,000 before they can be undertaken.
external auditor: approved the terms of engagement of the external auditor, There may be occasions when the external auditor is best the fees paid to them and the scope of work carried out placed to undertake accounting, advisory and consultancy by them: work on behalf of the Company due to their knowledge of the Group.
There are certain assignments which are reviewed policies on the independence and objectivity specifically prohibited.
For any other assignment in the area of the external auditor, the employment of former of accounting, advisory and consultancy work, within these employees of the external auditor, and the provision areas, the Chief Financial Officer must determine whether the of non-audit services: appointment of the external auditor would conflict with their statutory duties and if in any doubt should request approval assessed the independence and objectivity of the external from the Committee chairman.
Any assignment falling within auditor and in this process reviewed a report from the this category over 50,000 can only be awarded to the external auditor on all relationships that might reasonably external auditor after a competitive tender process.
have a bearing on their independence and the audit partner and staffs objectivity, and the related safeguards The non-audit services of the external auditor will only and procedures: be used where the Group benefits in a cost-effective manner and the external auditor maintains the necessary degree of received reports on the findings of the external auditor independence and objectivity.
Details of all non-audit services during their half-yearly review and annual audit and are reported to the Committee twice a year.
The policy will reviewed the recommendations made to management be kept under review and may be amended from time to by the external auditor and managements responses: time as necessary.
reviewed letters of representation to the external auditor: Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor for audit assessed the effectiveness of the external auditor: and and non-audit services for the year ended 31 December 2010 and information on the nature of non-audit fees appear in note recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor.
12 to the consolidated financial statements on page 131.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 77 Role of the group Health, safety group Health, safety and and environment Committee environment Committee Key roles and responsibilities of the Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee include: Philip Aiken Chairman, Group Health, Safety keeping under review the development and and Environment Committee maintenance of a framework of policies and standards for managing health, safety and environmental risks other members and their impacts on the Groups activities: Clinton Dines Peter Hickson reviewing compliance by the Group with relevant David Munro health, safety and environmental legislation: monitoring and assessing the behaviour of The Committee is primarily responsible for keeping under management toward managing health, safety and review the development and maintenance of a framework  risks: of policies and standards for identifying, assessing, managing and reporting health, safety and environmental risks and their reviewing significant safety incidents and considering impacts on the Groups activities.
the key causes, consequences and actions taken by management to prevent similar incidents occurring All meetings of the Committee during the year were held in the future: in Kazakhstan and involved site visits and meetings with management responsible for health and safety, with all making proposals to the Remuneration Committee visits lasting for two or three days.
regarding appropriate health, safety and environmental performance objectives for executive Directors and certain senior managers and, in due course, providing its Attendance at group Health, safety assessment as to performance against such objectives: and environment Committee meetings The attendance of members at scheduled meetings of the reviewing the Groups public disclosures on health, Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee which safety and environmental matters and approving these they were eligible to attend and the number of meetings as necessary: and attended during 2010 is shown below: reviewing the findings of any internal or external reports Number of scheduled Number of scheduled on the efficiency and effectiveness of the Groups Group Health, Safety Group Health, Safety health, safety and environmental systems, assessing and Environment and Environment any strategies and action plans developed by members during Committee meetings Committee meetings management in response to issues raised and where the year eligible to attend attended appropriate, making recommendations to the Board Philip Aiken 3 3 on such matters.
Clinton Dines from 25 August 2010 1 1 Peter Hickson 3 2 David Munro 3 3 www.
