REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report for 2010 which has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
Overview As the Chairman has indicated in his statement, the turnaround of Lonmin continued in 2010, with improved operational results and continued investment to lay the foundations for our future.
However we continue to have difficulties with our smelter.
The remuneration delivered to our executives reflects the fact that we have been in a turnaround, with no base salary increases and no vesting of long term incentive plans, but significant annual bonuses to reflect the hard work being put in by your management.
Committee Activities The Remuneration Committee met on its usual schedule four times during the year to consider the normal cycle of approvals.
In addition, I had a number of meetings with shareholders to gather input on the issues which had been contentious at the 2010 AGM.
These were most useful and I am grateful for your contribution.
2010 Actual Remuneration reflects turnaround Base salaries and fees for Directors were not increased at 1 October 2009.
Some senior staff in South Africa did receive increases where they were out of line with their peers or were taking on new responsibilities, in an environment with 7% inflation.
Unionised staff increases in South Africa were of the order of 10%.
We have provided a 2.7% increase in base salary to the Chief Executive at 1 October 2010 and we have provided our new CFO with a market competitive package in our standard format.
The overall result for the corporate elements of the Balanced Scorecard BSC that underlies the annual bonus plan for 2010 was a payment slightly below the target level, with 74.0% being earned out of 80% at target, compared to 65.24% out of 80% in 2009.
Production and sales exceeded market guidance, although our performance in the second half was set back by the smelter incident in May 2010.
The on-costs associated with toll refining allied to smelter repair costs and other factors meant that we missed our internal gross cost targets, although we managed to contain our unit cost increase to 2%, despite very significant inflationary pressures.
Pleasingly, the delivery of fully developed ore reserves exceeded our expectations, which creates a sustainable base for our mines and significantly reduces the risk of production shortfalls.
Despite the well known problems at the smelter, the recovery rate across the Processing Division reached record levels, reflecting significant work by management with particularly strong results from the concentrators.
Risk management and safe production are at the heart of our business and key to long term value creation.
While we were satisfied that our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate decreased marginally further below the record lows achieved in the prior year, our activities still led to the deaths of three employees, which we regret deeply and our thoughts go to the families and friends of our late colleagues.
Our mining licence is conditional upon the delivery of the targets set out in our Social & Labour Plan agreed with the South African government and three key commitments under this plan are reflected in the BSC.
While we made good progress in attracting and retaining Historically Disadvantaged South Africans in management, we have not enjoyed the same level of success in bringing female workers into our mining operations.
During the year, we refined our housing strategy and completed the conversion of five hostels into married and single accommodation units.
Outstanding awards under our long term incentive schemes use a variety of performance conditions.
While the return to profitability was welcome, recent results did not lead to significant vesting of awards.
We have also assessed the Relative Total Shareholder Return RTSR and Absolute Share Price targets over the various performance periods for subsisting awards, very few of which would be due to vest at current levels.
Clearly, pay must result from performance, so it is appropriate that these historic awards will not vest: this also provides the clearest possible incentive for management to continue to deliver the turnaround.
We look forward to more positive results in the future.
78 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 Changes in Remuneration Policy Following engagement with many of our institutional shareholders since the 2010 AGM, we have made three important changes to our plans which we believe will incentivise executive management at all levels to build and deliver long term shareholder value and will allow us to attract and retain the people necessary to do that.
The three changes are summarised below: Higher shareholding obligation Lonmin has very long term capital horizons, and there are arguments for lengthening performance or vesting periods.
However, we operate in a competitive market, and in South Africa longer vesting periods are very uncommon, and there is also a skills shortage.
The Committee concluded that by far the simplest and most appropriate means of aligning executives interests with those of shareholders was to impose a significantly increased shareholding obligation for the CEO at 300% of base salary from 150%, CFO at 200% from 100% and a new requirement for senior executives to hold between 50% and 100% of base salary.
We believe that this is a powerful way of ensuring that all our executive team approach decision-making with the long term interests of shareholders firmly in mind.
Performance condition for long term awards to include both RTSR and operational targets Having reflected on the views of key shareholders, the Committee considered a number of alternatives to the use of absolute share price targets as a performance condition for our long term incentive awards.
We decided to adopt a performance condition which is based on both the corporate elements of the BSC targets, and RTSR, which the Committee regards as the ultimate goal, in each case measured over a three year period.
We believe this strikes the right balance between incentivising those factors under managements direct control or influence while recognising that our shareholders rightly expect us to deliver value to them at levels which justify their decision to invest in Lonmin.
All of the key elements in Lonmins medium term strategy, as well as the risk profile of the business are considered in forming targets for our balanced scorecard each year.
The use of the corporate element for all staff eligible for long term awards aims to ensure that everyone is focused on the key objectives for the Company as a whole.
More focused RTSR comparator group Historically Lonmin has used a RTSR comparator group of twenty companies, many of whom are in unrelated commodities or who are major diversified groups and therefore have different value drivers and economic cycles.
To remove this distortion, we have therefore adopted a small comparator group made up of the other five pure play primary PGM producers, with whom Lonmin is directly comparable.
Proposed new Annual Share Award Plan At the 2011 AGM the Company is proposing the adoption of a new share plan, the Annual Share Award Plan.
This is a replacement for the current Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, although existing awards under the latter will continue until they reach their normal vesting date.
Further details of the proposal and the rationale for change are set out on page 87 and in the letter from the Chairman accompanying the Notice of the 2011 AGM.
This is purely an administrative matter and does not change either the quantum of remuneration or its cost to the Company.
2011 Balanced Scorecard We do not publish the details of our forthcoming scorecard in advance, but I believe the previous years arrangements worked to incentivise the right deliveries.
As a result, we have followed broadly the same format, although we have increased the target bonus weighting on safety from 10% to 15% and for production there is a 20% weighting on achievement of the overall annual result.
We have also moved away from gross cost measures and are focusing more specifically on operating unit costs.
Feedback The Committee and I would like to thank shareholders for their contribution to our consultation processes and support for the conclusions we reached.
As ever, we welcome further input, and the Committee and I would be happy to meet with shareholders to discuss any matter within our remit.
Jim Sutcliffe Chairman, Remuneration Committee www.
com 79 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Role of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is a formal committee of the Board and has powers delegated to it under the Articles of Association.
Its remit is set out in terms of reference formally adopted by the Board which were last amended in November 2005.
The Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committees main responsibilities are to: make recommendations to the Board on the Companys executive remuneration policy: determine individual remuneration packages within that policy for the Executive Directors and certain senior executives: make recommendations to the Board on the fees offered to the Non-executive Directors, after taking independent professional advice: oversee the operation of the Companys incentive schemes: review Directors expenses: and oversee the Companys executive pension arrangements, all of which it carries out on behalf of the Board.
The Committee is authorised to seek information from any Director or employee of the Group and co-opt any resources including external professional assistance it sees fit in order to fulfil its duties.
Minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors and supplemented by a verbal update from the Committee Chairman at the next Board meeting identifying any material matters which arose from the Committees work.
The Committee presents a summary of its activities to shareholders and other interested parties by means of this report and the Committee Chairman attends the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions on the Committees activities.
Composition of the Remuneration Committee All independent Directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Board, are eligible to become members of the Committee.
The Board is empowered to appoint or remove members.
Any two members of the Committee form a quorum.
The Committee comprised the following independent Directors during the year and to the date of this report: Member From To Jim Sutcliffe Chairman 28 January 2009 To date Peter Godsoe 20 September 2002 28 January 2010 Michael Hartnall 8 May 2003 To date Jonathan Leslie 2 July 2009 To date Given their diverse backgrounds and experience, the Board believes that the Committee members are able to offer a balanced view on executive remuneration issues.
Mr Sutcliffe has been chief executive of a number of businesses, including Old Mutual, the FTSE100 financial services group.
In these roles he had responsibility for designing and implementing remuneration systems in support of those companies strategic objectives.
The Board believes that these skills, knowledge and experience equip him to chair the Committee.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chief Executive, the HR Director and the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee, none of whom do so as of right and who do not attend when their own remuneration is being discussed.
During the year, the Executive Vice President: External Affairs and Human Capital was also invited to attend meetings and, as a senior South Africa based executive, is able to create context for the Companys executive remuneration deliberations by explaining the current issues in the broader workforce.
The Committee also met informally in private after meetings.
Advisors to the Remuneration Committee Throughout the year, the Committee was assisted in its work by the London office of  LLP PwC, an independent firm of remuneration consultants who were appointed by, and report to, the Committee.
The Committee has authorised PwC to support management in developing and implementing remuneration proposals, and in providing IFRS2 valuations for the Company.
During the year the South African practice of PwC was engaged by the Company to provide specialist support to the internal audit function, as described on page 72.
The Committee is confident that this does not generate a conflict of interest for either party and that the sums payable in respect of each service would not compromise the objectiveness and impartiality of the other.
In making its decisions, the Committee consults with the Chief Executive and HR Director in relation to remuneration of the other Executive Directors and senior executives.
In addition, Herbert Smith LLP has been retained on behalf of the Company, to provide information to the Committee on matters in respect of employment law and Company share schemes being considered by the Committee.
KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, the Companys external auditors, have been engaged by the Committee to provide assurance in the form of limited, specific checking procedures on the results of the BSC.
80 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE continued Activities of the Remuneration Committee The Committee normally meets four times annually and reports its material findings to the next Board meeting.
It has a standing calendar of items within its remit and in addition discusses matters arising relating to the operation of the remuneration policy.
During the year, the Committee met four times and discussed, amongst other things, the issues set out below: Meeting Standing Agenda items Other Agenda Items November Review and approval of changes to or affecting Approval of interim awards to be made under the those within the Committees purview.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Stay & Approval of prior years annual bonus payments.
Review and approval of design of current years annual bonus plan.
Consideration of performance conditions on maturing awards and, if justified, approval of DABP vesting.
Review of status of performance conditions attaching to outstanding awards.
Approval of the Remuneration Committee Report and any relevant Annual General Meeting business.
Review of Directors expenses for the quarter to end September.
May Review and approval of changes to or affecting Consideration of feedback from key institutional those within the Committees purview.
investors and their representative groups on Review of projected short term incentives for the the Companys reward practices and current year.
recommendation of changes if appropriate.
Review of status of performance conditions Consideration and approval to reappoint KPMG attaching to outstanding awards.
to provide assurance on the BSC and authorisation Review of Directors expenses for the quarter to of Chairman to approve in future years.
end December and end March.
Consideration and approval of the remuneration for Simon Scott.
July Review and approval of changes to or affecting Review of shareholding guideline for Directors those within the Committees purview.
Review of projected short term incentives for the Review and assessment of the relationship current year.
between the Companys incentive arrangements Approval of awards to be made under the LTIP and and its risk management practices.
S&P including setting of performance conditions.
Approval of LTIP and S&P vesting.
September Review and approval of changes to or affecting Approval of awards to be made under LTIP and those within the Committees purview.
Salary review for Executive Directors and senior executives.
Review of projected short term incentives for the current year.
Review of remuneration strategy for the new financial year including design of the short term incentive plan.
Review of Directors expenses for the quarter to end June.
Attendance at the Committee meetings was as follows: Number of meetings Number of Member held during time in office meetings attended Peter Godsoe 11 Michael Hartnall 44 Jonathan Leslie 44 Jim Sutcliffe 44 www.
com 81 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 STRUCTURE AND ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE continued The Combined Code The effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee and its Chairman were reviewed by an external adviser as part of the Board evaluation process.
There were no material issues identified in, or actions arising from, that review.
The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year, complied with all of the provisions relating to Directors remuneration set out in the Combined Code.
Relations with shareholders The Committee is strongly committed to open and transparent dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters.
The Committee consults extensively with key institutional investors and various representative bodies to obtain their views on the remuneration packages of the Directors and senior executives and support for any proposed changes.
At the AGM held in January 2010, the advisory vote on the remuneration report received the support of 83% of those voting, whilst 8% of the register abstained or withheld their votes.
After the AGM, a number of meetings were held with key institutional shareholders and the ABI, Risk Metrics and NAPF.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Company Secretary attended these meetings at which the Companys remuneration policy was discussed.
Feedback from these meetings was provided to the Committee and was taken into account when the proposals in respect of changes to the shareholding guidelines and performance condition for the long term incentive plans were discussed and approved.
We are grateful for the time and ideas provided to us by these important stakeholders.
REMUNERATION POLICY Non-executive Directors The Board, with the benefit of independent professional advice, determines the fees of the Non-executive Directors, which are designed to ensure that the Company attracts and retains individuals of the highest calibre and pays in line with market norms.
When deciding an appropriate level of fee for the responsibilities taken on by the Non-executive Directors, the Board considers the responsibility and time commitment required to fulfil the role, taking into account the number of meetings required to be attended, the time required for reading Board and other papers, the duties associated with membership or chairmanship of Board Committees or in the case of Roger Phillimore chairmanship of the Board, and the overseas travel required.
The Board commissions an independent review of Non-executive Directors fees every two years.
Executive Directors and senior executives The Committees remuneration policy is geared towards providing a level of remuneration which attracts, retains and motivates Directors and senior executives of a suitable calibre to execute the Companys strategic plans but, at the same time, ensures remuneration is consistent with best practice and aligned with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
The Committees strategy is a carefully balanced blend of fixed and performance-related pay geared to deliver over the short and longer terms and to recognise each individuals contribution.
The Committee also has regard to the significant level of competition for experienced, talented managers in the mining industry, both globally and specifically within South Africa.
Importantly, no Director plays any part in setting his own remuneration.
The structure of the remuneration currently offered to the Executive Directors and senior executives and the underlying principles on which the package is predicated are detailed below.
Policy Basis of Delivery Base salary Executive Directors and UK senior executives are Monthly in cash.
benchmarked against other UK listed companies of Reviewed annually in September, with changes taking effect comparable size or where appropriate a peer group 1 October.
of international companies in the mining sector.
Simon Scott and other senior executives based in South Africa Other senior executives in South Africa are benchmarked have a total cost to company TCTC package, with all benefits against South African market practice.
in kind converted into a cash allowance within this structure.
Reflect market median levels based on role and individual This is in line with market practice in South Africa.
in short and long term incentive schemes is in addition to TCTC.
Pension Provide a market competitive level of provision with good Defined contribution funding or cash salary supplement at flexibility while minimising risk to the Company.
All of Lonmins defined benefit pension plans have been wound up in an orderly manner and the trusts dissolved.
82 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 REMUNERATION POLICY continued Policy Basis of Delivery Annual Bonus Incentivise achievement of annual objectives consistent A BSC approach using a combination of overall corporate with the medium to long term strategic needs of the performance and performance against personal objectives.
business, and recognising the risks borne.
There are three defined levels of performance for each element, Mandatory deferral of 50% into Lonmin shares for and the actual result is translated into bonus earned by three years.
The levels are: Threshold: the minimum level of attainment for which the Committee felt payment could be warranted, with 75% of the target amount for that element being payable.
Target: normally based on the Companys budget, at which 100% of the bonus for that element becomes payable.
Stretch: representing a significant level of outperformance and also acting as a cap on the bonus due for that element, with 150% of the target amount for that element being payable.
The scheme design provides for payment for the year ending 30 September 2010 of 167% of base salary to Executive Directors if overall performance on each element was at target levels with the maximum stretch bonus therefore being capped at 250% of base salary.
The bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors is weighted 80% on the delivery of corporate targets and 20% on the delivery of personal objectives.
For other executives, the arrangements are consistent, with greater weight being given to the elements for which the individual is responsible.
For short and long term incentive purposes only, a notional base salary equal to 80% of TCTC will be used for Simon Scott.
If at the annual review the Company decides to increase his TCTC, the notional base salary will also be increased by the same percentage.
No further performance conditions are applied because performance has been tested in advance.
LTIP Incentivise long term value creation, and alignment with Annual awards in restricted shares, subject to performance shareholder interests.
Upper quartile performance should lead to potential For 2010, award is subject to both the corporate elements of upper quartile total reward.
the BSC and RTSR, both measured over a three year period further details are shown below.
Maximum reward will only occur if every item on the corporate BSC for each of the three years meets stretch and RTSR exceeds median by 10% per annum.
Prior years LTIP awards have had conditions that include EBIT, absolute share price and RTSR.
South African senior executive participants receive awards which are 50% based on performance conditions and 50% on retention which is in line with local practice for share awards.
Older Plans Awards under a number of older plans are still extant.
These include matching awards under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP we no longer offer matching in respect of current awards and options under the Executive Share Option Schemes ESOS.
Full details of these plans are shown in the Appendix to this report, and the value of current Directors interests and receipts under these old plans are shown in the relevant table.
Other benefits Car or cash car allowance Fuel Private Medical plan Income continuance insurance Life assurance Note South African packages are provided on a TCTC basis.
com 83 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 REMUNERATION POLICY continued Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The Committee believes that it is vital to be able to offer long term incentives to ensure that those best placed to deliver value for shareholders have a direct personal interest in so doing.
The annual granting of LTIP awards to employees including the Executive Directors and senior executives is also intended to provide participants with the opportunity to earn sufficient reward, by delivering value to shareholders, such that they are motivated to stay in the Groups employment.
No formal limit on grant size is contained in the LTIP rules, but when the plan was introduced in 2004 the Company gave a commitment that in normal circumstances these would be limited to 150% of salary, and this remains the Committees position and policy.
An award under the LTIP entitles the recipient to receive shares at no cost, subject to attainment of stretching performance conditions which are detailed further below.
The performance conditions in each years awards are summarised below: % of Basis of component of Year of award performance conditions Performance conditions Performance award released 2006 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold median 35% 20 comparator companies Target 75th percentile 60% Stretch 90th percentile 100% 50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2008 Threshold 35% Target 63% Stretch 100% 2007 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold median 20% 20 comparator companies Target 75th percentile 70% Stretch 90th percentile 100% 50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2009 Threshold 20% Target 60% Stretch 100% 2008 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold median 20% 20 comparator companies Target 75th percentile 70% Stretch 90th percentile 100% 50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2010 Threshold 0% Stretch 100% 2009 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold median 20% 20 comparator companies Target 75th percentile 70% Stretch 90th percentile 100% 50% Share Price Lonmin Plc share price on Threshold 20% London Stock Exchange Stretch 100% From 2010 onwards, a new performance condition has been adopted which combines the results of the corporate BSC over a three year period and TSR relative to a group of five PGM producers.
This is described in detail on page 85 below.
Stay & Prosper Plan S&P For historic reasons, awards to middle and junior managers in our South African operating companies are made under a separate plan from the LTIP.
Since the introduction of this plan in 2005 a number of decisions have meant that its design has converged with that of the LTIP, from which it now differs solely in the treatment of awards following a change of control of Lonmin Plc.
Should such an eventuality arise, awards crystallise in full but are only payable on their normal vesting date, subject broadly to continued employment.
The Executive Directors are not permitted to participate in this Plan.
As with the LTIP, awards are linked to a notional number of shares which are awarded at nil cost, the vesting of which is subject to continued employment as to half of the award and performance targets EBIT for relevant financial year until 2008 and for 2009 the same performance targets as the LTIP to the other half.
South African practice is to award shares without performance conditions, and we do not believe we could attract and retain the right people with the full award subject to performance conditions.
Participants receive shares or cash based on the prevailing market value of that proportion of the total award that vests at the end of three years.
Our current policy is that such awards are settled through the issue of new shares.
84 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 REMUNERATION POLICY continued Performance conditions The Committee considers the appropriateness of proposed performance conditions prior to approving the grant of each award.
RTSR has always been widely used as part or the whole of the performance condition.
The Committee believes that this measure links the actual returns delivered to shareholders with the remuneration earned by the executives through the successful delivery of our strategy.
In addition, the Committee believes that the relative nature of this test provides a measurable and objective reflection of true performance for shareholders in light of the variability introduced into reported results by metal prices and exchange rates particularly between the South African Rand and the US Dollar.
Prior to 2009, in order to create a more direct linkage between our profit and the remuneration of the Companys executives and managers, an EBIT performance condition was introduced for awards made under the LTIP and the S&P, as well as the DABP, which was then being used to make matching awards.
During 2009 the significant dislocations in the financial and PGM markets made forecasting EBIT three years forward exceptionally challenging.
The Committee perceived that there was a significant risk that any forecasts could prove to be materially incorrect and either result in excessive reward or gross unfairness either to the plan participants or to shareholders.
After considering a range of possible performance conditions, the Committee decided to use an absolute share price target for 2009 which the Committee felt was a fair metric and one which was appropriate to the Companys needs.
Following the meetings with key institutional shareholders during 2010, the Committee decided to introduce a new performance condition for the future.
After exploring a number of options, the Committee concluded that metrics which incentivise medium term value creation existed within the corporate element of the BSC.
Moreover, the BSC has been and will be constructed to tie closely to the Companys overall strategy and has served the Company well through stimulating delivery of key targets.
It is of course the sustained delivery of annual performance that delivers long term success.
The Committee therefore, after further shareholder consultation, decided to adopt a performance condition which is based on both the corporate elements of the BSC targets and the RTSR, which the Committee regards as the ultimate goal, in each case measured over a three year period.
The matrix below illustrates the vesting outcomes as a % of the face value of the award : Average BSC performance % of face value vesting RTSR factor Threshold Threshold Target Stretch Max BSC factor 0.0x 0.5x 1.0x 1.5x RTSR performance Median 5% pa 0.0x 0% 0% 0% 0% Median 5% pa 0.5x 0% 8.33% 16.66% 25% Median 1.0x 0% 16.66% 33.33% 50% Median 5% pa 1.5x 0% 25% 50% 75% Median 10% pa 2.0x 0% 33.33% 66.66% 100% The matrix shows that the result is more geared to RTSR than to the BSC even with every BSC item delivering at stretch, with median RTSR the plan delivers only half the face value.
On the other hand, it allows the Company to recognise at a low level, in difficult times, the hard work that needs to be done for quite long periods before the delivery is recognised in the share price.
We also believe that the use of annual bonus targets to influence our long term incentive programme helps mitigate the risk of short termism, particularly where the delivery of results in one year would be at the expense of succeeding years.
Performance conditions are assessed using independently verified data.
RTSR is assessed by PwC, acting on behalf of the Committee, using data normalised into US Dollars sourced from Datastream or other independent providers.
EBIT assessment uses the audited financial results of the Company and the results of the BSC are only declared after assurance has been provided by KPMG.
Performance hurdle disclosure The Committee does not disclose the EBIT or share price targets in advance for reasons of commercial sensitivity and because of regulatory constraints, but will do so retrospectively at the conclusion of the relevant performance period.
It believes the profit and share price targets to be stretching, yet realistic.
Price methodology The price used to determine the number of shares awarded under the DABP, LTIP and S&P is calculated using the average midmarket closing Lonmin share price on the London Stock Exchange for the final twenty working days of the last complete calendar month before the date of award.
com 85 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 REMUNERATION POLICY continued Comparator group of companies for RTSR The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the comparator group used for assessing RTSR to ensure that it remains relevant to the Companys stated strategy and therefore aligns executives appropriately with shareholders.
For awards made from 2006 to 2009, the Committee used a group of twenty metals and mining companies to provide a broadly based comparator group with whom the Company is likely to be in competition for executive talent.
These companies are as follows: African Rainbow Minerals Gold Fields Limited Anglo American plc Impala Platinum Holdings Limited Anglo Gold Ashanti Limited Johnson Matthey plc Anglo Platinum Ltd MMC Norilsk Nickel Antofagasta plc Rio Tinto plc Aquarius Platinum Stillwater Mining BHP Billiton plc Teck Cominco Exxaro Resources Umicore First Quantum Minerals Vale Gold Corp Xstrata plc In measuring RTSR, Lonmins relative position in the group is calculated, and reward only accrues if Lonmin ranks median or higher.
For awards made from August 2010 onwards, the comparator group was changed to a smaller more relevant group of the five other primary PGM producers, with whose businesses Lonmin is directly comparable, four of whom also operate principally in South Africa.
These companies are as follows: Anglo Platinum Ltd Northam Platinum Aquarius Platinum Stillwater Mining Impala Platinum Holdings Limited Using a ranking approach with only five peers would not give scope to differentiate between differing levels of RTSR performance, and the outcome would be extremely sensitive to the results of individual comparators.
We therefore now compare Lonmins TSR with that of the median of the Group in order to determine the degree of relative performance.
Share schemes limitations Except under the Sharesave Scheme, no options have been granted that have an exercise price at a discount to the market price at the time the exercise price was set.
No options or awards of any kind have been granted to Non-executive Directors.
Directors are strongly encouraged to hold the shares issued to them upon the exercise of options and awards and are subject to a shareholding obligation.
Dilution Options granted under ESOS and Sharesave with the exception of the December 2005 award are satisfied with new-issued shares.
Awards under the LTIP or DABP Matched Awards are satisfied either with shares purchased in the market by the Companys offshore employee benefit trust or the issue of new shares.
Awards under the S&P are currently settled in new issue shares, but could be settled in cash at the Committees discretion.
The rules of the Companys employee share plans limit the total commitment to issue new shares across all plans to 10% of the issued share capital.
As the Company does not operate all-employee schemes due to exchange controls and for other local South African reasons, shareholders have agreed on a number of occasions that the whole of this 10% can be used for discretionary share plans.
In practice, the total commitment is well within the 5% inner limit that would otherwise apply.
The table below shows the Companys current commitment to issue new shares in respect of its long term incentive schemes assuming 1 all performance conditions are met, 2 all award holders remain in employment to the vesting date and 3 the Committee continues to settle S&P awards in shares in line with its current policy: % of % of issued share issued share 30.09.09 capital 30.09.10 capital Undiluted issued share capital refer to note 26 to the accounts 193,054,260 202,292,445 The Lonmin Executive Share Option Scheme 200,044 0.10 137,972 0.07 The Lonmin Share Option Scheme 10,721 0.01 1,950 0.00 The Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1994 17,914 0.01 1,959 0.00 Long Term Incentive Plan 644,085 0.33 1,077,030 0.53 Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 87,928 0.05 73,832 0.04 Stay & Prosper Plan cash or share settled 1,566,574 0.81 2,128,587 1.05 Sub-total: contingent obligation to allot shares 2,527,266 1.31 3,421,330 1.69 Total diluted issued share capital 195,581,526 n a 205,713,775 n a 86 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 REMUNERATION POLICY continued Planned future policy changes Following a recent ruling by the South African Revenue Service in relation to South African income tax legislation, the Company no longer considers that the current structure of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan is cost effective for the Company or tax efficient for participants.
We are therefore proposing the adoption of a replacement share plan, the Annual Share Award Plan, at the 2011 AGM.
This is in substitution for the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan which will not be used again, save that subsisting awards will continue to be governed by the terms of that plan until they reach their normal vesting date.
The adoption of the new plan will not affect the overall quantum of executive reward, with executives aggregate maximum cash bonus potential and award potential under the new plan remaining constant with the current annual bonus maximum.
The Company does not consider, therefore, that there will be any increased cost to the Company in operating the new arrangements and, for executives, there will be no reduction in the period over which they are expected to maintain their investment in the Companys shares, or the level of their interests in those shares.
Replacing the Companys Deferred Annual Bonus Plan with the new plan is designed to improve the ease of administration and to preserve the tax efficiency of the Companys pay arrangements in South Africa.
Full details of the Annual Share Award Plan are contained in the circular published by the Company in relation to the 2011 AGM.
Other than in this respect, the Company does not anticipate any changes to the structure of the Executive Directors and senior executives remuneration packages in 2011 and the same annual bonus structure will apply as for 2009 and 2010.
As a result, aside from modest salary increases in October 2008 and 2010, the Executive Directors potential earnings have not changed since October 2007.
Non-Group directorships No Executive Director holds any executive directorship or appointment outside the Group.
It is both the Companys policy and generally a requirement of the individuals contract of employment that no Executive Director may take up such an appointment without the approval of the Board.
The Board believes that, in the right circumstances, the holding of non-executive directorships and similar appointments by Executive Directors can be useful and appropriate if they help those involved gain additional skills and experience or promote the interests of the Group, providing they do not necessitate an excessive time commitment.
The Board would not normally agree to an Executive Director taking on more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company or the chairmanship of such a company.
Whilst it would be considered on a case-by-case basis, any individual holding such a role outside the Group would generally be permitted to retain any fees or other payments relating to that appointment.
REMUNERATION IN 2010 Directors remuneration The total remuneration paid to all Directors in 2010 was 4,039,441, which compared with 5,153,091 for the previous year.
Non-executive Directors The most recent review of Non-executive fees was in June 2009.
No increases were made to the base fees, committee chairmanship or membership fees at that time.
Key: C Chairman, S Senior Independent Director, M Member Note: Fees disclosed for Sivi Gounden relate to the period 1 October 2009 to 16 October 2009, for Peter Godsoe to the period 1 October 2009 to 28 January 2010, for Len Konar to the period 11 March 2010 to 30 September 2010 and for Cyril Ramaphosa to the period 13 July 2010 to 30 September 2010. www.
com 87 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 REMUNERATION IN 2010 continued Executive Directors Fixed pay, pensions and annual bonuses Pension cash Total for Total for Salary Benefits payment in lieu Annual year to year to or TCTC in kind of pension Bonuses 30.09.10 30.09.09 1 2 3 4 Ian Farmer 550,000 176,120 198,900 909,315 1,834,335 1,695,223 Alan Ferguson 487,600 17,641 146,280 806,149 1,457,670 1,324,993 Simon Scott 6,369 6,369 Total 3,298,374 3,020,216 This table and the associated footnotes have been subject to audit by KPMG Audit Plc.
1 For 2009, the Committee considered base salaries in the light of current economic conditions and the overall remuneration policy.
Accordingly, it agreed that the CEO and CFOs pay should be frozen at 2008 levels.
Pay disclosed for Simon Scott relates to the period 27 September 2010 to 30 September 2010.
Simon Scott joined Lonmin on a TCTC of R 4,500,000 per annum.
2 Benefits in kind comprise cars, fuel, healthcare and medicals.
The costs of life assurance and income continuance insurance are not reflected as the Company is the named beneficiary of these policies, and they do not form part of the taxable pay of the Director concerned.
Ian Farmers total benefits include costs of 149,334 relating to his secondment to South Africa including housing, home leave and removals.
3 Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson have opted for their pension entitlements of 30% of base salary to be paid in cash.
The figure disclosed for Alan Ferguson relates to this cash payment and for Ian Farmer to this cash payment and a pension supplement as explained further below.
4 50% of the net bonus received by Ian Farmer is subject to compulsory deferral into shares.
As he only joined on 27 September 2010, Simon Scott did not receive a bonus for the year ended 30 September 2010.
5 In addition to the amounts in the table, the Executive Directors received long term share incentives as detailed elsewhere in this report.
The Directors total emoluments for the year do not include any fair value share option award charges.
6 Although the Groups reporting currency is US Dollars, these figures are stated in Sterling.
Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson are paid in Sterling whilst Simon Scott is paid in Rand.
7 No Director received any expense allowances during the year.
Purview Group In addition to the Executive Directors, the remuneration of eighteen other senior executives, the majority of whom are employed in South Africa, fall within the purview of the Remuneration Committee.
The base salaries of those individuals based in the United Kingdom, or the TCTC of individuals employed in South Africa fall within the following bands: Salary band 000 Number of executives 100 to 150 3 150 to 200 7 200 to 250 4 250 to 300 3 300 to 400 1 Exchange rate used 1: R10.87 As for the Executive Directors, the base salaries and TCTCs of the Purview Group executives in the United Kingdom and South Africa respectively were held at 2008 levels.
The Purview Group executives also participate in the same long term and short term incentive arrangements as the Executive Directors although with lower grant levels.
In addition, half of their LTIP awards are subject to performance conditions and the remaining half solely on continued employment, in recognition of the severe competition for executive talent in South Africa and local practice.
Pensions Closed defined benefit pension scheme arrangements All UK employees with a final salary linked benefit at the point when the plan was withdrawn in June 2007 have been provided with a salary supplement for five years from that date, in partial compensation for the loss of the link to future salary growth for their accrued benefits.
Ian Farmer benefits from this provision and currently receives a non-pensionable and non-bonusable salary supplement of 33,900 per annum.
The Company has increased certain insurance covers for this group, to reflect the loss of the spouses and ill-health early retirement pensions provided by the defined benefit scheme.
Pension supplement Following the closure of the Final Salary scheme, UK based executives have been provided with a pension supplement, expressed as a percentage of their base salary, which may be paid at their choice as a pension contribution or an additional taxable cash payment.
Defined contribution arrangements The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme, the Lonmin Retirement Plan, for the benefit of its UK employees.
This is a registered arrangement structured as a group personal pension scheme.
No Executive Directors are members of this scheme.
In South Africa the Company and Group participate in an industry-wide defined contribution pension plan.
In respect of Simon Scott, the Company is deducting 8.80% from his TCTC as the Company contribution to the South African pension plan and he has elected to contribute a further 3.21% of his TCTC to the plan.
88 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 REMUNERATION IN 2010 continued Pensions continued Pensions limitations No element of any Directors remuneration other than base salary is pensionable.
Except as disclosed above, the Company has given no undertakings to arrange or bear the cost of any other pension benefits for any Director.
No former Director enjoys pension benefits in excess of those that would have been provided, in accordance with the historic provisions of the trust deeds and rules, to all members of the relevant former scheme.
Life assurance From 1 July 2007, as a former member of the UK defined benefit pension scheme, Ian Farmer has been provided with life assurance benefits of eight times salary, for the reasons noted above, as a contractual benefit.
Alan Ferguson and Simon Scott are entitled to life assurance benefits of four times annual salary under their contracts of employment.
The Company has secured all of these benefits through life assurance policies written as excepted life arrangements.
Annual bonus 2010 required a continuing focus on the Companys cost base, while delivering increased production targets and minimising the risks to the Company safety, development, plant maintenance.
The BSC below was therefore designed to ensure the Company focused on delivering against our production and cost control targets.
These annual bonus plan targets largely reflect the corporate Key Performance Indicators, as shown on pages 34 and 35.
% of bonus Actual opportunity payment on offer for the year Target Actual for target % of bonus Metric performance performance performance opportunity Corporate Safety: improvement in lost time injury Percentage improvement on 5% Marginal 10% 7.5% frequency rate prior year with 4 fatalities or improvement more means zero achievement on FY2009 Community HDSAs in management 179 163 3.3% 2.6% Women in mining 1,240 770 3.3% 0% Hostel conversions 55 3.3% 3.3% Platinum sales 1st 6 mth Pt oz target 291,000 291,921 8% 8.6% Platinum sales 2nd 6 mth Pt oz target 424,000 418,294 12% 10.1% Available ore reserves Square metres 2,250,000 2,693,184 10% 15.0% Gross operating costs Rm 9,035 9,341 5% 0% excluding joint venture ore purchases Operating unit costs R oz 6,500 6,773 15% 11.9% PGM instantaneous recovery rate % 74.4% 79.1% 10% 15.0% 80% 74.0% 1 Personal 20% 25.0% 1 Total 100% 99.0% 1 Average for Ian Farmer and Alan Ferguson.
All results have been agreed to supporting data by KPMG and the Committee has subjected the scorecard to a detailed assessment before authorising payment.
The Committee considered whether the formulaic result was appropriate, decided it was and made no discretionary changes.
At the beginning of the year it was agreed that of the bonus achieved by Ian Farmer, 50% would be paid in cash and the remaining 50% of the total would be subject to a compulsory deferral into Lonmin shares.
These shares are subject to a holding period of three years but will only be transferred to Ian Farmer if he remains employed over that period save for good leavers.
There is no performance condition attached to the transfer of these shares.
Due to his known departure, it was agreed that Alan Fergusons bonus for 2010 would be paid wholly in cash.
Long term Incentives LTIP Awards For 2010, LTIP awards were made to Ian Farmer and a number of senior executives on 2 August 2010 when the closing midmarket share price was 1632p.
In addition an award was made to Simon Scott and other senior finance new hires in South Africa on 29 September 2010 when the closing mid-market share price was 1667p.
The award made to Ian Farmer was equivalent to 150% of base salary and Simon Scott received an award which was equivalent to 100% of his notional base salary.
In accordance with his leaving arrangements described further below on page 94, Alan Ferguson did not receive an award.
The awards are subject to the achievement of the performance conditions as described in the table above.
Details of the awards are included in the table of Directors share interests.
com 89 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 REMUNERATION IN 2010 continued Long term Incentives continued Maturities Two LTIP awards, one S&P award and one Matched Award under the DABP reached their maturity date during the year: On 8 December 2009, awards made under the LTIP on 8 December 2006 matured.
For the RTSR half of the award, Lonmin finished below threshold and therefore none of that half of the award vested.
For the EBIT half of the award, 61% vested.
The outcome of the EBIT half of the award was linked to the underlying audited EBIT for the year ended 30 September 2008 of $963 million and share of joint venture profits of $18 million.
The vesting scale required a threshold of $775 million at which 35% would vest, target of $1,000 million at which 63% would vest and stretch of $1,250 million at which 100% would vest with straight-line interpolation between these points.
Brokers EBIT forecasts at the time the performance targets were set ranged from $695 million to $1,490 million with a consensus of $980 million.
Overall, 31% of the award vested and shares to this value were transferred to participants.
On 22 August 2010, awards made under the LTIP on 22 August 2007 matured.
For both the RTSR and EBIT portions of the award, Lonmin finished below threshold and therefore none of the award vested.
The outcome of the EBIT half of the award was linked to the underlying audited EBIT for the year ended 30 September 2009 for which Lonmin reported an operating loss.
The vesting scale required a threshold of $925 million at which 20% would vest, target of $1,175 million at which 60% would vest and stretch of $1,325 million at which 100% would vest with straight-line interpolation between these points.
Brokers EBIT forecasts at the time the performance targets were set ranged from $614 million to $1,440 million with a consensus of $1,172 million.
On 22 August 2010, awards made under the S&P Plan on 22 August 2007 vested.
As the EBIT performance condition was the same as the LTIP above, none of the performance award vested.
The retention award 50% of total vested in full.
The Matched Award under the DABP granted on 22 December 2006 was subject to two performance conditions.
The EBIT performance condition was for target underlying audited EBIT for the year ended 30 September 2009 of $750 million, set when the analysts consensus stood at $588 million, against which the Company delivered a loss of $ 129 million.
When the RTSR performance condition was tested at the end of the performance period Lonmin ranked below median.
As a result, all of the Matched Awards lapsed on 22 December 2009.
Make up of Executive Directors remuneration The remuneration attributable to each of the two Executive Directors serving for the whole year in respect of the year comprised the following broad elements: Ian Farmer Alan Ferguson 8% 10% 1% 9% 24% 19% 34% 55% 40% Base salary 550,000 Base salary 487,600 Annual bonus 806,149 Annual bonus 909,315 LTIP 440,325 LTIP 0 Pension 198,900 Pension 146,280 Benefits-in-kind 176,120 Benefits-in-kind 17,641 Notes to the charts 1 Benefits in kind are stated at their taxable value or the cost incurred by the Company where not taxable.
For further details, refer footnote 2 to the table on page 88.
2 The cash bonus amount is the pre-tax amount payable in respect of the year and is stated before deferral.
3 The LTIP is stated at fair value assuming the BSC multiplier is at the target level and using a valuation consistent with IFRS for the RTSR multiplier.
However, if the threshold conditions noted elsewhere in this report are not achieved, no payment will be made.
4 Pension is cash amounts paid to the executive.
1 The value is calculated using the closing middle market quotation for Lonmin shares at 30 September 2010 1669p and is stated where relevant net of exercise costs.
2 The closing middle market quotation for the Companys ordinary shares, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, was 1669p on 30 September 2010, and the price ranged between 1355p and 2157p during the financial year.
The schemes under which these awards options were granted are: SAYE Options granted under the Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme DABP MA Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Matched Awards made under the Shareholder Value Incentive Plan LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan Awards made under the Shareholder Value Incentive Plan The performance conditions are fully explained in earlier narrative, but are briefly: a No performance condition is attached to SAYE options.
b 50% of award linked to TSR exceeding TSR of comparator companies with vesting schedule as described and remaining 50% of award linked to EBIT performance.
c One for one performance award of which 50% is linked to TSR exceeding TSR of comparator companies with vesting schedule as described and remaining 50% of award linked to EBIT performance.
There is also a one for one retention award 1 on the first 3rd of the deferred bonus as described earlier.
d 50% of awards linked to TSR exceeding TSR of comparator companies with vesting schedule as described and remaining 50% of award linked to absolute share price.
e TSR exceeds TSR of comparator companies with vesting schedule as described and absolute share price.
f 50% of awards linked to average of the results of the BSC for each of the three years in the performance period and 50% linked to TSR.
com 91 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 REMUNERATION IN 2010 continued Directors options and awards continued Value at risk Based on the shares and share options and awards held at 30 September 2010 assuming full vesting and after accounting for any relevant exercise costs, the following table illustrates the value each Executive Director has at risk and how this component of personal wealth has fluctuated during the year, using the lowest, highest and closing share prices for the year of 1355p, 2157p and 1669p respectively, for illustrative purposes: Executive Directors Number of shares Low High Closing Ian Farmer 65,323 885,127 1,409,017 1,090,241 Alan Ferguson 33,748 457,285 727,944 563,254 Simon Scott Executive Directors Number of options awards Low High Closing Ian Farmer 147,626 2,000,332 3,184,293 2,463,878 Alan Ferguson 66,543 901,658 1,435,333 1,110,603 Simon Scott 20,434 276,881 440,761 341,043 Share price performance The primary role of the Directors is to deliver value to shareholders and it is against this backdrop that their remuneration must be assessed.
The graphs below show the value, at 30 September 2010, of 100 invested in Lonmins shares five years previously, compared with the current value in Sterling terms of the same amount invested at the same date in the FTSE 100 index and the FTSE Mining Sector, assuming dividends were reinvested in each case.
The Company is a constituent of these indices and the Board believes that these comparisons most fairly illustrate the Companys performance in delivering value to shareholders relative to both the market as a whole and its UK listed peers.
TSR v FTSE 100 TSR v FTSE Mining 350 350 300 300 250 250 200 200 150 150 100 100 50 50 0 0 Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep 05 06 07 08 09 10 05 06 07 08 09 10 Lonmin net total return FTSE 100 net total return Lonmin net total return FTSE Mining net total return 92 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 REMUNERATION IN 2010 continued Directors shareholding obligation Ultimately, the Committee believes that the most powerful incentive for the actions of the Directors to be aligned with shareholders interests is for the Directors to build up and retain personally significant investments in the Companys shares.
A revised policy was issued in July 2010 in response to views expressed by some shareholders that the period over which reward is paid should be longer than the three year vesting period of our long term incentive plans.
Instead of extending either the performance or vesting periods, the Committee decided to address this concern through an enhanced shareholding obligation.
The Board expects the CEO to maintain a shareholding including vested but unexercised share incentives equal in value to 300% of his base salary increased from 150% and the CFO 200% of his notional base salary increased from 100%.
The revised share ownership requirements should be achieved within five years of the approval of the revised policy or the date of appointment or promotion, if later.
Non-executive Directors continue to have a requirement to hold 100% of base fees.
In this way, shareholder value becomes a paramount principle underlying all Board decisions, since real personal wealth will be at stake.
At the end of the year, by reference to the share price at that date 1669p share ownership levels were as follows: Market value of shareholding at 30 September 2010 as a % of base salary fees Ian Farmer 198 Alan Ferguson 116 Simon Scott 0 Karen fide Segundo 70 Michael Hartnall 126 Len Konar 0 Jonathan Leslie 164 David Munro 257 Roger Phillimore 152 Cyril Ramaphosa 0 Jim Sutcliffe 151 Directors shareholdings The beneficial interests of the Directors in office during the year are shown below: 1 30.09.10 30.09.09 Executive Directors Ian Farmer 65,323 58,985 Alan Ferguson 33,748 17,007 Simon Scott Non-executive Directors Karen fide Segundo 2,108 2,108 Michael Hartnall 4,888 4,888 Len Konar Jonathan Leslie 4,900 0 David Munro 7,700 7,700 Roger Phillimore 22,750 22,750 3 Cyril Ramaphosa Jim Sutcliffe 4,536 4,536 Former Directors Peter Godsoe 4,106 4,106 Sivi Gounden 8,384 8,384 1.
As at 30.09.10 or earlier date of retirement from the board.
As at 30.09.09 or later date of appointment to the board.
Cyril Ramaphosa is Executive Chairman of and a major shareholder in Shanduka Group, which controls Incwala Resources, Lonmins BEE partner.
As such, Incwala owns 18% of the share capital of Eastern Platinum Ltd and Western Platinum Ltd and 26% of Akanani Mining Pty Ltd, being Lonmins principal operating subsidiaries.
As a result, Mr Ramaphosa has a significant, but indirect, personal interest in Lonmins business.
There were no changes in the serving Directors interests from 30 September 2010 to the date of this report.
com 93 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 REMUNERATION IN 2010 continued Service contracts and other contractual arrangements The Company complies fully with the provisions of the Combined Code relating to service contracts.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for settling any payment to be made when an Executive Directors employment ends and has full regard to the provisions of the Combined Code and other components of best practice in this area.
Severance arrangements On 22 October 2009 the Company announced that it intended to move its operational headquarters from London to Johannesburg and confirmed that Alan Ferguson would not relocate to South Africa as part of this move.
Alan will relinquish his position of CFO on 15 November 2010 but will continue as an Executive Director until 31 December 2010.
As reported in 2009, the Committee felt it would be inappropriate to offer him an LTIP award in 2010, and in this light believed it was appropriate and in the Companys best interests to offer him a one-off non-pensionable cash payment of up to 125% of his base salary dependent on satisfactory personal performance through the period of transition from London to Johannesburg.
Specifically, Alans responsibilities have been to establish a new financial management and reporting structure in South Africa and recruit a new team for these roles, whilst also maintaining morale in and ensuring the performance of the London based team, the vast majority of whose employment will end in December 2010.
Half of this payment will be paid at the date of termination with the remaining half payable as soon as practicable after the first interim announcement of results following the termination date.
Directors service contracts and letters of appointment Director Date of contract letter Unexpired term Termination arrangements Executive Directors Ian Farmer 6 April 2006 Rolling contract Contract terminable on 364 days prior written Alan Ferguson 20 February 2007 Rolling contract notice given by either the Company or the individual Simon Scott 7 July 2010 Rolling Contract 182 days in the case of notice given by Mr Ferguson and Mr Scott except for gross misconduct or in certain other circumstances which may result in dismissal.
In the event that employment is terminated by the Company without notice and not for reasons of gross misconduct, the Directors are entitled to receive a payment equivalent to the value of the annual base salary and contractual benefits which would have been earned during this unworked notice period.
Non-executive Directors Karen fide Segundo 22 April 2005 Letters of appointment generally provide for a fixed Peter Godsoe 23 January 2008 term to the first AGM following appointment, and then Michael Hartnall 12 January 2007 subject to re-election by shareholders a term running Len Konar 17 March 2010 until the AGM three years from that date, subject to the Jonathan Leslie 4 June 2009 Companys Articles of Association.
No compensation David Munroe 19 August 2007 is payable to Non-executive Directors for loss of office.
Cyril Ramaphosa 18 October 2010 Roger Phillimore 23 January 2007 Jim Sutcliffe 11 August 2007 Notwithstanding the terms of their letters of appointment, all Non-executive Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis with effect from the 2011 AGM in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This report was approved by the Board on 12 November 2010.
Jim Sutcliffe Chairman, Remuneration Committee 94 Directors Report Governance Directors Report Business Review Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT for the year ended 30 September 2010 APPENDIX Older long term incentive arrangements Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP In 2008 and earlier years, Executive Directors were offered the opportunity to participate in the DABP, pursuant to which a minimum of one-third of the net cash bonus due to each executive was invested in the DABP, with the ability to elect to invest any greater amount up to the whole of their net bonus.
The funds invested were used to buy Lonmin shares in the open market via the Companys employee benefit trust.
At the date the shares were purchased, the trustees made a Matched Award to the executive which, subject to the attainment of performance conditions, could enable matching of the number of shares bought by the executive of up to one for one for 2007, two for one, on an after tax basis.
The two performance conditions used historically were RTSR and EBIT for awards up to 2007 and RTSR and absolute share price for 2008.
These measures were chosen because the Committee felt they best reflected both the key imperatives on management at the relevant time and also provided an equal focus on the delivery of value to shareholders over the longer term.
The performance conditions are summarised below: Basis of % of component of Year of award performance conditions Performance conditions Performance award released 2006 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold median 50% 20 comparator companies Target 62.5th percentile 75% Stretch 75th percentile 100% 50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2009 Threshold 50% Target 75% Stretch 100% 2007 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold median 20% 20 comparator companies Target 75th percentile 70% Stretch 90th percentile 100% 50% EBIT EBIT: audited profit for FY2010 Threshold 20% Target 60% Stretch 100% 2008 50% RTSR TSR relative to a group of Threshold median 20% 20 comparator companies Target 75th percentile 70% Stretch 90th percentile 100% 50% Share Price Lonmin Plc share price on Threshold 20% London Stock Exchange Stretch 100% Following the 2007 Annual General Meeting, to improve the retention characteristics of the Plan, a mandatory deferral of bonuses was introduced, commencing with those paid in November 2007.
Where there is a mandatory bonus deferral, such an amount is forfeitable should the executive leave during the three year performance period, other than for good leaver reasons.
In return, the Matched Award is made on the basis of two shares for each Invested Share acquired.
Half of the shares subject to the Matched Award will normally vest at the end of the performance period, subject to the employee remaining with the Group and to the extent that the related Invested Shares are retained.
One quarter of the shares subject to a Matched Award will vest subject also to satisfaction of a RTSR performance condition and the final quarter subject to an EBIT target.
The employee was also able to apply the remainder of their bonus to acquire Invested Shares without risk of forfeiture with a 1:1 match, subject to satisfaction of the same RTSR and EBIT performance conditions.
For bonuses paid in 2008, the Remuneration Committee determined that the DABP would be operated on the same basis that applied to voluntary deferral in 2007, save that the Committee determined that an absolute share price target would be substituted for the EBIT target.
As reported above and as in 2009, the matching element of the Plan is not being used for bonuses in respect of the year ending 2010.
The Company currently has no intention that any Matched Awards should be granted under the DABP in future.
Executive Share Option Schemes ESOS These legacy schemes expired in March 2007 and, although an ESOS is contained within the rules of the Shareholder Value Incentive Plan, the Committee has not made, and does not intend to make, any grants under that scheme.
Awards made since 1994 have been subject to performance conditions.
Details of these conditions for the Companys various tranches of executive share options that remain outstanding are as follows: Options granted in or after 1998 but before 2002: total return to shareholders must be greater than the total return on the Mining Sector of the FTSE Actuaries Share Indices over any consecutive thirty six month period.
Options granted in or after 2002: total return to shareholders must be greater than that on the Mining Sector of the FTSE Actuaries Share Indices in one of the periods of three, four, five or six years following the date of grant, in each case relative to a fixed base year.
The performance conditions attaching to all outstanding options have been attained and these options duly became exercisable.
Sharesave The Company historically offered an HMRC approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme to all UK-remunerated employees, including the Executive Directors.
Under this Scheme, the participant enters into a savings contract and in return is granted an option over the Companys shares to be funded by the balance on their savings account at the end of the contractual savings period.
The option price may, at the Committees discretion, be at a discount of up to 20% to the prevailing mid-market price at the date of invitation.
With the exception of the 2005 awards, the Company has historically granted all such options with a 20% discount, including those held by Ian Farmer.
The Sharesave Scheme expired in March 2007 although options granted prior to that date continue to subsist.
