110 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE: Independent remuneration report review inDepenDent RemuneRation RepoRt Review This letter contains the findings and finDings conclusions conclusions from our review of the processes followed by Anglo Americans Remuneration The Committee comprises entirely of On the basis of the document review Committee the Committee during 2010. independent non-executive directors.
It referred to above and the interviews with The review was undertaken at your request met formally on three occasions in 2010. the Chairman and Secretary of the as Chairman of the Committee in order to Committee, we are comfortable that the provide shareholders with assurance that We reviewed the minutes of each meeting Committee has discharged its duties in line the processes followed by the Committee along with any supporting papers or with the Policy of Executive Remuneration supported the policy stated in Anglo Americans documentation that was tabled.
We found stated in Anglo Americans Annual Report.
that the decisions taken by the Committee were in line with Anglo Americans stated We note that in line with the requirements It is our view that the processes followed by remuneration policy namely that levels of of the Combined Code the composition of the the Committee during 2010 fully supported reward, whilst competitive, require demanding Committee including the chairmanship has the Companys remuneration policy.
Please performance conditions to be met which are been changed.
find below a description of the process that consistent with shareholder interests.
We are we followed in coming to our conclusion, satisfied that the Committee closely adheres along with our detailed observations and to the stated policy of setting base pay levels Yours sincerely recommendations.
at the median of comparable companies, that at least 50% of remuneration for the executive Mark Hoble directors is performance related and that Partner Review pRocess variable pay is consistent with business Mercer Limited performance, market conditions and retention Tower Place In order to reach our view we undertook the of talent.
London EC3R 5BU following: We are satisfied that the Committee 10 February 2011 A review of the Committees terms of challenges the proposals put forward by reference executive management and adopts a rigorous A review of the minutes of the Committee and robust approach to decision making.
covering the period from January to December 2010 We are also satisfied that the Committee seeks the advice of external consultants on A review of any briefing materials prepared technical issues where appropriate and gives for the Committee during the year careful consideration to the information and An interview with Chris Corrin in his capacity recommendations that it receives, before as Secretary to the Committee reaching an informed decision.
An interview with the Chairman of the Committee
