98 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE: Directors remuneration report RemuneRation RepoRt of the DiRectoRs It is important to ensure that levels of reward are competitive and support the achievement of high levels of performance, thus aligning the Companys need to attract and retain high-calibre executives with the shareholders objective of long-term value creation Sir Philip Hampton 1.
RemuneRation committee 1.2 Membership of the Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The Committee comprised the following This report sets out the Companys non-executive directors during the year ended remuneration policy and practice for 31 December 2010: executive and non-executive directors Sir Philip Hampton chairman with effect and provides details of their remuneration from 22April 2010 and share interests for the year ended 31December 2010.
Sir Rob Margetts resigned 22 April 2010 David Challen 1.1 Role of the Remuneration Committee and Terms of Reference Sir CK Chow The Remuneration Committee the Jack Thompson appointed with effect from Committee is responsible for considering 16 February 2010 and making recommendations to the Board on: Peter Woicke The Companys general policy on executive The Companys chief executive attends the in this section and senior management remuneration Committee meetings by invitation and assists The specific remuneration packages for the Committee in its deliberations, except 98 Remuneration Committee executive directors of the Company, when issues relating to her own compensation 99 Remuneration policy on executive including basic salary, performance-based are discussed.
No directors are involved in director remuneration short-term and long-term incentives, deciding their own remuneration.
In 2010, the pensions and other benefits Committee was advised by the Companys 99 Elements of executive director Human Resources and Finance functions remuneration The remuneration of the chairman and, specifically, by Mervyn Walker and Chris 103 Executive shareholding targets The design and operation of the Companys Corrin.
It also took external advice as shown share incentive schemes in Figure 1.
Certain overseas operations within 103 External appointments the Group are also provided with audit related 104 Policy on non-executive The full Terms of Reference of the Committee services from Deloittes and PwCs worldwide director remuneration can be found on the Anglo American website member firms and non-audit related services www.
com and copies are from Mercers worldwide member firms.
104 Chairmans fees available on request.
105 Directors service contracts A summary of the letter from Mercer Limited The Committee met three times during 2010 containing the conclusions of their review of 105 Historical comparative TSR and dealt with ad hoc items between formal the Committees executive remuneration performance graphs meetings by round robin resolutions.
processes for 2010 can be found on page 110.
105 Remuneration outcomes during 2010 109 Sums paid to third parties in respect of a directors services 109 Directors share interests 110 Independent remuneration report review
