finAnciAl review FINANCIAL Jim, you have completed your first year at Misys, Q REVIEW what stands out for you?
This has been a year of getting fit.
Of note, is A our approach to process improvement.
We have implemented software to ensure the efficient deployment of our professional consultants and development engineers: we have deployed a CRM system across the Group.
We have improved our operating margin by reducing unnecessary costs and driving performance.
We have transformed Misys from a holding company to an operating company.
Its an exciting time at Misys and I am delighted to be part of the team executing the turnaround plan and delivering real and lasting results for our customers and shareholders.
Jim Malone, Chief Financial Officer 26 | Misys plc Annual report 2008 Operating results for the year ended 31 May 2008 Revenue Operating profit Margin 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m % % Banking 160 151 19 19 12 12 Treasury & Capital Markets 141 125 32 29 23 23 Healthcare 191 188 39 21 20 11 Central Services 9 10 Like-for-like results 492 464 81 59 16 13 Changes in exchange rates 5 1 Adjusted results 492 469 81 60 Exceptional items 25 37 Other 4 4 Statutory operating results from continuing operations 492 469 52 19 i. the statutory operating profit from iv.
no businesses were acquired in the to assist the reader, the table above shows continuing operations is analysed by current year.
the businesses acquired in the results for all businesses owned business into Banking 10.4m 2007: the prior year provide services to the throughout both periods on a like-for-like 5.5m, treasury & capital Markets rest of the Group and as such do not basis.
it also reconciles these to the figures 31.5m 2007: 28.4m, healthcare generate incremental third party for revenue and operating profit on an 30.5m 2007: 7.9m and central revenues.
adjusted basis and as reported in the services 20.0m loss 2007: 23.0m loss.
v. exceptional items in the current year ii.
restating the results for 2007 using the consist of: turnaround programme during the year we completed the sale of average exchange rates for 2008 has 24.1m Banking: 7.4m: treasury & sesame and also disposed of the cPr and decreased 2007 revenues by 5.2m capital Markets: 0.6m, healthcare: diagnostic businesses.
the results for all of Banking: 3.1m increase, treasury & 5.2m and central services 10.9m : these are excluded from revenue and capital Markets: no significant effect, and a decrease in goodwill arising from operating profit in continuing operations, healthcare: 8.3m decrease and adjustments to deferred tax assets and are included at the foot of the income operating profit 0.9m Banking: 0.8m recognised on businesses acquired in statement, above attributable profits.
decrease, treasury & capital Markets: prior periods 1.3m.
Accordingly, they do not appear in the 1.0m increase, healthcare: 1.0m reconciliation above.
decrease and central services: 0.1m vi.
Other items include losses on embedded decrease.
the most significant impact derivatives in Banking 0.6m 2007: Adjusted results are stated before is from the movement in the us dollar 0.3m and treasury & capital Markets exceptional items, gains and losses on and the euro, where the average 0.1m 2007: 0.1m gain, amortisation embedded derivatives, amortisation of exchange rates in 2008 were us$2.00:1 of acquired intangibles in Banking 1.4m acquired intangibles and the impact of and F1.38:1 compared to us$1.92:1 2007: 2.8m and healthcare 1.2m translation exchange differences recycled and F1.48:1 in 2007.
2007: 1.3m and translation exchange from reserves.
differences recycled from reserves in iii.
All businesses disposed of in the current central services, 0.1m loss 2007: nil.
year were classified as discontinued operations.
the business disposed of in the prior year related solely to Banking and contributed revenue of 0.2m and adjusted operating profit of nil in the prior year.
Misys plc Annual report 2008 | 27 finAnciAl review Group and divisional performance TCM Operating profit at 39m was 85% ahead of the information in this section is presented last year, reflecting an improvement in the all figures in millions 2008 2007 on a like-for-like basis.
the like-for-like operating margin from 11% to 20%.
this results are stated before exceptional items, improvement was due in part to the timing Gross order intake gains and losses on embedded derivatives, of certain expenses and cost efficiencies ilf 42 40 amortisation of acquired intangibles, related to the turnaround programme and Global services 31 23 translation exchange differences recycled improved operating procedures.
from reserves and the impact of tcM revenue at 141m was a 13% increase acquisitions and disposals in the current Central Services on prior year.
ilf order intake was up 4% and prior year.
All figures are quoted in the net charge for the year was 9m compared to last year at 42m, ilf revenue sterling using average exchange rates for representing a 6% reduction on prior year.
Maintenance the year ended 31 May 2008. revenue at 56m, grew by 7%.
Global We analyse revenue under five headings: services revenue showed strong growth of Group 41% to 28m.
Global services order intake revenue for the year at 492m was 6% ILF was 31m, up 36% from 23m in 2007. above that of the previous year.
Banking ilf is the revenue generated when Misys Operating profit at 32m was 10% ahead of revenue increased by 5%, treasury & capital sells the right to use a software product last year.
Operating margin for the year was Markets tcM by 13% and healthcare including significant upgrades to a 23% 2007: 23%.
ilf grew by 4%, principally as a was 37% ahead of last year, with the result of the performance within treasury Healthcare operating margin flat in Banking and tcM, & capital Markets.
up nine percentage points in healthcare and all figures in millions 2008 2007 by three percentage points overall.
total Maintenance order intake, calculated on a gross basis, Gross order intake when a customer buys software they also includes initial licence fees ilf, enter into either a maintenance or ilf 21 26 Application service Provider AsP orders, recurring licence fees contract.
these AsP Myway 5 transaction processing and Global services contracts provide technical support or 26 26 contracts signed during the fiscal year.
in trouble-shooting assistance, such as 2008 total order intake was 259m, up 7% helpdesk support.
A maintenance contract Global services 15 16 compared with 242m for 2007. will also provide routine upgrades and transaction enhancements, and maintenance also processing 62 60 Banking includes fees for support contracts for hardware.
On a like-for-like basis, Banking, revenue at 191m was 2% above prior year all figures in millions 2008 2007 treasury & capital Markets and healthcare driven by growth in maintenance revenues all recorded good growth rates in Gross order intake 6% and transaction processing 4%.
ilf 46 44 Global services 37 33 ilf revenue was down 2% at 24m.
ilf order Transaction processing intake was up slightly at 26m including AsP Misys provides transaction processing order intake of 5m.
Myway customers Banking total revenue at 160m was up 5% services based on electronic data represent a shift from on-site to hosted on the prior year.
ilf order intake at 46m interchange edi services, which is an software solutions with this AsP product.
ilf revenue electronic link between parties that wish to decreased by 1%.
transaction processing Maintenance revenue showed good growth revenue has grown, driven by tcM and at 71m, 6% ahead of last year, Maintenance revenue at 76m grew by 3% healthcare.
Global have continued to see the benefits of the services revenue showed strong growth of Global Services Payerpath acquisition with transaction 19% at 41m.
Global services order intake Global services revenues include processing revenue growing by 4% at 72m.
was 37m, up 13% over 33m in 2007. professional services consulting revenues Order intake for transaction processing Operating profit at 19m was 2% ahead of as well as revenues derived from education was up 4% from 60m in 2007 to 62m in last year.
Operating margin was 12% for the and training.
2008, and Global services order intake full year 2007: 12%.
28 | Misys plc Annual report 2008 Revenue profile 2008 2008 2007 Statutory Like-for-like Like-for-like m % m % m % ILF 112 23 112 23 108 23 Maintenance 203 41 203 41 192 41 Transaction processing 84 17 84 17 81 18 Global services 83 17 83 17 70 15 Hardware 10 2 10 2 13 3 492 100 492 100 464 100 Global services showed strong growth up acquired intangibles and translation Working capital 19% on prior year with strong growth in exchange differences recycled from current assets have increased by 35m in treasury & capital Markets offset by a reserves, was over 26 times.
the year as a result of increases in trade reduction in healthcare.
and other receivables 23m, cash and Profit before taxation and taxation cash equivalents 11m and other 1m.
Hardware statutory profit before taxation at 49m, the increase in trade and other receivables sales of hardware, principally within was 45m higher than last year reflecting includes an increase in net trade healthcare, were down by 3m on prior year.
the improvements in operating profit and receivables 6m, other receivables 1m, lower exceptional costs.
the tax charge on prepayments 8m, accrued income OTHER FInAnCIAL InFORMATIOn continuing ordinary activities at 14m is 14m and a reduction in contract work in unless otherwise stated, the information in above last year primarily as a result of progress 6m.
included in the prior year this section is presented on an as reported higher profits.
the underlying effective tax figures were balances relating to hospital basis.
rate, based on the adjusted profit before systems of net trade receivables 17m, taxation of continuing and discontinued other receivables 1m, prepayments operations, at 22% was above last year, Exceptional costs 2m and contract work in progress 7m.
largely due to lower credits for temporary we incurred exceptional charges of 24m differences on which no deferred tax was as a result of actions taken to deliver the the increase in net trade receivables is recognised.
Adjusted profit before taxation turnaround programme.
these costs principally due to the pattern of sales in the excludes exceptional items, gains and primarily relate to consultancy and the year.
the increase in prepayments includes losses on embedded derivatives, costs arising from the rationalisation of 5m of costs associated with the proposed amortisation of acquired intangibles and office premises and establishing a single Allscripts transaction.
Accrued income, has translation exchange differences recycled increased as a result of the pattern of sales new office in london.
in the year and deferred invoicing terms in our contracts.
in addition there was a further exceptional Discontinued operations charge of 1m arising on an adjustment to in June 2007 the Group completed the current trade and other payables balances goodwill following changes to deferred tax disposal of the sesame business.
in have reduced by 5m in the year.
included assets recognised on businesses acquired september 2007 the Group completed the in the prior year however were balances in in prior periods.
disposal of the cPr business and in respect of hospital systems of 10m: October 2007 the disposal of the hospital systems was sold in the year.
All of these the net finance costs charge for continuing businesses are reported under Capital expenditure, Research and operations at 3m was 12m lower than discontinued operations.
in the current year Development last year.
this was due mainly to the these businesses generated profit after tax Additions to property, plant and equipment repayment of all loans during the year.
of 78m comprising profit on disposal in the year were 11m, split between interest cover, including results from before tax of 74m which has been included leasehold improvements to our principal discontinued operations and before within exceptional items, an operating office locations, including the new head exceptional items, gains and losses on profit of 9m and a tax charge of 5m.
office in Paddington, london and strategic embedded derivatives, amortisation of investments in our computer and systems infrastructure.
Misys plc Annual report 2008 | 29 finAnciAl review the changes will take time to implement expenditure on research and development Earnings per share EPS and and their effects will take three to five years in continuing operations at 72m increased proposed dividend to be fully evident.
implementation may by 2m in the year.
Of this amount 14m Basic ePs at 23.5p is 20.4p better than last result in additional costs and there is no met the criteria to be capitalised as year.
Adjusted basic ePs adjusted to guarantee that the proposed changes will developed software 2007: 15m.
exclude exceptional items, gains and losses result in an improvement to performance Amortisation of developed software on embedded derivatives, amortisation and financial position.
of acquired intangibles and translation exchange differences recycled from the plan includes a set of actions, with Cash flow and net debt reserves at 14.0p 2007: 14.6p was 4% agreed priorities, that are being net cash flow generated from continuing below last year.
Adjusted basic ePs from implemented by a new management team operations was 26m 2007: 55m.
continuing operations at 12.6p 2007: 7.5p that is experienced in implementing changes the reduction was despite the increase showed a significant increase on prior year.
of this nature and who have personal in profitability between years and was in the opinion of the directors the adjusted incentive packages that align them very principally as a result of the increases basic ePs provides more comparable and closely to the interests of shareholders.
in trade and other receivables balances representative information on continuing noted above.
and established trading activities of the Economic cycle Group.
the Board is recommending a final financial institutions, particularly in the the net cash flow from discontinued dividend of 4.95p per share.
this will raise united states, are currently experiencing operations was 8m, a reduction from the full year dividend to 7.91p, an increase significant difficulties created by the the previous year of 23m which included of 5% over last year.
sub-prime mortgage situation and lack of the cPr, diagnostics and sesame liquidity in the overall credit and financial businesses.
cash payments in respect of RISK FACTORS markets.
the market demand for the interest of 4m was lower than the previous Our business is influenced by a number of products offered by the Banking division is year due to repayment of loans during risks and the more significant of these are sensitive to an economic downturn.
the cash payments in respect described below.
however, the financial strength of its revenues is reliant upon of taxation at 24m was 7m higher than performance of our business could be banks continuing to seek competitive the prior year.
As a result net cash flow adversely affected not only by these factors advantage and greater efficiencies from from operating activities of 6m was but also by the risks that we do not presently technology and this encourages them to 50m below last year.
consider to be significant or by other risks make further investments in this area.
such that are presently unknown to us.
not all of investments are more likely to be made net cash inflow from investing activities the risks that are identified below are under during periods of economic growth.
whilst of 143m compared to the previous years the direct control of Misys but in most cases most parts of Asia and the Middle east are outflow of 27m, the former benefiting we have built systems and controls into the currently somewhat insulated from the from the disposal of the cPr, diagnostics Group operations to monitor and, where economic issues in the united states and and sesame businesses.
capitalised possible, mitigate the potential damage that we have not, thus far, experienced any expenditure on developed software was at a could result from these risks see also the changes to the demand for our products, no similar level to the prior year.
Other capital corporate governance report.
assurances whatsoever can be given that this expenditure and financial investment at will continue to be the case going forward.
20m was 12m higher than the prior year.
Risks arising from the markets in which Accordingly the net cash flow generated we operate the healthcare business is not considered by operating activities after capitalised to be as sensitive to the state of the development costs and other capital Implementation of new strategic plan economy, as the us propensity to spend on expenditure was an outflow of 29m As described elsewhere in this document we healthcare has less sensitivity to the compared with an inflow of 32m last year.
are currently early on in the second year of a condition of the united states economy.
three to five year turnaround programme As a result of these various cash flows net intended to deliver increased value to our Market strategy debt at 31 May 2008 was a net cash position customers and increased returns to our the markets in which we operate move of 26m, compared to a net debt position shareholders.
the strategic plan includes a quickly.
entering and exiting new segments last year of 159m, excluding cash focused strategy and a simplified, integrated of the market, developing new products and balances within sesame of 68m.
30 | Misys plc Annual report 2008 discontinuing others can have substantial tasks are therefore performed to a set Product development lead times.
to do this successfully we need of procedures by a dedicated team that there are many risks in bringing a product to predict future areas of demand and the call upon external resources as required.
development project to a conclusion on future capabilities of our competitors.
this process is the speed at which the market develops The Proposed Merger with Allscripts managed by developing a product roadmap can sometimes make it difficult to obtain Healthcare Solutions, Inc Allscripts that identifies the enhancements that will quality information on the changing On 18 March 2008, Misys plc announced that be made to successive versions of the demands of customers which may result it had entered into a conditional agreement product.
Our application software products in decisions being made with imperfect the Merger Agreement pursuant to and services are complex and may contain data.
failure in this area could result in which: a Misys healthcare systems, llc undetected errors, failures, performance us making investments in the wrong Misys healthcare would be merged problems or defects.
the early releases of product or failing to invest in a product with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Allscripts: a product will have been subjected to beta tests but not the more stringent test of that will enjoy a successful market.
in b Misys plc would purchase shares in widespread use by large numbers of users.
view of this, the strategy, which has Allscripts, which would result in it owning consequently, despite vigorous pre-release been developed from established market a controlling stake of 54.5%: and c Misys testing, problems may not become facts, is comprehensively communicated healthcare will become a wholly-owned apparent until the system is used in throughout the senior management team subsidiary of Allscripts the Proposed production environments.
however, the and employees of the businesses and Merger.
the Proposed Merger is product development teams network its implementation is regularly reviewed conditional and will not proceed if the extensively amongst themselves and against delivery of defined targets.
conditions are not satisfied or waived.
beyond to ensure best practice is followed.
Any delay in completion could diminish Competition anticipated benefits of the Proposed Merger or result in additional transaction costs, loss Changes in the industries which we operate in highly competitive markets of revenue or other effects associated with Misys serves that are characterised by rapidly changing uncertainty about the Proposed Merger.
consolidation in the industries that we serve technology, industry standards and could adversely affect our existing revenue customer needs as well as by frequent uncertainty about the effect of the Proposed or the potential for growing revenues.
there new software applications and products.
Merger on employees and customers of has been, and continues to be, consolidation if we do not respond effectively we may lose Misys plc, Misys healthcare and Allscripts in the global financial services industry market share and the business could suffer.
may have an adverse effect on the respective particularly in light of the recent sub-prime we believe that we have a relatively small companies and, consequently, on the mortgage difficulties and lack of liquidity in number of significant competitors in each combined company after completion.
the overall credit and financial markets.
vertical market that we serve.
however, Although Misys plc, Misys healthcare and furthermore, international financial some of these competitors could, in the Allscripts intend to take steps to reduce any services institutions are increasingly future, pose a greater competitive threat, adverse effects, these uncertainties may providing services from a single location, particularly if they consolidate or form impair their ability to attract, retain and both of which could lead to a smaller market strategic or commercial relationships motivate key personnel until the Proposed for our products and services.
among themselves or with larger and Merger is consummated and for a period of well-financed companies.
consequently time thereafter, and could cause their Risks arising from operations one of our key strategic objectives going customers, suppliers and others that deal forward is to seek partnerships, with them to seek to change existing People collaborations, strategic alliances and business relationships.
the integration of People are our greatest asset and the acquisition opportunities with a view to two companies is a complex, costly and market for quality technology skills and complementing our existing product and time-consuming process and may disrupt management is very competitive.
these risks are managed both companies businesses if not completed a constant challenge for us to attract, through identifying appropriate partners in a timely and efficient manner.
there can retain, develop, incentivise, manage and and agreeing suitable commercial terms be no assurance that the integration of motivate our staff.
if we were to lose that are mutually beneficial.
likewise Allscripts business and Misys healthcares members of management or employees acquiring or disposing of companies business will result in the realisation of the who possess specialised market knowledge gives rise to execution risks in identifying full benefits anticipated to result from the and technology skills, we may not be able and valuing the target, managing the Proposed Merger.
to manage our operations effectively or process to best advantage and integrating or separating the target business.
these Misys plc Annual report 2008 | 31 finAnciAl review from online trading activity.
A disruption to develop new application software products Infringement of intellectual service would, in time, result in customers and services.
we therefore take talent property rights reverting to traditional means of conducting management very seriously and our people we own substantial intellectual property business and so circumventing the service are appraised regularly and are given rights and generally protect our proprietary we provide.
individual development plans and other application software products and services incentive packages.
we are also committed by licensing rights to use the application, finally if third parties misappropriate our to ongoing succession planning.
rather than selling or licensing the users information, we may be liable for computer source code.
we also protect their substantial damages, our reputation may Contract implementation proprietary software and services by be damaged and our users may be deterred we see ourselves as business partners to our copyright law.
Possible infringement of our from using our application software customers, supplying them with business intellectual property rights could cause loss products and services.
Often the system will of revenue, adversely affect business transcend departmental boundaries within operations and damage our trademarks.
Reliance on key locations and the clients organisation and may be a part of furthermore, there is always the risk that systems failures a larger project involving other suppliers.
we have inadvertently infringed the we have operations in over 30 countries and intellectual property rights of a third party.
customers in over 120. this geographic the process of introducing a system in such there has been substantial litigation in the diversity reduces reliance on the success of an environment may be disruptive to the software applications industry regarding any one economy and any one location but client in the short term, and the inadvertent infringement of intellectual also exposes parts of the business to the risk implementation may include a protracted property rights.
there may be patents of political unrest.
we maintain significant schedule which is subject to project relevant to our product line that are research and development operations in management by the client or by others.
if any such claim against us Bangalore and Manila and political or social this gives an increased risk of delay in were successful we may need to re-design instability in either of these areas could execution with consequential risks to the product which would demand further seriously harm the research and expected cash flows and profits.
investment in that product, take a licence on development operations.
likewise we have a the infringing intellectual property within the number of other key locations such as Key suppliers product which may not always be possible helpdesk support, transaction processing certain of our products are dependent upon on acceptable commercial terms or even centres and large administrative centres.
All inputs from key suppliers.
we are dependent cease to sell that product and accept the of our operations are vulnerable to damage on the performance, service and reliability decline in revenues.
An intellectual property or interruption from floods, fires, power loss, of operating systems, middleware, claim made against us and any action taken telecommunications failures, flu pandemic databases, programming language by us to protect their intellectual property and similar events.
we have disaster recovery compilers and similar software rights would be a drain on management plans and business interruption insurance, infrastructure, all of which we obtain from attention and disruptive to our business and but these measures may still result in a level a large number of third party providers.
could cause delays in product development.
such damage and interruptions such third party applications may suffer the risk is mitigated through our contractual could reduce revenues and profits and could from defects or errors which could adversely arrangements and by the careful adherence result in claims or product liability litigation.
affect the performance of our application to our policy on open source software.
in addition, future revenues and profits could software products and services.
Moreover, be harmed if customers believe that our if we are unable to adapt our application Government regulation systems are unreliable.
this risk could be software products and services to function we are subject to the laws and regulations increased by the currently ongoing with new releases of such third party of a number of countries covering a wide consolidation into one single location of all applications, or if such third party variety of areas affecting international the Misys uK offices and facilities.
applications were to be withdrawn or transactions, including export controls, discontinued, then we may incur significant anti-corruption legislation and data Terrorist attacks costs in eliminating these third party protection requirements.
it can sometimes terrorist attacks like those of 11 september components from our products and our require extra time and costs to ensure that 2001 in the united states, and subsequent ability to deliver new systems and maintain local regulations are complied with.
attacks in Bali, Madrid and london, could existing customers could be adversely damage the global economy and affect our affected.
suppliers are consequently chosen Attack by IT viruses customers investment decisions over an that have stable strategies that match As an it business, attacks by it viruses will extended period of time.
As a vendor of ours and produce a mutually beneficial always be a threat that requires sound it application software products and services relationship that is carefully managed infrastructure and virus protection software.
to sectors including banking, which are by both parties.
furthermore the Banking and healthcare vulnerable to uncertainty and global divisions both obtain significant revenues 32 | Misys plc Annual report 2008 the Group has substantial investments in economic conditions generally, we operate Treasury controls and operations the us and consequently the debt in a sector of the economy that may be the Group has in place treasury policies previously drawn under the revolving facility impacted by the effects of any such attack.
that are reviewed annually by the Board and was predominantly in us dollars.
Although more regularly by the treasury committee the floating rate nature of the debt gives the Software as a Service SaaS that comprises certain executive directors Group an inherent exposure to interest rate Our new strategic plan includes the delivery and a non-executive director.
the policy fluctuations, at the balance sheet date of existing products in saas format.
this is covers all significant areas of treasury there are no amounts drawn on the facility expected to provide a robust and profitable activity, including foreign exchange, interest and thus no immediate such exposure.
revenue stream in due course but it raises rate, liquidity and credit risk.
the Group has the risk of adversely affecting the existing a centralised treasury that provides a the Group has operations in over 30 model under which customers pay an initial service to the corporate centre and to the countries and trades in over 120. licence fee and then recurring licence fees.
its primary function subsidiaries may trade in currencies other this risk will be mitigated through careful is to manage the foreign exchange, interest than the functional currency of their market segmentation.
rate, liquidity and credit risks arising from operation and in such cases the currency is the operations of the business.
it is not a usually sterling or us dollars.
it is the Financial risks profit centre and enters into derivative Groups policy to eliminate transactional contracts solely for the purpose of hedging currency exposures through forward Tax risks the exposures that arise in the normal foreign currency contracts as soon as the we may be subject to tax audit in any of the course of business.
the Groups policy is contractual commitments to receive or countries in which we operate, in accordance not to enter into speculative transactions.
pay the foreign currency is known.
this introduces an exposure to new tax risks, such as a the treasury committee is responsible for the Group is also subject to a currency challenge to our transfer pricing policies, ensuring that the Group operates within the exposure on the translation of the net and it raises the possibility of the same treasury policies agreed by the Board.
assets of, and profits earned by, its profits being taxed in more than one country.
regular reports are made to the Board overseas subsidiaries which are primarily furthermore, tax legislation is complex and from the treasurer and from the treasury those located in the us and europe.
this often results in lengthy negotiations before committee.
certainty of the tax treatment to a complex transaction is achieved.
the Group finances its operations through the Group invests its cash and cash a mixture of retained profits, new equity equivalents, and enters into contracts for Fluctuations in exchange rates and bank borrowings.
it is policy to ensure derivative financial instruments, with Geographic diversity leaves us exposed to that the Group has sufficient financial institutions of high credit quality, and limits fluctuations in exchange rates with the resources to support the business and, its exposure to any one counterparty.
the highest exposure being against the us dollar as a result, substantial committed facilities Groups revenue is derived from various and the euro.
where possible we routinely are maintained.
the Group also has a industries and could be directly affected by hedge currency exposures on trading policy to ensure that it maintains a the overall conditions of those industries.
transactions that would otherwise give us a comfortable margin between committed the large number of customers, their risk from movements in the exchange rate: facilities and the likely peak borrowings geographical distribution, and the for example between entering into a sales during a year.
reasonably short collection terms mitigates contract and receiving payment.
however, the credit risk associated with this.
the the translation risk which arises when the core debt financing of the Group is Group routinely monitors its exposure to consolidating the financial results of the provided by a revolving credit facility of credit losses and maintains an allowance overseas entities is not hedged.
we also run us$315m 159m at 31 May 2008 exchange for anticipated losses.
the economic risk that results, for example, rates maturing not later than March 2010. from the cost base of the development At 31 May 2007 the facility comprised one centres being unrelated to the currencies of tranche of us$585m maturing not later than the markets in which the end products are March 2010 and a second tranche of eventually sold.
us$74m maturing not later than december 2008.
As a result of the disposals during the some of the countries in which we have year the Group has cancelled the second operations control the repatriation of tranche and reduced the first from us$585m Jim Malone earnings and capital.
these controls may to us$315m.
the facility allows the Group to Chief Financial Officer, Misys plc vary at short notice and consequently borrow funds in any major currency at the create a risk of delaying or even preventing related floating rates of interest.
