Operating and financial review Financial review Driving profitable sales and strong cash flows The strength of our offers, the good demand for food in our pubs and our strong operational performance this year, together with tight cost management, has widened our out-performance of the market.
We continue to be highly cash generative with high returns on capital.
Group revenue 1,908m up 0.7% 1,908m In this section: Group EBITDA A review of the financial 477m up 1.1% performance of the Company Before exceptional items and IAS 39 movements in the year, reviewing specifically Performance by division Cash flows and net debt Property 477m For our latest financial information www.
com investors The Albany, Premium Country Dining Group, Thames Ditton Mitchells & Butlers 26 Annual report and accounts 2008 415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Operating and financial review Mitchells & Butlers results for the year to 27 September 2008 reflect a robust operating profit performance with resilient sales growth despite difficult trading conditions.
Jeremy Townsend Finance Director Like-for-like sales Same outlet Summary We have also successfully reduced fixed Residential 1.5% In a challenging economic environment, and variable costs by over 20m in the year High Street 0.1% Mitchells & Butlers is well positioned with and achieved our highest ever growth in Total 1.0% its value-for-money food and drink offers to staff productivity of 5.4% to offset the 16m deliver robust performance and increased increase in regulatory costs from drinks duties, The repositioning of the estate and its offers market share gains whilst also achieving the National Minimum Wage, holiday pay over the last 10 years has ensured that continued productivity gains through strong regulations and business rates.
As a result Mitchells & Butlers is well placed to benefit operational management.
Investment in the of this strong cost management, employment from both the long-term structural trend to business will continue to be tightly controlled costs were maintained at 24% of sales and eating-out and the current customer focus seeking to ensure ongoing returns well above overall net retail operating margins at 17.5% on value.
This, combined with the success our cost of capital.
The business expects to were only down 0.4 percentage points on of our ongoing sales and marketing strategy, continue to deliver good operating cash flows, last year.
has resulted in same outlet like-for-like food enhanced by asset disposal opportunities.
In sales up 4.9% and drinks sales down only a difficult trading environment, the strength In total we invested 193m in the year, 0.8% in the year.
Our overall pricing strategy of Mitchells & Butlers offers, operating model of which 31m related to the completion of continues to emphasise value for the customer and our improving balance sheet means that the conversion of the Original Acquired Sites.
with average drinks prices only up 2.8% and we are well placed to take significant market In addition during the year 21 lodges were food down 2.8%.
Overall average food and share in the year ahead.
swapped for a further 44 Whitbread Pub drink prices were up 0.8%, reinforcing our Restaurants with a valuation of 78m for both competitive position in a market characterised Group results sets of assets.
111m was invested to maintain by above inflation price increases.
Total revenue for the financial year was the high levels of amenity in the pubs and 1,908m, up 0.7% on last year.
This was in the continuing development and evolution Machine sales have been negatively affected a good trading performance in light of the of our brands and formats, 18m related to by the smoking ban with same outlet like-foradverse impact of the first year of the smoking new acquisitions and 33m was spent on like sales down 6.9%.
ban in England and Wales as well as the expansionary projects in the existing estate.
pressures on consumer expenditure and the During the year 6 new pubs opened and As a result of strong food volume increases, slight dilution from disposals made in the year.
117 existing pubs were converted to one there has been some pressure on gross of our brands or formats to uplift their sales margins down 1.4 percentage points on last Against a challenging trading environment and profits.
year from the faster growth of lower priced like-for-like sales growth was resilient and lower margin products.
Gross margins in both Residential and High Street areas, We have an excellent track record of investing have also been adversely affected by the reflecting continued good demand for capital for high returns within the business, increase in drinks duties and food inflation.
food in our pubs and Pub Restaurants and with our core expansionary investment As we are one of the countrys biggest a widening out-performance of a declining over the last two years continuing to deliver purchasers of beef and poultry this cost on-trade drinks market.
incremental pre-tax returns of over 16%.
pressure has been significant, however A barometer of the strength of our offers, utilising our purchasing scale and our food strategy and operational teams is the volume growth has enabled us to achieve performance of the Original Acquired Sites a food inflation over the year of only 3%.
which, ahead of target, are delivering EBITDA uplifts of over 50% above the levels at the time of acquisition.
Mitchells & Butlers 27 Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Financial review continued 1.4 % Pubs & Bars revenue The Pontefract Castle, Nicholson's, central London 7.
9 % 0.4 % Pubs & Bars operating profit Pubs & Bars like-for-like sales Despite a challenging property market, conversion.
Excluding the effect of disposals rapidly seeking to convert the further 44 pubs we continued to take advantage of disposing and the Original Acquired Sites, the acquired to our brands and formats.
Excluding of assets with low growth prospects in the underlying Pubs & Bars revenue was flat the Original Acquired Sites, growth in the eating-out market, achieving pub and related on the previous year.
core estate in the period was strong despite asset sales of 82m in the year on EBITDA the increasing economic pressure on midmultiples of approximately 18 times.
As Pubs & Bars continued to achieve market market consumers and greater intensity of a result, net capital investment during the share gains in drink and food sales, as a result competition in pub food.
Total revenue was year after disposals was 111m.
Although of the widening gap between our amenity, up 3.4%, including 178m from the Original credit market conditions have worsened, product range and value-for-money with that Acquired Sites.
Excluding the Original we continue to review value creative options of the competition.
Food sales in the year Acquired Sites, there were on average 589 in relation to remaining certain other assets, were up 12.9% driven by strong growth in a pubs trading during the period and in these including Innkeepers Lodges, our German number of formats and most notably Sizzling pubs revenue grew by 1.7%.
Pub Co. ONeills, Scream and Metropolitan Professionals, as well as our Town Pubs and Restaurants operating profit of 156m before In addition to the resilient Retail performance, central London estate.
exceptional items was up 7.6% on the same Standard Commercial Property Developments period last year, including 30m from the Limited SCPD, our in-house property A total of 50 conversions were completed, Original Acquired Sites.
Net operating margin development company, realised property predominantly to residential brands and was up 0.6 percentage points to 16.6%, as a sales of 15m and profits of 11m in the formats such as Sizzling Pub Co. Ember Inns result of improved profit performance and year.
As a result, total operating profit before and the Metropolitan Professionals format.
cost management against a period last year exceptional items and IAS 39 movements where there were significant pre-opening and was 343m, in line with last year.
Pubs & Bars operating profit of 176m before closure costs.
Excluding the Original Acquired exceptional items was down 7.9% in the year Sites, Restaurants operating profit was down Pubs & Bars with net operating margin decreasing from by 2.3% and operating margins declined by FY 2008 Growth 19.7% to 18.4%, particularly influenced by 0.7 percentage points.
Revenue 954m 1.4 % the cost increases in duty, food and energy.
Operating profit 176m 7.9 % Property Same outlet like-for-like sales 0.4 % Restaurants We have completed a revaluation of our FY 2008 Growth Before exceptional items freehold and long leasehold pubs in Revenue 939m 3.4% conjunction with our property valuers, Colliers Operating profit 156m 7.6% After the disposal of 44 managed pubs, CRE, based on the market value of each Same outlet like-for-like sales 2.6% 11 transfers to business franchise and two individual pub.
The revised total value of the acquisitions, there were 1,081 managed pubs Before exceptional items pubs as at 27 September 2008 is 4.7 billion, in the Pubs & Bars division at the end of the which includes a decline of 7% on last years period, including 26 of the sites acquired Following the addition of a further 44 Pub property valuation, reflecting the impact on from Whitbread.
There were on average Restaurants from Whitbread, the disposal of property values from the credit restrictions 1,098 managed pubs trading during the year.
14 pubs, and the addition of four individual and the slowing economic growth.
131m of pubs there were 818 managed pubs in the this movement is reported as an adjustment to Following the impact of the smoking ban, the Restaurants division at the end of the period, the revaluation reserve.
challenging consumer environment and the including 183 Original Acquired Sites.
There effect of disposals made in the year, revenue were on average 772 managed pubs trading The exceptional impairment charge of 206m was down 1.4%.
This result is after including during the period.
reported in the income statement relates 23m of turnover from the Original Acquired principally to a number of wet-led community Sites transferred to the division following The Restaurants division has successfully pubs with limited food capacity and certain integrated and converted the Original late night bars and venues, which have Acquired Sites over the last two years with suffered from the impact of the smoking ban.
significant sales and profits uplifts.
It is now The Company has also identified a number of Mitchells & Butlers 28 Annual report and accounts 2008 415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Operating and financial review The Lyttelton Arms, Premium Country Dining Group, Stourbridge 3.
6% 2.6% Restaurants operating profit Restaurants like-for-like sales assets which it anticipates disposing of within as an exceptional charge against income arrangements.
Finance revenue of 7m the next 12 months to realise value for the in 2007.
A portion of the interest rate swaps was achieved on the Groups cash balances, Group.
In accordance with accounting were retained to provide an economic hedge 1m higher than the same period last year.
guidance, it has adjusted the value of these against the future anticipated cash flows We anticipate an interest cost on the Groups to their anticipated net realisable value and associated with an element of the Groups net debt during the current year of reclassified them as non-current assets held non-securitised debt as this forms part of approximately 6.4%.
This has resulted in an impairment the Companys core long-term debt structure.
charge arising on classification of non-current These swaps do not qualify for hedge Net finance income from pensions was 3m assets held for sale of 46m included in the accounting as defined in IAS 39.
The last year, 8m lower than the previous period above figure.
reduction in fair value on these swaps due to a decrease in the expected return on was 17m after tax 23m before tax during the assets in the pension scheme compared We have continued discussions with our the year.
to the charge for the liabilities.
We currently advisers and the tax authorities to review expect that due to actuarial changes in the the feasibility, costs and benefits of converting The Board concluded a comprehensive expected returns on pension scheme assets to REIT status without breaking the strategic review in May 2008 examining all and liabilities in FY 2009, a charge to the profit securitisation.
However, given the recent options for realising value for shareholders.
and loss account of 6m will occur.
HM Treasury announcement to exclude The cost of the associated advisers fees was internal re-organisations from the REIT 9m post tax 12m before tax, which is Taxation regime, the need for cash conservation and disclosed as an exceptional operating charge The tax charge for the year was 52m before the current Group tax position, we have no in the year.
exceptional items and IAS 39 movements.
plans for adopting any such structure for the This is an effective rate of 29% of profit foreseeable future.
An exceptional post-tax profit of 4m before tax, one percentage point lower than 6m before tax was made on individual the previous year reflecting a change in the Exceptional items and IAS 39 movements pub disposals during the year.
Exceptional items are those which are separately identified by virtue of their Exceptional tax credits totalled 26m, driven In FY 2009 the Company will utilise a number size or incidence so as to allow a better by prior year provision releases and a change of tax credits and rebates such that no understanding of the underlying trading in the taxation basis for hotels.
corporation cash tax will be payable in the year.
Exceptional items are generally those which do not form part of Including the impairment charge following Earnings per share the core operations of the Group.
As a result, the property revaluation, this resulted in Earnings per share were 31.5p before the Board focuses on pre-exceptional total exceptional items and IAS 39 movements exceptional items and IAS 39 movements, performance measures in order to compare of 303m after tax 417m before tax in a decrease of 11.3%.
The loss per share after exceptional items The settlement in January 2008 of the majority Finance costs and revenue and IAS 39 movements was 43.7p reflecting of the interest rate and inflation hedging Finance costs during the year were the exceptional losses on the financial hedges arrangements that the Company entered 174m before exceptional items and IAS 39 settled in January and the property into in July 2007 in respect of the proposed movements, 21m higher than the same impairment charge.
property joint venture resulted in a post-tax period last year, reflecting the effect of the loss of 274m 386m loss before tax.
Of increase in debt associated with the close-out this, 145m 204m before tax was reported of the interest rate and inflation hedging Mitchells & Butlers 29 Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Financial review continued Philharmonic Dining Rooms Classics, Liverpool Cash flow and net debt This facility, together with the long-term Treasury management Following the closure of the hedging securitised debt, underpins Mitchells & The financial risks faced by the Group are arrangements in January, there has been Butlers financing requirements and provides identified and managed by a central Treasury a high level of emphasis on cash flow an appropriate level of financing headroom as department.
The activities of the Treasury generation to restore the strength of the the Company executes its strategic plan over function are carried out in accordance with Companys balance sheet.
At the end of the the medium term.
Board approved policies and are subject to year, net debt had reduced by around 175m regular audit.
The department does not since January and the ratio of net debt to In FY 2008 net interest paid of 164m was operate as a profit centre.
EBITDA was 5.7 times compared to 6.1 times 19m higher than the same period last year in January.
primarily as a result of higher debt levels Pensions in the Company.
Tax paid was 4m, 29m After 24m of additional contributions, there The Groups operations continue to be highly lower than the prior year driven by 9m of was a pension deficit of 23m before tax at cash generative.
Cash flow from operations tax rebates received from HM Revenue & 27 September 2008 under IAS 19.
The formal was 486m before exceptional items but after Customs during the period as well as tax actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2007 additional pension contributions of 24m.
credits from the losses on hedging indicated a larger deficit of around 250m, Net capital expenditure was 111m which arrangements.
As a result, there was a net reflecting the more conservative gilts basis comprised 31m of expansionary expenditure cash inflow of 147m before exceptional for discounting future liabilities.
The payment on the Original Acquired Sites, 51m of core and non-operating cash costs of 412m.
of additional contributions during the year expansionary capital investment, 111m of reflects a formal recovery plan agreed during maintenance capital, less disposal proceeds At 27 September 2008, the Groups net the year with the Pension Scheme Trustees from pubs and related assets of 82m.
debt of 2,735m was 256m higher than the to close the deficit on the gilts basis by 2017. same period last year.
This consisted of the As part of this plan, in addition to ordinary In July, on the strength of its cash flow securitised debt of 2,361m, non-securitised annual service contributions, we expect that projections, the Company refinanced and other borrowings and finance leases of 505m further contributions of 24m will be made extended its short-term borrowings into a offset by cash balances of 131m.
in each of the next two years prior to the next three-year unsecured facility to November actuarial valuation.
The facility was set to 600m initially, reducing to 550m from December 2008, 400m from December 2009 and 300m by December 2010.
As at the year end the drawings on this facility were 514m.
Mitchells & Butlers 30 Annual report and accounts 2008
