Operating and Financial Review This Operating and Financial Review describes the main trends and factors underlying the National Grid Gass metering business provides gas meters, and meter Metering business development, performance and position of the gas distribution and metering businesses installation and maintenance services to gas suppliers in the regulated gas reported in these regulatory accounting statements during the year ended 31 March 2008, as market.
It provides services to domestic, industrial and commercial gas meters, situated throughout Great Britain.
well as those likely to affect their future development, performance and position.
It has been prepared in line with the guidance provided in the Reporting Statement on the Operating and National Grid Gass meter reading business provides meter reading services Meter reading Financial Review issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board, except that in accordance for gas suppliers and for the DNs.
business with the requirements of the gas transportation licence under which these regulatory accounting fide-minimis activities Comprise those activities of National Grid Gas which do not form part of its statements are prepared, performance during the year is only discussed for the businesses in DN businesses, metering business, meter reading business, NTS business or aggregate.
LNG storage business, based on the definitions of those businesses in its two gas transporter licences, and which have not been specifically consented to Contents to Operating and Financial Review by Ofgem.
2 Principal operations fide-minimis activities mainly comprise the provision of contracting type 3 Vision, strategy and objectives services for other companies in the National Grid group of companies and for 4 Business drivers, risks and opportunities third parties.
Under its two gas transporter licences, National Grid Gas can 6 External market and regulatory environment earn no more than 2.5% of its revenue from, nor invest more than 2.5% of its 7 Current and future developments net assets in fide-minimis activities 9 Performance summary and key performance indicators Other activities Comprise those activities of National Grid Gas which would be classed as fide- 10 Performance against objectives minimis activities except that Ofgem has given National Grid Gas specific 20 Financial position and financial management consents to undertake them.
24 Accounting policies Other activities mainly comprise the provision of common services to other companies in the National Grid group of companies and the provision of specific services to the four gas distribution networks sold in 2005.
Principal operations National Grid Gas is a part of the National Grid group of businesses.
Its principal operations are History in regulated gas networks in the UK, and comprise the transmission and distribution of gas and National Grid Gas originated from the restructuring of the UK gas industry in 1986. the provision of gas metering services.
It also has interests in liquefied natural gas LNG storage facilities in the UK.
Key milestones 1986 British Gas incorporated as a public limited company These DN regulatory accounting statements include the following regulatory businesses and 1997 British Gas demerged Centrica activities of National Grid Gas: 1999 Financial and restructuring programme completed leading to creation of a new parent Regulatory business Description of principal activities company, BG Group, separation of the regulated Transco business from the other businesses Distribution Network National Grid Gas owns four of the eight regional gas distribution networks of BG Group and the establishment of a financial ring-fence around Transco DNs in the UK, comprising almost half of Great Britains gas distribution DN businesses 2000 Lattice Group, including Transco, demerged from BG Group system.
National Grid Gass DNs consist of approximately 82,000 miles of 2002 Merger of Lattice Group and National Grid to form National Grid Transco distribution pipelines and transport gas on behalf of approximately 34 active 2005 Sales of four regional gas distribution networks gas shippers, from the gas national transmission system to around 11 million consumers.
2005 National Grid adopted as the group brand name, with Transco renamed National Grid Gas National Grid Gas also manages the national emergency number 0800 111 999 for all of the gas distribution networks and for other gas transporters in the UK.
2 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 - Identify and develop talent and skills Talent Vision, strategy and objectives - Improve engagement and performance - Enhance inclusion and diversity Vision Relationships - Help investors understand National Grid Gass value National Grid Gas is a part of National Grids vision to be the foremost international electricity - Improve relationships with customers, regulators and governments and gas company, delivering unparalleled safety, efficiency and reliability, vital to the well-being - Work effectively with suppliers of customers and communities.
National Grid Gas is committed to being an innovative leader in - Deepen involvement with communities energy management and to safeguarding the global environment for future generations.
Environment - Lead on climate change - Manage and remediate contaminated land Strategy - Protect the environment National Grids strategy is based on focus, integration and discipline as follows: - Be efficient in use of natural resources Financial performance - Increase profits Focus The focus is on a clear business model based on the ownership and - Obtain appropriate returns on investments operation of large scale asset intensive businesses within National Grid - Maintain financial discipline Gass principal growth market of gas infrastructure in the UK.
National Grid Gass aim is to run its businesses in an integrated way Integration This strategy is underpinned by National Grid Gass commitment to corporate responsibility, organising activities along lines of business, supported by effective and including the core values that it expects its management and employees to operate by.
efficient shared services and information systems.
This involves deploying proven processes, common systems and best practices within each Responsibility - Operate to the highest standards of corporate governance business, supported by common operating principles, and safety and - Conduct business in a lawful and ethical manner environmental standards, seeking to maximise the competitive advantages - Live the core values of: that come from being part of an international organisation, balanced with Respect others and value diversity the need to provide excellent service to customers and to maintain and Take ownership for driving performance build local relationships with other key stakeholders.
Demonstrate integrity and openness in all relationships Work together as one team National Grid Gass aim is to be disciplined in the application of best Discipline practice, increasingly standardising its approach in the way it operates and The meaning of these objectives, how National Grid Gas plans to achieve them and the finances its activities.
Its aim is for rigorous financial discipline, ensuring progress made this year are described in the performance summary and performance against that it has the capital it needs to grow, while maintaining the investor objectives sections of this Operating and Financial Review on pages 9 to 20. confidence that comes from a disciplined approach to its balance sheet.
Objectives Building on National Grids strategy, National Grid Gas has set objectives to deliver National Grids vision of becoming the foremost international electricity and gas company.
By achieving these objectives it aims to deliver sustainable growth and so create value for National Grids shareholders.
Delivering National - Create lines of business - Build operating model common systems and processes, sharing best Grids strategy practice - Improve safety Operating performance - Improve efficiency - Improve reliability - Improve customer service - Deliver capital investment plans National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 3 National Grid Gass reputation is vitally important to it.
Relationships and Business drivers, risks and opportunities responsibility Delivering sustainable value depends on the trust and confidence of National Business drivers Grid Gass stakeholders and this can only be earned by it conducting its business in a responsible manner.
National Grid Gass principal activities include the operation of highly complex gas infrastructure networks.
As a consequence, there are many factors that influence the financial returns it A number of other factors also affect National Grid Gass financial performance, but are either obtains.
less significant than the principal business drivers, or are mitigated by the way operations are structured: National Grid Gas considers the following to be its principal business drivers in respect of its gas distribution and metering businesses: Weather Changes in the quantities of gas delivered through National Grid Gass gas distribution networks may result in an increase or decrease in its revenues.
and Price The prices National Grid Gas charges for use of its gas distribution networks Volumes are affected by weather and consumer demand as well as other are determined in accordance with regulator approved price controls.
The impact of changing volumes may sometimes be offset by negotiation of these arrangements has a significant impact on revenues.
changes in costs or may sometimes result in an underor over-recovery Their duration is significant in providing stability to operations, allowing against allowable revenues, with a corresponding increase or decrease in National Grid Gas to plan ahead and invest in the confidence that it will obtain revenue in future periods.
National Grid Gass current price control arrangements for its gas distribution Seasonality networks mean that revenues are less weighted towards the winter months National Grid Gass price controls contain incentive and or penalty than previously.
Seasonality does not have a significant impact on National arrangements that can affect it financially based on agreed performance Grid Gass other revenues.
Multi-year contracts Revenues from metering services are largely determined by contractual With the exception of commodity costs, National Grid Gass operating costs arrangements, which are long-term and with blue chip customers.
Safety, efficiency National Grid Gass ability to operate safely and reliably is of paramount Commodity National Grid Gass is allowed to recover commodity costs and certain other importance to it, its employees, its contractors, its customers, its regulators and direct costs through charges to customers.
The timing of recovery of these and other and the communities it serves.
Financial performance is affected by National reliability costs can vary between financial periods leading to an under or over-recovery pass-through costs Grid Gass performance in these areas.
within any particular financial period.
National Grid Gass objective is to deliver services as efficiently as possible.
National Grid Gass is affected by commodity prices to the extent that they This allows it to limit price increases or to reduce prices to customers and affect its own energy requirements, most significantly gas purchases for the improve its own financial performance to the benefit of National Grids operation of its gas distribution networks.
Inflation Without action to improve efficiency, National Grid Gass operating costs Customer service The quality of the service National Grid Gas delivers to customers, and the increase each year as a result of wage increases and inflation in external experiences that they have in dealing with it, whether through routine costs.
In general, its revenues also increase each year, although not interactions or when problems arise, is important as it feeds through to the necessarily at the same rate, depending on its regulatory or contractual attitudes of regulators and is also linked to its financial performance.
As a consequence, National Grid Gass ability to control costs Capital investment is a significant driver for organic growth.
Capital investment and improve efficiency is important to its ability to increase operating profits.
In National Grid Gass regulated gas distribution networks, the prices it National Grid Gass price controls are linked to retail price inflation, as is a charges include an allowed return for capital investment determined in proportion of its borrowings.
accordance with its price controls.
These provide incentives for National Grid Interest rates The costs of financing National Grid Gass operations are affected by Gas to enhance the quality and reach of its networks through capital changes in prevailing interest rates, as some of its debt is at floating rates.
National Grid Gas hedges some of its exposure to interest rates with fixedrate debt and derivative financial instruments to maintain a proportion of its For its metering businesses, capital investment in new assets allows National debt at fixed interest rates.
Grid Gas to increase or maintain revenues.
4 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 Strong corporate governance is essential to operating responsibly and the Responsibility Risks and opportunities achievement of all National Grid Gass objectives.
Risks and opportunities National Grid Gas believes that the principal opportunities it has to contribute to the National Grid Gass reputation as a responsible business is dependent on achievement of National Grids vision and to the delivery of growth in value for National Grids ensuring all its behaviours are lawful and ethical, on complying with its shareholders have been identified in National Grids strategy and National Grid Gass policies and licences and on living up to its core values.
If National Grid Gas does not live up to these high standards it could be exposed to adverse financial or other consequences.
Conversely, National Grid Gas risks a shortfall in this contribution if it does not fulfil National Grids strategy or if it fails to achieve its objectives.
How National Grid Gas intends to achieve its objectives and the progress made during the year against its objectives are set out on pages 10 to 20.
Delivering National National Grid Gas believes that by implementing National Grids strategy Grids strategy and transforming its businesses, it will be able to deliver increased value Risk management for National Grids shareholders.
National Grid Gass approach to risk management is described in the corporate governance Conversely, if National Grid Gas does not achieve this transformation, or section on page 29.
In addition, information on how certain financial risks are addressed is the benefits in efficiency and effectiveness are not achieved, then its included in the financial position and financial management section of this Operating and contribution to shareholder value will not grow as hoped or will diminish.
Financial Review on pages 21 to 23.
The operating profits and cash flows National Grid Gas generates are Operating performance Risk factors dependent on its operating performance operating safely, efficiently and Through its risk management process, National Grid Gas has identified a number of significant reliably and providing a quality service to customers.
Future growth is risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives as follows: dependent on the delivery of capital investment plans.
Talent The skills and talents of National Grid Gass employees, and their changes in law or regulation: motivation and dedication, are critical to the achievement of its objectives.
breaches of environmental or health and safety law or regulations: Failure to develop existing employees or to attract and recruit talented new network failure or inability to carry out critical non-network operations: employees could hamper its ability to deliver in the future.
achievement of business performance objectives, including regulatory targets and Relationships Relationships with National Grid Gass stakeholders are critical to its future delivering anticipated cost and efficiency savings: success.
Maintaining these good relationships is dependent on focusing regulatory treatment of commodity costs passed through to consumers: on the areas that are important to them, such as the quality of service reputation damage from disruptions to supply, even if outside National Grid Gass control: provided to customers, the quality of information provided to regulators and fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on borrowings and derivatives: the way it addresses the concerns of, and interacts with, all its restrictions in borrowings, adverse changes in the global credit markets and changes in stakeholders.
credit ratings or in tax rates: Environment Safeguarding the global environment for future generations is dependent future funding requirements of pension schemes: and on integrating sustainability and climate change considerations into changes in accounting standards.
business decisions, influencing legislators and regulators to reshape energy markets to meet the climate change challenge and helping and Not all of these factors are within National Grid Gass control and, in addition, there may be supporting employees, customer and suppliers in changing their behaviour other factors besides those listed that may have an adverse effect on National Grid Gas.
to be more considerate of the environment.
These risk factors are described in more detail in the corporate governance section on pages Strong financial performance and operating cash flows are the basis for Financial performance 29 to 31. funding National Grid Gass future capital investment programmes, for servicing its borrowings and paying dividends, as well as in increasing its value to National Grids shareholders.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 5 control mechanisms that restrict the amount of revenue that can be earned by regulated External market and regulatory environment businesses.
Markets in which National Grid Gas operates National Grid Gas holds a single gas distribution transporter licence, which authorises it to The principal market in which National Grid Gas operates is the natural gas market in the UK.
operate its four gas distribution networks.
Detailed arrangements for transporting gas are provided through the Uniform Network Code which defines the obligations, responsibilities and The supply of natural gas in the UK is competitive in that consumers can contract with different roles of industry participants and is approved by Ofgem.
suppliers to obtain the gas they need.
Those suppliers are then responsible for sourcing that Gas Metering is regulated by Ofgem as it was the incumbent provider of meters to gas suppliers gas from gas extractors or importers as appropriate, as well as arranging for that gas to be and retains a large share of the legacy installed base of gas meters in Great Britain.
It is subject delivered through physical delivery networks.
These networks, including the ones National Grid Gas operates, are monopolies in their local areas as, for the majority of consumers, there are to price controls, although the pricing for the majority of meters is instead specified by long-term contracts which provide gas suppliers with the flexibility to replace National Grid Gass meters no alternative methods of receiving natural gas.
while reducing the risk of asset stranding.
Natural gas delivery in the UK In addition, as a public company with securities listed on the London Stock Exchange and on Natural gas is transported through the gas national transmission system to regional gas the New York Stock Exchange, National Grid Gas is subject to regulation by the UK Financial distribution networks that then deliver that gas to consumers on behalf of suppliers.
Certain end Services Authority and by the US Securities and Exchange Commission customers, primarily large industrial users, receive gas direct from the national transmission system.
Price controls National Grid Gas is the owner and operator of the gas national transmission system and of four National Grid Gass four regional gas distribution networks each have a separate price control, which determines the maximum prices which can be charged to gas shippers for the gas of the eight regional gas distribution networks in Great Britain.
It charges gas shippers for its delivery service.
These maximum prices are based on Ofgems allowances for operating, services, which they then incorporate into the prices charged to end consumers.
capital and replacement expenditure, together with depreciation of and a return on Ofgems The gas distribution networks in Scotland and southern England are owned by Scotia Gas allowances for regulatory asset value.
Networks, in the north of England by Northern Gas Networks, and in Wales and the west of England by Wales & West Utilities.
The price controls that applied to National Grid Gass gas distribution networks during the year ended 31 March 2008 were an extension of the previous price controls, which were based on a Other markets in which National Grid Gas operates real pre-tax rate of 6.25% on regulatory asset value.
National Grid Gas also operates in gas related markets in Great Britain which are directly The next full price control period came into force on 1 April 2008 and covers the period up to connected to its regulated businesses described above.
National Grid Gass regulated metering 31 March 2013.
This review allows for capital expenditure of 0.7 billion and mains replacement business owns approximately 80% of the domestic gas meters in Great Britain, although as the expenditure of 2.2 billion over that period.
These allowances are expected to grow National competitive market for metering services expands, this portfolio of gas meters will decline as its Grid Gass asset base by almost 25% over the 5 years.
National Grid Gas also participates in the competitive market for the provision of LNG storage services in Great Britain.
As at 31 March 2008, National Grid Gass regulatory asset value is estimated at approximately 6.5 billion.
Regulation As a result of its position in, and importance to, the UK economy, National Grid Gass gas The price control formulae specify a maximum allowed revenue assigned to each network.
distribution and metering businesses are subject to UK and European Union laws and Each formula consists of a fixed core revenue, cost pass-through items, a mains replacement regulations.
adjustment mechanism, and shrinkage and exit capacity incentive terms.
Transportation charges are set broadly to recover allowed revenue, but in any year, collected revenue can be National Grid Gass businesses are also subject to safety legislation which is enforced by the more or less than allowed.
Any difference is carried forward and charges are adjusted Health and Safety Executive HSE.
Its gas operations work under a permissioning regime, accordingly in future periods.
whereby its organisation, processes and procedures are documented in safety cases that are subject to acceptance by the HSE.
Replacement expenditure maintains the safety and reliability of the network, by replacing older gas pipes with modern pipes.
Ofgem treats 50% of projected replacement expenditure as Economic regulation of National Grid Gass gas distribution and metering businesses is recoverable during the price control period and 50% as recoverable over future years.
Each undertaken by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem.
Ofgem operates under the network is subject to its own mains replacement incentive mechanism and retains 33% of any direction and governance of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and has established price 6 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 outperformance against Ofgems annual cost targets as additional return or, alternatively, bears Current and future developments 50% of any overspend if it underperforms.
External market developments Standards of service Ofgem has established standards of service in respect of its DN businesses which National Market structure and ownership Grid Gas is required to meet.
These include: There have been no significant changes in the structure of the UK gas infrastructure market since 2005, when National Grid Gas sold four of its regional gas distribution networks to other overall standards of service, for example answering 90% of all calls to the national gas operators.
emergency number within 30 seconds of the call being connected and attending 97% of reports of a gas escape or other gas emergency within the required timescale: Energy market developments connections standards of service that require it to provide connections to customers to High energy prices have been a key feature in the UK market during the last 12 months and this agreed timescales after an unplanned interruption: and has led to significant increases in bills to consumers for their energy supplies.
guaranteed standards of service for other transportation services.
The UK continues to be in a period of changing energy supply patterns, as the decline in UK Compensation is paid to consumers for any failures to meet guaranteed standards of service continental shelf gas reserve means more reliance is placed on imported gas for both and the connections standards of service.
consumption and use in power generation.
As a consequence of the decline in gas production from the UK continental shelf, National Grid Gass latest forecast is that the UK will import around 50% of its gas requirements by the end of the decade.
These changes are impacting National Grid Gass gas networks with significant investment underway and planned to link gas import facilities with domestic, business and industrial consumers.
Regulatory developments During the year ended 31 March 2008, there were no significant changes in the legislative and regulatory framework in the UK.
In September 2007, the European Commission published a third package of legislative proposals for energy markets within the European Union.
The key areas include unbundling of transmission and distribution of energy from customer supply and generation activities, the creation of a European regulatory agency for energy and the establishment of a European network of transmission system operators for gas and electricity respectively, to facilitate cooperation and coordination at both a European and regional level.
While there are many complex issues for which resolution is required, there is a strong desire for political agreement to be reached during 2008.
This was complemented in January 2008 by a number of environmental proposals focusing on renewable energy, emissions trading, carbon capture and energy efficiency.
In April 2008, Ofgem announced a review into the operation of the energy markets in the UK and how the regulatory model in the UK is functioning.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 7 Changes in price controls Ofgem extended the previous five year gas distribution price controls, which apply to the four DNs, for a further year, to cover the year ending 31 March 2008.
The principal impact of these one year price control extensions is to increase prices by approximately 11% and to reduce the seasonality of revenues.
In addition, the balance between fixed and variable elements in DN revenue changed, reducing the impact that volume changes, including weather, had on DN revenue in 2007 08 compared with previous years.
On 18 December 2007 National Grid Gas accepted Ofgems final proposals for new gas distribution price controls, covering the period from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2013.
The key elements of these proposals are a 4.3% post-tax real rate of return on DN regulatory asset value, a 2.9 billion baseline five year capital expenditure allowance and a 1.9 billion five year operating expenditure allowance.
Other developments On 1 July 2008, certain meter reading activities of the Meter Reading business were sold to Utility Metering Services Limited, a fellow subsidiary of National Grid plc, trading as OnStream, for 2 million.
Legal and related matters Metering competition investigation On 25 February 2008, Ofgem announced it had decided National Grid Gas had breached the Competition Act 1998 with respect to the development of term contracts with gas suppliers entered into by its metering services business in 2004 and imposed a fine of 41.6 million, which has been suspended pending its appeal to the Competition Appeal Tribunal.
National Grid Gas believes that it has never been anti-competitive and that it will be successful in appealing this decision.
Therefore, this fine has not been provided for in these regulatory accounting statements.
8 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 Performance summary and key performance indicators Delivering National Grids Lines of business Integrated the gas distribution business into National Grids global Gas Distribution lines of business, with a common management team and strategy responsible Executive Director Progressed separation of functions and processes that support multiple lines of business Operating model Commenced implementation of a new back office system Commenced reviews within each line of business, shared services and information services to identify best practices, so that they can be shared across National Grid Operating performance Safety Injuries to the public 2007 08: 26 Target: zero 2006 07: 20 Employee lost time injury frequency rate 2007 08: 0.12 Target: zero 2006 07: 0.17 Gas distribution mains replacement 2007 08: 1,850 km Target: 1,835 km in 2007 08 2006 07: 1,850 km Reliability Gas distribution network reliability 2007 08: 99.999% Target: 99.999% 2006 07: 99.999% Efficiency Cost reduction programmes undertaken in gas distribution Capital investment Capital expenditure 2007 08: 592 million 2006 07: 572 million Talent Talent, skills, engagement and Gas distributions and meterings directors and senior managers have been through a Performance for Growth programme, focusing on how to performance develop employees, address skills gaps, increase employee engagement and coach for better performance A single set of performance measures for senior managers has been developed and calibrated The talent review process has been upgraded and aligned across National Grid Gass businesses.
Environment Climate change Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions 2007 08: 0% Target: year on year reduction 2006 07: 0% Protecting the environment Significant direct environmental incidents own, contractors 2007 08: 1, zero Target: zero 2006 07: 1, zero Total value of fines from environmental 2007 08: zero Target: zero prosecutions 2006 07: zero Financial performance Profit and cash flow Adjusted operating profit 2007 08: 682 million 2006 07: 484 million Cash generated by operations 2007 08: 1,088 million 2006 07: 1,001 million Returns from investment Gas distribution return on investment 2007 08: 5.1% 2006 07: 5.0% Financial discipline Adjusted gearing ratio 2007 08: 39% 2006 07: 38% Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items and remeasurements.
For the adjusted gearing ratio DN assets are measured at their regulatory value.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 9 National Grids operating model is based on ensuring that activities are Operating model Performance against objectives carried out at the most appropriate level, either locally, within lines of business or across National Grid.
In accordance with the requirements of National Grid Gass DN gas transporter licence, the performance of the businesses included within these DN regulatory accounting statements is Lines of business considered in aggregate.
National Grid Gas has integrated the management of its four DNs with National Grids US gas Business performance and the progress made against objectives are described below and on networks, as part of National Grids plan to create a single gas distribution business operating in the following pages.
This includes commentary on financial results on pages 15 to 20. both the UK and the US.
A new management team for the enlarged business has been appointed, reporting to Mark Fairbairn, the Executive Director of National Grid with The achievement of objectives is measured through the use of qualitative assessments and responsibility for gas distribution.
through the monitoring of quantitative indicators, called key performance indicators KPIs.
In line with the operating objectives, both financial and non-financial KPIs are used.
Where Common functions relevant, KPIs are used as the primary measures of whether objectives are being achieved.
National Grid Gass gas distribution business is already supported by a UK shared services However, the scale and size of National Grid Gass operations mean many other detailed function and National Grid has now combined the information services, procurement and legal performance measures are used in addition to KPIs.
KPIs are also used to measure services functions which serve its businesses in the UK, with the equivalent US functions, performance against the primary objective of growing the businesses to create value for creating single functions that span National Grid, to ensure that there is a common operating National Grids shareholders.
Qualitative assessments are used to judge progress against approach.
objectives in areas where numerical measures are less relevant.
Common systems and processes This year, adjusted gearing ratio has been included as one of the KPIs measuring financial National Grids aim is to reduce the number of systems that it has and to align processes so performance.
The other KPIs are unchanged from last year.
that there is a single National Grid method of operating.
In support of this aim, National Grid Gas has implemented a new back office system, which will underpin the development of Responsibility common processes and integrate with front office systems used by its businesses.
National Grid Gas believes operating responsibly is essential to the way it conducts its operations, invests, develops its people and manages its relationships.
It underpins everything While National Grid is centralising activities that it believes are common across National Grid, it does.
National Grid Gas remains focused on ensuring that its employees are able to deliver services to its customers locally.
National Grid Gas always strives to operate to the highest standards of corporate governance and believes in strong business ethics, based around National Grids Framework for Identification of best practice Responsible Business and its core values of respecting others and valuing diversity, One of the key benefits of global integration is the sharing of best practices and standardising demonstrating integrity and openness in all relationships, taking ownership for driving technologies which should drive operating and financial improvements.
performance and operating as one team.
A number of new approaches have already been implemented by gas distribution with tangible The approach to corporate governance within National Grid Gas is described in more detail in benefits.
For example, advanced excavation techniques employing a coring machine and the corporate governance section on pages 28 to 31. vacuum unit has allowed holes, on average one-quarter the size of conventional excavations.
This technique also improves the safety of the crew, limits traffic congestion, and reduces the Delivering National Grids strategy volume of material disposed of in a landfill.
This technique was adopted from National Grids US National Grid Gas is in the process of transforming its businesses in line with National Grids operations and is now being utilised in the UK on gas leakage repairs.
This means creating global lines of business across National Grid and focusing on The metering business has continued to focus on improving the standard of service offered to delivering an improved service to customers, supported by an operating model that delivers its customers, and is trialling a number of new technologies which it believes will better meet effective and efficient shared services and information systems.
customer needs and reduce costs.
10 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 Safety, health and environmental management Gas safety The transformation programme includes restructuring the approach to managing safety, health National Grid Gas again exceeded the targets on safety-related standards set by Ofgem.
More and environmental issues, embedding responsibility directly into the business for safety, health than 98% of uncontrolled gas escapes where the gas leak cannot be controlled by turning the and environmental, supported by safety, health and environmental expertise in support gas supply off at the meter were attended within one hour, and more than 99% of controlled functions.
This means that all of National Grid Gass managers will be accountable for safety, gas escapes where the gas leak can be controlled at the meter were attended within two health and environmental management in their areas of operations.
The target is 97% attendance in both cases.
National Grid Gas has decommissioned approximately 1,850 kilometres of gas pipes in Operating performance 2007 08, exceeding the target of 1,835 kilometres agreed with the HSE target for the second National Grid Gas aims for operational excellence by performing to the highest standards of consecutive year.
National Grid Gas decommissioned 1,850 kilometres in 2006 07. safety, efficiency, and reliability and by improving customer service.
By delivering on their capital investment plans the gas distribution and metering businesses can create value through Employee safety organic growth.
During 2007 08, 16 gas distribution and metering employees received injuries that resulted in them taking time off work, compared with 24 in 2006 07 and a target of zero.
Safety Employee lost time injuries track progress towards the target of zero work-related injuries.
National Grid Gass most important goals are: to ensure that members of the However, the employee lost time injury frequency rate provides a more accurate indicator of public are not injured as a direct result of its operations: to deliver a working year-on-year performance as it takes into account changing employee numbers.
Employee lost environment where there are zero work-related injuries and illness: to reduce time injuries per 100,000 hours worked were 0.12 in 2007 08 compared with 0.17 in the gas leaks on its distribution networks: and to improve the health of its previous year.
employees so they are fit for work every day.
National Grid Gas uses a range of lagging and leading indicators to measure Employee health performance against its safety objectives, including: members of the public National Grid Gas is committed to protecting employees health during work activities.
National injured as a direct result of its operations: employee lost time injury frequency Grid Gas has continued to develop its risk based approach and instigated further programmes rate: achievement of gas safety service standards: kilometres of gas of support for employees with musculoskeletal conditions.
Across the business, employees distribution mains replaced: and employee sickness absence rate.
have engaged in well-being and education programmes designed to encourage good lifestyle choices.
Approaches to health promotion are currently being reviewed with the aim of During 2007 08, National Grid Gas has reviewed the critical safety risks across its gas establishing and delivering an effective well-being programme, encompassing health education, distribution and metering businesses, ensuring they are effectively managed.
To support this, it fitness and nutrition, work life balance, and health management and disease prevention.
has implemented National Grids programme for improving safety performance, Trusted to Work Responsibly.
This renewed approach builds upon well established safety procedures and For National Grid Gas as a whole, around 2.18% of available work days were lost due to reinforces the need for individual and collective ownership of safety performance.
It recognises sickness absence in 2007 08, compared with 2.20% in 2006 07. that National Grid Gass workforce is well trained and should be trusted to deliver their work in the right way the safe way.
It was launched across National Grid in October 2007 and Contractor safety followed by the publication and implementation of Golden Rules that encompass all businesses.
There was an increase in contractor lost time injuries from 14 in 2006 07 to 19 in 2007 08.
These set consistent standards for good safety behaviours, but are interpreted so that they By improving efficiency, National Grid Gas can constrain the cost of its Efficiency reflect the risk profiles of different parts of the business and reinforce a culture whereby safety operations borne by customers and improve returns to National Grids becomes second nature.
National Grid Gas reviews operations continually to identify National Grid Gas has also reinforced its approach to process safety.
During 2007 08, it has opportunities to improve the operational productivity of its assets and people, and to identify areas in which it can reduce costs or restrict cost increases.
reviewed the risk profile of its assets and has completed a culture survey to find out the views of Planning ahead is essential to maintaining and improving efficiency.
National Grid Gas has also trained Directors and senior managers in process safety and issued a new commitment statement agreed by the Board of National Grid Gass primary method of measuring improvements in efficiency is through financial performance.
Gas distribution has undertaken a number of internal process reviews to advance the alignment Public safety of its operations with the aspiration of removing duplication and waste.
During 2007 08, 26 members of the public were injured as a result of gas distribution and metering operations compared with 20 during 2006 07 and a target of zero.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 11 Gas distribution has improved the efficiency of its mains replacement activities by tackling Capital investment is one of the principal drivers of future growth, as the Capital investment larger projects through taking a zonal approach.
It has also used technology, such as vacuum majority of capital investment enables National Grid Gas to earn an increased excavation, transferred from the US, to allow jobs to be completed more efficiently.
The principal measure used to monitor organic investment is capital Information on financial performance during the year is set out on pages 15 to 20. expenditure, which includes investment in property, plant & equipment, and in internally created intangible assets such as software.
National Grid Gass principal operations are critical to the functioning of the Reliability UK economy.
The reliability of its gas networks is one of its highest priorities National Grid Gass capital investment programme in its gas distribution networks is based on after safety.
an assessment of what is needed to maintain or improve the performance of the regulated National Grid Gas uses business-specific reliability performance indicators to networks, or to extend those networks where required to serve new sources of energy or new measure reliability performance.
customers, usually in agreement with Ofgem, who permits the DNs to earn a return on allowed investments.
Capital investment in the metering business is to meet customer requirements.
National Grid Gass approach to maintaining and improving reliability involves: investing in infrastructure and systems to provide the operational tools and techniques necessary to During 2007 08, capital investment in gas distribution and metering was 592 million, compared manage our assets and operations to high standards and investing in the renewal of assets: with 572 million in 2006 07. investing in the skills and capabilities of its people to give them the ability to operate the Gross investment including reinforcement, extension and replacement of the gas distribution networks to a high degree of service excellence: and maintaining a constant focus on reliability network was 510 million in 2007 08 compared with 486 million in 2006 07.
Of these amounts, as one of its principal objectives, ensuring it is proactive about planning to ensure reliability and that it reacts quickly to factors that could compromise reliability.
353 million in 2007 08 related to the gas mains replacement programme 2006 07: 333 million and 157 to other capital investment including new connections, new pipelines and Actual gas consumption was 315 TWh in 2007 08, compared with 303 TWh in 2006 07.
This minor capital expenditure 2006 07: 153 million.
Expenditure on software applications was equivalent to underlying levels of gas demand, excluding the effects of weather, of 329 included within the above amounts amounted to 17 million 2006 07: 12 million.
Replacement expenditure has increased by 20% since 2005 06, reflecting the substantial Customer service National Grid Gass objective is to impress customers with the quality of the increase in planned workload under the long-term mains replacement programme agreed with services provided, with its responsiveness when things go wrong and with its the Health and Safety Executive.
During the third year of National Grid Gass alliance partnerships for DNs, it has laid National Grid Gas uses business-specific service quality KPIs to measure approximately 1,850 kilometres of iron gas mains with an increasing proportion of workload performance in this area.
comprising complex replacement of large diameter mains.
Performance under the mains Over the year, the DNs have achieved all the connections standards of service, along with all replacement incentive scheme has been held broadly neutral in 2007 08.
The increase in other other standards of service set by Ofgem that relate to gas transportation services, and all 22 capital expenditure in 2007 08 compared with 2006 07 was because of a higher level of metering standards of service have been met.
investment in the reinforcement of high pressure pipelines, such projects being dependent on forecasts of future demand, together with higher expenditure on new connections, the During 2007 08, the DNs made around 45,000 new connections to our network 2006 07: replacement of commercial vehicles and information technology, including the replacement of 40,000.
The proportion of planned service interruptions as against unplanned in 2007 08 was obsolete equipment in system control, operational and support activities.
99.175% 2006 07: 98.92% compared with a target of 95%, while the proportion of customer complaints responded to within five working days was 96.1% in 2007 08 2006 07: 94.7% In addition to providing meters for new gas connections and replacing older meters, the compared with a target of 90%.
Metering and Meter Reading businesses are investing in technology such as automated meter The Metering business has continued to focus on improving the standard of service it offers to reading systems in response to customer requirements.
its customers and is trialling a number of new technologies which National Grid Gas believes Metering capital expenditure in 2007 08 amounted to 76 million, compared with 83 million in will better meet customer needs and reduce costs.
The decrease was mainly attributable to a lower level of meter exchanges.
Talent National Grid Gas aims to maximise the contribution of its employees by motivating them to strive for continued improvement, developing their skills and talents, and promoting a culture 12 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 that recognises and respects inclusion and diversity.
In addition to obtaining the views of Performance management employees on an ongoing basis, National Grid now carries out annual group-wide employee During the year, a Performance for Growth programme was successfully launched for Directors surveys to identify areas where it can improve.
National Grid Gas continues to expand and embed its performance management process with Identifying, recruiting and developing talented people are critical to National Talent and skills an integrated common performance approach, including a single set of performance criteria, Grid Gass future success.
National Grid Gas aims to support all its employees so that they can operate to the best of their abilities by creating an pay linked to leadership qualities, as well as operational and financial performance, and a environment that allows them to realise their full potential.
clearer differentiation between levels of performance.
During 2007 08, significant effort was put into the calibration of performance across the levels and businesses, with the objective of National Grid Gas has strengthened its talent management processes in 2007 08, commencing creating a fairer, more transparent and consistent process for evaluating and rewarding the with the creation of talent management plans for senior management and for business critical performance of employees.
In addition, for the first time, it has conducted cross-business talent planning sessions using consistent processes to support senior management in developing employees within In order to develop, recruit and retain talented people National Grid Gas aims Inclusion each business area and to address succession issues.
to achieve a more inclusive and diverse workforce, reflecting the composition and of the communities in which it operates, and to be seen as an employer of diversity National Grid Gass focus on developing the talent of current and future business leaders has choice across diverse communities.
intensified, with continued growth in the number of participants in National Grids leadership and Performance measures used to monitor this objective of promoting inclusion management development programmes.
The main areas of focus have been on the and diversity include the percentage of female employees and the percentage performance for growth programme, change management, leadership development and of black and minority ethnic employees.
developing future leaders programmes, including the expansion of change agent networks.
National Grid Gas is fortunate to have vibrant employee networks, focusing on gender, ethnicity National Grid Gas continues to invest in the recruitment and development of skilled employees and faith, disability, sexual orientation and new starters.
These are helping National Grid Gas to for the future, jointly with National Grids other UK businesses, which have collectively recruited better understand the different communities represented within its workforce, and to provide 157 trainees on to National Grids apprentice, foundation engineer, graduate and student support and information to its employees.
Action councils help to coordinate initiatives in each programmes in the past year.
of location, to identify new initiatives and to ensure consistency across businesses.
To succeed, National Grid Gas needs to engage its employees to strive for Engagement At 31 March 2008, 24.5% of National Grid Gass employees were female and 5.8% were from continued improvement.
For that purpose the aim is to implement a worldand performance black and minority ethnic groups compared with 20.0% and 4.5% respectively at 31 March class performance management process.
National Grid Gass approach involves adopting integrated common performance processes Relationships and a single set of performance criteria, with pay linked to leadership qualities how employees National Grid Gas aims to enhance its relationships with all of its external stakeholders deliver as well as operational and financial performance what employees deliver, providing investors, customers, regulators, government, suppliers and the communities in which National for clearer differentiation between levels of performance.
Employee engagement National Grid Gass aim is to make itself attractive to debt investors so that it Investor relations As part of the implementation of National Grids new operating model, a survey was carried out can finance its operations as effectively as possible.
to gather feedback on the communication routes that employees prefer and a suite of communication channels is now being rolled out across the whole of National Grid.
During the year, National Grid Gas participated in the presentations and conference calls In February 2008, National Grid conducted a comprehensive employee engagement survey, in targeted at debt investors and conducted by National Grid.
Despite turbulent market conditions which over 83% of its global work force took part in what will now be an annual exercise.
National Grid Gas has continued to issue long-term bonds, raising 700 million during the year.
Separate results are not available for the employees of National Grid Gas alone, but the survey demonstrated that National Grid Gass employees see its safety focused and supportive work environment as real strengths.
Where they think that progress can be made is in the areas of providing more open and honest communications, greater clarity about National Grid Gass vision and direction, and a stronger link between performance and reward.
Action plans are being developed and built into managers objectives for the coming year.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 13 The primary concern of National Grid Gass customers, regulators and the UK National Grid Gass role as a good corporate citizen supports National Grids Customers, Community Government is that National Grid Gas delivers a safe, reliable and efficient vision, and is delivered through a sustained and consistent approach.
regulators and involvement service, now and into the future.
Hence the foundation of National Grid Gass government relationships reflects the quality of its operational performance.
National Grid Gass community investment objectives include supporting communities, For customers, it is important that National Grid Gas treats them with respect, that it developing its business, supporting its employees and enhancing its reputation through communicates clearly and that it makes interaction with them as straightforward as possible.
National Grid Gass approach continues to be National Grid Gass focus on customer service and operational excellence is also a critical centred on three key themes: energy and environment: education and skills: and community component of its relationship with Ofgem and the UK Government, underpinning the building of development.
This involves being responsive to the need of Ofgem for high quality During the year National Grid Gas has again reviewed its social policy to ensure its approach to information, complying with rules and regulations, operating in an ethical way and, most community investment remains relevant to, and supports, societys wider social and importantly, delivering on National Grid Gass promises.
This review has included analysis of existing activities and best National Grid Gas continues to work very closely with Ofgem on the renewal of National its gas practice, across National Grid and externally.
networks, and in expanding those networks to meet new and changing demand.
In addition, National Grid Gas invested some 3.0 million in support of community initiatives and National Grid Gas seeks to maintain a professional approach with Ofgem in areas of relationships across its operations in 2007 08. disagreement, in particular with respect to Ofgems investigation into metering services as discussed on page 8.
Environment National Grid Gas is committed to safeguarding the global environment for future generations, Suppliers National Grid Gas aims to work effectively in partnership with its suppliers, taking positive action to reduce its contribution to climate change and its other impacts on the developing constructive relationships and working together effectively.
National Grid Gass objective is to develop contractual arrangements with suppliers that align their interests with National Grid Gass own, as far as Climate Climate change is possibly one of the greatest challenges facing society in possible, and share financial risks appropriately.
change National Grid Gass objective is to use the scale and breadth of National Grids activities to get National Grids overall objective is to reduce its emissions of greenhouse the best value for money from suppliers.
National Grid has established a single procurement gases by 80% against a verified baseline.
function covering all of its supply chain activities in the UK and the US as a key step on the way National Grid Gass key performance indicator to monitor performance in this to delivering this objective.
area is the annual percentage reduction in its greenhouse gas emissions.
National Grid Gas also measures absolute emissions.
During the year, National Grid Gas implemented a new back office system, which has improved its ability to manage procurement activities as well as providing other benefits.
Unfortunately, National Grid Gas reports greenhouse gas emissions in line with National Grids corporate relationships with certain suppliers were temporarily hampered by teething problems with the reporting principles which include National Grids interpretation of the World Resources Institute new system, leading to delays in payment in some circumstances.
National Grid Gas has Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative.
This protocol provides a breakdown of National Grid Gass resolved many of the issues that have arisen and continues to address those that remain, direct emissions Scope 1, indirect emissions resulting from purchased electricity Scope 2 aiming to ensure suppliers are paid on time while maintaining appropriate financial controls.
and other indirect emissions Scope 3.
National Grid Gas believes this provides greater transparency and focuses attention on those emissions over which it has the greatest control.
National Grid Gas also aims to build on its achievements in creating alliances with contractors to deliver construction projects in the DNs, benefiting from the closer and more constructive During 2007 08, National Grid reviewed its climate change strategy first approved in 2006, working relationship that National Grid Gas believes can be achieved, when project objectives and concluded that it should increase its target of reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions of are aligned and financial risks are shared.
greenhouse gases to 80% against its verified baseline ahead of 2050, compared with its prior 60% reduction target.
This target is ambitious and will challenge National Grid Gas to develop, In addition to focusing on efficiency and value for money, National Grid Gas has established now and over the next 42 years, new ways of conducting its business to reduce greenhouse clear principles and objectives concerning the impact of its supply chain economically, socially, gas emissions.
environmentally and on human rights.
National Grid Gas expects suppliers to address these wider areas in working with it.
This revised 80% reduction target will be delivered through National Grids climate change initiative, with a corporate team that will work with each line of business to deliver the target.
14 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 The initiative is structured around three elements which National Grid Gas believes will All of National Grid Gass employees work to environmental management systems certified to transform its business: the international standard ISO 14001. fully integrating sustainability and climate change considerations into business decisions, The number of significant environmental incidents in 2007 08 arising directly from gas including the setting of carbon budgets: distribution and metering operations was 1, compared with 1 in 2006 07.
None of these influencing legislators and regulators to reshape energy markets to meet the climate incidents were contractor-related.
There were no prosecutions by enforcing bodies resulting change challenge: and from these incidents.
helping and supporting customers, employees and suppliers in changing their behaviours Financial performance to be more considerate of the environment.
National Grid Gas aims to continue to improve its financial performance, to deliver returns As National Grid Gas does not have a separate verified base line for greenhouse gas appropriate to its risk profile and to be financially disciplined.
emissions, it monitors emissions in terms of year on year reductions.
During 2007 08, Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions in respect of the gas distribution and metering If National Grid Gas achieved its objectives it should be able to deliver Profit and businesses amounted to some 2.4 million tonnes CO equivalent, the same level as in 2006 07.
2 continued improvements in financial performance, contributing to National cash flow Grids commitment to grow its dividend each year.
Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions per million of revenue amounted to some 1,425 tonnes CO 2 The principal measures National Grid Gas uses to monitor financial equivalent compared with 1,632 tonnes in 2006 07. performance are adjusted operating profit and operating cash flows.
Adjusted operating profit is operating profit before exceptional items and Methane leakage from the gas distribution networks accounts for 99% of this years reported remeasurements.
During the year, National Grid Gas replaced approximately 1,850 km of old cast iron pipes, the largest source of these emissions.
National Grid Gas reports its financial results and position in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
National Grid Gas has an inherited portfolio of historically contaminated Historically land including former manufactured gas plants and former gas holder contaminated land Continuing operations stations.
Sites can have a complex mix of contamination dating back over The financial results of National Grid Gass gas distribution and metering businesses as 100 years.
described on page 2 are presented within continuing operations.
The main focus of National Grid Gass remediation programme is on managing the Measurement of financial performance and use of adjusted profit measures environmental risk by targeting those sites with the highest environmental risk profile and those In considering the financial performance of its regulatory businesses and activities, National where it has a legal or regulatory requirement to remediate, while returning land to productive Grid Gas analyses each of its primary financial measures of operating profit, profit before tax public or private use where it can, and where it is surplus to operational requirements.
and profit for the year into two components, comprising firstly business performance, which National Grid Property, a fellow subsidiary of National Grid, manages land contamination issues excludes exceptional items and remeasurements and secondly exceptional items and on National Grid Gass behalf.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are excluded from the measures of business performance used by management to monitor financial performance as they are National Grid Gass objective is to help protect the environment for future Protecting the considered to distort the comparability of reported financial performance from year to year.
generations and so it is committed to continuous improvement in its environment environmental performance by: Measures of business performance are referred to in these regulatory accounting statements as efficient use of natural resources: adjusted profit measures in order to clearly distinguish them from the comparable total profit measures of which they are a component.
Adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax keeping waste to a minimum and increasing the economic value of any waste produced: and adjusted earnings differ from total operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year acting to prevent environmental incidents: and respectively by the exclusion of exceptional items and remeasurements.
improving, where it can, the environmental status of the land on which it Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure that, in the operates.
judgement of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, Key performance indicators monitored in this area comprise the number of either by virtue of their nature or size, and are relevant to an understanding of National Grid significant direct environmental incidents and the total value of fines from Gass financial performance.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management prosecutions.
for designation as exceptional items include such items as significant restructurings, writeNational Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 15 downs or impairments of non-current assets, material changes in environmental provisions and Total operating profit 662 475 gains or losses on disposals of businesses or investments.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
These fair values increase or decrease as a consequence of changes in financial indices and prices over which National Grid Gas has no control.
Adjusted profit measures are limited in their usefulness compared with the comparable total profit measures, as they exclude important elements of underlying financial performance, namely exceptional items and remeasurements.
Management believes that in separately presenting financial performance in two components it is easier to read and interpret financial performance between periods, as adjusted profit measures are more comparable by excluding the distorting effect of exceptional items and remeasurements, and exceptional items and remeasurements are more clearly understood if separately identified and analysed.
The presentation of these two components of financial performance is additional to, and not a substitute for, the comparable total profit measures presented.
Management uses adjusted profit measures as the basis for monitoring financial performance and in communicating financial performance to investors in external presentations and announcements of financial results.
Internal financial reports, budgets and forecasts are primarily prepared on the basis of adjusted profit measures, although planned exceptional items, such as significant restructurings, are also reflected in budgets and forecasts.
Management compensates for the limitations inherent in the use of adjusted profit measures through the separate monitoring and disclosure of exceptional items and remeasurements as a component of overall financial performance.
National Grid Gass aim is to meet or exceed the base investment financial Returns on returns in its DN price controls.
investment National Grid Gas measures the financial performance of its DNs using an operational return metric, comparable to the vanilla return defined in the price controls from 1 April 2007.
This metric expresses profit on a price control basis as a percentage of estimated DN regulatory value.
The DNs achieved an aggregate 5.1% operational return in 2007 08, broadly in line with the regulatory allowance.
This compares with an operational return of 5.0% in 2006 07 calculated on the same basis.
Operating financial performance Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 m m Revenue 1,684 1,470 Other operating income 8 - Operating costs excluding exceptional items 1,010 986 Adjusted operating profit 682 484 Exceptional items 20 9 16 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 Revenue, operating costs and operating profit The principal factors causing the movements between 2006 07 and 2007 08 are summarised below: The movements in the year in revenue, operating costs and operating profit can be summarised as follows by regulatory business: Revenue and other operating Revenue and income Operating costs Operating profit other operating m m m income Operating costs Operating profit m m m 2006 07 results 1,470 995 475 2006 07 results 1,470 995 475 Add back 2006 07 exceptional items - 9 9 Add back 2006 07 exceptional items - 9 9 2006 07 adjusted results 1,470 986 484 2006 07 adjusted results 1,470 986 484 DN Allowed revenues 146 - 146 North West DN 60 4 56 Timing of DN recoveries 59 - 59 East of England DN 50 6 44 Depreciation and amortisation - 5 5 West Midlands DN 47 6 41 DN pass-through costs - 18 18 North London DN 72 11 61 Transfer of employee liabilities in 2006 07 - 17 17 Metering 2 10 8 Metering one-off cost provisions - 9 9 Meter reading 1 1 2 Other revenues and costs 17 9 8 fide-minimis activities - - - 2007 08 adjusted results 1,692 1,010 682 Other activities 12 10 2 2007 08 exceptional items - 20 20 Inter-business 22 22- 2007 08 results 1,692 1,030 662 2007 08 adjusted results 1,692 1,010 682 2007 08 exceptional items - 20 20 Revenue and other operating income for gas distribution and metering increased by 222 million in 2007 08 compared with 2006 07.
This was mainly due to increases in DN 2007 08 results 1,692 1,030 662 allowed revenues, with the one year price control extension increasing allowed revenue by 165m, and the timing of recoveries of allowed revenues.
Allowed revenue is no longer linked to delivery volumes: this decoupling now eliminates the sensitivity to warm weather and lower underlying volumes.
Furthermore, a smaller proportion of DN income is recovered through the volume delivery component of transportation charges.
Cooler temperatures than the prior year increased consumption by 14 TWh, which was partially offset by the impact of underlying volumes being lower by 2 TWh.
The net year-on-year timing impact against allowed revenues was 59 million in 2007 08.
There was a net benefit of 26 million comprising the recovery of 43 million relating to the previous year, partially offset by a 17 million under-recovery for 2007 08, compared with a net detriment of 33 million in 2006 07 comprising a 43 million under-recovery for 2006 07, partially offset by 10 million recovered relating to 2005 06.
Operating costs, excluding exceptional items, were 24 million higher in 2007 08 compared with 2006 07.
In line with 2006 07, there was a further 12 million increase in business rates, following the changes in rateable values introduced from 1 April 2005.
From 2007 08 there is an extra allowance of 12 million for the recovery of non-active members pension costs.
Metering costs include 9 million of provisions for various one-off operational costs.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 17 Exceptional charges of 20 million in 2007 08 related primarily to the creation of the new shared Financial remeasurements relate to allocated net gains on derivative financial instruments of services organisation in the UK and global information services function, together with pension 16 million, compared with allocated net gains of 3 million in 2006 07. costs associated with these restructuring programmes.
This compares with a 9 million cost in Taxation 2006 07.
A net charge of 95 million was allocated to the gas distribution and metering businesses in As a consequence of the above, adjusted operating profit excluding exceptional items was 198 2007 08, comprising a 182 million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a 87 million credit million higher in 2007 08 than 2006 07, an increase of 41%.
Including exceptional items, on exceptional items and remeasurements.
This compares with an allocated net charge of 137 operating profit was 187 million higher in 2007 08 than 2006 07, an increase of 39%.
million in 2006 07, comprising a 142 million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a 5 million credit on exceptional items and remeasurements.
The 2007 08 net charge included Profit for the year an allocated exceptional credit of 86 million in 2007 08 relating to the release of deferred tax Net finance costs and taxation largely comprise amounts relating to National Grid Gas as a provisions following the change in the UK corporation tax rate from 30% to 28%, which was whole which have been allocated as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory enacted in the year and takes effect from 1 April 2008. accounting statements on page 36.
The effective tax rate before and after exceptional items and remeasurements was 42% and Adjusted profit for the year 22% respectively 2006 07: 48% and 51%, compared with a standard UK corporation tax rate Years ended 31 March of 30% for both years.
2008 2007 The effective tax rates before exceptional items reflect prior year tax charges equivalent to an m m effective tax rate of 19% in 2007 08 and 16% in 2006 07.
These prior year items principally Adjusted operating profit 682 484 relate to additional tax arising under UK transfer pricing arrangements, which is offset by Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and remeasurements 251 188 equivalent tax credits in other UK companies in the National Grid group.
Adjusted profit before taxation 431 296 Taxation excluding taxation on exceptional items and remeasurements 182 142 Profit for the year Adjusted profit 249 154 The gas distribution and metering business profit for the year rose from 130 million in 2006 07 to 332 million in 2007 08 as a consequence of the above changes.
Profit for the year Adjusted profit measures Years ended 31 March The following tables reconcile the adjusted profit measure to the corresponding total profit 2008 2007 measure in accordance with IFRS.
m m Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total operating profit Total operating profit 662 475 Years ended 31 March Net finance costs 235 208 2008 2007 Profit before taxation 427 267 m m Taxation 95 137 Adjusted operating profit 682 484 Profit 332 130 Exceptional items 20 9 Total operating profit 662 475 Net finance costs Net interest excluding exceptional finance costs and remeasurements, as allocated to the gas Adjusted operating profit is presented on the face of then income statement, under the heading distribution and metering businesses, increased by 63 million from 2006 07 to 2007 08.
This Operating profit before exceptional items.
was primarily explained by an increase in average debt balances.
Exceptional finance costs and remeasurements There were no exceptional finance costs in 2007 08.
Exceptional finance costs allocated to the gas distribution and metering businesses of 23 million in 2006 07 relate to the early repayment of debt.
18 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to profit before taxation Cash flows from financing activities Years ended 31 March Cash flows from financing activities largely comprise cash flows of National Grid Gas as a 2008 2007 whole which have been allocated as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory m m accounting statements on page 36.
Adjusted profit before taxation 431 296 Net cash outflows related to financing activities increased from 238 million in 2006 07 to Exceptional items 20 32 394 million in 2007 08.
This reflected net allocated inflows from loans of 100 million 2006 07: Derivative financial remeasurements 16 3 1,238 million inflow and net allocated payments to providers of finance, in the form of net Total profit before taxation 427 267 interest and dividends, of 494 million 2006 07: 1,476 million.
Adjusted profit before taxation is presented on the face of the income statement, under the Allocated net interest cash outflows, excluding exceptional debt redemption costs, reduced from heading Profit before taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements.
There were no allocated exceptional debt redemption payments in 2007 08 compared with 23 million in 2006 07 which arose from Reconciliation of adjusted profit for the year to profit for the year restructuring National Grid Gass debt portfolio.
Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 In order to deliver sustainable growth National Grid Gas must be disciplined in Financial discipline m m the way it manages its balance sheet.
This means that National Grid Gass parent National Grid will return cash to its shareholders to the extent it is not Adjusted profit for the year 249 154 required for investment objectives.
Exceptional items 71 22 The principal measure National Grid Gas uses to monitor financial discipline Derivative financial remeasurements 12 2 is adjusted gearing ratio.
This is the ratio of net debt to net assets plus net Profit for the year 332 130 debt, with the assets of the regulated DN businesses measured at their estimated regulatory values.
Adjusted profit for the year is presented on the face of the income statement, under the heading Profit for the year after taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements.
The adjusted gearing ratio for the gas distribution and metering businesses amounted to 39% at 31 March 2008 compared with 38% at 31 March 2007.
Cash flows Cash flows from operating activities A reconciliation of the amounts necessary to calculate the adjusted gearing ratio is shown in the Cash generated from operations for the gas distribution and metering businesses was 1,088 table below: million in 2007 08 compared with 1,001 million in 2006 07.
This included cash outflows relating 2008 2007 to exceptional items of 19 million and 25 million respectively.
After reflecting cash flows m m relating to tax paid, net cash inflow from operating activities was 967 million, compared with Net assets per balance sheet 4,285 4,223 1,011 million in 2006 07.
Adjustments for regulatory asset values 1,765 1,650 In 2007 08, there was a net corporate tax payment of 121 million allocated to gas distribution Deferred tax on adjustments 495 494 and metering compared with an allocated repayment of 10 million in 2006 07.
Adjusted net assets 5,556 5,378 Cash inflows from investing activities Net debt 3,352 3,578 Cash outflows from investing activities for gas distribution and metering fell from 820 million in Adjusted net assets plus net debt 9,134 8,730 2006 07 to 683 million in 2007 08.
Cash outflows to purchase property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets, net of disposal proceeds, increased to 630 million in 2007 08 from 602 million in 2006 07, as a result of the increase in capital investment.
Allocated cash outflows to acquire financial investments reduced from 218 million in 2006 07 to 53 million in 2007 08.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 19 Dividends Financial position and financial management Dividends in respect of the financial year The following table shows the ordinary dividends paid or payable by National Grid Gas in Going concern respect of the last two financial years and which have been allocated to the gas distribution and Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that National Grid Gas and its subsidiaries have metering businesses as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory accounting adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore statements on page 36.
These dividends do not include any associated UK tax credit in respect appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these regulatory accounting of such dividends.
statements of National Grid Gas.
2008 2007 Capital structure m m Balance sheet Interim 337 171 The balance sheet of the gas distribution and metering businesses at 31 March 2008 can be Total 337 171 summarised as follows: Assets Liabilities Net assets In accordance with IFRS, dividends are reported in the financial statements for the year in which they are approved.
m m m Property, plant and equipment and non-current intangible assets 6,309- 6,309 Other non-current assets and liabilities 4,023 962 3,061 Current assets and liabilities 255 571 316 Deferred tax - 1,191 1,191 Total before net debt 10,587 2,724 7,863 Net debt 436 4,014 3,578 Total as at 31 March 2008 11,023 6,738 4,285 Total as at 31 March 2007 10,692 6,469 4,223 The increase in net assets from 4,223 million at 31 March 2007 to 4,285 million at 31 March 2008 resulted from the profit for the year of 332 million, changes in allocation of funding between National Grid Gass regulatory businesses of 56 million, net income recognised directly in equity of 9 million and other changes in equity of 2 million partly offset by attributed dividends paid of 337 million.
Net debt Allocated net debt increased by 226 million from 3,352 million at 31 March 2007 to 3,578 million at 31 March 2008, as cash flows from operations of 967 million were exceeded by capital expenditure of 630 million, attributed dividends paid of 337 million, the net interest charge of 244 million and other cash outflows of 7 million, less net increases in the value of derivatives of 25 million.
Allocated debt includes a proportion of the bonds, with a nominal value of 982 million and a fair value of 1,203 million plus accrued interest, which were transferred to National Grid Gas plc from National Grid Gas Holdings plc during 2007 08, in return for repayment of intercompany loans.
At 31 March 2008, allocated net debt comprised borrowings of 3,946 million and bank overdrafts of 4 million, less derivative financial instruments with a net carrying value of 20 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 69 million, cash and cash equivalents of 3 million and financial investments of 300 million Regulatory restrictions 31 March 2007: borrowings of 3,700 million, bank overdrafts of 4 million and derivative As part of National Grid Gass regulatory arrangements, its operations are subject to a number financial instruments with a net carrying value of 8 million, less cash and cash equivalents of of restrictions on the way it can operate.
These include a regulatory ring-fence that require it to 113 million and financial investments of 247 million.
maintain adequate financial resources and restricts its ability to transfer funds or levy charges between itself and other companies in the National Grid group of companies.
The maturity of borrowings is shown in note 18 to the regulatory accounting statements.
Treasury policy Gearing The funding and treasury risk management for National Grid Gas is carried out on its behalf by Gearing at 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007, calculated as allocated net debt at that date a central department operating under policies and guidelines approved by the Board of National expressed as a percentage of allocated net debt plus net assets shown in the balance sheet, Grid plc.
The Finance Committee, a committee of the Board of National Grid plc, is responsible amounted to 46% and 44% respectively.
National Grid Gas does not consider that this standard for regular review and monitoring of treasury activity and for approval of specific transactions, gearing ratio is an appropriate measure as it does not reflect the economic value of the assets the authority for which may be delegated.
National Grid plc has a Treasury function that raises of its regulated businesses.
For performance measurement purposes, National Grid Gas funding and manages interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk for National Grid Gas.
measures gearing on an adjusted basis, as described under financial discipline on page 19.
There is a separate financing programme for National Grid Gas.
The Finance Committees of Equity shareholders funds both National Grid plc and of National Grid Gas approve all funding programmes.
Equity shareholders funds rose from 4,223 million at 31 March 2007 to 4,285 million at 31 March 2008.
This increase was mainly explained by the 56 million transfer of funds from other The Treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Debt and treasury positions are regulatory businesses of National Grid Gas.
managed in a non-speculative manner, such that all transactions in financial instruments or products are matched to an underlying current or anticipated business requirement.
Liquidity and treasury management The use of derivative financial instruments is controlled by policy guidelines set by the Board of Cash flow National Grid plc.
Derivatives entered into in respect of gas commodities are used in support of Cash flows from National Grid Gass operations are largely stable over a period of years, but the businesss operational requirements and the policy regarding their use is explained below.
they do depend on the timing of customer payments.
National Grid Gass DN operations are subject to multi-year price control agreements with the regulator, Ofgem.
Significant changes in Borrowings outstanding at 31 March 2008 and allocated to the gas distribution and metering volumes, for example as a consequence of weather conditions, can affect cash flows in those businesses amounting to 3,950 million 31 March 2007: 3,704 million.
The table in note 18 businesses, with abnormally mild or cold weather driving volumes down or up respectively.
shows the expected maturity of these borrowings.
Subject to this, cash flows are essentially stable.
Management believes that the maturing amounts in respect of National Grid Gass contractual Cash flow forecasting obligations can be met from existing cash and investments, operating cash flows and other Both shortand long-term cash flow forecasts are produced frequently to assist in identifying the refinancings that that can reasonably be expected to be able to secure in the future, together liquidity requirements of National Grid Gas.
These forecasts, supplemented by a financial with the use of committed facilities if required.
National Grid Gass financial position and headroom position, are supplied to the Finance Committee of the Board of National Grid plc expected future operating cash flows are such that it can borrow on the wholesale capital and regularly to assess funding adequacy for at least a 12 month period.
National Grid Gas also money markets and most of its borrowings are through public bonds and commercial paper.
maintains a minimum level of committed facilities to support its liquidity requirements.
Surplus funds are placed on the money markets, usually in the form of short-term fixed deposits Credit facilities and unutilised Commercial Paper and Medium Term Note Programmes that are invested with approved banks and counterparties.
Details relating to cash, short-term At 31 March 2008, National Grid Gas plc had a $2.5 billion US commercial paper programme investments and other financial assets at 31 March 2008 are shown in notes 16 and 17 to the unutilised, a $1.25 billion Euro commercial paper programme unutilised and a 10 billion regulatory accounting statements.
Euro medium term note programme 5.3 billion unissued.
It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fence around National Grid Gas that it uses reasonable National Grid Gas has both committed and uncommitted facilities that are available for general endeavours to maintain an investment grade credit rating.
As of 31 March 2008, the long-term corporate purposes.
At 31 March 2008, it had 0.8 billion of long-term committed facilities senior unsecured debt and short-term debt credit ratings respectively provided by Moodys, undrawn and around 0.4 billion of uncommitted borrowing facilities undrawn.
Standard & Poors S&P and Fitch were as follows: Note 18 to the regulatory accounting statements shows the maturity profile of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in sterling as at 31 March 2008.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 21 In addition, National Grid Gas is exposed to currency exposures on borrowings in currencies Moodys A3 P2 other than sterling, principally the US dollar and the euro.
This currency exposure is managed Standard & Poors S&P AA2 through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Fitch A F2 The currency compositions of financial liabilities and assets are shown in note 29 a to the Standard & Poors and Fitch have current outlooks of stable while Moodys has a current regulatory accounting statements.
Counterparty risk management The main risks arising from National Grid Gass financial activities are set out below, as are the Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds and from the use of derivative policies for managing these risks, which are agreed and reviewed by the Board of National Grid instruments.
The Finance Committee of National Grid plc has agreed a policy for managing plc and the Finance Committee of that Board.
such risk, which is controlled through credit limits, approvals and monitoring procedures.
Refinancing risk management Further information is provided in note 29 b to the regulatory accounting statements.
The Board of National Grid plc controls refinancing risk mainly by limiting the amount of financing obligations both principal and interest arising on borrowings in any financial year.
Where multiple transactions are entered into with a single counterparty, a master netting This policy is intended to prevent National Grid and its subsidiaries from having an excessively arrangement can be put in place to reduce our exposure to credit risk of that counterparty.
At large amount of debt to refinance in a given time-frame.
the present time, we use standard International Swap Dealers Association ISDA documentation, which provides for netting in respect of all transactions governed by a specific During the year, National Grid Gas issued a mixture of short and long-term debt.
ISDA agreement with a counterparty, when transacting interest rate and exchange rate Note 18 to the regulatory accounting statements sets out the contractual maturities of derivatives.
borrowings over the next five years, with total contracted borrowings maturing over 45 years in Derivative financial instruments held for purposes other than trading compliance with the refinancing risk policy.
As part of its business operations, National Grid Gas is exposed to risks arising from Interest rate risk management fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates.
Financial instruments are used, including Interest rate exposure arising from borrowings and deposits is managed by the use of fixed and derivatives, to manage exposures of this type and they are a useful tool in reducing risk.
floating rate debt, interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
The interest rate National Grid Gass policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivative transactions risk management policy is to seek to minimise total financing costs being interest costs and can, to varying degrees, carry both counterparty and market risk.
changes in the market value of debt subject to constraints so that, even with large movements National Grid Gas enters into interest rate swaps to manage the composition of floating and in interest rates, neither the interest cost nor the total financing cost can exceed pre-set limits.
fixed rate debt and so hedge the exposure of borrowings to interest rate movements.
National Some of National Grid Gass bonds in issue are index-linked, that is their cost is linked to Grid Gas also enters into foreign currency swaps to manage the currency composition of changes in the UK Retail Prices Index RPI.
Management believe that these bonds provide a borrowings and so hedge the exposure to exchange rate movements.
Certain agreements are good hedge for revenues and National Grid Gass regulatory asset values that are also RPIcombined foreign currency and interest rate swap transactions.
Such agreements are known as linked under its price control formulae.
The performance of the Treasury function in interest rate risk management is measured by National Grid Gas enters into forward rate agreements to hedge interest rate risk on short-term comparing the actual total financing costs of our debt with those of a passively-managed debt and money market investments.
Forward rate agreements are commitments to fix an benchmark portfolio.
More information on the interest rate profile of debt is included in note interest rate that is to be paid or received on a notional deposit of specified maturity, starting at 29 a to the regulatory accounting statements.
Foreign exchange risk management More details on derivative financial instruments are provided in notes 13 and 28 to the National Grid Gas a policy of hedging certain contractually committed foreign exchange regulatory accounting statements.
transactions over a prescribed minimum size.
This covers a minimum of 75% of such transactions expected to occur up to six months in advance and a minimum of 50% of transactions six to twelve months in advance.
Cover generally takes the form of forward sale or purchase of foreign currencies and must always relate to underlying operational cash flows.
22 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 Valuation and sensitivity analysis In addition, National Grid Gas has other commitments at 31 March 2008 of 84 million 2007: 213 million which relate to the company and are not attributable to the regulatory businesses.
The fair value of debt and derivative instruments are calculated by discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date.
The market yield curve for each Information regarding obligations under pension and other post-retirement benefits is given currency is obtained from external sources for interest and foreign exchange rates.
In the case below under the heading Retirement arrangements.
of instruments that include options, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is used to calculate fair value.
National Grid Gas proposes to meet all of its commitments from existing cash and investments, operating cash flows, existing credit facilities, future facilities and other financing that it The valuation techniques described above for interest rate swaps and currency swaps are a reasonably expects to be able to secure in the future.
These techniques do not take account of the credit quality of either party, but this is not considered to be a significant factor, unless there is a material Details of material litigation as at 31 March 2008 deterioration in the credit quality of either party.
National Grid Gass gas distribution and metering businesses were not party to litigation that it considers to be material as at 31 March 2008.
For debt and derivative instruments held, National Grid Gas utilises a sensitivity analysis technique to evaluate the effect that changes in relevant rates or prices will have on the market As noted on page 8, Ofgem decided that National Grid Gas was guilty of breaches of value of such instruments.
competition law with respect to its metering services business in the UK and has imposed a fine of 41.6 million, which has been suspended pending National Grid Gass appeal to the Details of the sensitivity of the income statement and equity to changes in the UK Retail Prices Competition Appeal Tribunal.
National Grid Gas believes that it has never been anti-competitive Index and UK interest rates are set out in note 29 d to the regulatory accounting statements.
and that it will be successful in appealing this decision.
Therefore, no provision for this fine has Under the assumptions set out in note 29 d, a 0.50% change in the UK Retail Prices Index been made in these regulatory accounting statements.
would affect the income statement by 6 million, but would have no effect on equity, while a 0.50% change in UK interest rates would affect the income statement by 3 million and equity Related party transactions by 7 million.
National Grid Gas provides services to and receives services from related parties.
In the year ended 31 March 2008, the gas distribution and metering businesses charged 24 million and Commodity contracts received charges of 117 million from National Grid Gass related parties other than Directors Commodity derivatives and key managers, compared with 23 million and 153 million respectively in 2006 07.
In the normal course of business, the DNs are party to commodity derivatives.
These have included gas futures, gas options and gas forwards that are used to manage commodity prices Further information relating to related party transactions is contained within note 26 to the associated with their gas delivery operations.
Details of key management compensation are included within note 4 c to the regulatory accounting statements.
These financial exposures are monitored and managed as an integral part of National Grid Gass financial risk management policy.
At the core of this policy is a condition that it will Retirement arrangements engage in activities at risk only to the extent that those activities fall within commodities and The substantial majority of National Grid Gass employees are members of the National Grid financial markets to which it has a physical market exposure, in terms and volumes consistent UK Pension Scheme, which is operated by Lattice Group plc, an intermediate holding company with its core business.
National Grid Gas does not issue, or intend to hold, derivative of National Grid Gas.
National Grid Gas does not provide any other post-retirement benefits.
instruments for trading purposes, and holds such instruments consistent with its various licence and regulatory obligations.
The scheme has both a defined benefit section, which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution section, which is offered to all new employees.
Commitments and contingencies As there is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost Commitments and contingencies outstanding at 31 March in respect of the gas distribution and of the scheme to National Grid Gas, it accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined metering businesses are summarised in the table below: contribution scheme and does not recognise any share of the assets and liabilities of the scheme.
2008 2007 m m Future capital expenditure contracted but not provided for 353 272 Total operating lease commitments 69 57 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 23 Actuarial position Accounting policies The last completed full actuarial valuation of the scheme was as at 31 March 2006.
This concluded that the pre-tax funding deficit was 371 million in the defined benefit section on the Basis of accounting basis of the funding assumptions.
Employer cash contributions for the ongoing cost of the The regulatory accounting statements present the results for the years ended 31 March 2008 scheme are currently being made at a rate of 32.7% of pensionable payroll.
and 2007 and the financial position as at 31 March 2008 and 2007 of the regulatory businesses Contributions therein.
They have been prepared using the accounting policies shown, in accordance with The actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 31 March 2007 is currently in progress, but has not International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
In advance of finalising the valuation, National Grid Gas has made deficit In complying with IFRS, National Grid Gas is also complying with the version of IFRS that has contributions of 114 million during 2007 08, which were reimbursed by Lattice Group plc, and a been endorsed by the European Union for use by listed companies.
further 305 million to 31 May 2008, in addition to ongoing employer contributions.
National Grid is currently in the process of agreeing a recovery plan with the trustees in respect of the IFRS differ from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
deficit expected to be included in the valuation.
Choices permitted under IFRS Since 1 April 2005, National Grid Gas has presented its regulatory accounting statements in accordance with IFRS.
National Grid Gas was required to make a number of choices on the adoption of IFRS and in addition it continues to choose from certain options that are available within accounting standards.
The principal choices made on the adoption of IFRS, which cannot be changed, were as follows: Transition date National Grid Gass opening IFRS balance sheets were established as at 1 April 2004.
National Grid Gas used certain balances in its previous UK GAAP regulatory accounting statements as the basis for the opening IFRS balance sheets.
Business combinations Business combinations prior to 1 April 2004 were not changed retrospectively.
Carrying value of assets In most cases National Grid Gas used brought forward depreciated cost, as at transition adjusted for changes in accounting policies to conform to IFRS, to be the opening carrying value under IFRS.
Share-based payments National Grid Gas recognised all active grants retrospectively.
Cumulative translation National Grid Gas chose to present cumulative translation differences arising differences since 1 April 2004 only.
Significant choices that National Grid Gas continues to make on an ongoing basis include the following: Presentation formats National Grid Gas uses the nature of expense method for its income statements and totals its balance sheets to net assets and total equity.
In the income statement, National Grid Gas presents subtotals of total operating profit, profit before tax and profit from continuing operations, together with additional subtotals excluding exceptional items and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are presented on the face of the income statement.
Pensions National Grid Gas recognises transactions with the defined benefits section of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme as if it was a defined contribution 24 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 scheme, and does not recognise any of the scheme assets and liabilities or costs, assets, liabilities include or comprise amounts which are not directly attributable to the and equity to regulatory actuarial gains and losses.
regulatory businesses concerned and which have been apportioned between businesses the regulatory businesses.
Significant judgement is exercised in determining Capitalised interest National Grid Gas capitalises interest into the cost of assets that it constructs those bases of apportionment.
Where there is no reasonable basis of where the conditions of IAS 23 are met.
apportionment, arbitrary bases have been adopted.
Capital contributions Contributions received towards capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income and amortised in line with the depreciation on the associated asset.
Amounts determined by apportionment within these regulatory accounting Financial instruments National Grid Gas normally opts to apply hedge accounting in most statements comprise net costs of 533 million included in the income circumstances where this is permitted.
statements 2007: 514 million, assets of 4,896 million 2007: 4,784 million and liabilities of 5,778 million 2007: 5,574 million.
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2007 08 Estimated economic The reported amounts for depreciation of property, plant and equipment can lives of property, plant In preparing these regulatory accounting statements, National Grid Gas has complied with be materially affected by the judgments exercised in determining their and equipment estimated economic lives.
International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and interpretations applicable for 2007 08.
The following amendments to standards and Depreciation of property, plant and equipment amounted to 303 million in interpretations were adopted during 2007 08, none of which resulted in a material change to 2007 08 and 301 million in 2006 07. results, assets or liabilities in 2007 08 or in those of previous periods.
Carrying value of assets The carrying value of assets recorded in the balance sheets could be and potential for materially reduced if an impairment were to be assessed as being required.
New interpretations impairment IFRIC 8, IFRIC 9, IFRIC 10 and IFRIC 11 contain guidance on accounting for Total assets at 31 March 2008 were 11,023 million, including 6,275 million share-based exchange transactions, embedded derivatives, impairments in of property, plant and equipment, 34 million of intangible assets and 4,023 half yearly reports and share-based payments.
Implementation of these million owed by National Grid Gass immediate parent undertaking.
interpretations did not have a material impact on results, assets or liabilities.
Impairment reviews are carried out either when a change in circumstance is identified that indicates an asset might be impaired.
An impairment review Segmental reporting involves calculating either or both of the fair value or the value-in-use of an As the results, assets and liabilities of the gas distribution and metering businesses are asset or group of assets and comparing with the carrying value in the balance reported separately in these regulatory accounting statements for each regulatory business, no sheet.
These calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the price that further segmental reporting is provided.
could be obtained for, or the future cash flows that will be generated by, an asset or group of assets, together with an appropriate discount rate to apply Critical accounting policies to those cash flows.
The application of accounting principles requires National Grid Gas to make estimates, Revenue Revenue includes an assessment of transportation services supplied to judgments and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue customers between the date of the last invoice and the year end.
Changes to the estimate of the transportation services supplied during this period would and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the accounts.
On an have an impact on reported results.
ongoing basis, National Grid Gas evaluates its estimates using historical experience, consultation with experts and other methods that are considered reasonable in the particular Estimates of unbilled revenues included in these regulatory accounting circumstances to ensure compliance with IFRS.
Actual results may differ significantly from statements amounted to 103 million at 31 March 2008 compared with 88 these estimates, the effect of which is recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise million at 31 March 2007. to the revision become known.
Assets and liabilities Certain assets and liabilities, principally financial investments and derivative carried at fair value financial instruments, are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value rather Certain accounting policies have been identified as critical accounting policies, as these policies than historical cost.
involve particularly complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The discussion of critical accounting policies below should be read in conjunction with the description of the accounting The fair value of financial investments is based on market prices, as are policies set out in these regulatory accounting statements.
those of derivative financial instruments where market prices exist.
Other derivative financial instruments are valued using financial models, which National Grid Gass critical accounting policies and accounting treatments for the gas include judgments on, in particular, future movements in exchange and distribution and metering businesses are considered to be: interest rates as well as equity prices.
Attribution of revenues, Many of the amounts reported in these regulatory accounting statements National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 25 Hedge accounting National Grid Gas uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain Provisions Provisions are made for liabilities that are uncertain in estimate.
These economic exposures arising from movements in exchange and interest rates include provisions for the cost of environmental restoration and remediation, or other factors that could affect either the value of its assets or liabilities or restructuring and employer and public liability claims.
Calculations of these provisions are based on estimated cash flows relating to Movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments may be these costs, discounted at an appropriate rate where the impact of accounted for using hedge accounting where we meet the relevant eligibility, discounting is material.
The total costs and timing of cash flows relating to documentation and effectiveness testing requirements.
If a hedge does not environmental liabilities are based on management estimates supported by meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is ineffectiveness the use of external consultants.
or partial ineffectiveness, then the movements will be recorded in the income At 31 March 2008, recorded provisions totalled 93 million 2007: 77 statement immediately instead of being recognised in the statement of million, including 44 million 2007: 44 million in respect of environmental recognised income and expense or by being offset by adjustments to the liabilities.
Tax estimates National Grid Gass tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax Pensions Defined benefit pension obligations are accounted for as if the National Grid rates in effect, but it does not recognise current year transfer pricing UK Pension Scheme were a defined contribution scheme as there is neither a adjustments which are expected to be settled through use of group relief.
contractual arrangement, nor a stated policy under which National Grid Gas is charged for the costs of providing pensions.
The determination of appropriate provisions for taxation requires National Grid Gas to take into account anticipated decisions of tax authorities and A change in these arrangements may lead to National Grid Gas recognising estimate its ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings and tax the cost of providing pensions on a different basis, together with a proportion planning.
These estimates and assumptions may differ from future events.
of the actuarial gains and losses and of the assets and liabilities of the pension scheme.
In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions could have on our reported results Exceptional items and Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure and financial position, the following sensitivities are presented: remeasurements that, in the judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, either by their nature or their size, to an Asset useful lives An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of one year on average understanding of National Grid Gass financial performance and distort the would reduce our annual depreciation charge on property, plant and comparability between periods.
equipment by 10 million, but would have a negligible effect on the annual amortisation charge on intangible assets.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management for Revenue accruals A 10% change in the estimate of unbilled revenues at 31 March 2008 would designation as exceptional items include such items as significant result in an increase or decrease in recorded net assets and profit for the year restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current assets, material of approximately 7 million net of tax.
changes in environmental provisions, gains or losses on disposals of businesses or investments.
Assets carried at fair A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair value would result in an value increase or decrease in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the income statement of 7 million.
arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
Hedge accounting If the gains and losses arising on derivative financial instruments during the These fair values increase or decrease as a consequence of changes in year ended 31 March 2008 had not achieved hedge accounting then the profit financial indices and prices over which National Grid Gas has no control.
for the year would have been 25 million higher than that reported net of tax and net assets would have been 18 million higher.
Provisions A 10% change in the estimates of future cash flows estimated in respect of provisions for liabilities would result in an increase or decrease in net assets of approximately 9 million.
26 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 Presentation Amendment to IAS 1, effective 1 April 2009, changes the presentation of Accounting developments of financial statements financial information, but does not affect the amounts of reported earnings or Forthcoming changes in IFRS assets and liabilities.
The principal changes are: the statement of recognised The following accounting standards and interpretations have not yet been adopted, but are income and expense must immediately follow the income statement and must expected to be adopted in future periods.
include separate tax disclosure on each gain or loss recognised outside the income statement: the statement of changes in equity will be presented as a Segment reporting IFRS 8 changes the reporting requirements for segmental reporting and will primary statement: and there will be an option to rename the primary apply with effect from 1 April 2009.
If IFRS 8 had been adopted in 2007 08, statements.
there would have been no change in business segments reported.
Borrowing costs An amendment to IAS 23 on borrowing costs will require interest to be This will have a significant impact on the presentation of the 2009 10 financial capitalised into the cost of assets under construction.
National Grid Gas statements as described above.
However, there will be no impact on National already follows this policy and so this will have no impact.
Grid Gass results, assets or liabilities.
Service concessions IFRIC 12 on service concessions, to be adopted from 1 April 2008, requires Business combinations IFRS 3 revised, expected to be adopted 1 April 2010, makes a number of assets operated on behalf of a public authority as a concession, where the changes to business combination accounting including: consideration asset reverts back to the public authority at the conclusion of the payments fair valued at acquisition date: subsequent consideration payments arrangement, to be recognised as a financial or intangible asset depending on at fair value through the income statement: changes to calculation of goodwill: whether income is recovered from the public authority or from users.
and all transaction costs expensed.
National Grid Gas does not operate any concessions of this type and so this IFRS 3 revised will be implemented prospectively and so will affect future will have no impact.
business combinations, possibly materially compared with how they are accounted for under current standards.
However, this change will have no Customer loyalty IFRIC 13, effective from 1 April 2008, requires the sale of goods or services programmes impact on National Grid Gass current results, assets or liabilities.
and associated loyalty programmes to be accounted for as multi-element transactions.
The separate elements will have to be fair valued and Non-controlling interests IAS 27 revised, expected to be adopted in 2010, requires transactions with consideration allocated accordingly, which would defer recognition of an non-controlling minority interests to be recorded in equity.
National Grid Gas does not have any material non-controlling interests and so National Grid Gas does not have any loyalty programmes of this nature and this change will have no material impact.
so this will have no impact.
Share-based payments This amendment to IFRS 2, expected to be adopted 1 April 2009, clarifies the Pension IFRIC 14, on when net pension assets can be recognised in the balance definition of vesting conditions and changes the accounting for cancellations.
assets and minimum sheet and on how to account for minimum funding requirements, will apply For cancellation, rather than reversing the previous expense, any remaining funding with effect from 1 April 2008.
In certain circumstances, the recognition of an expense will be accelerated.
accounting surplus in a pension plan as an asset on the balance sheet may This will affect the way National Grid Gas accounts for Save as You Earn be restricted, or provision may be required for minimum funding requirements share schemes, but due to the low levels of cancellations by employees in the in excess of pension obligations recognised in the balance sheet.
past, it is not anticipate that this is likely to have a material impact on future National Grid Gas does not recognise any net pension assets or obligations in results.
our balance sheet and so this will have no impact.
Financial instrument Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 require certain puttable financial presentation instruments, which impose an obligation to deliver a pro-rata share of net assets on liquidation, to be classified as liabilities.
National Grid Gas currently has no such instruments and so this will have no impact.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 27
