National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 1 Operating and Financial Review This Operating and Financial Review describes the main trends and factors Contents to Operating and Financial Review underlying our development, performance and position during the year ended 31 March 2008 as well as those likely to affect our future development, 1 Principal operations performance and position.
It has been prepared in line with the guidance provided 2 Vision, strategy and objectives in the Reporting Statement on the Operating and Financial Review issued by the 3 Business drivers, risks and opportunities UK Accounting Standards Board.
5 External market and regulatory environment Principal operations 6 Current and future developments 7 Principal risk and uncertainties We are part of the National Grid group of businesses.
Our principal operations are the 9 Performance summary and key ownership and operation of regulated gas infrastructure networks and the provision of performance indicators gas metering services in Great Britain.
We also have an interest in liquefied natural 10 Performance against our objectives gas LNG storage facilities in Great Britain.
18 Gas Transmission The performances of our principal businesses are reported by segment, reflecting the 21 Gas Distribution management responsibilities and economic characteristics of each activity.
Our 24 Gas Metering principal businesses and segments, together with other activities and discontinued 26 Other activities operations, are as follows: 27 Financial position and financial management Businesses and segments Description of principal activities 31 Accounting policies Gas Transmission The transmission of gas in the UK as owner and operator of the gas national transmission system in Great Britain and storage facilities for LNG.
Gas Distribution The distribution of gas in England as the owner and operator of four of the UKs eight gas distribution networks.
Gas Metering The provision of regulated gas metering and meter reading services in Great Britain.
Other activities Other activities do not constitute a segment in their own right, but comprise the provision of transportation transaction services on behalf of all the major gas network transportation companies, including ourselves, together with corporate activities.
Discontinued operations Businesses that we have exited and comprising the four gas distribution networks we sold in 2005.
History National Grid Gas originated from the restructuring of the UK gas industry in 1986.
Key milestones 1986 British Gas incorporated as a public limited company 1997 British Gas demerged Centrica 1999 Financial and restructuring programme completed leading to creation of a new parent company, BG Group, separation of the regulated Transco business from the other businesses of BG Group and the establishment of a financial ring-fence around Transco 2000 Lattice Group, including Transco, demerged from BG Group 2002 Merger of Lattice Group and National Grid Group to form National Grid Transco 2005 Sales of four UK regional gas distribution networks 2005 National Grid adopted as our brand name, with Transco renamed National Grid Gas 2 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Vision, strategy and objectives Vision Objectives We are part of National Grids vision to be the foremost Building on National Grids strategy, we have set ourselves international electricity and gas company, delivering objectives to deliver National Grids vision of becoming the unparalleled safety, efficiency and reliability, vital to the wellforemost international electricity and gas company.
By being of customers and communities.
We are committed to achieving our objectives we aim to deliver sustainable growth being an innovative leader in energy management and to and so create value for National Grids shareholders.
safeguarding our global environment for future generations.
Delivering Create lines of business National Grids Build operating model common systems and strategy processes, sharing best practice Strategy Operating Improve safety National Grids strategy is based on focus, integration and performance Improve efficiency discipline as follows: Improve reliability Improve customer service Focus We are focused on a clear business model based on Deliver our capital investment plans the ownership and operation of large scale asset intensive businesses within our principal growth Talent Identify and develop talent and skills market of gas infrastructure in the UK.
Improve engagement and performance Enhance inclusion and diversity Integration We aim to run our businesses in an integrated way Relationships organising our activities along lines of business, Help investors understand our value supported by effective and efficient shared services Improve relationships with customers, regulators and information systems.
This involves deploying and governments proven processes, common systems and best Work effectively with suppliers practices within each business, supported by Deepen our involvement with communities common operating principles, and safety and Environment Lead on climate change environmental standards, seeking to maximise the Manage and remediate contaminated land competitive advantages that come from being part of Protect the environment an international organisation, balanced with the need Be efficient in our use of natural resources to provide excellent service to customers and to Financial Increase profits maintain and build local relationships with other key performance Obtain appropriate returns on our investments stakeholders.
Maintain financial discipline Discipline We aim to be disciplined in the application of best practice, increasingly standardising our approach in This strategy is underpinned by our commitment to corporate the way we operate and finance our activities.
Our responsibility, including the core values that we expect our aim is for rigorous financial discipline, ensuring that management and employees to operate by.
we have the capital we need to grow, while maintaining the investor confidence that comes from Responsibility Operate to the highest standards of corporate a disciplined approach to our balance sheet.
governance Conduct our business in a lawful and ethical manner Live our core values of: Respect others and value diversity Take ownership for driving performance Demonstrate integrity and openness in all relationships Work together as one team We describe what these objectives mean, how we plan to achieve them and the progress we have made this year, in the performance summary and performance against our objectives sections of this Operating and Financial Review on pages 9 to 18.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 3 Business drivers, risks and opportunities A number of other factors also affect our financial performance, Business drivers but are either less significant than our principal business Our principal activities include the operation of highly complex drivers, or are mitigated by the way our operations are gas infrastructure networks.
As a consequence, there are many structured: factors that influence the financial returns we obtain.
Weather Changes in the quantities of gas delivered through our We consider the following to be our principal business drivers: and transmission and distribution networks may result in an volumes increase or decrease in our revenues.
Volumes are Price The prices we charge for use of our gas transmission affected by weather and consumer demand as well as controls and distribution networks are determined in accordance other factors.
The impact of changing volumes may with regulator approved price controls.
The negotiation sometimes be offset by changes in costs or may of these arrangements has a significant impact on our sometimes result in an underor over-recovery against revenues.
our allowable revenues, with a corresponding increase Their duration is significant in providing stability to our or decrease in revenue in future periods.
operations, allowing us to plan ahead and invest in the Seasonality Our current price control arrangements for gas confidence that we will obtain financial returns.
transmission and distribution networks mean that revenues are less weighted towards the winter months Our price controls contain incentive and or penalty than previously.
Seasonality does not have a significant arrangements that can affect us financially based on impact on our other revenues.
Multi-year Revenues from metering services are largely With the exception of commodity costs, our operating contracts determined by contractual arrangements, which are costs are generally not seasonal.
long-term and with blue chip customers.
Commodity We are allowed to recover commodity costs and certain Safety, Our ability to operate safely and reliably is of and other other direct costs through charges to customers.
The efficiency paramount importance to us, our employees, our pass-through timing of recovery of these costs can vary between and contractors, our customers, our regulators and the costs financial periods leading to an under or over-recovery reliability communities we serve.
Our financial performance is within any particular financial period.
affected by our performance in these areas.
We are affected by commodity prices to the extent that Our objective is to deliver services as efficiently as they affect our own energy requirements, most possible.
This allows us to limit price increases or to significantly gas purchases for the operation of our gas reduce prices to our customers and improve our own transmission and gas distribution networks.
financial performance to the benefit of National Grids Inflation Without action to improve efficiency, our operating shareholders.
costs increase each year as a result of wage increases Customer The quality of the service we deliver to customers, and and inflation in external costs.
In general, our revenues service the experiences that they have in dealing with us, also increase each year, although not necessarily at whether through routine interactions or when problems the same rate, depending on our regulatory or arise, is important as it feeds through to the attitudes of contractual arrangements.
As a consequence, our regulators and is also linked to our financial ability to control costs and improve efficiency is performance.
important to our ability to increase operating profits.
Capital Capital investment is a significant driver for organic Our price controls are linked to retail price inflation, as investment growth.
is a proportion of our borrowings.
In our regulated gas networks, the prices we charge Interest rates The costs of financing our operations are affected by include an allowed return for capital investment changes in prevailing interest rates, as some of our determined in accordance with our price controls.
debt is at floating rates.
We hedge some of our These provide incentives for us to enhance the quality exposure to interest rates with fixed-rate debt and and reach of our networks through capital derivative financial instruments to maintain a proportion improvements.
of our debt at fixed interest rates.
For other businesses, our capital investment in new assets allows us to increase or maintain revenues.
Relationships Our reputation is vitally important to us.
and Delivering sustainable value depends on the trust and responsibility confidence of our stakeholders and this can only be earned by conducting our business in a responsible manner.
4 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 We set out how we intend to achieve our objectives and the Risks and opportunities progress we have made during the year against our objectives Risks and opportunities on pages 10 to 18.
We believe that the principal opportunities we have to contribute to the achievement of National Grids vision and to Risk management the delivery of growth in value for its shareholders have been Our approach to risk management is described in the principal identified in National Grids strategy and our objectives.
risks and uncertainties section of this Operating and Financial Review on pages 7 and 8.
In addition, information on how we Conversely, we risk a shortfall in this contribution if we do not have addressed certain of our financial risks is included in the fulfil National Grids strategy or if we fail to achieve our financial position and financial management section of this objectives.
Operating and Financial Review on pages 28 and 29.
Delivering We believe that by implementing National Grids Risk factors National Grids strategy and transforming our businesses, we will be Through our risk management process, we have identified a strategy able to deliver increased value for National Grids shareholders.
number of significant risks and uncertainties in achieving our objectives as follows: Conversely, if we do not achieve this transformation, changes in law or regulation: or the benefits in efficiency and effectiveness are not achieved, then our contribution to shareholder value breaches of environmental or health and safety law or will not grow as we hope or will diminish.
regulations: Operating The operating profits and cash flows we generate are network failure or inability to carry out critical non-network performance dependent on our operating performance operating operations: safely, efficiently and reliably and providing a quality achievement of business performance objectives, service to customers.
Our future growth is dependent on the delivery of our capital investment plans.
including regulatory targets and delivering anticipated cost and efficiency savings: Talent The skills and talents of our employees, and their motivation and dedication, are critical to the regulatory treatment of commodity costs passed through achievement of our objectives.
Failure to develop our to consumers: existing employees or to attract and recruit talented reputation damage from disruptions to supply, even if new employees could hamper our ability to deliver in outside our control: the future.
fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on Relationships Our relationships with our stakeholders are critical to borrowings and derivatives: our future success.
Maintaining these good relationships is dependent on our focusing on the restrictions in borrowings, adverse changes in the global areas that are important to them, such as the quality credit markets and changes in credit ratings or in tax rates: of service we provide to customers, the quality of future funding requirements of our pension schemes: and information we provide to regulators and the way we changes in accounting standards.
address the concerns of, and interact with, all our stakeholders.
Not all of these factors are within our control and, in addition, Environment Safeguarding our global environment for future there may be other factors besides those listed that may have generations is dependent on integrating sustainability an adverse effect on National Grid Gas.
and climate change considerations into our business decisions, influencing legislators and regulators to These risk factors are described in more detail in the principal reshape energy markets to meet the climate change risks and uncertainties section of this Operating and Financial challenge and helping and supporting our employees, customer and suppliers in changing their Review on pages 7 and 8. behaviour to be more considerate of the environment.
Financial Strong financial performance and operating cash performance flows are the basis for funding our future capital investment programmes, for servicing our borrowings and paying dividends, as well as in increasing our value to National Grids shareholders.
Responsibility Strong corporate governance is essential to operating responsibly and the achievement of all our objectives.
Our reputation as a responsible business is dependent on our ensuring all our behaviours are lawful and ethical, on complying with our policies and licences and on living up to our core values.
If we do not live up to these high standards we could be exposed to adverse financial or other consequences.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 5 External market and regulatory environment mechanisms that restrict the amount of revenue that can be Markets in which we operate earned by regulated businesses.
The principal market in which we operate is the natural gas market in the UK.
We have six price controls, comprising two for our gas transmission operations and one for each of our four regional The supply of natural gas in the UK is competitive in that gas distribution networks.
These price controls provide a consumers can contract with different suppliers to obtain the financial incentive to invest, as we receive a return on efficiently gas they need.
Those suppliers are then responsible for incurred capital expenditure increasing our regulatory asset sourcing that gas from gas extractors or importers as base, and also provide incentives by which we can gain or lose appropriate, as well as arranging for that gas to be delivered for our performance in managing system operation, and through physical delivery networks.
These networks, including controlling internal costs, pass-through costs and service the ones we operate, are monopolies in their local areas as, for quality.
the majority of consumers, there are no alternative methods of receiving natural gas.
The current price control period for our gas transmission operations commenced on 1 April 2007 and is planned to last Natural gas delivery in the UK until 31 March 2012.
The last price control period for our gas Natural gas is transported through the gas national distribution operations ended on 31 March 2008 and a new transmission system to regional gas distribution networks that price control period commenced on 1 April 2008, which is then deliver gas to consumers on behalf of suppliers.
Certain expected to last until 31 March 2013. end customers, primarily large industrial users, receive gas direct from the national transmission system.
More information about the regulatory environment in which we operate, and on the nature of our price controls, is provided in We are the owner and operator of the gas national transmission the business discussions on pages 18 to 26. system and of four of the eight regional gas distribution networks in Great Britain.
We charge gas shippers for our In addition, as a public company with securities listed on the services, which they then incorporate into the prices charged to London Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange, end consumers.
we are subject to regulation by the UK Financial Services Authority and by the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The gas distribution networks in Scotland and southern England are owned by Scotia Gas Networks, in the north of England by Northern Gas Networks, and in Wales and the west of England by Wales & West Utilities.
Other markets in which we operate We also operate in gas related markets in Great Britain which are directly connected to our regulated businesses described above.
Our regulated metering business owns approximately 80% of the domestic gas meters in Great Britain, although as the competitive market for metering services expands, this portfolio of gas meters will decline as our gas meters are displaced.
We also participate in the competitive market for the provision of LNG storage services in Great Britain.
Regulation As a result of our position in, and importance to, the UK economy, our gas transmission and distribution businesses are subject to UK and European Union laws and regulations.
Our businesses are also subject to safety legislation which is enforced by the Health and Safety Executive HSE.
Our gas operations work under a permissioning regime, whereby our organisation, processes and procedures are documented in safety cases that are subject to acceptance by the HSE.
Economic regulation of our businesses is undertaken by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem.
Ofgem operates under the direction and governance of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and has established price control 6 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Current and future developments External market developments Changes in price controls Market structure and ownership A five year price control for our gas transmission network came There have been no significant changes in the structure of the into operation on 1 April 2007, together with a one year system UK gas infrastructure market since 2005, when we sold four of operator price control.
We have also accepted system operator our regional gas distribution networks to other operators.
price controls for our gas transmission operations for 2008 09.
Energy market developments Our four gas distribution networks were subject to a one year High energy prices have been a key feature in the UK market price control review during 2007 08 and we have also accepted during the last 12 months and this has led to significant Ofgems final proposals for new price controls covering the increases in bills to consumers for their energy supplies.
period from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2013.
The UK continues to be in a period of changing energy supply Further details of these price controls are provided in the patterns, as the decline in UK continental shelf gas reserve business discussion sections: Gas Transmission, page 19 and means more reliance is placed on imported gas for both Gas Distribution page 21. consumption and use in power generation.
As a consequence of the decline in gas production from the UK continental shelf, Legal and related matters our latest forecast is that the UK will import around 50% of its Metering competition investigation gas requirements by the end of the decade.
On 25 February 2008, Ofgem announced it had decided we had breached the Competition Act 1998 with respect to the These changes are impacting our gas networks with significant development of term contracts with gas suppliers entered into investment underway and planned to link gas import facilities by our metering services business in 2004 and imposed a fine with domestic, business and industrial consumers.
of 41.6 million, which has been suspended pending our appeal Activity to increase the UKs import capability has involved the to the Competition Appeal Tribunal.
We believe that we have development of new import infrastructure by National Grid and never been anti-competitive and that we will be successful in other market participants.
During the year, a number of appealing this decision.
We have therefore not provided for this significant infrastructure projects were commissioned, including fine in our financial statements.
a major gas pipeline in south Wales, linking the Milford Haven Environmental remediation LNG import terminal to our gas network.
In last years Annual Report and Accounts we noted that we, together with the Environment Agency, had sought judicial Regulatory developments review to clarify the legal position with regard to the remediation During the year ended 31 March 2008, there were no significant of a site in Bawtry, Yorkshire.
This former gas site was not part changes in the legislative and regulatory framework in the UK.
of the assets that formed part of the gas privatisation in 1986 In September 2007, the European Commission published a and therefore had never been owned by National Grid Gas.
In third package of legislative proposals for energy markets within June 2007, the House of Lords announced that it was allowing the European Union.
The key areas include unbundling of our appeal, confirming that National Grid Gas has no legal transmission and distribution of energy from customer supply liability with respect to the site in Bawtry, nor for other former and generation activities, the creation of a European regulatory UK gas sites which did not form part of the assets we acquired agency for energy and the establishment of a European at the time of privatisation.
network of transmission system operators for gas and electricity respectively, to facilitate cooperation and coordination at both a European and regional level.
While there are many complex issues for which resolution is required, there is a strong desire for political agreement to be reached during 2008.
This was complemented in January 2008 by a number of environmental proposals focusing on renewable energy, emissions trading, carbon capture and energy efficiency.
In April 2008, Ofgem announced a review into the operation of the energy markets in the UK and how the regulatory model in the UK is functioning.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 7 Principal risks and uncertainties our ability to recover these costs changes, this could have a Risk management material impact on our businesses and our results of operations Understanding and managing risks is integral to the way we run and financial position.
Any breach of these obligations, or even our business.
We have a well established risk management incidents that do not amount to a breach, could adversely affect process that ensures risks are consistently assessed, recorded our results of operations and our reputation.
and reported in a visible, structured and continuous manner, the outputs of which are primarily used as a management tool.
A For further information about environmental and health and secondary and natural output from this process is information safety matters in National Grid, see the Our Responsibility that provides assurance to management at all levels and thus section of National Grids website at www.
helps safeguard our assets and reputation.
It has been Network failure or the inability to carry out critical nondesigned to manage rather than eliminate material risks to the network operations achievement of our strategic and business objectives, while We may suffer a major network failure or may not be able to also recognising that any such process can provide only carry out critical non-network operations.
Operational reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material performance could be adversely affected by a failure to misstatement or loss.
maintain the health of the system or network, inadequate forecasting of demand or inadequate record keeping.
This could Principal risk factors cause us to fail to meet agreed standards of service or be in Our risk management process has identified the following breach of a licence or approval, and even incidents that do not principal risk factors which could have a material adverse effect amount to a breach could result in adverse regulatory and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and financial consequences, as well as harming our reputation.
reputation, as well as the value and liquidity of our securities.
In addition to these risks, we may be affected by other potential Not all of these factors are within our control.
In addition, other events that are largely outside of our control such as the impact factors besides those listed below may have an adverse effect of weather or unlawful acts of third parties.
Weather conditions on National Grid Gas.
These risk factors should be read in can affect financial performance and severe weather that conjunction with the rest of this Operating and Financial damages infrastructure will adversely affect operational and Review.
potentially business performance and our reputation.
Terrorist Changes in law or regulation attack, sabotage or other intentional acts may also physically Our principal businesses are subject to regulation by the UK damage our assets or otherwise significantly affect corporate Government and other authorities such as Ofgem.
activities and as a consequence have an adverse impact on the Consequently, changes in law or regulation could adversely results of operations.
Regulatory decisions concerning, for example, Achievement of business performance objectives, whether licences or approvals to operate are granted or are including regulatory targets and delivering anticipated cost renewed, whether there has been any breach of the terms of a and efficiency savings licence or approval, recovery of incurred expenditure and the Earnings maintenance and growth from our regulated gas level of permitted revenues for our businesses, could have an businesses will be affected by our ability to meet or exceed adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows, the efficiency targets and service quality standards set by or agreed financial condition of our businesses and the ability to develop with Ofgem.
In addition, from time to time, we publish cost and those businesses in the future.
efficiency savings targets for our businesses.
We have also Breaches of environmental or health and safety law or substantially completed reorganising our operations along lines regulations of business.
To meet these targets and standards, we must The transmission and distribution of natural gas is potentially continue to improve operational performance, service reliability dangerous.
We also use or generate in our operations and customer service.
If we do not meet these targets and hazardous and potentially hazardous products and by-products.
standards, or we do not complete implementation of this We are subject to laws and regulations relating to pollution, the reorganisation as envisaged, we may not achieve the expected protection of the environment, and how we use and dispose of benefits, our business may be adversely affected and our hazardous substances and waste materials.
These expose us performance, results of operations and our reputation may be to costs and liabilities relating to our operations and our harmed.
properties whether current, including those inherited from predecessor bodies, or formerly owned by us.
We are also subject to laws and regulations governing health and safety matters protecting the public and our employees.
We commit significant expenditure toward complying with these laws and regulations.
If additional requirements are imposed or 8 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Regulatory treatment of commodity costs passed through Changes in accounting standards to consumers The accounting treatment under International Financial Changes in commodity prices could potentially impact our gas Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European transmission and distribution businesses.
Current regulatory Union, of replacement expenditure, pensions and derivative arrangements provide the ability to pass-through virtually all of financial instruments significantly affect the way we report our the increased costs related to commodity prices to consumers.
financial position and results of operations.
As a body of However, if Ofgem were to restrict this ability, it could have an practice develops for IFRS, the application and interpretation of adverse effect on our operating results.
accounting principles to our circumstances, and to those areas in particular, could result in changes in the financial results and Reputation damage from disruptions to supply, even if financial position that we report.
In addition, new standards, outside our control rules or interpretations may be issued which could also have Our gas transmission and distribution businesses are significant effects.
responsible for transporting available gas.
We consult with and provide information to regulators, governments and industry participants about future demand and the availability of supply.
However, where there is insufficient supply, our role is to manage the relevant network safely, which in extreme circumstances may require us to disconnect consumers, which may damage our reputation.
Fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on borrowings and derivatives Our results of operations may be affected because a significant proportion of our borrowings and derivative financial instruments are affected by changes in interest rates.
Restrictions in borrowings, adverse changes in the global credit markets and changes in credit ratings or in tax rates We are subject to certain covenants and restrictions in relation to our listed debt securities and our bank lending facilities.
We are also subject to restrictions on financing which have been imposed by regulators.
These restrictions may hinder us in servicing the financial requirements of our businesses.
Some of our debt is rated by credit rating agencies and changes to these ratings may affect both our borrowing capacity and the cost of those borrowings.
Our borrowing capacity and cost of borrowing could also be affected by adverse changes in the global credit markets.
The effective rate of tax we pay may be influenced by a number of factors including changes in law and accounting standards, the results of which could increase that rate.
Future funding requirements of pension schemes Substantially all of our employees are members of a defined benefit pension scheme where the scheme assets are held independently of our own financial resources.
Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding for the scheme are based on various actuarial assumptions and other factors including, among other things, the actual and projected market performance of the scheme assets, future long-term bond yields, average life expectancies and relevant legal requirements.
The impact of these assumptions and other factors may result in a requirement for us to make additional contributions to the pension scheme.
Our legal obligations to the scheme are limited to paying the employers contribution rate set by the trustees of the scheme.
However, circumstances may require that we make additional contributions.
To the extent that any increases in contributions are not recoverable under our price controls, our results of operations could be adversely affected.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 9 Performance summary and key performance indicators Delivering Lines of business Integrated our Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses into National Grids global National Grids Transmission and Gas Distribution lines of business, each with a common management team strategy and responsible Executive Director Progressed separation of functions and processes that support multiple lines of business Operating model Commenced implementation of a new back office system Commenced reviews within each line of business, shared services and information services to identify best practices, so that they can be shared across National Grid Operating Safety Injuries to the public 2007 08: 26 Target: zero performance 2006 07: 20 Employee LTI frequency rate 2007 08: 0.14 Target: zero 2006 07: 0.18 Employee sickness absence rate 2007 08: 2.18% Target: zero 2006 07: 2.20% work-related absences Gas Distribution mains replacement 2007 08: 1,850 km Target: 1,835 km in 2006 07: 1,850 km 2007 08 Reliability Gas Transmission network reliability 2007 08: 100% Target: 100% 2006 07: 100% Gas Distribution network reliability 2007 08: 99.999% Target: 99.999% 2006 07: 99.999% Efficiency Cost reduction programmes undertaken in Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution Capital investment Total capital investment 2007 08: 1,393 million 2006 07: 1,200 million Talent Talent, skills, Our Directors and senior managers have been through our Performance for Growth engagement and programme, focusing on how to develop our employees, address skills gaps, increase performance employee engagement and coach for better performance We have developed and calibrated a single set of performance measures for our senior managers We have upgraded and aligned our talent review process across our businesses Inclusion and Percentage of female employees 2007 08: 24.5% diversity 2006 07: 20.0% Percentage of black and minority 2007 08: 5.8% ethnic employees 2006 07: 4.5% Relationships Stakeholder relations Participated in presentations to debt investors and community involvement Environment Climate change Percentage reduction in greenhouse 2007 08: 3% Target: year on year gas emissions 2006 07: 9% reduction Protecting the Significant direct environmental 2007 08: 26 Target: zero environment incidents 2006 07: 16 Total value of fines from 2007 08: Zero Target: zero prosecutions 2006 07: Zero Financial Profit and Adjusted operating profit 2007 08: 994 million performance cash flow 2006 07: 792 million Cash generated by continuing 2007 08: 1,555 million operations 2006 07: 1,407 million Returns from Gas transmission return on investment 2007 08: 7.2% investment 2006 07: 7.3% Gas distribution return on investment 2007 08: 5.1% 2006 07: 5.0% Financial discipline Adjusted gearing ratio 2008: 44% 2007: 40% Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items and remeasurements.
For the adjusted gearing ratio our gas transmission and distribution assets are measured at their regulatory value.
10 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Performance against our objectives Our performance and the progress we have made against our National Grids operating model is based on ensuring Operating that activities are carried out at the most appropriate objectives are described below and on the following pages.
This model level, either locally, within lines of business or across includes commentary on our financial results on pages 14 to 18 National Grid.
and more information on the performance and financial results of each business is included in the business sections on pages Lines of business 18 to 26.
Our Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses have We measure the achievement of our objectives through the use been integrated into National Grids global Transmission and of qualitative assessments and through the monitoring of Gas Distribution businesses, each led by an Executive Director quantitative indicators, called key performance indicators of National Grid.
In line with our operating objectives, we use both Common functions financial and non-financial KPIs.
Where relevant, KPIs are used Our businesses are already supported by a UK shared services as our primary measures of whether we are achieving our function and National Grid has now combined the information objectives.
However, the scale and size of our operations mean services, procurement and legal services functions which serve we use many other detailed performance measures in addition our businesses in the UK, with the equivalent US functions, to KPIs.
We also use KPIs to measure performance against our creating single functions that span National Grid, to ensure that primary objective of growing our businesses to create value for there is a common operating approach.
We use qualitative assessments to judge progress against our objectives in areas where Common systems and processes numerical measures are less relevant.
National Grids aim is to reduce the number of systems that it has and to align processes so that there is a single National This year, we have included adjusted gearing ratio as one of Grid method of operating.
In support of this aim, we have the KPIs measuring our financial performance.
Our other KPIs implemented a new back office system, which will underpin the are unchanged from last year.
development of common processes and integrate with front office systems used by our businesses.
Responsibility While National Grid is centralising activities that it believes are We believe operating responsibly is essential to the way we common across National Grid, we remain focused on ensuring conduct our operations, invest, develop our people and manage that our employees are able to deliver services to our our relationships.
It underpins everything we do.
We always strive to operate to the highest standards of Identification of best practice corporate governance and we believe in strong business ethics, Reviews have commenced within each line of business, shared based around National Grids Framework for Responsible services, information services and other functions to identify Business and our core values of respecting others and valuing best practices, so that they can be shared across National Grid.
diversity, demonstrating integrity and openness in all relationships, taking ownership for driving performance and Safety, health and environmental management operating as one team.
Our transformation programme includes restructuring our approach to managing safety, health and environmental issues, The approach to corporate governance and business ethics embedding responsibility directly into the business for safety, within National Grid is described in more detail in the Corporate health and environmental, supported by safety, health and Governance section on pages 88 to 97 of National Grids environmental expertise in support functions.
This means that Annual Report 2007 08. all of our managers will be accountable for safety, health and environmental management in their areas of operations.
Delivering National Grids strategy We are in the process of transforming our businesses in line with National Grids strategy.
This means creating global lines of business across National Grid and focusing on delivering an improved service to our customers, supported by an operating model that delivers effective and efficient shared services and information systems.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 11 Employee lost time injuries track our progress towards our Operating performance target of zero work-related injuries.
However, our employee lost We aim for operational excellence by performing to the highest time injury frequency rate provides a more accurate indicator of standards of safety, efficiency, and reliability and by improving year-on-year performance as it takes into account changing customer service.
By delivering on our capital investment plans employee numbers.
Employee lost time injuries per 100,000 we can create value through organic growth.
hours worked was 0.14 in 2007 08 compared with 0.18 in the Safety Safety is paramount.
Our most important goals are: to ensure that members Employee health of the public are not injured as a direct result of our We are committed to protecting employees health during work operations: to deliver a working environment where activities.
We have continued to develop our risk based there are zero work-related injuries and illness: to reduce gas leaks on our distribution networks: and to approach and instigated further programmes of support for improve the health of our employees so they are fit for employees with musculoskeletal conditions.
Across the work every day.
business, employees have engaged in well-being and We use a range of lagging and leading indicators to education programmes designed to encourage good lifestyle measure our performance against our safety choices.
Approaches to health promotion are currently being objectives, including: members of the public injured as reviewed with the aim of establishing and delivering an effective a direct result of our operations: employee lost time injury frequency rate: achievement of gas safety well-being programme, encompassing health education, fitness service standards: kilometres of gas distribution mains and nutrition, work life balance, and health management and replaced: and employee sickness absence rate.
During 2007 08, we have reviewed the critical safety risks Around 2.18% of available work days were lost due to sickness across our business, ensuring they are effectively managed.
To absence in 2007 08, compared with 2.20% in 2006 07. support this, we have implemented National Grids programme Contractor safety for improving safety performance, Trusted to Work There was a decrease in contractor lost time injuries from 46 in Responsibly.
This renewed approach builds upon our well 2006 07 to 36 in 2007 08. established safety procedures and reinforces the need for individual and collective ownership of safety performance.
It By improving efficiency, we can constrain the cost of Efficiency recognises that our workforce is well trained and should be our operations borne by customers and improve trusted to deliver their work in the right way the safe way.
It returns to National Grids shareholders.
We review our operations continually to identify opportunities to was launched across National Grid in October 2007 and improve the operational productivity of our assets and followed by the publication and implementation of Golden Rules our people, and to identify areas in which we can that encompass all our businesses.
These set consistent reduce costs or restrict cost increases.
Planning ahead standards for good safety behaviours, but are interpreted so is essential in our approach to maintaining and improving efficiency.
that they reflect the risk profiles of different parts of the business and reinforce a culture whereby safety becomes Our primary method of measuring improvements in efficiency is through our financial performance.
We have continued to transform National Grid Gas in line with We have also reinforced our approach to process safety.
During National Grids strategy of being more focused, more integrated 2007 08, we have reviewed the risk profile of our assets and and more disciplined.
have completed a culture survey to find out the views of employees on process safety.
We have also trained our Information on our financial performance during the year is set Directors and senior managers in process safety and issued a out on pages 14 to 18. new commitment statement agreed by the Board of National Our principal operations are critical to the functioning of Grid.
The reliability of our gas networks is Public safety one of our highest priorities after safety.
During 2007 08, 26 members of the public were injured as a We use business-specific reliability performance indicators to measure our reliability performance.
result of our operations compared with 20 during 2006 07 and a target of zero.
Our approach to maintaining and improving reliability involves: Gas safety investing in infrastructure and systems to provide the We discuss gas safety in the Gas Distribution section on page operational tools and techniques necessary to manage our assets and operations to high standards and investing in the 22. renewal of assets: investing in the skills and capabilities of our Employee safety people to give them the ability to operate our networks to a high During 2007 08, 21 of our employees received injuries that degree of service excellence: and maintaining a constant focus resulted in them taking time off work, compared with 29 in on reliability as one of our principal objectives, ensuring we are 2006 07 and a target of zero.
proactive about planning to ensure reliability and that we react quickly to factors that could compromise reliability.
12 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Information on the reliability of each of our businesses is Our focus on developing the talent of our current and future discussed in the business sections on pages 19, 22 and 25. business leaders has intensified, with continued growth in the number of participants in National Grids leadership and Our objective is to impress our customers with the Customer management development programmes.
The main areas of quality of the services we provide, with our service focus have been on our performance for growth programme, responsiveness when things go wrong and with our dedication to continued improvement.
change management, leadership development and developing future leaders programmes, including the expansion of our We use business-specific service quality KPIs to measure our performance in this area.
We plan to improve the way we interact with our customers by We continue to invest in the recruitment and development of enhancing or replacing the systems we use, providing our skilled employees for the future, jointly with National Grids employees with the training, empowerment and support they other UK businesses, which have collectively recruited 157 need to deliver, and by improving the quality of our internal and trainees on to National Grids apprentice, foundation engineer, customer communications.
graduate and student programmes in the past year.
Information on the customer service performance of each of our To succeed, we need to engage our employees to Engagement strive for continued improvement.
For that purpose our businesses is discussed in the business sections on pages 20, and aim is to implement a world-class performance 22 and 25. performance management process.
Capital investment is one of the principal drivers of Capital Our approach involves adopting integrated common future growth, as the majority of the capital investment investment performance processes and a single set of performance criteria, we make enables us to earn an increased financial return.
with pay linked to leadership qualities how we deliver as well The principal measure we use to monitor organic as operational and financial performance what we deliver, investment is capital expenditure, which includes providing for clearer differentiation between levels of investment in property, plant & equipment, and in performance.
internally created intangible assets such as software.
Employee engagement Our capital investment programme in our gas transmission and As part of the implementation of National Grids new operating distribution networks is based on an assessment of what is model, a survey was carried out to gather feedback on the needed to maintain or improve the performance of our communication routes that employees prefer and a suite of regulated networks, or to extend those networks where required communication channels is now being rolled out across the to serve new sources of energy or new customers, usually in whole of National Grid.
agreement with Ofgem, who permits us to earn a return on allowed investments.
Capital investment in our Gas Metering In February 2008, National Grid conducted a comprehensive business is to meet customer requirements.
employee engagement survey, in which over 83% of its global work force took part in what will now be an annual exercise.
During 2007 08, our capital investment was 1,393 million, Separate results are not available for the employees of National compared with 1,200 million in 2006 07.
Grid Gas alone, but the survey demonstrated that our employees see our safety focused and supportive work Talent environment as real strengths.
Where they think that we can We aim to maximise the contribution of our employees by make progress is in the areas of providing more open and motivating them to strive for continued improvement, honest communications, greater clarity about our vision and developing their skills and talents, and promoting a culture that direction, and a stronger link between performance and reward.
recognises and respects inclusion and diversity.
In addition to Action plans are being developed and built into managers obtaining the views of employees on an ongoing basis, National objectives for the coming year.
Grid now carries out annual group-wide employee surveys to Performance management identify areas where we can improve.
During the year, we successfully launched our Performance for Identifying, recruiting and developing talented people Growth programme for our Directors and senior managers.
Talent and are critical to our future success.
We aim to support all skills We continue to expand and embed our performance our employees so that they can operate to the best of their abilities by creating an environment that allows management process with an integrated common performance them to realise their full potential.
approach, including a single set of performance criteria, pay linked to leadership qualities, as well as operational and We have strengthened our talent management processes in financial performance, and a clearer differentiation between 2007 08, commencing with the creation of talent management levels of performance.
During 2007 08, significant effort was put plans for senior management and for business critical roles.
In into the calibration of performance across the levels and addition, for the first time, we conducted cross-business talent businesses, with the objective of creating a fairer, more planning sessions using consistent processes to support senior transparent and consistent process for evaluating and management in developing employees within each business rewarding the performance of our employees.
area and to address succession issues.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 13 In order to develop, recruit and retain talented people We aim to work effectively in partnership with our Inclusion Suppliers we aim to achieve a more inclusive and diverse suppliers, developing constructive relationships and and workforce, reflecting the composition of the working together effectively.
Our objective is to develop diversity communities in which we operate, and to be seen as contractual arrangements with our suppliers that align an employer of choice across diverse communities.
their interests with our own, as far as possible, and share financial risks appropriately.
Performance measures we use to monitor our objective of promoting inclusion and diversity include the Our objective is to use the scale and breadth of National Grids percentage of female employees and the percentage of activities to get the best value for money from our suppliers.
black and minority ethnic employees.
National Grid has established a single procurement function We are fortunate to have vibrant employee networks, focusing covering all of its supply chain activities in the UK and the US on gender, ethnicity and faith, disability, sexual orientation and as a key step on the way to delivering this objective.
These are helping us to better understand the During the year we implemented a new back office system, different communities represented within our workforce, and to which has improved our ability to manage procurement provide support and information to our employees.
Action activities as well as providing other benefits.
Unfortunately, councils help to coordinate initiatives in each of our locations, to relationships with certain suppliers were temporarily hampered identify new initiatives and to ensure consistency across our by teething problems with the new system, leading to delays in businesses.
We have resolved many of the At 31 March 2008, 24.5% of employees were female and 5.8% issues that have arisen and we continue to address those that were from black and minority ethnic groups compared with remain, aiming to ensure suppliers are paid on time while 20.0% and 4.5% respectively at 31 March 2007. maintaining appropriate financial controls.
We also aim to build on our achievements in creating alliances Relationships with contractors to deliver construction projects in our Gas We aim to enhance our relationships with all of our external Distribution business, benefiting from the closer and more stakeholders investors, customers, regulators, government, constructive working relationship that we believe can be suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
achieved, when project objectives are aligned and financial risks are shared.
We aim to make National Grid Gas attractive to debt Investor investors so that we can finance our operations as relations In addition to focusing on efficiency and value for money, we effectively as possible.
have established clear principles and objectives concerning the During the year, we participated in the presentations and impact of our supply chain economically, socially, conference calls targeted at debt investors and conducted by environmentally and on human rights.
We expect our suppliers National Grid.
Despite turbulent market conditions we have to address these wider areas in working with us.
continued to issue long-term bonds, raising 700 million during Our role as a good corporate citizen supports National Community the year.
Grids vision, and is delivered through a sustained and involvement consistent approach.
The primary concern of our customers, regulators and Customers, the UK Government is that we deliver a safe, reliable regulators Our community investment objectives include supporting and efficient service, now and into the future.
Hence and communities, developing our business, supporting our the foundation of our relationships reflects the quality of government our operational performance.
employees and enhancing our reputation through targeted community involvement activities.
Our approach continues to be For customers, it is important that we treat them with respect, centred on three key themes: energy and environment: that we communicate clearly and that we make interaction with education and skills: and community development.
them as straightforward as possible.
Our focus on customer service and operational excellence is also a critical component During the year we have again reviewed our social policy to of our relationship with Ofgem and the UK Government, ensure our approach to community investment remains relevant underpinning the building of trust with them both.
This involves to, and supports, societys wider social and environmental being responsive to the need of Ofgem for high quality priorities.
This review has included analysis of existing activities information, complying with rules and regulations, operating in and best practice, across National Grid and externally.
an ethical way and, most importantly, delivering on our We invested some 3.0 million in support of community promises.
initiatives and relationships across our operations in 2007 08.
We continue to work very closely with Ofgem on the renewal of our gas transmission and distribution networks, and in expanding those networks to meet new and changing demand.
In addition, we seek to maintain a professional approach with Ofgem in areas where we disagree, in particular with respect to their investigation into metering services as discussed on page 6.
14 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Methane leakage from our gas networks accounts for some Environment 73% of this years reported Scope 1 emissions.
During the year, We are committed to safeguarding the global environment for we replaced approximately 1,850 km of old cast iron pipes in future generations, taking positive action to reduce our the UK, the largest source of these emissions.
contribution to climate change and our other impacts on the environment.
National Grid Gas has an inherited portfolio of Historically historically contaminated land including former contaminated Climate Climate change is possibly one of the greatest manufactured gas plants and former gas holder land challenges facing society in the 21st century.
Sites can have a complex mix of change contamination dating back over 100 years.
National Grids overall objective is to reduce its emissions of greenhouse gases by 80% against a The main focus of our remediation programme is on managing verified baseline.
the environmental risk by targeting those sites with the highest Our key performance indicator to monitor our environmental risk profile and those where we have a legal or performance in this area is the annual percentage regulatory requirement to remediate, while returning land to reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions.
We also measure absolute emissions.
productive public or private use where we can, and where it is surplus to operational requirements.
We report our greenhouse gas emissions in line with National Grids corporate reporting principles which include National National Grid Property, a fellow subsidiary of National Grid, Grids interpretation of the World Resources Institute manages land contamination issues on our behalf.
This protocol provides a Our objective is to help protect the environment for Protecting breakdown of our direct emissions Scope 1, indirect emissions future generations and so we are committed to the resulting from purchased electricity Scope 2 and other indirect continuous improvement in our environmental environment emissions Scope 3.
We believe this provides greater performance by: efficient use of natural resources: transparency and focuses attention on those emissions over keeping our waste to a minimum and increasing which we have the greatest control.
the economic value of any waste we produce: acting to prevent environmental incidents: and During 2007 08, National Grid reviewed its climate change improving, where we can, the environmental status strategy first approved in 2006, and concluded that it should of the land on which we operate.
increase its target of reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Key performance indicators that we monitor in this area of greenhouse gases to 80% against its verified baseline ahead comprise the number of significant direct environmental of 2050, compared with its prior 60% reduction target.
This incidents and the total value of fines from prosecutions.
target is ambitious and will challenge us to develop, now and All of our employees work to environmental management over the next 42 years, new ways of conducting our business to systems certified to the international standard ISO 14001. reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
The number of significant environmental incidents in 2007 08 This revised 80% reduction target will be delivered through arising directly from our operations was 26, which includes 24 National Grids climate change initiative, with a corporate team contractor-related incidents.
In 2006 07, there were 16 incidents that will work with each line of business to deliver the target.
There were no The initiative is structured around three elements which we prosecutions by enforcing bodies resulting from these incidents.
believe will transform our business: fully integrating sustainability and climate change Financial performance considerations into our business decisions, including the We aim to continue to improve our financial performance, to setting of carbon budgets: deliver returns appropriate to our risk profile and to be influencing legislators and regulators to reshape energy financially disciplined.
markets to meet the climate change challenge: and helping and supporting our customers, employees and If we achieve our objectives we should be able to Profit and suppliers in changing their behaviours to be more deliver continued improvements in financial cash flow performance, contributing to National Grids considerate of the environment.
commitment to grow its dividend each year.
As National Grid Gas does not have a separate verified base The principal measures we use to monitor our financial line for greenhouse gas emissions, we monitor our emissions in performance are adjusted operating profit and operating cash flows.
Adjusted operating profit is terms of year on year reductions.
During 2007 08, our Scope 1 operating profit before exceptional items and and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions amounted to some 3.3 remeasurements.
million tonnes CO equivalent, a 3% reduction compared with 2 We report our financial results and position in accordance with emissions of 3.4 million tonnes in 2006 07. International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions per million of revenue amounted to some 1,337 tonnes CO equivalent compared with 2 1,524 tonnes in 2006 07.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 15 Continuing and discontinued operations Management uses adjusted profit measures as the basis for The financial results of our business segments and of our other monitoring financial performance and in communicating activities as described on page 1 are presented within financial performance to investors in external presentations and continuing operations.
Discontinued operations comprise announcements of financial results.
Internal financial reports, residual amounts in respect of the four gas distribution networks budgets and forecasts are primarily prepared on the basis of sold on 1 June 2005. adjusted profit measures, although planned exceptional items, such as significant restructurings, are also reflected in budgets Measurement of financial performance and use of adjusted and forecasts.
Management compensates for the limitations profit measures inherent in the use of adjusted profit measures through the In considering the financial performance of our businesses and separate monitoring and disclosure of exceptional items and segments, we analyse each of our primary financial measures remeasurements as a component of our overall financial of operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year into performance.
two components, comprising firstly business performance, which excludes exceptional items and remeasurements and Operating financial performance secondly exceptional items and remeasurements.
Exceptional Details of the financial results of business segments, including items and remeasurements are excluded from the measures of information on exceptional items and remeasurements, are business performance used by management to monitor included in the business reviews on pages 18 to 26. financial performance as they are considered to distort the Years ended 31 March comparability of our reported financial performance from year to 2008 2007 year.
Continuing operations m m Revenue 2,440 2,199 Measures of business performance are referred to in this Other operating income 8 - Annual Report as adjusted profit measures in order to clearly Operating costs 1,477 1,421 distinguish them from the comparable total profit measures of Total operating profit 971 778 which they are a component.
Adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings differ from total Analysed as: operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year Adjusted operating profit 994 792 respectively by the exclusion of exceptional items and Exceptional items 23 14 remeasurements.
Total operating profit 971 778 Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income The following tables set out the consolidated revenue, adjusted and expenditure that, in the judgement of management, should operating profit and operating profit by business segment.
be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, Revenue by business segment either by virtue of their nature or size, and are relevant to an Years ended 31 March understanding of our financial performance.
Items of income or 2008 2007 expense that are considered by management for designation as Continuing operations m m exceptional items include such items as significant Gas Transmission 770 736 restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current Gas Distribution 1,383 1,174 assets, material changes in environmental provisions and gains Gas Metering 349 346 or losses on disposals of businesses or investments.
Other activities 38 35 Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the Total segmental revenues 2,540 2,291 income statement arising from changes in the fair value of Less: sales between business segments 100 92 derivative financial instruments.
These fair values increase or Revenue 2,440 2,199 decrease as a consequence of changes in financial indices and prices over which we have no control.
Segmental operating profit before exceptional items and Adjusted profit measures are limited in their usefulness remeasurements compared with the comparable total profit measures, as they Years ended 31 March exclude important elements of our underlying financial 2008 2007 performance, namely exceptional items and remeasurements.
Continuing operations m m We believe that in separately presenting financial performance Gas Transmission 318 312 in two components it is easier to read and interpret financial Gas Distribution 595 406 performance between periods, as adjusted profit measures are Gas Metering 101 107 more comparable by excluding the distorting effect of Other activities 20 33 exceptional items and remeasurements, and exceptional items Adjusted operating profit 994 792 and remeasurements are more clearly understood if separately identified and analysed.
The presentation of these two components of financial performance is additional to, and not a substitute for, the comparable total profit measures presented.
16 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Segmental total operating profit Profit for the year from continuing operations Years ended 31 March Adjusted earnings 2008 2007 Years ended 31 March Continuing operations m m 2008 2007 Gas Transmission 315 307 Continuing operations m m Gas Distribution 575 397 Adjusted operating profit 994 792 Net finance costs excluding Gas Metering 101 107 Other activities 20 33 exceptional items and remeasurements 341 243 Adjusted profit before taxation 653 549 Total operating profit 971 778 Taxation excluding taxation on 2007 08 compared with 2006 07 exceptional items and remeasurements 278 239 Changes in revenue and other operating income, operating Adjusted profit from continuing operations 375 310 costs and operating profit for 2007 08 compared with 2006 07 can be summarised as follows: Earnings Years ended 31 March Revenue 2008 2007 and other operating Operating Operating Continuing operations m m income costs profit Total operating profit 971 778 Continuing operations m m m Net finance costs 317 271 2006 07 results 2,199 1,421 778 Profit before taxation 654 507 Add back 2006 07 exceptional items - 14 14 Taxation 161 232 2006 07 adjusted results 2,199 1,407 792 Profit from continuing operations 493 275 Gas Transmission 34 28 6 Gas Distribution 217 28 189 Net finance costs Gas Metering 3 9 6 Net interest excluding exceptional finance costs and Other activities 3 10 13 remeasurements increased by 98 million from 2006 07 to Sales between businesses 8 8 - 2007 08.
This was primarily explained by an increase in 2007 08 adjusted results 2,448 1,454 994 average debt balances.
2007 08 exceptional items - 23 23 Exceptional finance costs and remeasurements 2007 08 results 2,448 1,477 971 There were no exceptional finance costs in 2007 08.
Revenue and other operating income was 249 million higher Exceptional finance costs of 32 million in 2006 07 relate to the than in 2006 07, primarily as a result of higher Gas early repayment of debt.
Transmission and Gas Distribution revenues.
Operating costs Financial remeasurements relate to net gains on derivative excluding exceptional items increased by 47 million as a result financial instruments of 24 million, compared with net gains of of higher operating costs in Gas Transmission and Gas 4 million in 2006 07.
Distribution, partly offset by a reduction in the costs of other activities.
As a consequence, adjusted operating profit was Taxation 202 million higher than 2006 07.
A net charge of 161 million arose in 2007 08 comprising a 278 million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a 117 Net operating exceptional charges of 23 million in 2007 08 million credit on exceptional items and remeasurements.
This were 9 million higher than 2006 07.
They relate to compares with a net charge of 232 million in 2006 07, restructuring costs including the establishment of the UK shared comprising a 239 million charge on adjusted profit before tax services function and business process reviews within Gas and a 7 million credit on exceptional items and Transmission and Gas Distribution.
The 2007 08 net charge included an As a result of the 202 million increase in adjusted operating exceptional credit of 117 million in 2007 08 relating to the profit, partly offset by the 9 million increase in operating release of deferred tax provisions following the change in the exceptional charges, total operating profit rose by 193 million UK corporation tax rate from 30% to 28% which was enacted in between 2006 07 and 2007 08. the year and takes effect from 1 April 2008.
The effective tax rate before and after exceptional items and remeasurements was 43% and 25% respectively 2006 07: 44% and 46%, compared with a standard UK corporation tax rate of 30% for both years.
The effective tax rates before exceptional items reflect prior year tax charges equivalent to an effective tax rate of 17% in 2007 08 and 12% in 2006 07.
These prior year items principally National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 17 relate to additional tax arising under UK transfer pricing Discontinued operations Years ended 31 March arrangements, which is offset by equivalent tax credits in other 2008 2007 UK companies in the National Grid group.
m m Profit for the year from continuing operations Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 3 13 Profit for the year from continuing operations rose from 275 Profit for the year 3 13 million in 2006 07 to 493 million in 2007 08 as a consequence Discontinued operations comprise amounts in respect of the of the above changes.
four regional gas distribution networks we sold on 1 June 2005.
Adjusted profit measures Net profit for the year The following tables reconcile the adjusted profit measure to the Net profit from both continuing and discontinued operations was corresponding total profit measure in accordance with IFRS.
Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total operating Cash flows profit Years ended 31 March Cash flows from operating activities 2008 2007 Cash generated from continuing operations was 1,555 million Continuing operations m m in 2007 08 compared with 1,407 million in 2006 07.
This Adjusted operating profit 994 792 included cash outflows relating to exceptional items of 23 Exceptional items 23 14 million and 27 million respectively.
After reflecting cash flows Total operating profit 971 778 relating to taxation, the net cash inflow from operating activities was 1,327 million, compared with 1,417 million in 2006 07.
Adjusted operating profit is presented on the face of the In 2007 08, there was a net corporate tax payment of 228 consolidated income statement, under the heading Operating million compared with a repayment of 10 million in 2006 07. profit before exceptional items.
Cash flows from investing activities Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to profit before Cash outflows from continuing operations investing activities taxation Years ended 31 March rose from 1,501 million in 2006 07 to 1,606 million in 2008 2007 2007 08.
Cash outflows to purchase property, plant and Continuing operations m m equipment and intangible fixed assets, net of disposal Adjusted profit before taxation 653 549 proceeds, increased to 1,470 million in 2007 08 from 1,163 Exceptional items 23 46 million in 2006 07, as a result of the increase in capital Derivative financial remeasurements 24 4 investment.
Cash outflows to acquire financial investments Total profit before taxation 654 507 decreased from 338 million in 2006 07 to 136 million in 2007 08.
Adjusted profit before taxation is presented on the face of the Cash flows in respect of sales proceeds of discontinued consolidated income statement, under the heading Profit operations comprised a net outflow of 1 million in 2007 08 before taxation before exceptional items and compared with a net inflow of 28 million in 2006 07. remeasurements.
Cash flows from financing activities Reconciliation of adjusted earnings to earnings profit for the The net cash inflow from financing activities increased from year from continuing operations Years ended 31 March 1 million in 2006 07 to 111 million in 2007 08.
This reflected 2008 2007 net inflows from loans of 852 million 2006 07: 2,178 million Continuing operations m m inflow and net payments to providers of finance, in the form of Adjusted earnings 375 310 net interest and dividends, of 741 million 2006 07: 2,177 Exceptional items 101 32 million.
Derivative financial remeasurements 17 3 Net interest cash outflows, excluding exceptional debt Earnings 493 275 redemption costs, decreased from 295 million in 2006 07 to 241 million in 2007 08.
There were no exceptional debt Adjusted earnings is presented on the face of the consolidated redemption payments in 2007 08 compared with 32 million in income statement, under the heading Profit for the year from 2006 07 which arose from restructuring our debt portfolio.
continuing operations after taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements.
18 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 We aim to generate value from our investments by Returns on Gas Transmission improving the operating performance of our networks our and by selecting investments that will provide the best investments return.
About Gas Transmission Measures we use to monitor the value we generate from our investments include the returns generated by This section should be read in conjunction with the rest of this our regulated businesses.
Operating and Financial Review, in particular vision, strategy and objectives, business drivers and risks, and external and We measure the financial performance of our regulated gas regulatory environments as set out on pages 2 to 5. transmission and distribution business using an operational return metric comparable to the vanilla return defined in our Principal operations price controls.
In 2007 08, Gas Transmission achieved an Our Gas Transmission business comprises the following operational return of 7.2% compared with 7.3% in 2006 07, and principal activities: Gas Distribution achieved a return of 5.1% compared with 5.0% Gas We own the gas national transmission system in Great in 2006 07. transmission Britain.
This comprises approximately 7,400 kilometres Further details of these operational returns are provided in the owner of high pressure pipe and 26 compressor stations, connecting to 8 distribution networks and to third party business review sections on pages 20 and 23. independent systems for onward transportation of gas to end consumers.
In order to deliver sustainable growth we must be Financial disciplined in the way we manage our balance sheet.
Gas system We operate the gas national transmission system.
discipline This means that our parent National Grid will return operator Day-to-day operation includes balancing supply and cash to its shareholders to the extent it is not required demand, maintaining satisfactory system pressures for investment objectives.
and ensuring gas quality standards are met.
The principal measure we use to monitor financial LNG storage We own and operate four LNG storage facilities in discipline is adjusted gearing ratio.
This is the ratio of Great Britain.
net debt to net assets plus net debt, with the assets of our regulated gas transmission and distribution As gas transmission owner, we own and maintain the physical businesses measured at their estimated regulatory assets, develop the network to accommodate new connections values.
and disconnections, and manage a programme of asset Our adjusted gearing ratio amounted to 44% at 31 March 2008 replacement and investment to ensure the long-term reliability compared with 40% 31 March 2007. of the network.
A reconciliation of the amounts necessary to calculate the As gas system operator, we undertake a range of activities adjusted gearing ratio is shown in the table below: necessary for the successful, efficient delivery, in real-time, of secure and reliable energy.
We ensure the system is balanced 2008 2007 m m with supply and demand at the end of each day.
We are also Net assets per balance sheet 5,980 5,967 required to maintain levels of short-term gas reserves to ensure Adjustments for regulatory asset values 2,645 2,380 that domestic and other non-interruptible gas supplies can be maintained during prolonged cold conditions.
Deferred tax on adjustments 741 714 Adjusted net assets 7,884 7,633 Regulation Net debt 6,174 5,184 The Company holds a gas transporter licence in respect of the Adjusted net assets plus net debt 14,058 12,817 national transmission system.
Under the Gas Act 1986 we have a duty to develop and maintain an efficient and economical Dividends in respect of the financial year pipeline system for the conveyance of gas.
Our LNG storage 2008 2007 business is managed as a separate business from the gas m m transmission business.
However, it is regulated under our gas Interim 500 350 transporter licence.
The table above shows the ordinary dividends paid or payable Ofgem sets price controls in respect of the amounts that can be by National Grid Gas in respect of the last two financial years.
charged by the owners and operators of gas infrastructure in These dividends do not include any associated UK tax credit in the UK.
These controls are reviewed every five years and the respect of such dividends.
current price control for gas transmission activities covers the period 1 April 2007 to 31 March 2012.
The key elements of the current price control are that we earn a 4.4% post-tax real rate of return on our regulatory asset value, a 0.9 billion baseline five year capital expenditure allowance and a 0.3 billion five year operating expenditure allowance.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 19 The charges that we can make for access to our gas Performance against our objectives transmission system are determined by a formula linked to the Descriptions of our progress against our overall objectives in Retail Prices Index RPI.
This formula is based upon Ofgems the areas of delivering National Grids strategy, operating estimates of our operating expenditure, capital expenditure and performance, talent, relationships, environment, financial asset replacement, together with an allowed rate of return.
performance and responsibility are set out on pages 10 to 18.
We include below further information specific to Gas In addition, our gas system operation activities are subject to Transmission with respect to the progress we have made on financial incentive schemes to promote efficiency.
If we operate transformation, our operating performance and our financial our network more efficiently than Ofgems forecasts, we can performance.
increase our revenues, with penalties for reductions in performance.
Delivering National Grids strategy We have a number of incentive schemes covering activities Key areas Key areas of focus for our Gas Transmission business for 2007 08 have been to improve safety performance such as cost of investment for additional capacity to facilitate of focus and to improve processes for network operations, new connections to the system, managing constraints, the within-year planning, transmission construction and provision of market information, the cost of purchasing asset management.
shrinkage gas gas used in operating the system and other gas Achievements so far have been the sharing of best practice system operation costs.
with regard to safety, the development of a common financial Current and future developments approval process.
In addition to the current and future developments described on During 2007 08, we completed a business process review, page 6, the following developments are relevant to the Gas focused on improving the efficiency of delivery of our capital Transmission business.
investment programme and operation efficiencies to meet the Price controls challenges within our price control plans.
This has been based The previous price control arrangements for our gas on improving our operational planning, engaging with external transmission networks in the UK ceased on 31 March 2007 and parties on the practical issues surrounding access to our assets the current price control period covers the period from 1 April and the management of land and managing a higher volume of 2007 to 31 March 2012.
Following our acceptance in principle work that is potentially more volatile if not managed effectively.
of the proposals, we have worked closely with Ofgem to agree We have also been working with our suppliers to constrain or the necessary licence amendments to enact the final proposals.
reduce costs wherever possible, with the aim of using the scale of our operations, and the increased level of capital We also accepted Ofgems final proposals for the system expenditure, to increase efficiency.
operator schemes that applied to 2007 08 and their proposals for the one year period from 1 April 2008.
Operating performance Safety Our aim is for zero lost time injuries.
Other developments The 316 kilometre pipeline connecting the new LNG importation terminals at Milford Haven has been completed on time and in advance of the terminals.
The pipeline is the largest single During 2007 08 there were 5 lost time injuries compared with 5 extension to the system since it was originally constructed and in 2006 07.
The lost time injury frequency rate was 0.36 in has been delivered to a very challenging timetable.
It was 2007 08 compared with 0.29 in 2006 07. formally opened by UK Energy Minister, Malcolm Wickes, in Our objective is to be more efficient in the delivery of Efficiency November 2007. services, in the context of higher expectations from our customers and cost pressures.
The pipeline will initially have to operate at 70 bar pressure rather than its design pressure of 94 bar because, following a We have been undertaking a number of internal business public inquiry, planning permission has been refused for a process reviews to seek out further savings without pressure reduction installation at the end of the pipeline at compromising our other objectives.
Efficiency is reflected in our Tirley in Gloucestershire.
The effect of this is to reduce the financial performance, which is discussed below.
pipelines capacity by approximately 25% and a force majeure notice for this shortfall has been issued under our contracts with Our aim is to meet or exceed network reliability and Reliability availability objectives.
Work is progressing towards the submission of revised planning applications in autumn 2008.
The winter of 2007 08 saw a maximum gas demand of 419 Major pipelines have also been completed and commissioned million cubic metres on 17 and 20 December 2007.
This is from Nether Kellett in Lancashire, to Pannal in North Yorkshire, lower than the previous years peak of 436 million cubic metres.
as part of works to import gas from Norwegian gas fields through Easington and in south west England to meet We again achieved our target of 100% reliability for the gas increased demand requirements.
20 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Gas compressor fleet performance declined during 2007 08, In 2007 08, we achieved a 7.2% return, significantly with the mean time between compressor failures falling to 259 outperforming regulatory assumptions, mainly as a result of hours compared with 430 hours in 2006 07.
In order to improve performance under our incentive schemes.
This compares with gas compressor resilience and to support variations in an operational return of 7.3% in 2006 07 calculated on the operating conditions such as we experienced this year, we are same basis.
progressing investments in electrical drive compressors at Financial results approximately 20% of our sites.
The results for the Gas Transmission segment for the years ended 31 March 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Our aim is to support gas distribution network Customer customers, including our own networks operated by service Years ended 31 March Gas Distribution, in delivering energy efficiently and 2008 2007 effectively to consumers, in particular in connecting m m new sources of supply to our transmission networks.
Revenue 770 736 Our transmission customer service activities principally relate to 452 Operating costs excluding exceptional items 424 facilitating new connections and maintaining existing Adjusted operating profit 318 312 connections and relationships with the customers who are Exceptional items 3 5 already connected.
Operating profit 315 307 Our aim is to deliver our planned capital investment Capital The principal movements between 2006 07 and 2007 08 can be programme involving approximately 2 billion of capital investment expenditure between 1 April 2007 and 31 March 2012. summarised as follows: Operating Operating Investment in gas transmission systems is, by its nature, Revenue costs profit variable and is largely driven by changing sources of supply m mm and asset replacement requirements.
Our gas transporter 2006 07 results 736 429 307 licence also obliges us to provide connections and capacity Add back 2006 07 exceptional items - 5 5 upon request.
2006 07 adjusted results 736 424 312 Parts of the gas transmission network are reaching the end of Allowed revenues 91 - 91 their lives.
These are mainly compressor stations, control Timing of recoveries 3 - 3 systems and valves ie above ground assets and not the high LNG storage auction revenue 41 - 41 pressure pipes.
This, together with work required to meet Depreciation and amortisation - 23 23 changing supply sources, means that the Gas Transmission Other 13 5 18 business has embarked on a significant increase in investment 2007 08 adjusted results 770 452 318 and network renewal.
2007 08 exceptional items - 3 3 2007 08 results 770 455 315 Capital investment in the replacement, reinforcement and extension of the Gas Transmission systems in 2007 08 was Revenue increased by 34 million in 2007 08 compared with 800 million compared with 628 million in 2006 07.
Allowed revenues increased by 91 million, driven by has seen a further substantial increase in the level of the five-year transmission price controls that came into effect on investment in gas pipeline projects, some 138 million higher 1 April 2007.
As expected, revenues from our LNG storage than 2006 07. business were lower in 2007 08, down by 41 million on Financial performance 2006 07, as demand for capacity returned closer to normal levels following the abnormal demand in 2006 07.
Our objective is to drive continuous profit growth.
Profit Operating costs, excluding exceptional items, increased by 28 million in 2007 08 compared to 2006 07.
As expected, Our adjusted operating profit, excluding exceptional items, for depreciation and amortisation increased by 23 million as a Gas Transmission of 318 million is 6 million higher than result of increasing capital investment.
5 million are due to higher pass-through costs which are recovered through revenue.
Exceptional charges of 3 million in Our objective is to deliver strong financial returns Returns on 2007 08 and 5 million in 2006 07 relate to costs incurred in compared to the regulatory allowances within our price investment establishing a shared services function in the UK and from the controls.
We measure the financial performance of our Gas Transmission business using an operational return As a consequence of these items, adjusted operating profit, metric, comparable to the vanilla return defined in the excluding exceptional items, increased by 6 million in 2007 08 price controls from 1 April 2007.
This metric expresses profit on a price control basis as a percentage of our compared with 2006 07, while operating profit increased by 8 estimated regulatory value.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 21 Gas Distribution be more or less than allowed.
Any difference is carried forward About Gas Distribution and our charges are adjusted accordingly in future periods.
This section should be read in conjunction with the rest of this Operating and Financial Review, in particular vision, strategy Replacement expenditure maintains the safety and reliability of and objectives, business drivers and risks, and external and the network, by replacing older gas pipes with modern pipes.
regulatory environments as set out on pages 2 to 5.
Ofgem treats 50% of projected replacement expenditure as recoverable during the price control period and 50% as Principal operations recoverable over future years.
Each network is subject to its Our Gas Distribution business comprises four of the eight own mains replacement incentive mechanism and retains 33% regional gas distribution networks in Great Britain.
Our networks of any outperformance against Ofgems annual cost targets as consist of approximately 132,000 kilometres of gas distribution additional return or, alternatively, bears 50% of any overspend if pipelines and we transport gas on behalf of approximately 33 it underperforms.
active gas shippers, from the gas national transmission system to around 10.8 million consumers.
Ofgem has established standards of service we are required to meet.
These include: We also manage the national emergency number 0800 111 999 for all of the gas distribution networks and for other gas overall standards of service, for example answering 90% transporters in the UK.
During 2007 08 we handled of all calls to the national gas emergency number within 30 approximately 3.5 million calls to the national emergency seconds of the call being connected and attending 97% of number.
reports of a gas escape or other gas emergency within the required timescale: Regulation connections standards of service that require us to provide We hold a single gas distribution transporter licence, which connections to customers to agreed timescales after an authorises us to operate the four gas distribution networks we unplanned interruption: and own.
Detailed arrangements for transporting gas are provided guaranteed standards of service for our other through the Uniform Network Code which defines the transportation services.
obligations, responsibilities and roles of industry participants and is approved by Ofgem.
Compensation is paid to consumers for any failures to meet guaranteed standards of service and the connections standards Our four regional gas distribution networks each have a of service.
separate price control, which determines the maximum prices we can charge to gas shippers for our gas delivery service.
Current and future developments These maximum prices are based on Ofgems allowances for Ofgem extended the previous five year gas distribution price operating, capital and replacement expenditure, together with controls for a further year to cover the year ending 31 March depreciation of and a return on Ofgems allowances for our 2008.
The principal impact of these one year price control regulatory asset value.
extensions is to increase prices by approximately 11% and to reduce the seasonality of revenues.
In addition, the balance The price controls that applied to our gas distribution networks between fixed and variable elements in our revenue changed, during the year ended 31 March 2008 were an extension of our reducing the impact that volume changes, including weather, previous price controls, which were based on a real pre-tax rate had on our revenue in 2007 08 compared with previous years.
of 6.25% on our regulatory asset value.
On 18 December 2007 we accepted Ofgems final proposals for The next full price control period came into force on 1 April new distribution price controls, covering the period from 1 April 2008 and covers the period up to 31 March 2013.
The key elements of these proposals allows for capital expenditure of 0.7 billion and mains are a 4.3% post-tax real rate of return on our regulatory asset replacement expenditure of 2.2 billion over that period.
These value, a 2.9 billion baseline five year capital expenditure allowances are expected to grow our asset base by almost 25% allowance and a 1.9 billion five year operating expenditure over the 5 years.
As at 31 March 2008, our regulatory asset value is estimated at Performance against our objectives approximately 6.5 billion.
Descriptions of our progress against our overall objectives in The price control formulae specify a maximum allowed revenue the areas of delivering National Grids strategy, operating assigned to each network.
Each formula consists of a fixed core performance, talent, relationships, environment, financial revenue, cost pass-through items, a mains replacement performance and responsibility are set out on pages 10 to 18. adjustment mechanism and shrinkage and exit capacity We include below further information specific to Gas Distribution incentive terms.
Transportation charges are set broadly to with respect to the progress we have made on transformation, recover allowed revenue, but in any year, collected revenue can our operating performance and our financial performance.
22 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Delivering National Grids strategy approach.
We have also used technology, such as vacuum excavation, transferred from the US, to allow jobs to be Key areas Our objective is to utilise the scale and breadth of National Grids combined UK and US gas distribution completed more efficiently.
of focus operations, together with the benefits of common support services, to drive improvements in our Our objective is to meet regulatory targets and to have Reliability operating and financial performance.
In particular, we zero loss of supply incidents.
aim to share and adopt best practices across gas distribution.
Actual gas consumption was 315 TWh in 2007 08, compared We have integrated the management of our four gas distribution with 303 TWh in 2006 07.
This was equivalent to underlying networks in England with National Grids US gas networks, as levels of gas demand, excluding the effects of weather, of 329 part of National Grids plan to create a single gas distribution TWh in 2007 08 compared with 331 TWh in 2006 07. business operating in both the UK and the US.
A new Over the year, we have achieved all our standards of service management team for the enlarged business has been set by Ofgem that relate to our gas transportation services.
appointed, reporting to Mark Fairbairn, the Executive Director of National Grid with responsibility for gas distribution.
In addition to meeting customer service objectives Customer agreed with our regulators, our objective is to be within One of the key benefits of this integration is the sharing of best service the upper quartile of customer satisfaction.
practices and standardising technologies should drive operating and financial improvements.
We have achieved all our connections standards of service over the year, along with all other standards of service set by Ofgem A number of new approaches have already been implemented that relate to our gas transportation services.
For example, advanced excavation techniques employing a coring machine and vacuum unit has During 2007 08, we made around 45,000 new connections to allowed holes, on average one-quarter the size of conventional our network 2006 07: 40,000.
The proportion of planned excavations.
This technique also improves the safety of the service interruptions as against unplanned in 2007 08 was crew, limits traffic congestion, and reduces the volume of 99.175% 2006 07: 98.92% compared with a target of 95%, material disposed of in a landfill.
This technique was adopted while the proportion of customer complaints responded to within from our US operations and is now being utilised in the UK on five working days was 96.1% in 2007 08 2006 07: 94.7% gas leakage repairs.
Operating performance Capital Our aim is to deliver over 2 billion of capital Our objective is to reduce employee lost time injuries to investment by 2012 in line with our price control Safety investment zero.
Gross investment including reinforcement, extension and Lost time injuries numbered 15 in 2007 08 compared with 21 in replacement of the gas distribution network was 514 million in 2006 07.
The lost time injury frequency rate was 0.17 compared 2007 08 compared with 487 million in 2006 07.
Of these with 0.16 in 2006 07. amounts, 353 million in 2007 08 related to the gas mains replacement programme 2006 07: 333 million and 161 to We again exceeded our targets on safety-related standards set other capital investment including new connections, new by Ofgem.
More than 98% of uncontrolled gas escapes where pipelines and minor capital expenditure 2006 07: 154 million.
the gas leak cannot be controlled by turning the gas supply off Expenditure on software applications included within the above at the meter were attended within one hour, and more than amounts amounted to 18 million 2006 07: 12 million.
99% of controlled gas escapes where the gas leak can be controlled at the meter were attended within two hours.
The Replacement expenditure has increased by 20% since 2005 06, target is 97% attendance in both cases.
reflecting the substantial increase in planned workload under the long-term mains replacement programme agreed with the We have decommissioned approximately 1,850 kilometres of Health and Safety Executive.
gas pipes in 2007 08, exceeding the target of 1,835 kilometres agreed with the HSE target for the second consecutive year.
During the third year of our alliance partnerships for Gas We decommissioned 1,850 kilometres in 2006 07.
Distribution, we have laid approximately 1,850 kilometres of iron gas mains with an increasing proportion of our workload Our objective is to increase the efficiency of Gas Efficiency comprising complex replacement of large diameter mains.
Performance under the mains replacement incentive scheme has been held broadly neutral in 2007 08.
The increase in other We have undertaken a number of internal process reviews to capital expenditure in 2007 08 compared with 2006 07 was advance the alignment of our operations with the aspiration of because of a higher level of investment in the reinforcement of removing duplication and waste.
high pressure pipelines, such projects being dependent on forecasts of future demand, together with higher expenditure on We have improved the efficiency of our mains replacement new connections, the replacement of commercial vehicles and activities by tackling larger projects through taking a zonal National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 23 information technology, including the replacement of obsolete The principal movements between 2006 07 and 2007 08 can be equipment in system control, operational and support activities.
summarised as follows: Revenue Financial performance and other Our objective is to increase profits each year.
Profits operating Operating Operating income costs profit Continuing operations m m m 2006 07 results 1,174 777 397 Our adjusted operating profit was 595 million in 2007 08 Add back 2006 07 exceptional items - 9 9 compared with 406 million in 2006 07.
2006 07 adjusted results 1,174 768 406 Returns on Our aim is to meet or exceed the base investment Allowed revenues 146 - 146 financial returns in our price controls.
Timing of recoveries 59 - 59 investment Depreciation and amortisation - 11 11 We measure the financial performance of our Gas Pass-through costs - 18 18 Distribution business using an operational return Other revenues and costs 12 1 13 metric, comparable to the vanilla return defined in the price controls from 1 April 2007.
This metric expresses 2007 08 adjusted results 1,391 796 595 profit on a price control basis as a percentage of our 2007 08 exceptional items - 20 20 estimated regulatory value.
2007 08 results 1,391 816 575 Gas Distribution achieved a 5.1% operational return in 2007 08, Revenue and other operating income in Gas Distribution broadly in line with the regulatory allowance.
This compares increased by 217 million in 2007 08 compared with 2006 07. with an operational return of 5.0% in 2006 07 calculated on the This was mainly due to increases in allowed revenues, with the same basis.
one year price control extension increasing allowed revenue by Financial results 165m, and the timing of recoveries of allowed revenues.
The results for the Gas Distribution segment for the years Allowed revenue is no longer linked to delivery volumes: this ended 31 March 2008 and 2007 were as follows: decoupling now eliminates the sensitivity to warm weather and Years ended 31 March lower underlying volumes.
Furthermore, a smaller proportion of 2008 2007 our income is recovered through the volume delivery Continuing operations m m component of our charges.
Revenue 1,383 1,174 Cooler temperatures than the prior year increased consumption Other operating income 8 - by 14 TWh, which was partially offset by the impact of Operating costs excluding exceptional items 796 768 underlying volumes being lower by 2 TWh.
Adjusted operating profit 595 406 Exceptional items 20 9 The net year-on-year timing impact against allowed revenues Total operating profit 575 397 was 59 million in 2007 08.
There was a net benefit of 26 million comprising the recovery of 43 million relating to the previous year, partially offset by a 17 million under-recovery for 2007 08, compared with a net detriment of 33 million in 2006 07 comprising a 43 million under-recovery for 2006 07, partially offset by 10 million recovered relating to 2005 06.
Operating costs, excluding exceptional items, were 28 million higher in 2007 08 compared with 2006 07.
Depreciation and amortisation costs were 11 million higher reflecting the increased capital investment in the distribution network.
In line with 2006 07, there was a further 12 million increase in business rates, following the changes in rateable values introduced from 1 April 2005.
From 2007 08 there is an extra allowance of 12 million for the recovery of non-active members pension costs.
24 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Exceptional charges of 20 million in 2007 08 related primarily Gas Metering to the creation of the new shared services organisation in the UK and global information services function, together with pension costs associated with these restructuring programmes.
About Gas Metering This compared with a 9 million cost in 2006 07.
This section should be read in conjunction with the rest of this As a consequence of the above, adjusted operating profit Operating and Financial Review, in particular vision, strategy excluding exceptional items was 189 million higher in 2007 08 and objectives, business drivers and risks, and external and than 2006 07, an increase of 47%.
Including exceptional items, regulatory environments as set out on pages 2 to 5. operating profit was 178 million higher in 2007 08 than Principal operations 2006 07, an increase of 45%.
Our Gas Metering business, which is undertaken through our subsidiary National Grid Metering Limited, provides installation, maintenance and meter reading services to gas suppliers in the regulated gas market.
It provides services for domestic, industrial and commercial gas meters, situated throughout Great Britain.
External market and regulatory environment Gas Metering is regulated by Ofgem as it was the incumbent provider of meters to gas suppliers and retains a large share of the legacy installed base of gas meters in Great Britain.
It is subject to price controls, although the pricing for the majority of meters is instead specified by long-term contracts which provide gas suppliers with the flexibility to replace our meters while reducing the risk of asset stranding.
Gas Meterings share of the UK gas metering market is steadily shrinking as its meters are displaced by meters provided by unregulated suppliers.
Current and future developments On 25 February 2008 Ofgem announced a decision that we had infringed the Competition Act in relation to development of term contracts entered into with gas suppliers in 2004.
A fine of 41.6 million was imposed, but has been suspended pending appeal.
We are convinced that the contracts do not infringe competition law and therefore believe that they should remain in full effect.
We also believe that the 41.6m fine is wholly inappropriate.
An appeal has been lodged with the Competition Appeal Tribunal.
Performance against our objectives Descriptions of our progress against our overall objectives in the areas of delivering National Grids strategy, operating performance, talent, relationships, environment, financial performance and responsibility are set out on pages 10 to 18.
We include below further information specific to Gas Metering with respect to the progress we have made on transformation, our operating performance and our financial performance.
Delivering National Grids strategy Key areas Our objective is to maximise profits and increase customer satisfaction by improving operational of focus efficiency and investing in new technology.
We have continued to focus on improving the standard of service we offer to our customers and are trialling a number of new technologies which we believe will better meet customer needs and reduce costs.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 25 Following the end of the financial year we have changed 2007 08 compared with 2006 07 management responsibilities for Gas Metering, which will now The principal movements between 2006 07 and 2007 08 can be report to Mark Fairbairn, National Grids Executive Director for summarised as follows: Gas Distribution.
Operating Operating Revenue costs profit Operating performance m mm Safety Our objective is zero employee and contractor lost time 2006 07 results 346 239 107 injuries.
Add back 2006 07 exceptional items - - - 2006 07 adjusted results 346 239 107 There were no employee lost time injuries in 2007 08 compared One-off operational costs - 9 9 with 3 in 2006 07.
Depreciation and amortisation - 5 5 Other 3 5 2 Our objective is to increase the efficiency of Gas Efficiency Metering operations to maximise financial performance.
2007 08 adjusted results 349 248 101 2007 08 exceptional items - - - 2007 08 results 349 248 101 Efficiency is reflected in our financial performance, which is discussed below.
Revenue for Gas Metering increased by 3 million from 2006 07 to 2007 08.
Our objective is to improve the quality and reliability of Reliability our service to our customers.
and Operating costs have increased by 9 million from 2006 07. customer This was primarily due to 9 million of provisions for various service one-off operational costs.
Depreciation and amortisation has reduced by 5 million, reflecting our shrinking asset base.
All 22 standards of service have been met for the year ended 31 March 2008.
As a consequence of the above, operating profit reduced by 6 million.
Our objective is to deliver on our capital investment Capital programme.
investment In addition to providing meters for new gas connections and replacing older meters, National Grid Metering is investing in technology such as automated meter reading systems in response to customer requirements.
Capital expenditure in 2007 08 amounted to 73 million, a decrease of 9 million compared with 82 million in 2006 07.
This decrease was mainly attributable to a lower level of meter exchanges.
Financial performance Profit Our aim is to maximise profits from existing assets and contracts.
The results for the Gas Metering segment for the years ended 31 March 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 m m Revenue 349 346 Operating costs excluding exceptional items 248 239 Adjusted operating profit 101 107 Exceptional items - - Total operating profit 101 107 26 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Other activities About other activities Other activities comprises xoserve, which delivers transportation transactional services on behalf of all the major gas network transportation companies in Great Britain, including our Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses, and corporate overheads that are not borne by individual businesses.
Performance during the year Financial results The results for other activities for the years ended 31 March 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 m m 38 Revenue 35 Operating costs excluding exceptional items 58 68 Adjusted operating loss 20 33 Exceptional items - - Total operating loss 20 33 The revenue from other activities increased to 38 million from 35 million in 2006 07.
The operating cost of other activities fell from 68 million in 2006 07 to 58 million in 2007 08.
This reduction was a result of a 17 million charge for employee related liabilities in 2006 07, which had previously been underwritten by another subsidiary of National Grid plc.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 27 Financial position and financial management The maturity of borrowings is shown in note 18 to the Going concern consolidated financial statements.
Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company and its subsidiaries have adequate resources to Gearing continue in business for the foreseeable future and that it is Gearing at 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007, calculated as therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in net debt at that date expressed as a percentage of net debt preparing the consolidated and individual financial statements plus net assets shown in the balance sheet, amounted to 51% of the Company.
We do not consider that this standard gearing ratio is an appropriate measure as it does not reflect the economic value of the assets of our regulated businesses.
Financial position For performance measurement purposes, we measure gearing Balance sheet on an adjusted basis, as described under financial performance Our balance sheet at 31 March 2008 can be summarised as on page 18. follows: Equity shareholders funds Net Assets Liabilities assets Equity shareholders funds rose from 5,967 million at 31 March m mm 2007 to 5,980 million at 31 March 2008.
This increase was Property, plant and equipment mainly explained by retained loss for the year to 31 March 2008 and non-current intangible assets 9,813 - 9,813 of 5 million and net other recognised income of 14 million, Current assets and liabilities 396 929 533 comprising net gains on hedges and tax thereon.
Other non-current assets and liabilities 5,611 1,108 4,503 Deferred tax - 1,629 1,629 Liquidity and treasury management Total before net debt 15,820 3,666 12,154 Cash flow Net debt 752 6,926 6,174 Cash flows from our operations are largely stable over a period Total as at 31 March 2008 16,572 10,592 5,980 of years, but they do depend on the timing of customer Total as at 31 March 2007 15,478 9,511 5,967 payments.
Our gas transmission and distribution operations are subject to multi-year price control agreements with our The increase in net assets from 5,967 million at 31 March regulator, Ofgem.
Significant changes in volumes, for example 2007 to 5,980 million at 31 March 2008 resulted from the profit as a consequence of weather conditions, can affect cash flows for the year from continuing operations of 493 million and in those businesses, with abnormally mild or cold weather discontinued operations of 3 million, net income recognised driving volumes down or up respectively.
Subject to this, we directly in equity of 14 million and other changes in equity of have essentially stable cash flows.
3 million, partly offset by dividends paid of 500 million.
Cash flow forecasting Net debt Both shortand long-term cash flow forecasts are produced Net debt increased by 990 million from 5,184 million at 31 frequently to assist in identifying our liquidity requirements.
March 2007 to 6,174 million at 31 March 2008, as cash flows These forecasts, supplemented by a financial headroom from operations of 1,327 million were exceeded by capital position, are supplied to the Finance Committee of the Board of expenditure of 1,470 million, dividends paid of 500 million, National Grid plc regularly to assess funding adequacy for at the net interest charge of 376 million and other cash outflows least a 12 month period.
We also maintain committed facilities of 10 million, less net increases in the value of derivatives of to support our liquidity requirements.
Credit facilities and unutilised commercial paper and During 2007 08, bonds with a nominal value of 982 million and medium term note programmes a fair value of 1,203 million plus accrued interest were At 31 March 2008, National Grid Gas plc had a $2.5 billion US transferred to the Company from National Grid Gas Holdings commercial paper programme unutilised, a $1.25 billion Euro plc in return for repayment of inter-company loans.
commercial paper programme unutilised and a 10 billion At 31 March 2008, net debt comprised borrowings of 6,810 Euro medium term note programme 5.3 billion unissued.
million and bank overdrafts of 6 million, less derivative We have both committed and uncommitted borrowing facilities financial instruments with a net carrying value of 119 million, that are available for general corporate purposes.
At 31 March cash and cash equivalents of 5 million and financial 2008, the Company had 0.8 billion of long-term committed investments of 518 million 31 March 2007: borrowings of facilities undrawn and around 0.4 billion of uncommitted 5,717 million, bank overdrafts of 6 million and derivative borrowing facilities undrawn.
financial instruments with a net carrying value of 15 million, less cash and cash equivalents of 174 million and financial investments of 380 million.
28 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements shows the investment grade credit rating.
As of 31 March 2008, the longmaturity profile of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in term senior unsecured debt and short-term debt credit ratings sterling as at 31 March 2008. respectively provided by Moodys, Standard & Poors and Fitch were as follows: Regulatory restrictions As part of our regulatory arrangements, our operations are Moodys A3 P2 subject to a number of restrictions on the way we can operate.
Standard & Poors AA2 These include a regulatory ring-fence that requires us to Fitch A F2 maintain adequate financial resources and restricts our ability to Standard & Poors and Fitch have current outlooks of stable transfer funds or levy charges between the Company and other while Moodys has a current outlook of negative.
companies in the National Grid group of companies.
The main risks arising from our financial activities are set out Treasury policy below, as are the policies for managing these risks, which are The funding and treasury risk management for National Grid agreed and reviewed by the Board of National Grid plc and the Gas is carried out on its behalf by a central department of Finance Committee of that Board.
National Grid operating under policies and guidelines approved by the Board of National Grid plc.
The Finance Committee, a Refinancing risk management committee of the Board of National Grid plc, is responsible for The Board of National Grid plc controls refinancing risk mainly regular review and monitoring of treasury activity and for by limiting the amount of financing obligations both principal approval of specific transactions, the authority for which may be and interest arising on borrowings in any financial year.
National Grid plc has a Treasury function that raises policy is intended to prevent National Grid and its subsidiaries funding and manages interest rate and foreign exchange rate from having an excessively large amount of debt to refinance in risk for National Grid Gas.
There is a separate financing programme for National Grid Gas.
During the year, we issued a mixture of short and long-term The Finance Committees of both National Grid plc and of debt.
National Grid Gas approve all funding programmes.
Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the The Treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Debt contractual maturities of our borrowings over the next five and treasury positions are managed in a non-speculative years, with total contracted borrowings maturing over 45 years manner, such that all transactions in financial instruments or in compliance with our refinancing risk policy.
products are matched to an underlying current or anticipated Interest rate risk management business requirement.
Our interest rate exposure arising from borrowings and deposits The use of derivative financial instruments is controlled by is managed by the use of fixed and floating rate debt, interest policy guidelines set by the Board of National Grid plc.
rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
Our Derivatives entered into in respect of gas commodities are used interest rate risk management policy is to seek to minimise total in support of the business operational requirements and the financing costs being interest costs and changes in the market policy regarding their use is explained below.
value of debt subject to constraints so that, even with large movements in interest rates, neither the interest cost nor the We had borrowings outstanding at 31 March 2008 amounting to total financing cost can exceed pre-set limits.
bonds in issue are index-linked, that is their cost is linked to We believe that the maturing amounts in respect of our changes in the UK Retail Prices Index RPI.
We believe that contractual obligations can be met from existing cash and these bonds provide a good hedge for revenues and our investments, operating cash flows and other refinancings that regulatory asset values that are also RPI-linked under our price we reasonably expect to be able to secure in the future, control formulae.
together with the use of committed facilities if required.
Our The performance of the Treasury function in interest rate risk financial position and expected future operating cash flows are management is measured by comparing the actual total such that we can borrow on the wholesale capital and money financing costs of our debt with those of a passively-managed markets and most of our borrowings are through public bonds benchmark portfolio.
More information on the interest rate and commercial paper.
profile of our debt is included in note 30 a to the consolidated We place surplus funds on the money markets, usually in the financial statements.
form of short-term fixed deposits and placements with money Foreign exchange risk management funds that are invested with approved banks and We have a policy of hedging certain contractually committed counterparties.
Details relating to cash, short-term investments foreign exchange transactions over a prescribed minimum size.
and other financial assets at 31 March 2008 are shown in notes This covers a minimum of 75% of such transactions expected to 16 and 17 to the financial statements.
occur up to six months in advance and a minimum of 50% of It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fence around the transactions six to twelve months in advance.
Cover generally Company that it uses reasonable endeavours to maintain an National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 29 takes the form of forward sale or purchase of foreign currencies currency is obtained from external sources for interest and and must always relate to underlying operational cash flows.
In the case of instruments that include options, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is In addition, we are exposed to currency exposures on used to calculate fair value.
borrowings in currencies other than sterling, principally the US dollar and the euro.
This currency exposure is managed The valuation techniques described above for interest rate through the use of derivative financial instruments.
swaps and currency swaps are a standard market methodology.
These techniques do not take account of the The currency compositions of financial liabilities and assets are credit quality of either party, but this is not considered to be a shown in note 30 a to the consolidated financial statements.
significant factor, unless there is a material deterioration in the Counterparty risk management credit quality of either party.
Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds For debt and derivative instruments held, we utilise a sensitivity and from the use of derivative instruments.
The Finance analysis technique to evaluate the effect that changes in Committee of National Grid plc has agreed a policy for relevant rates or prices will have on the market value of such managing such risk, which is controlled through credit limits, instruments.
Details of the sensitivity of the income statement and equity to Further information is provided in note 30 b to the consolidated changes in the UK Retail Prices Index and UK interest rates are financial statements.
set out in note 30 d to the consolidated financial statements.
Where multiple transactions are entered into with a single Under the assumptions set out in note 30 d, a 0.50% change in counterparty, a master netting arrangement is usually put in the UK Retail Prices Index would affect the income statement place to reduce our exposure to credit risk of that counterparty.
by 10 million after tax, but would have no effect on equity, At the present time, we use standard International Swap while a 0.50% change in UK interest rates would affect the Dealers Association ISDA documentation, which provides for income statement by 5 million and equity by 12 million after netting in respect of all transactions governed by a specific tax.
ISDA agreement with a counterparty, when transacting interest rate and exchange rate derivatives.
Commodity contracts Commodity derivatives Derivative financial instruments held for purposes other In the normal course of business, we are party to commodity than trading derivatives.
These have included gas futures, gas options and As part of our business operations, we are exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates.
gas forwards that are used to manage commodity prices We use financial instruments, including derivatives, to manage associated with our gas delivery operations.
This includes the buying back of capacity rights already sold in accordance with exposures of this type and they are a useful tool in managing our gas transporter licences and Uniform Network Code risk.
Our policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivative transactions can, to varying degrees, carry both counterparty and market risk.
These financial exposures are monitored and managed as an integral part of our financial risk management policy.
At the core We enter into interest rate swaps to manage the composition of of this policy is a condition that we will engage in activities at floating and fixed rate debt and so hedge the exposure of risk only to the extent that those activities fall within borrowings to interest rate movements.
We also enter into foreign currency swaps to manage the currency composition of commodities and financial markets to which we have a physical borrowings and so hedge the exposure to exchange rate market exposure, in terms and volumes consistent with our core business.
We do not issue, or intend to hold, derivative movements.
Certain agreements are combined foreign currency instruments for trading purposes, and hold such instruments and interest rate swap transactions.
Such agreements are consistent with our various licence and regulatory obligations.
We enter into forward rate agreements to hedge interest rate Commodity trading In our Gas Transmission operation we are obliged to offer for risk on short-term debt and money market investments.
sale, through a series of auctions both shortand long-term, a Forward rate agreements are commitments to fix an interest predetermined quantity of entry capacity for every day in the rate that is to be paid or received on a notional deposit of year at predefined locations.
Where, on the day, the gas specified maturity, starting at a future specified date.
transmission systems capability is constrained, such that gas is More details on derivative financial instruments are provided in prevented from entering the system for which entry capacity notes 13 and 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
rights have been sold, then our Gas Transmission business is required to buy back those entry capacity rights sold in excess Valuation and sensitivity analysis We calculate the fair value of debt and derivative instruments of system capability.
Forward and option contracts are used to by discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at reduce the risk and exposure to on-the-day entry capacity prices.
The market yield curve for each 30 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Grid Gas, we account for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme and do not recognise any share of the Commitments and contingencies assets and liabilities of the scheme.
Commitments and contingencies outstanding at 31 March 2008 and 2007 are summarised in the table below: Actuarial position The last completed full actuarial valuation of the Scheme was 2008 2007 as at 31 March 2006.
This concluded that the pre-tax funding m m deficit was 371 million in the defined benefit section on the Future capital expenditure contracted but not basis of the funding assumptions.
Employer cash contributions provided for 461 753 for the ongoing cost of the scheme are currently being made at Total operating lease commitments 82 68 a rate of 32.7% of pensionable payroll.
Other commitments and contingencies 84 213 Contributions Information regarding obligations under pension and other postThe actuarial valuation of the Scheme as at 31 March 2007 is retirement benefits is given below under the heading currently in progress, but has not yet been concluded.
advance of finalising the valuation, we have made deficit We propose to meet all of our commitments from existing cash contributions of 114 million during 2007 08, which were and investments, operating cash flows, existing credit facilities, reimbursed by Lattice Group plc, and a further 305 million to future facilities and other financing that we reasonably expect to 31 May 2008, in addition to ongoing employer contributions.
be able to secure in the future.
National Grid is currently in the process of agreeing a recovery plan with the trustees in respect of the deficit expected to be Details of material litigation as at 31 March 2008 included in the valuation.
We were not party to litigation that we considered to be material as at 31 March 2008.
As noted on page 6, Ofgem decided that we were guilty of breaches of competition law with respect to our metering services business in the UK and have imposed a fine of 41.6 million, which has been suspended pending our appeal to the Competition Appeal Tribunal.
We believe that we have never been anti-competitive and that we will be successful in appealing this decision.
We have therefore not provided for this fine in our financial statements.
Related party transactions We provide services to and receive services from related parties, principally fellow subsidiaries of National Grid.
In the year ended 31 March 2008, we charged 25 million and received charges of 116 million from related parties other than Directors and key managers, compared with 51 million and 201 million respectively in 2006 07.
Further information relating to related party transactions is contained within note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
Details of key management compensation and amounts paid to Directors are included within notes 3 c and 3 d to the consolidated financial statements respectively.
Retirement arrangements The substantial majority of our employees are members of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme, which is operated by Lattice Group plc, an intermediate holding company of National Grid Gas.
We do not provide any other post-retirement benefits.
The scheme has both a defined benefit section, which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution section, which is offered to all new employees.
As there is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to National National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 31 Accounting policies Capitalised We capitalise interest into the cost of assets that we Basis of accounting interest construct where the conditions of IAS 23 are met.
The consolidated financial statements present our results for Capital Contributions received towards capital expenditure are the years ended 31 March 2008 and 2007 and our financial contributions recorded as deferred income and amortised in line with position as at 31 March 2008 and 2007.
They have been the depreciation on the associated asset.
prepared using the accounting policies shown, in accordance Financial We normally opt to apply hedge accounting in most with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
instruments circumstances where this is permitted.
Individual We have chosen to continue to use UK GAAP, rather In complying with IFRS, we are also complying with the version accounts than IFRS, in the individual financial statements of of IFRS that has been endorsed by the European Union for use National Grid Gas plc and of its UK subsidiary by listed companies.
IFRS differ from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles Accounting standards and interpretations adopted in UK GAAP.
2007 08 Choices permitted under IFRS In preparing our consolidated financial statements we have Since 1 April 2005, we have presented our consolidated complied with International Financial Reporting Standards, financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
We were International Accounting Standards and interpretations required to make a number of choices on the adoption of IFRS applicable for 2007 08.
The following amendments to standards and in addition we continue to choose from certain options that and interpretations were adopted during 2007 08, none of which are available within accounting standards.
resulted in a material change to our consolidated results, assets or liabilities in 2007 08 or in those of previous periods: The principal choices made on the adoption of IFRS, which cannot be changed, were as follows: New IFRIC 8, IFRIC 9, IFRIC 10 and IFRIC 11 contain interpretations guidance on accounting for share-based exchange Transition Our opening IFRS balance sheet was established as at transactions, embedded derivatives, impairments in date 1 April 2004.
We used certain balances in our previous half yearly reports and share-based payments.
UK GAAP financial statements as the basis for our Implementation of these interpretations did not have a opening IFRS balance sheet.
material impact on our results, assets or liabilities.
Business Business combinations prior to 1 April 2004 were not combinations changed retrospectively.
Segmental reporting Carrying value In most cases we used brought forward depreciated of assets at cost, as adjusted for changes in accounting policies to In addition to presenting the consolidated financial results and transition conform to IFRS, to be the opening carrying value financial position in the financial statements, we provide a under IFRS.
breakdown of those results and balances into our business Share-based We recognised all active share option grants segments.
The presentation of segment information is based on payments retrospectively.
management responsibilities that existed at 31 March 2008 and Cumulative We chose to measure and present cumulative the external and regulatory environments in which we operate.
translation translation differences arising since 1 April 2004 only.
Our business segments are Gas Transmission, Gas Distribution differences and Gas Metering, with other operations and corporate Significant choices that we continue to make on an ongoing activities aggregated within other activities.
Geographical basis include the following: segments are not reported, as our activities are all within the UK.
Discontinued operations comprise amounts in respect of Presentation We use the nature of expense method for our income the four gas distribution networks sold on 1 June 2005. formats statement and total our balance sheet to net assets and total equity.
Gas transportation transaction services undertaken by our In the income statement, we present subtotals of total subsidiary xoserve, which were presented as part of the Gas operating profit, profit before tax and profit from Distribution segment in the 2006 07 Annual Report and continuing operations, together with additional Accounts, are now reported within other activities, in line with subtotals excluding exceptional items and the current management structure.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are presented on the face of the income statement.
Pensions We recognise transactions with the defined benefits section of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme, and do not recognise any of the Scheme assets and liabilities or actuarial gains and losses.
32 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Assets and Certain financial investments and derivative financial Critical accounting policies liabilities instruments are carried in the balance sheet at their fair The application of accounting principles requires us to make carried at value rather than historical cost.
estimates, judgments and assumptions that may affect the fair value The fair value of financial investments is based on reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses market prices, as are those of derivative financial and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the instruments where market prices exist.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates financial instruments are valued using financial models, which include judgements on, in particular, future using historical experience, consultation with experts and other movements in exchange and interest rates.
methods that we consider reasonable in the particular Hedge We use derivative financial instruments to hedge circumstances to ensure compliance with IFRS.
Actual results accounting certain economic exposures arising from movements in may differ significantly from our estimates, the effect of which exchange and interest rates or other factors that could will be recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise affect either the value of our assets or liabilities or to the revision become known.
affect our future cash flows.
Movements in the fair values of derivative financial Certain accounting policies have been identified as critical instruments may be accounted for using hedge accounting policies, as these policies involve particularly accounting where we meet the relevant eligibility, complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The documentation and effectiveness testing requirements.
discussion of critical accounting policies below should be read If a hedge does not meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is ineffectiveness or partial in conjunction with the description of our accounting policies set ineffectiveness, then the movements will be recorded in out in our consolidated financial statements.
the income statement immediately instead of being recognised in the statement of recognised income and Our critical accounting policies and accounting treatments are expense or by being offset by adjustments to the considered to be: carrying value of debt.
Pensions Defined benefit pension obligations are accounted for Estimated The reported amounts for depreciation of property, as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme were a economic plant and equipment can be materially affected by the defined contribution scheme as there is neither a lives of judgments exercised in determining their estimated contractual arrangement, nor a stated policy under property, economic lives.
plant and which the Company is charged for the costs of Depreciation amounted to 418 million in 2007 08 and equipment providing pensions.
A change in these arrangements may lead to the Carrying value The carrying value of assets recorded in the Company recognising the cost of providing pensions on of assets and consolidated balance sheet could be materially a different basis, together with a proportion of the potential for reduced if an impairment were to be assessed as being actuarial gains and losses and of the assets and impairments required.
Our total assets at 31 March 2008 were liabilities of the pension scheme.
16,572 million, including 9,753 million of property, Exceptional Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of plant and equipment, 60 million of intangible assets items and income and expenditure that, in the judgment of and 5,611 million owed by National Grid Gass remeasuremanagement, should be disclosed separately on the immediate parent undertaking 31 March 2007: ments basis that they are material, either by their nature or 15,478 million, 8,817 million, 44 million and 5,614 their size, to an understanding of our financial million respectively.
performance and distort the comparability of financial Impairment reviews are carried out when a change in performance between periods.
circumstance is identified that indicates an asset might Items of income or expense that are considered by be impaired.
An impairment review involves calculating management for designation as exceptional items either or both of the fair value or the value-in-use of an asset or group of assets and comparing with the include such items as significant restructurings, writecarrying value in the balance sheet.
downs or impairments of non-current assets, material changes in environmental provisions, gains or losses These calculations involve the use of assumptions as on disposals of businesses or investments.
to the price that could be obtained for, or the future Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in cash flows that will be generated by, an asset or group the income statement arising from changes in the fair of assets, together with an appropriate discount rate to value of derivative financial instruments.
These fair apply to those cash flows.
values increase or decrease as a consequence of Revenue Revenue includes an assessment of transportation changes in financial indices and prices over which we services supplied to customers between the date of the have no control.
last invoice and the year end.
Changes to the estimate of the transportation services supplied during this period would have an impact on our reported results.
Our estimates of unbilled revenues amounted to 142 million at 31 March 2008 compared with 130 million at 31 March 2007.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 33 Provisions Provisions are made for liabilities that are uncertain in Accounting developments estimate.
These include provisions for the cost of Forthcoming changes in IFRS environmental restoration and remediation, The following accounting standards and interpretations have restructuring and employer and public liability claims.
not yet been adopted, but are expected to be adopted in future Calculations of these provisions are based on periods: estimated cash flows relating to these costs, discounted at an appropriate rate where the impact of Segment IFRS 8 changes the reporting requirements for discounting is material.
The total costs and timing of reporting segmental reporting and will apply with effect from cash flows relating to environmental liabilities are 1 April 2009.
If IFRS 8 had been adopted in 2007 08, based on management estimates supported by the use there would have been no change in business of external consultants.
However, we would not have had At 31 March 2008, we have recorded provisions to report on geographical segments.
totalling 116 million 2007: 106 million, including 44 Borrowing An amendment to IAS 23 on borrowing costs will million 2007: 44 million in respect of environmental costs require interest to be capitalised into the cost of assets liabilities.
We already follow this policy and Tax estimates Our tax charge is based on the profit for the year and so this will have no impact.
tax rates in effect, but we do not recognise current year Service IFRIC 12 on service concessions, to be adopted from transfer pricing adjustments which are expected to be concessions 1 April 2008, requires assets operated on behalf of a settled through use of group relief.
public authority as a concession, where the asset reverts back to the public authority at the conclusion of The determination of appropriate provisions for taxation the arrangement, to be recognised as a financial or requires us to take into account anticipated decisions of intangible asset depending on whether income is tax authorities and estimate our ability to utilise tax recovered from the public authority or from users.
benefits through future earnings and tax planning.
Our estimates and assumptions may differ from future We do not operate any concessions of this type and so events.
Customer IFRIC 13, effective from 1 April 2008, requires the sale In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions loyalty of goods or services and associated loyalty could have on our results and financial position, the following programmes programmes to be accounted for as multi-element sensitivities are presented: transactions.
The separate elements will have to be fair valued and consideration allocated accordingly, which Asset useful An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of would defer recognition of an element of revenue.
lives one year on average would reduce our annual depreciation charge on property, plant and equipment We do not have any loyalty programmes of this nature by 13 million before tax.
and so this will have no impact.
Revenue A 10% change in our estimate of unbilled revenues at Pension IFRIC 14, on when net pension assets can be accruals 31 March 2008 would result in an increase or decrease assets and recognised in the balance sheet and on how to account in our recorded net assets and profit for the year by minimum for minimum funding requirements, will apply with effect approximately 9 million net of tax.
In certain circumstances, the recognition of an accounting surplus in a pension plan Assets A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair as an asset on the balance sheet may be restricted, or carried at value would result in an increase or decrease in the provision may be required for minimum funding fair value carrying value of derivative financial instruments of 12 requirements in excess of pension obligations million.
recognised in the balance sheet.
Hedge If the gains and losses arising on derivative financial accounting instruments during the year ended 31 March 2008 had We do not recognise any net pension assets or not achieved hedge accounting then the profit for the obligations in our balance sheet and so this will have year would have been 38 million lower than that no impact.
reported net of tax and net assets would have been Presentation Amendment to IAS 1, effective 1 April 2009, changes 28 million higher.
of financial the presentation of financial information, but does not Provisions A 10% change in the estimates of future cash flows statements affect the amounts of reported earnings or assets and estimated in respect of provisions for liabilities would liabilities.
The principal changes are: the statement of recognised income and expense must immediately result in an increase or decrease in net assets of follow the income statement and must include separate approximately 11 million.
tax disclosure on each gain or loss recognised outside the income statement: the statement of changes in equity will be presented as a primary statement: and there will be an option to rename the primary statements.
This will have a significant impact on the presentation of the 2009 10 financial statements as described above.
However, there will be no impact on our results, assets or liabilities.
34 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Business IFRS 3 revised, expected to be adopted 1 April 2010, combinations makes a number of changes to business combination accounting including: consideration payments fair valued at acquisition date: subsequent consideration payments at fair value through the income statement: changes to calculation of goodwill: and all transaction costs expensed.
IFRS 3 revised will be implemented prospectively and so will affect future business combinations, possibly materially compared with how they are accounted for under current standards.
However, this change will have no impact on our current results, assets or liabilities.
Non-controlling IAS 27 revised, expected to be adopted in 2010, interests requires transactions with non-controlling minority interests to be recorded in equity.
We do not have any material non-controlling interests and so this change will have no material impact.
Share based This amendment to IFRS 2, expected to be adopted payments 1 April 2009, clarifies the definition of vesting conditions and changes the accounting for cancellations.
For cancellation, rather than reversing the previous expense, any remaining expense will be accelerated.
This will affect the way we account for our Save as You Earn share schemes, but due to the low levels of cancellations by employees in the past, we do not anticipate that this is likely to have a material impact on future results.
Financial Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 require certain instrument puttable financial instruments, which impose an presentation obligation to deliver a pro-rata share of net assets on liquidation, to be classified as liabilities.
We currently have no such instruments and so this will have no impact.
