Operating and Financial Review This operating and financial review describes the main trends and factors underlying the Comprise those activities of National Grid Gas which do not form part of its DN fide-minimis development, performance and position of the businesses reported in these regulatory activities businesses, metering business, meter reading business, NTS business or LNG accounting statements during the year ended 31 March 2008 as well as those likely to affect storage business, based on the definitions of those businesses in its two gas transporter licences, and which have not been specifically consented to by their future development, performance and position.
It has been prepared in line with the Ofgem.
guidance provided in the Reporting Statement on the Operating and Financial Review issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board in January 2006, except that in accordance with the fide-minimis activities mainly comprise the provision of contracting type services requirements of the gas transportation licence under which these regulatory accounting for other companies in the National Grid group of companies and for third statements are prepared, performance during the year is only discussed for the businesses in parties.
Under its two gas transporter licences, National Grid Gas can earn no aggregate.
more than 2.5% of its revenue from, nor invest more than 2.5% of its net assets in fide-minimis activities Contents to Operating and Financial Review Other activities Comprise those activities of National Grid Gas which would be classed as fide- 2 Principal operations minimis activities except that Ofgem has given National Grid Gas specific 3 Vision, strategy and objectives consents to undertake them.
4 Business drivers, risks and opportunities Other activities mainly comprise the provision of common services to other 6 External market and regulatory environment companies in the National Grid group of companies and the provision of specific 7 Current and future developments services to the four gas distribution networks sold in 2005.
8 Performance summary and key performance indicators 9 Performance against objectives History 17 Financial position and financial management National Grid Gas originated from the restructuring of the UK gas industry in 1986.
21 Accounting policies Key milestones 1986 British Gas incorporated as a public limited company Principal operations 1997 British Gas demerged Centrica National Grid Gas is a part of the National Grid group of businesses.
Its principal operations are 1999 Financial and restructuring programme completed leading to creation of a new parent in regulated gas networks in the UK, and comprise the transmission and distribution of gas and company, BG Group, separation of the regulated Transco business from the other businesses the provision of gas metering services.
It also has interests in liquefied natural gas LNG of BG Group and the establishment of a financial ring-fence around Transco storage facilities in the UK.
2000 Lattice Group, including Transco, demerged from BG Group These NTS regulatory accounting statements include the following regulatory businesses and 2002 Merger of Lattice Group and National Grid to form National Grid Transco activities of National Grid Gas: 2005 Sales of four regional gas distribution networks 2005 National Grid adopted as the group brand name, with Transco renamed National Grid Gas Regulatory business Description of principal activities NTS businesses Owns and operates the gas national transmission system NTS in Great Britain which comprises approximately 7,400 kilometres of high pressure pipeline and 26 compressor stations, connecting to eight distribution networks and to third party independent systems for onward transmission of gas to end consumers.
Day to day operation includes balancing supply and demand, maintaining satisfactory system pressures and ensuring gas quality standards are met.
LNG storage Owns and operates four liquefied natural gas LNG storage facilities in the UK.
business 2 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 Talent - Identify and develop talent and skills Vision, strategy and objectives - Improve engagement and performance - Enhance inclusion and diversity Vision - Help investors understand National Grid Gass value Relationships National Grid Gas is a part of National Grids vision to be the foremost international electricity - Improve relationships with customers, regulators and governments and gas company, delivering unparalleled safety, efficiency and reliability, vital to the well-being - Work effectively with suppliers of customers and communities.
National Grid Gas is committed to being an innovative leader in - Deepen involvement with communities energy management and to safeguarding the global environment for future generations.
Environment - Lead on climate change - Manage and remediate contaminated land Strategy - Protect the environment National Grids strategy is based on focus, integration and discipline as follows: - Be efficient in use of natural resources Financial performance - Increase profits Focus The focus is on a clear business model based on the ownership and - Obtain appropriate returns on investments operation of large scale asset intensive businesses within National Grid - Maintain financial discipline Gass principal growth market of gas infrastructure in the UK.
Integration National Grid Gass aim is to run its businesses in an integrated way This strategy is underpinned by National Grid Gass commitment to corporate responsibility, organising activities along lines of business, supported by effective and including the core values that it expects its management and employees to operate by.
efficient shared services and information systems.
This involves deploying proven processes, common systems and best practices within each - Operate to the highest standards of corporate governance Responsibility business, supported by common operating principles, and safety and - Conduct business in a lawful and ethical manner environmental standards, seeking to maximise the competitive advantages - Live the core values of: that come from being part of an international organisation, balanced with Respect others and value diversity the need to provide excellent service to customers and to maintain and Take ownership for driving performance build local relationships with other key stakeholders.
Demonstrate integrity and openness in all relationships Work together as one team Discipline National Grid Gass aim is to be disciplined in the application of best practice, increasingly standardising its approach in the way it operates and The meaning of these objectives, how National Grid Gas plans to achieve them and the finances its activities.
Its aim is for rigorous financial discipline, ensuring progress made this year are described in the performance summary and performance against that it has the capital it needs to grow, while maintaining the investor objectives sections of this Operating and Financial Review on pages 8 to 17. confidence that comes from a disciplined approach to its balance sheet.
Objectives Building on National Grids strategy, National Grid Gas has set objectives to deliver National Grids vision of becoming the foremost international electricity and gas company.
By achieving these objectives it aims to deliver sustainable growth and so create value for National Grids shareholders.
- Create lines of business Delivering National Grids strategy - Build operating model common systems and processes, sharing best practice Operating performance - Improve safety - Improve efficiency - Improve reliability - Improve customer service - Deliver capital investment plans National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 3 A number of other factors also affect National Grid Gass financial performance, but are either Business drivers, risks and opportunities less significant than the principal business drivers, or are mitigated by the way operations are structured: Business drivers National Grid Gass principal activities include the operation of highly complex gas infrastructure Weather Changes in the quantities of gas delivered through National Grid Gass gas networks.
As a consequence, there are many factors that influence the financial returns it and transmission networks may result in an increase or decrease in its revenues.
Volumes are affected by weather and consumer demand as well as other obtains.
The impact of changing volumes may sometimes be offset by National Grid Gas considers the following to be its principal business drivers in respect of its changes in costs or may sometimes result in an underor over-recovery gas transmission businesses: against allowable revenues, with a corresponding increase or decrease in revenue in future periods.
Price The prices National Grid Gas charges for use of its gas transmission Seasonality National Grid Gass current price control arrangements for its gas networks are determined in accordance with regulator approved price controls transmission networks mean that revenues are less weighted towards the controls.
The negotiation of these arrangements has a significant impact on winter months than previously.
Seasonality does not have a significant impact revenues.
on National Grid Gass other revenues.
Their duration is significant in providing stability to operations, allowing With the exception of commodity costs, National Grid Gass operating costs National Grid Gas to plan ahead and invest in the confidence that it will obtain are generally not seasonal.
Commodity National Grid Gass is allowed to recover commodity costs and certain other National Grid Gass price controls contain incentive and or penalty and other direct costs through charges to customers.
The timing of recovery of these arrangements that can affect it financially based on agreed performance costs can vary between financial periods leading to an under or over-recovery pass-through costs targets.
within any particular financial period.
National Grid Gass ability to operate safely and reliably is of paramount Safety, efficiency National Grid Gass is affected by commodity prices to the extent that they and importance to it, its employees, its contractors, its customers, its regulators affect its own energy requirements, most significantly gas purchases for the and the communities it serves.
Financial performance is affected by National reliability operation of its gas transmission networks.
Grid Gass performance in these areas.
Inflation Without action to improve efficiency, National Grid Gass operating costs National Grid Gass objective is to deliver services as efficiently as possible.
increase each year as a result of wage increases and inflation in external This allows it to limit price increases or to reduce prices to customers and costs.
In general, its revenues also increase each year, although not improve its own financial performance to the benefit of National Grids necessarily at the same rate, depending on its regulatory or contractual shareholders.
As a consequence, National Grid Gass ability to control costs Customer service The quality of the service National Grid Gas delivers to customers, and the and improve efficiency is important to its ability to increase operating profits.
experiences that they have in dealing with it, whether through routine National Grid Gass price controls are linked to retail price inflation, as is a interactions or when problems arise, is important as it feeds through to the proportion of its borrowings.
attitudes of regulators and is also linked to its financial performance.
The costs of financing National Grid Gass operations are affected by Interest rates Capital investment Capital investment is a significant driver for organic growth.
changes in prevailing interest rates, as some of its debt is at floating rates.
In National Grid Gass regulated gas transmission networks, the prices it National Grid Gas hedges some of its exposure to interest rates with fixedcharges include an allowed return for capital investment determined in rate debt and derivative financial instruments to maintain a proportion of its accordance with its price controls.
These provide incentives for National Grid debt at fixed interest rates.
Gas to enhance the quality and reach of its networks through capital improvements.
Relationships and National Grid Gass reputation is vitally important to it.
responsibility Delivering sustainable value depends on the trust and confidence of National Grid Gass stakeholders and this can only be earned by it conducting its business in a responsible manner.
4 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 Responsibility Strong corporate governance is essential to operating responsibly and the Risks and opportunities achievement of all National Grid Gass objectives.
Risks and opportunities National Grid Gas believes that the principal opportunities it has to contribute to the National Grid Gass reputation as a responsible business is dependent on achievement of National Grids vision and to the delivery of growth in value for National Grids ensuring all its behaviours are lawful and ethical, on complying with its shareholders have been identified in National Grids strategy and National Grid Gass policies and licences and on living up to its core values.
If National Grid Gas does not live up to these high standards it could be exposed to adverse financial or other consequences.
Conversely, National Grid Gas risks a shortfall in this contribution if it does not fulfil National Grids strategy or if it fails to achieve its objectives.
How National Grid Gas intends to achieve its objectives and the progress made during the year against its objectives are set out on pages 9 to 17.
Delivering National National Grid Gas believes that by implementing National Grids strategy and transforming its businesses, it will be able to deliver increased value Grids strategy Risk management for National Grids shareholders.
National Grid Gass approach to risk management is described in the corporate governance Conversely, if National Grid Gas does not achieve this transformation, or section on page 26.
In addition, information on how certain financial risks are addressed is the benefits in efficiency and effectiveness are not achieved, then its included in the financial position and financial management section of this Operating and contribution to shareholder value will not grow as hoped or will diminish.
Financial Review on pages 18 to 20.
Operating performance The operating profits and cash flows National Grid Gas generates are Risk factors dependent on its operating performance operating safely, efficiently and Through its risk management process, National Grid Gas has identified a number of significant reliably and providing a quality service to customers.
Future growth is risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives as follows: dependent on the delivery of capital investment plans.
Talent The skills and talents of National Grid Gass employees, and their changes in law or regulation: motivation and dedication, are critical to the achievement of its objectives.
breaches of environmental or health and safety law or regulations: Failure to develop existing employees or to attract and recruit talented new network failure or inability to carry out critical non-network operations: employees could hamper its ability to deliver in the future.
achievement of business performance objectives, including regulatory targets and Relationships with National Grid Gass stakeholders are critical to its future Relationships delivering anticipated cost and efficiency savings: success.
Maintaining these good relationships is dependent on focusing regulatory treatment of commodity costs passed through to consumers: on the areas that are important to them, such as the quality of service reputation damage from disruptions to supply, even if outside National Grid Gass control: provided to customers, the quality of information provided to regulators and fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on borrowings and derivatives: the way it addresses the concerns of, and interacts with, all its restrictions in borrowings, adverse changes in the global credit markets and changes in stakeholders.
credit ratings or in tax rates: Environment Safeguarding the global environment for future generations is dependent future funding requirements of pension schemes: and on integrating sustainability and climate change considerations into changes in accounting standards.
business decisions, influencing legislators and regulators to reshape energy markets to meet the climate change challenge and helping and Not all of these factors are within National Grid Gass control and, in addition, there may be supporting employees, customer and suppliers in changing their behaviour other factors besides those listed that may have an adverse effect on National Grid Gas.
to be more considerate of the environment.
These risk factors are described in more detail in the corporate governance section on pages Financial performance Strong financial performance and operating cash flows are the basis for 26 to 28. funding National Grid Gass future capital investment programmes, for servicing its borrowings and paying dividends, as well as in increasing its value to National Grids shareholders.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 5 National Grid Gas holds a gas transporter licence in respect of the national transmission External market and regulatory environment system.
Under the Gas Act 1986 it has a duty to develop and maintain an efficient and economical pipeline system for the conveyance of gas.
National Grid Gass LNG storage Markets in which National Grid Gas operates business is managed as a separate business from the NTS business.
However, it is regulated The principal market in which National Grid Gas operates is the natural gas market in the UK.
under the same gas transporter licence.
The supply of natural gas in the UK is competitive in that consumers can contract with different Ofgem sets price controls in respect of the amounts that can be charged by the owners and suppliers to obtain the gas they need.
Those suppliers are then responsible for sourcing that operators of gas infrastructure in the UK.
These controls are reviewed every five years and the gas from gas extractors or importers as appropriate, as well as arranging for that gas to be current price control for gas transmission activities covers the period 1 April 2007 to 31 March delivered through physical delivery networks.
These networks, including the ones National Grid 2012.
Gas operates, are monopolies in their local areas as, for the majority of consumers, there are The key elements of the current price control are that National Grid Gas earns a 4.4% post-tax no alternative methods of receiving natural gas.
real rate of return on its regulatory asset value, a 0.9 billion baseline five year capital Natural gas delivery in the UK expenditure allowance and a 0.3 billion five year operating expenditure allowance.
Natural gas is transported through the gas national transmission system to regional gas The charges that National Grid Gas can make for access to its gas transmission system are distribution networks that then deliver that gas to consumers on behalf of suppliers.
Certain end determined by a formula linked to the Retail Prices Index RPI.
This formula is based upon customers, primarily large industrial users, receive gas direct from the national transmission Ofgems estimates of National Grid Gass operating expenditure, capital expenditure and asset system.
replacement, together with an allowed rate of return.
National Grid Gas is the owner and operator of the gas national transmission system and of four In addition, National Grid Gass gas system operation activities are subject to financial incentive of the eight regional gas distribution networks in Great Britain.
It charges gas shippers for its schemes to promote efficiency.
If National Grid Gas operates its network more efficiently than services, which they then incorporate into the prices charged to end consumers.
Ofgems forecasts, it can increase revenues, with penalties for reductions in performance.
The gas distribution networks in Scotland and southern England are owned by Scotia Gas There are a number of incentive schemes covering activities such as cost of investment for Networks, in the north of England by Northern Gas Networks, and in Wales and the west of additional capacity to facilitate new connections to the system, managing constraints, the England by Wales & West Utilities.
provision of market information, the cost of purchasing shrinkage gas gas used in operating the Other markets in which National Grid Gas operates system and other gas system operation costs.
National Grid Gas also operates in gas related markets in Great Britain which are directly connected to its regulated businesses described above.
National Grid Gass regulated metering business owns approximately 80% of the domestic gas meters in Great Britain, although as the competitive market for metering services expands, this portfolio of gas meters will decline as its gas meters are displaced.
National Grid Gas also participates in the competitive market for the provision of LNG storage services in Great Britain.
Regulation As a result of its position in, and importance to, the UK economy, National Grid Gass gas transmission business is subject to UK and European Union laws and regulations.
National Grid Gass businesses are also subject to safety legislation which is enforced by the Health and Safety Executive HSE.
Its gas operations work under a permissioning regime, whereby its organisation, processes and procedures are documented in safety cases that are subject to acceptance by the HSE.
Economic regulation of National Grid Gass gas transmission businesses is undertaken by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem.
Ofgem operates under the direction and governance of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and has established price control mechanisms that restrict the amount of revenue that can be earned by regulated businesses.
6 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 Changes in price controls Current and future developments A five year price control for National Grid Gass transmission network came into operation on 1 April 2007, together with a one year system operator price control.
National Grid Gas has also External market developments accepted system operator price controls for its gas transmission operations for 2008 09.
Market structure and ownership There have been no significant changes in the structure of the UK gas infrastructure market Other developments since 2005, when National Grid Gas sold four of our regional gas distribution networks to other The 316 kilometre pipeline connecting the new LNG importation terminals at Milford Haven has operators.
been completed on time and in advance of the terminals.
The pipeline is the largest single extension to the system since it was originally constructed and has been delivered to a very Energy market developments challenging timetable.
It was formally opened by UK Energy Minister, Malcolm Wickes, in High energy prices have been a key feature in the UK market during the last 12 months and this November 2007. has led to significant increases in bills to consumers for their energy supplies.
The pipeline will initially have to operate at 70 bar pressure rather than its design pressure of 94 The UK continues to be in a period of changing energy supply patterns, as the decline in UK bar because, following a public inquiry, planning permission has been refused for a pressure continental shelf gas reserve means more reliance is placed on imported gas for both reduction installation at the end of the pipeline at Tirley in Gloucestershire.
The effect of this is consumption and use in power generation.
As a consequence of the decline in gas production to reduce the pipelines capacity by approximately 25% and a force majeure notice for this from the UK continental shelf, National Grid Gass latest forecast is that the UK will import shortfall has been issued under our contracts with the gas shippers.
Work is progressing around 50% of its gas requirements by the end of the decade.
towards the submission of revised planning applications in autumn 2008.
These changes are impacting National Grid Gass gas networks with significant investment Major pipelines have also been completed and commissioned from Nether Kellett in underway and planned to link gas import facilities with domestic, business and industrial Lancashire, to Pannal in North Yorkshire, as part of works to import gas from Norwegian gas consumers.
fields through Easington and in south west England to meet increased demand requirements.
Activity to increase the UKs import capability has involved the development of new import infrastructure by National Grid and other market participants.
During the year, a number of significant infrastructure projects were commissioned, including a major gas pipeline in south Wales, linking the Milford Haven LNG import terminal to our gas network.
Regulatory developments During the year ended 31 March 2008, there were no significant changes in the legislative and regulatory framework in the UK.
In September 2007, the European Commission published a third package of legislative proposals for energy markets within the European Union.
The key areas include unbundling of transmission and distribution of energy from customer supply and generation activities, the creation of a European regulatory agency for energy and the establishment of a European network of transmission system operators for gas and electricity respectively, to facilitate cooperation and coordination at both a European and regional level.
While there are many complex issues for which resolution is required, there is a strong desire for political agreement to be reached during 2008.
This was complemented in January 2008 by a number of environmental proposals focusing on renewable energy, emissions trading, carbon capture and energy efficiency.
In April 2008, Ofgem announced a review into the operation of the energy markets in the UK and how the regulatory model in the UK is functioning.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 7 Performance summary and key performance indicators Delivering National Grids Lines of business Integrated the gas transmission business into National Grids global Gas Transmission line of business, with a common management strategy team and responsible Executive Director Progressed separation of functions and processes that support multiple lines of business Operating model Commenced implementation of a new back office system Commenced reviews within each line of business, shared services and information services to identify best practices, so that they can be shared across National Grid Operating performance Safety Injuries to the public 2007 08: zero Target: zero 2006 07: zero Employee lost time injury frequency rate 2007 08: 0.36 Target: zero 2006 07: 0.29 Reliability Gas transmission network reliability 2007 08: 100% Target: 100% 2006 07: 100% Efficiency Cost reduction programmes undertaken in gas transmission Capital investment Capital expenditure 2007 08: 801 million 2006 07: 628 million Talent Talent, skills, engagement and Gas transmissions directors and senior managers have been through a Performance for Growth programme, focusing on how to performance develop employees, address skills gaps, increase employee engagement and coach for better performance A single set of performance measures for senior managers has been developed and calibrated The talent review process has been upgraded and aligned across National Grid Gass businesses.
Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions 2007 08: 10% Target: year on year reduction Environment Climate change 2006 07: 25% Significant direct environmental incidents own, contractors 2007 08: 1, 24 Target: zero Protecting the environment 2006 07: 2, 13 Total value of fines from environmental 2007 08: zero Target: zero prosecutions 2006 07: zero Adjusted operating profit 2007 08: 312 million Financial performance Profit and cash flow 2006 07: 308 million Cash generated by operations 2007 08: 467 million 2006 07: 406 million Returns from investment Gas transmission return on investment 2007 08: 7.2% 2006 07: 7.3% Financial discipline Adjusted gearing ratio 2007 08: 53% 2006 07: 45% Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items and remeasurements.
For the adjusted gearing ratio NTS assets are measured at their regulatory value.
8 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 Lines of business Performance against objectives National Grid Gas has integrated the management of its gas transmission business with National Grids US gas transmission business, as part of National Grids plan to create a single In accordance with the requirements of National Grid Gass NTS gas transporter licence, the gas transmission business operating in both the UK and the US.
performance of the businesses included within these NTS regulatory accounting statements is considered in aggregate.
Common functions National Grid Gass gas transmission business is already supported by a UK shared services Business performance and the progress made against objectives are described below and on function and National Grid has now combined the information services, procurement and legal the following pages.
This includes commentary on financial results on pages 13 to 17. services functions which serve its businesses in the UK, with the equivalent US functions, The achievement of objectives is measured through the use of qualitative assessments and creating single functions that span National Grid, to ensure that there is a common operating through the monitoring of quantitative indicators, called key performance indicators KPIs.
line with the operating objectives, both financial and non-financial KPIs are used.
Where Common systems and processes relevant, KPIs are used as the primary measures of whether objectives are being achieved.
National Grids aim is to reduce the number of systems that it has and to align processes so However, the scale and size of National Grid Gass operations mean many other detailed that there is a single National Grid method of operating.
In support of this aim, National Grid performance measures are used in addition to KPIs.
KPIs are also used to measure performance against the primary objective of growing the businesses to create value for Gas has implemented a new back office system, which will underpin the development of common processes and integrate with front office systems used by its businesses.
Qualitative assessments are used to judge progress against objectives in areas where numerical measures are less relevant.
While National Grid is centralising activities that it believes are common across National Grid, National Grid Gas remains focused on ensuring that its employees are able to deliver services This year, adjusted gearing ratio has been included as one of the KPIs measuring financial to its customers locally.
The other KPIs are unchanged from last year.
Identification of best practice Responsibility Achievements by the gas transmission business so far have been the sharing of best practice National Grid Gas believes operating responsibly is essential to the way it conducts its with regard to safety and the development of a common financial approval process.
operations, invests, develops its people and manages its relationships.
It underpins everything it does.
Business process review During 2007 08, the NTS business completed a business process review, focused on improving National Grid Gas always strives to operate to the highest standards of corporate governance the efficiency of delivery of its capital investment programme and operation efficiencies to meet and believes in strong business ethics, based around National Grids Framework for the challenges within its price control plans.
This has been based on improving operational Responsible Business and its core values of respecting others and valuing diversity, planning, engaging with external parties on the practical issues surrounding access to assets demonstrating integrity and openness in all relationships, taking ownership for driving and the management of land and managing a higher volume of work that is potentially more performance and operating as one team.
volatile if not managed effectively.
The NTS business has also been working with its suppliers The approach to corporate governance within National Grid Gas is described in more detail in to constrain or reduce costs wherever possible, with the aim of using the scale of its operations, the corporate governance section on pages 25 to 28. and the increased level of capital expenditure, to increase efficiency.
Delivering National Grids strategy National Grid Gas is in the process of transforming its businesses in line with National Grids strategy.
This means creating global lines of business across National Grid and focusing on delivering an improved service to customers, supported by an operating model that delivers effective and efficient shared services and information systems.
National Grids operating model is based on ensuring that activities are Operating model carried out at the most appropriate level, either locally, within lines of business or across National Grid.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 9 Safety, health and environmental management Employee safety The transformation programme includes restructuring the approach to managing safety, health During 2007 08, 5 gas transmission employees received injuries that resulted in them taking and environmental issues, embedding responsibility directly into the business for safety, health time off work, compared with 5 in 2006 07 and a target of zero.
and environmental, supported by safety, health and environmental expertise in support Employee lost time injuries track progress towards the target of zero work-related injuries.
This means that all of National Grid Gass managers will be accountable for safety, However, the employee lost time injury frequency rate provides a more accurate indicator of health and environmental management in their areas of operations.
year-on-year performance as it takes into account changing employee numbers.
Employee lost time injuries per 100,000 hours worked were 0.36 in 2007 08 compared with 0.29 in the Operating performance previous year.
National Grid Gas aims for operational excellence by performing to the highest standards of safety, efficiency, and reliability and by improving customer service.
By delivering on its capital Employee health investment plans the gas transmission business can create value through organic growth.
National Grid Gas is committed to protecting employees health during work activities.
National Grid Gas has continued to develop its risk based approach and instigated further programmes Safety Safety is paramount.
of support for employees with musculoskeletal conditions.
Across the business, employees National Grid Gass most important goals are: to ensure that members of the have engaged in well-being and education programmes designed to encourage good lifestyle public are not injured as a direct result of its operations: to deliver a working choices.
Approaches to health promotion are currently being reviewed with the aim of environment where there are zero work-related injuries and illness: to reduce establishing and delivering an effective well-being programme, encompassing health education, gas leaks on its distribution networks: and to improve the health of its fitness and nutrition, work life balance, and health management and disease prevention.
employees so they are fit for work every day.
For National Grid Gas as a whole, around 2.18% of available work days were lost due to National Grid Gas uses a range of lagging and leading indicators to measure sickness absence in 2007 08, compared with 2.20% in 2006 07. performance against its safety objectives, including: members of the public injured as a direct result of its operations: employee lost time injury frequency Contractor safety rate: achievement of gas safety service standards: and employee sickness There was a decrease in contractor lost time injuries from 32 in 2006 07 to 18 in 2007 08. absence rate.
By improving efficiency, National Grid Gas can constrain the cost of its Efficiency During 2007 08, National Grid Gas has reviewed the critical safety risks across its gas operations borne by customers and improve returns to National Grids transmission business, ensuring they are effectively managed.
To support this, it has shareholders.
National Grid Gas reviews operations continually to identify implemented National Grids programme for improving safety performance, Trusted to Work opportunities to improve the operational productivity of its assets and people, Responsibly.
This renewed approach builds upon well established safety procedures and and to identify areas in which it can reduce costs or restrict cost increases.
reinforces the need for individual and collective ownership of safety performance.
It recognises Planning ahead is essential to maintaining and improving efficiency.
that National Grid Gass workforce is well trained and should be trusted to deliver their work in National Grid Gass primary method of measuring improvements in efficiency the right way the safe way.
It was launched across National Grid in October 2007 and is through financial performance.
followed by the publication and implementation of Golden Rules that encompass all businesses.
Gas transmission has been undertaking a number of internal business process reviews to seek These set consistent standards for good safety behaviours, but are interpreted so that they out further savings without compromising other objectives.
Information on financial performance reflect the risk profiles of different parts of the business and reinforce a culture whereby safety during the year is set out on pages 13 to 17. becomes second nature.
National Grid Gas has also reinforced its approach to process safety.
During 2007 08, it has National Grid Gass principal operations are critical to the functioning of the Reliability reviewed the risk profile of its assets and has completed a culture survey to find out the views of UK economy.
The reliability of its gas networks is one of its highest priorities after safety.
National Grid Gas has also trained Directors and senior managers in process safety and issued a new commitment statement agreed by the Board of National Grid Gas uses business-specific reliability performance indicators to National Grid.
National Grid Gass approach to maintaining and improving reliability involves: investing in Public safety infrastructure and systems to provide the operational tools and techniques necessary to No members of the public were injured as a result of gas transmission operations during 2007 08 or 2006 07. manage our assets and operations to high standards and investing in the renewal of assets: investing in the skills and capabilities of its people to give them the ability to operate the 10 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 networks to a high degree of service excellence: and maintaining a constant focus on reliability Talent as one of its principal objectives, ensuring it is proactive about planning to ensure reliability and National Grid Gas aims to maximise the contribution of its employees by motivating them to that it reacts quickly to factors that could compromise reliability.
strive for continued improvement, developing their skills and talents, and promoting a culture that recognises and respects inclusion and diversity.
In addition to obtaining the views of The winter of 2007 08 saw a maximum gas demand of 419 million cubic metres on 17 and 20 employees on an ongoing basis, National Grid now carries out annual group-wide employee December 2007.
This is lower than the previous years peak of 436 million cubic metres.
surveys to identify areas where it can improve.
The NTS business again achieved its target of 100% reliability for the gas transmission Talent and skills Identifying, recruiting and developing talented people are critical to National network.
National Grid Gas aims to support all its Gas compressor fleet performance declined during 2007 08, with the mean time between employees so that they can operate to the best of their abilities by creating an environment that allows them to realise their full potential.
compressor failures falling to 259 hours compared with 430 hours in 2006 07.
In order to improve gas compressor resilience and to support variations in operating conditions such as National Grid Gas has strengthened its talent management processes in 2007 08, commencing experienced this year, the NTS business is progressing investments in electrical drive with the creation of talent management plans for senior management and for business critical compressors at approximately 20% of its sites.
In addition, for the first time, it has conducted cross-business talent planning sessions using consistent processes to support senior management in developing employees within Customer service National Grid Gass objective is to impress customers with the quality of the each business area and to address succession issues.
services provided, with its responsiveness when things go wrong and with its dedication to continued improvement.
National Grid Gass focus on developing the talent of current and future business leaders has National Grid Gas uses business-specific service quality KPIs to measure intensified, with continued growth in the number of participants in National Grids leadership and performance in this area.
The main areas of focus have been on the performance for growth programme, change management, leadership development and Gas transmission customer service activities principally relate to facilitating new connections, developing future leaders programmes, including the expansion of change agent networks.
and maintaining existing connections and relationships with the customers who are already connected.
National Grid Gas continues to invest in the recruitment and development of skilled employees for the future, jointly with National Grids other UK businesses, which have collectively recruited Capital investment is one of the principal drivers of future growth, as the Capital investment 157 trainees on to National Grids apprentice, foundation engineer, graduate and student majority of capital investment enables National Grid Gas to earn an increased programmes in the past year.
The principal measure used to monitor organic investment is capital To succeed, National Grid Gas needs to engage its employees to strive for Engagement expenditure, which includes investment in property, plant & equipment, and in continued improvement.
For that purpose the aim is to implement a worldand performance internally created intangible assets such as software.
Investment in gas transmission systems is, by its nature, variable and is largely driven by National Grid Gass approach involves adopting integrated common performance processes changing sources of supply and asset replacement requirements.
The NTS gas transporter and a single set of performance criteria, with pay linked to leadership qualities how employees licence also obliges the NTS business to provide connections and capacity upon request.
deliver as well as operational and financial performance what employees deliver, providing for clearer differentiation between levels of performance.
Parts of the gas transmission network are reaching the end of their lives.
These are mainly compressor stations, control systems and valves ie above ground assets and not the high Employee engagement pressure pipes.
This, together with work required to meet changing supply sources, means that As part of the implementation of National Grids new operating model, a survey was carried out the gas transmission business has embarked on a significant increase in investment and to gather feedback on the communication routes that employees prefer and a suite of network renewal.
communication channels is now being rolled out across the whole of National Grid.
Capital investment in the replacement, reinforcement and extension of the Gas Transmission In February 2008, National Grid conducted a comprehensive employee engagement survey, in systems in 2007 08 was 801 million compared with 628 million in 2006 07.
2007 08 has seen which over 83% of its global work force took part in what will now be an annual exercise.
a further substantial increase in the level of investment in gas pipeline projects, some 138 Separate results are not available for the employees of National Grid Gas alone, but the survey million higher than 2006 07. demonstrated that National Grid Gass employees see its safety focused and supportive work environment as real strengths.
Where they think that progress can be made is in the areas of National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 11 providing more open and honest communications, greater clarity about National Grid Gass The primary concern of National Grid Gass customers, regulators and the UK Customers, vision and direction, and a stronger link between performance and reward.
Action plans are Government is that National Grid Gas delivers a safe, reliable and efficient regulators and being developed and built into managers objectives for the coming year.
service, now and into the future.
Hence the foundation of National Grid Gass government relationships reflects the quality of its operational performance.
Performance management During the year, a Performance for Growth programme was successfully launched for Directors For customers, it is important that National Grid Gas treats them with respect, that it and senior managers.
communicates clearly and that it makes interaction with them as straightforward as possible.
National Grid Gass focus on customer service and operational excellence is also a critical National Grid Gas continues to expand and embed its performance management process with component of its relationship with Ofgem and the UK Government, underpinning the building of an integrated common performance approach, including a single set of performance criteria, trust with them both.
This involves being responsive to the need of Ofgem for high quality pay linked to leadership qualities, as well as operational and financial performance, and a information, complying with rules and regulations, operating in an ethical way and, most clearer differentiation between levels of performance.
During 2007 08, significant effort was put importantly, delivering on National Grid Gass promises.
into the calibration of performance across the levels and businesses, with the objective of National Grid Gas continues to work very closely with Ofgem on the expansion of its gas creating a fairer, more transparent and consistent process for evaluating and rewarding the networks to meet new and changing demand.
In addition, National Grid Gas seeks to maintain performance of employees.
a professional approach with Ofgem in areas of disagreement.
Inclusion In order to develop, recruit and retain talented people National Grid Gas aims to achieve a more inclusive and diverse workforce, reflecting the composition National Grid Gas aims to work effectively in partnership with its suppliers, Suppliers and of the communities in which it operates, and to be seen as an employer of developing constructive relationships and working together effectively.
diversity choice across diverse communities.
National Grid Gass objective is to develop contractual arrangements with suppliers that align their interests with National Grid Gass own, as far as Performance measures used to monitor this objective of promoting inclusion possible, and share financial risks appropriately.
and diversity include the percentage of female employees and the percentage of black and minority ethnic employees.
National Grid Gass objective is to use the scale and breadth of National Grids activities to get the best value for money from suppliers.
National Grid has established a single procurement National Grid Gas is fortunate to have vibrant employee networks, focusing on gender, ethnicity function covering all of its supply chain activities in the UK and the US as a key step on the way and faith, disability, sexual orientation and new starters.
These are helping National Grid Gas to to delivering this objective.
better understand the different communities represented within its workforce, and to provide support and information to its employees.
Action councils help to coordinate initiatives in each During the year, National Grid Gas implemented a new back office system, which has improved of location, to identify new initiatives and to ensure consistency across businesses.
its ability to manage procurement activities as well as providing other benefits.
Unfortunately, relationships with certain suppliers were temporarily hampered by teething problems with the At 31 March 2008, 24.5% of National Grid Gass employees were female and 5.8% were from new system, leading to delays in payment in some circumstances.
National Grid Gas has black and minority ethnic groups compared with 20.0% and 4.5% respectively at 31 March resolved many of the issues that have arisen and continues to address those that remain, 2007. aiming to ensure suppliers are paid on time while maintaining appropriate financial controls.
Relationships In addition to focusing on efficiency and value for money, National Grid Gas has established National Grid Gas aims to enhance its relationships with all of its external stakeholders clear principles and objectives concerning the impact of its supply chain economically, socially, investors, customers, regulators, government, suppliers and the communities in which National environmentally and on human rights.
National Grid Gas expects suppliers to address these Grid Gas operates.
wider areas in working with it.
National Grid Gass aim is to make itself attractive to debt investors so that it Investor relations National Grid Gass role as a good corporate citizen supports National Grids can finance its operations as effectively as possible.
Community vision, and is delivered through a sustained and consistent approach.
involvement During the year, National Grid Gas participated in the presentations and conference calls National Grid Gass community investment objectives include supporting communities, targeted at debt investors and conducted by National Grid.
Despite turbulent market conditions developing its business, supporting its employees and enhancing its reputation through National Grid Gas has continued to issue long-term bonds, raising 700 million during the year.
National Grid Gass approach continues to be 12 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 centred on three key themes: energy and environment: education and skills: and community helping and supporting customers, employees and suppliers in changing their behaviours development.
During the year National Grid Gas has again reviewed its social policy to ensure its approach to As National Grid Gas does not have a separate verified base line for greenhouse gas community investment remains relevant to, and supports, societys wider social and emissions, it monitors emissions in terms of year on year reductions.
This review has included analysis of existing activities and best and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions in respect of the gas transmission business amounted practice, across National Grid and externally.
to some 0.9 million tonnes CO equivalent, a 10% reduction compared with emissions of 2 1 million tonnes in 2006 07.
National Grid Gas invested some 3.0 million in support of community initiatives and relationships across its operations in 2007 08.
Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions per million of revenue amounted to some 1,190 tonnes CO 2 equivalent compared with 1,372 tonnes in 2006 07.
Environment National Grid Gas is committed to safeguarding the global environment for future generations, National Grid Gass objective is to help protect the environment for future Protecting the taking positive action to reduce its contribution to climate change and its other impacts on the generations and so it is committed to continuous improvement in its environment environment.
environmental performance by: efficient use of natural resources: Climate change is possibly one of the greatest challenges facing society in Climate keeping waste to a minimum and increasing the economic value of the 21st century.
change any waste produced: National Grids overall objective is to reduce its emissions of greenhouse acting to prevent environmental incidents: and gases by 80% against a verified baseline.
improving, where it can, the environmental status of the land on National Grid Gass key performance indicator to monitor performance in this which it operates.
area is the annual percentage reduction in its greenhouse gas emissions.
Key performance indicators monitored in this area comprise the number of National Grid Gas also measures absolute emissions.
significant direct environmental incidents and the total value of fines from prosecutions.
National Grid Gas reports greenhouse gas emissions in line with National Grids corporate reporting principles which include National Grids interpretation of the World Resources Institute All of National Grid Gass employees work to environmental management systems certified to Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative.
This protocol provides a breakdown of National Grid Gass the international standard ISO 14001. direct emissions Scope 1, indirect emissions resulting from purchased electricity Scope 2 The number of significant environmental incidents in 2007 08 arising directly from gas and other indirect emissions Scope 3.
National Grid Gas believes this provides greater transmission operations was 25, which includes 24 contractor-related incidents.
In 2006 07, transparency and focuses attention on those emissions over which it has the greatest control.
there were 15 incidents including 13 contractor-related incidents.
There were no prosecutions During 2007 08, National Grid reviewed its climate change strategy first approved in 2006, by enforcing bodies resulting from these incidents.
and concluded that it should increase its target of reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions of greenhouse gases to 80% against its verified baseline ahead of 2050, compared with its prior Financial performance 60% reduction target.
This target is ambitious and will challenge National Grid Gas to develop, National Grid Gas aims to continue to improve its financial performance, to deliver returns now and over the next 42 years, new ways of conducting its business to reduce greenhouse appropriate to its risk profile and to be financially disciplined.
If National Grid Gas achieved its objectives it should be able to deliver Profit and This revised 80% reduction target will be delivered through National Grids climate change continued improvements in financial performance, contributing to National cash flow initiative, with a corporate team that will work with each line of business to deliver the target.
Grids commitment to grow its dividend each year.
The initiative is structured around three elements which National Grid Gas believes will The principal measures National Grid Gas uses to monitor financial transform its business: performance are adjusted operating profit and operating cash flows.
Adjusted operating profit is operating profit before exceptional items and fully integrating sustainability and climate change considerations into business decisions, remeasurements.
including the setting of carbon budgets: influencing legislators and regulators to reshape energy markets to meet the climate National Grid Gas reports its financial results and position in accordance with International change challenge: and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 13 Continuing operations through the separate monitoring and disclosure of exceptional items and remeasurements as a component of overall financial performance.
The financial results of National Grid Gass gas transmission business as described on page 2 are presented within continuing operations.
National Grid Gass aim is to meet or exceed the base investment financial Returns on Measurement of financial performance and use of adjusted profit measures returns in its DN price controls.
investment In considering the financial performance of its regulatory businesses and activities, National Grid Gas analyses each of its primary financial measures of operating profit, profit before tax National Grid Gas measures the financial performance of its DNs using an operational return metric, comparable to the vanilla return defined in the price and profit for the year into two components, comprising firstly business performance, which controls from 1 April 2007.
This metric expresses profit on a price control excludes exceptional items and remeasurements and secondly exceptional items and basis as a percentage of estimated DN regulatory value.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are excluded from the measures of business performance used by management to monitor financial performance as they are In 2007 08, the NTS business achieved a 7.2% return, significantly outperforming regulatory considered to distort the comparability of reported financial performance from year to year.
assumptions, mainly as a result of performance under its incentive schemes.
This compares with an operational return of 7.3% in 2006 07 calculated on the same basis.
Measures of business performance are referred to in these regulatory accounting statements as adjusted profit measures in order to clearly distinguish them from the comparable total profit Operating financial performance measures of which they are a component.
Adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax Years ended 31 March and adjusted earnings differ from total operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year 2008 2007 respectively by the exclusion of exceptional items and remeasurements.
m m Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure that, in the Revenue 756 729 judgement of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, Operating costs excluding exceptional items 444 421 either by virtue of their nature or size, and are relevant to an understanding of National Grid Adjusted operating profit 312 308 Gass financial performance.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management Exceptional items 3 5 for designation as exceptional items include such items as significant restructurings, writeTotal operating profit 309 303 downs or impairments of non-current assets, material changes in environmental provisions and gains or losses on disposals of businesses or investments.
Remeasurements comprise gains or Revenue, operating costs and operating profit losses recorded in the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative The movements in the year in revenue, operating costs and operating profit can be summarised financial instruments.
These fair values increase or decrease as a consequence of changes in as follows by regulatory business: financial indices and prices over which National Grid Gas has no control.
Revenue Operating costs Operating profit Adjusted profit measures are limited in their usefulness compared with the comparable total m m m profit measures, as they exclude important elements of underlying financial performance, 2006 07 results 729 426 303 namely exceptional items and remeasurements.
Management believes that in separately Add back 2006 07 exceptional items - 5 5 presenting financial performance in two components it is easier to read and interpret financial 2006 07 adjusted results 729 421 308 performance between periods, as adjusted profit measures are more comparable by excluding NTS 74 48 26 the distorting effect of exceptional items and remeasurements, and exceptional items and LNG storage 37 15 22 remeasurements are more clearly understood if separately identified and analysed.
The fide-minimis activities 1 1 - presentation of these two components of financial performance is additional to, and not a substitute for, the comparable total profit measures presented.
Other activities 5 5 - Inter-business trading 4 4 - Management uses adjusted profit measures as the basis for monitoring financial performance 2007 08 adjusted results 756 444 312 and in communicating financial performance to investors in external presentations and 2007 08 exceptional items - 3 3 announcements of financial results.
Internal financial reports, budgets and forecasts are 2007 08 results 756 447 309 primarily prepared on the basis of adjusted profit measures, although planned exceptional items, such as significant restructurings, are also reflected in budgets and forecasts.
Management compensates for the limitations inherent in the use of adjusted profit measures 14 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 The principal factors causing the movements between 2006 07 and 2007 08 are summarised Adjusted profit for the year below: Years ended 31 March 2008 2007 Revenue Operating costs Operating profit m m m m m Adjusted operating profit 312 308 2006 07 results 729 426 303 Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and remeasurements 90 55 Add back 2006 07 exceptional items - 5 5 Adjusted profit before taxation 222 253 2006 07 adjusted results 729 421 308 Taxation excluding taxation on exceptional items and remeasurements 96 97 Allowed revenues 91 - 91 Adjusted profit 126 156 Timing of recoveries 3 - 3 LNG storage auction revenue 37 - 37 Profit for the year Depreciation and amortisation - 25 25 Years ended 31 March Other 24 2 22 2008 2007 2007 08 adjusted results 756 444 312 m m 2007 08 exceptional items - 3 3 Total operating profit 309 303 2007 08 results 756 447 309 Net finance costs 82 63 Profit before taxation 227 240 Revenue increased by 27 million in 2007 08 compared with 2006 07.
Allowed revenues increased by 91 million, driven by the five-year transmission price controls that came into Taxation 66 95 effect on 1 April 2007.
As expected, revenues from the LNG storage business were lower in Profit 161 145 2007 08, down by 37 million on 2006 07, as demand for capacity returned closer to normal levels following the abnormal demand in 2006 07.
Net finance costs Net interest excluding exceptional finance costs and remeasurements, as allocated to the gas Operating costs, excluding exceptional items, increased by 23 million in 2007 08 compared to transmission business, increased by 35 million from 2006 07 to 2007 08.
As expected, depreciation and amortisation increased by 25 million as a result of explained by an increase in average debt balances.
Exceptional charges of 3 million in 2007 08 and 5 million in 2006 07 relate to costs incurred in establishing a shared services function in the UK and from Exceptional finance costs and remeasurements the transmission business process review.
There were no exceptional finance costs in 2007 08.
Exceptional finance costs allocated to the gas transmission business of 9 million in 2006 07 relate to the early repayment of debt.
As a consequence of these items, adjusted operating profit, excluding exceptional items, increased by 4 million in 2007 08 compared with 2006 07, while operating profit increased by Financial remeasurements relate to allocated net gains on derivative financial instruments of 8 6 million.
million, compared with allocated net gains of 1 million in 2006 07.
Profit for the year Taxation Net finance costs and taxation largely comprise amounts relating to National Grid Gas as a A net charge of 66 million was allocated to the gas transmission business in 2007 08, whole which have been allocated as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory comprising a 96 million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a 30 million credit on accounting statements on page 33. exceptional items and remeasurements.
This compares with an allocated net charge of 95 million in 2006 07, comprising a 97 million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a 2 million credit on exceptional items and remeasurements.
The 2007 08 net charge included an allocated exceptional credit of 31 million in 2007 08 relating to the release of deferred tax provisions following the change in the UK corporation tax rate from 30% to 28%, which was enacted in the year and takes effect from 1 April 2008.
The effective tax rate before and after exceptional items and remeasurements was 43% and 29% respectively 2006 07: 38% and 40%, compared with a standard UK corporation tax rate of 30% for both years.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 15 The effective tax rates before exceptional items reflect prior year tax charges equivalent to an Reconciliation of adjusted profit for the year to profit for the year effective tax rate of 14% in 2007 08 and 7% in 2006 07.
These prior year items principally relate Years ended 31 March to additional tax arising under UK transfer pricing arrangements, which is offset by equivalent 2008 2007 tax credits in other UK companies in the National Grid group.
m m Adjusted profit for the year 126 156 Profit for the year Exceptional items 29 10 The gas transmission business profit for the year rose from 145 million in 2006 07 to Derivative financial remeasurements 6 1 161 million in 2007 08 as a consequence of the above changes.
Profit for the year 161 145 Adjusted profit measures Adjusted profit for the year is presented on the face of the income statement, under the heading The following tables reconcile the adjusted profit measure to the corresponding total profit Profit for the year after taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements.
measure in accordance with IFRS.
Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total operating profit Cash flows Years ended 31 March Cash flows from operating activities 2008 2007 Cash generated from operations for the gas transmission businesses was 467 million in m m 2007 08 compared with 406 million in 2006 07.
This included cash outflows relating to exceptional items of 4 million and 2 million respectively.
After reflecting cash flows relating to Adjusted operating profit 312 308 tax paid, net cash inflow from operating activities was 360 million, compared with 406 million Exceptional items 3 5 in 2006 07.
Total operating profit 303 309 In 2007 08, corporate tax payments of 107 million were allocated to gas transmission Adjusted operating profit is presented on the face of the income statement, under the heading compared with an allocation of nil in 2006 07.
Operating profit before exceptional items.
Cash inflows from investing activities Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to profit before taxation Cash outflows from investing activities for gas transmission rose from 681 million in 2006 07 to Years ended 31 March 923 million in 2006 07.
This was rise was primarily a result of increased capital investment, 2008 2007 with cash outflows to purchase property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets m m increasing to 843 million in 2007 08 from 561 million in 2006 07.
Allocated cash outflows in Adjusted profit before taxation 222 253 respect of the acquisition of financial investments reduced from 120 million in 2006 07 to 83 Exceptional items 3 14 million in 2007 08.
Derivative financial remeasurements 8 1 Cash flows from financing activities Total profit before taxation 227 240 Cash flows from financing activities largely comprise cash flows of National Grid Gas as a Adjusted profit before taxation is presented on the face of the income statement, under the whole which have been allocated as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory heading Profit before taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements.
Net cash inflows related to financing activities increased from 267 million in 2006 07 to 504 million in 2007 08.
This reflected net allocated inflows from loans of 751 million 2006 07: 968 million inflow and net allocated payments to providers of finance, in the form of net interest and dividends, of 247 million 2006 07: 701 million.
Allocated net interest cash outflows, excluding exceptional debt redemption costs, reduced from 88 million in 2006 07 to 84 million in 2007 08.
There were no allocated exceptional debt redemption payments in 2007 08 compared with 9 million in 2006 07 which arose from restructuring National Grid Gass debt portfolio.
16 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 In order to deliver sustainable growth National Grid Gas must be disciplined in Financial discipline Financial position and financial management the way it manages its balance sheet.
This means that National Grid Gass parent National Grid will return cash to its shareholders to the extent it is not Going concern required for investment objectives.
Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that National Grid Gas and its subsidiaries have The principal measure National Grid Gas uses to monitor financial discipline adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore is adjusted gearing ratio.
This is the ratio of net debt to net assets plus net appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these regulatory accounting debt, with the assets of the regulated DN businesses measured at their statements of National Grid Gas.
The adjusted gearing ratio for the gas transmission business amounted to 53% at 31 March Capital structure 2008 compared with 45% at 31 March 2007.
Balance sheet The balance sheet of the gas transmission businesses at 31 March 2008 can be summarised A reconciliation of the amounts necessary to calculate the adjusted gearing ratio is shown in the as follows: table below: 2008 2007 m m Assets Liabilities Net assets Net assets per balance sheet 1,768 1,712 m m m Adjustments for regulatory asset values 822 730 Property, plant and equipment and non-current intangible Deferred tax on adjustments 230 219 assets 3,504- 3,504 Adjusted net assets 2,304 2,279 Other non-current assets and liabilities 1,588 146 1,442 Net debt 2,596 1,832 Current assets and liabilities 141 341 200 Deferred tax - 438 438 Adjusted net assets plus net debt 4,900 4,111 Total before net debt 5,233 925 4,308 Net debt 316 2,912 2,596 Dividends Total as at 31 March 2008 5,549 3,837 1,712 Dividends in respect of the financial year Total as at 31 March 2007 4,786 3,018 1,768 The following table shows the ordinary dividends paid or payable by National Grid Gas in respect of the last two financial years and which have been allocated to the gas transmission The reduction in net assets from 1,768 million at 31 March 2007 to 1,712 million at 31 March business as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements on page 2008 resulted from attributed dividends paid of 163 million and changes in the allocation of 33.
These dividends do not include any associated UK tax credit in respect of such dividends.
funding between National Grid Gass regulatory businesses of 60 million, partly offset by the 2008 2007 profit for the year of 161 million, net income recognised directly in equity of 5 million and m m other changes in equity of 1 million.
Interim 163 179 Net debt Total 179 163 Allocated net debt increased by 764 million from 1,832 million at 31 March 2007 to 2,596 million at 31 March 2008, as cash flows from operations of 360 million were exceeded by In accordance with IFRS, dividends are reported in the financial statements for the year in capital expenditure of 840 million, attributed dividends paid of 163 million, the net interest which they are approved.
charge of 132 million and other cash outflows of 3 million, less net increases in the value of derivatives of 14 million.
Allocated debt includes a proportion of the bonds, with a nominal value of 982 million and a fair value of 1,203 million plus accrued interest, which were transferred to National Grid Gas plc from National Grid Gas Holdings plc during 2007 08, in return for repayment of intercompany loans.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 17 At 31 March 2008, allocated net debt comprised borrowings of 2,864 million and bank Note 16 to the regulatory accounting statements shows the maturity profile of undrawn overdrafts of 2 million, less derivative financial instruments with a net carrying value of 50 committed borrowing facilities in sterling as at 31 March 2008. million, cash and cash equivalents of 2 million and financial investments of 218 million 31 Regulatory restrictions March 2007: borrowings of 2,017 million, bank overdrafts of 2 million and derivative financial As part of National Grid Gass regulatory arrangements, its operations are subject to a number instruments with a net carrying value of 7 million, less cash and cash equivalents of 61 of restrictions on the way it can operate.
These include a regulatory ring-fence that require it to million and financial investments of 133 million.
maintain adequate financial resources and restricts its ability to transfer funds or levy charges The maturity of borrowings is shown in note 16 to the regulatory accounting statements.
between itself and other companies in the National Grid group of companies.
Gearing Treasury policy Gearing at 31 March 2008 and 31 March 2007, calculated as allocated net debt at that date The funding and treasury risk management for National Grid Gas is carried out on its behalf by expressed as a percentage of allocated net debt plus net assets shown in the balance sheet, a central department operating under policies and guidelines approved by the Board of National amounted to 60% and 51% respectively.
National Grid Gas does not consider that this standard Grid plc.
The Finance Committee, a committee of the Board of National Grid plc, is responsible gearing ratio is an appropriate measure as it does not reflect the economic value of the assets for regular review and monitoring of treasury activity and for approval of specific transactions, of its regulated businesses.
For performance measurement purposes, National Grid Gas the authority for which may be delegated.
National Grid plc has a Treasury function that raises measures gearing on an adjusted basis, as described under financial discipline on page 17. funding and manages interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk for National Grid Gas.
Equity shareholders funds There is a separate financing programme for National Grid Gas.
The Finance Committees of Equity shareholders funds fell from 1,768 million at 31 March 2007 to 1,712 million at 31 both National Grid plc and of National Grid Gas approve all funding programmes.
This increase was mainly explained by the 60 million transfer of funds to other The Treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Debt and treasury positions are regulatory businesses of National Grid Gas.
managed in a non-speculative manner, such that all transactions in financial instruments or products are matched to an underlying current or anticipated business requirement.
Liquidity and treasury management Cash flow The use of derivative financial instruments is controlled by policy guidelines set by the Board of Cash flows from National Grid Gass operations are largely stable over a period of years, but National Grid plc.
Derivatives entered into in respect of gas commodities are used in support of they do depend on the timing of customer payments.
National Grid Gass DN operations are the businesss operational requirements and the policy regarding their use is explained below.
subject to multi-year price control agreements with the regulator, Ofgem.
Significant changes in Borrowings outstanding at 31 March 2008 and allocated to the gas transmission business volumes, for example as a consequence of weather conditions, can affect cash flows in those amounted to 2,866 million 31 March 2007: 2,019 million.
The table in note 16 shows the businesses, with abnormally mild or cold weather driving volumes down or up respectively.
expected maturity of these borrowings.
Subject to this, cash flows are essentially stable.
Management believes that the maturing amounts in respect of National Grid Gass contractual Cash flow forecasting obligations can be met from existing cash and investments, operating cash flows and other Both shortand long-term cash flow forecasts are produced frequently to assist in identifying the refinancings that that can reasonably be expected to be able to secure in the future, together liquidity requirements of National Grid Gas.
These forecasts, supplemented by a financial with the use of committed facilities if required.
National Grid Gass financial position and headroom position, are supplied to the Finance Committee of the Board of National Grid plc expected future operating cash flows are such that it can borrow on the wholesale capital and regularly to assess funding adequacy for at least a 12 month period.
National Grid Gas also money markets and most of its borrowings are through public bonds and commercial paper.
maintains a minimum level of committed facilities to support its liquidity requirements.
Surplus funds are placed on the money markets, usually in the form of short-term fixed deposits Credit facilities and unutilised Commercial Paper and Medium Term Note Programmes that are invested with approved banks and counterparties.
Details relating to cash, short-term At 31 March 2008, National Grid Gas plc had a $2.5 billion US commercial paper programme investments and other financial assets at 31 March 2008 are shown in notes 14 and 15 to the unutilised, a $1.25 billion Euro commercial paper programme unutilised and a 10 billion regulatory accounting statements.
Euro medium term note programme 5.3 billion unissued.
It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fence around National Grid Gas that it uses reasonable National Grid Gas has both committed and uncommitted facilities that are available for general endeavours to maintain an investment grade credit rating.
As of 31 March 2008, the long-term corporate purposes.
At 31 March 2008, it had 0.8 billion of long-term committed facilities senior unsecured debt and short-term debt credit ratings respectively provided by Moodys, undrawn and around 0.4 billion of uncommitted borrowing facilities undrawn.
Standard & Poors S&P and Fitch were as follows: 18 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 In addition, National Grid Gas is exposed to currency exposures on borrowings in currencies Moodys A3 P2 other than sterling, principally the US dollar and the euro.
This currency exposure is managed Standard & Poors S&P AA2 through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Fitch A F2 The currency compositions of financial liabilities and assets are shown in note 27 a to the Standard & Poors and Fitch have current outlooks of stable while Moodys has a current regulatory accounting statements.
Counterparty risk management The main risks arising from National Grid Gass financial activities are set out below, as are the Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds and from the use of derivative policies for managing these risks, which are agreed and reviewed by the Board of National Grid instruments.
The Finance Committee of National Grid plc has agreed a policy for managing plc and the Finance Committee of that Board.
such risk, which is controlled through credit limits, approvals and monitoring procedures.
Refinancing risk management Further information is provided in note 27 b to the regulatory accounting statements.
The Board of National Grid plc controls refinancing risk mainly by limiting the amount of financing obligations both principal and interest arising on borrowings in any financial year.
Where multiple transactions are entered into with a single counterparty, a master netting This policy is intended to prevent National Grid and its subsidiaries from having an excessively arrangement can be put in place to reduce our exposure to credit risk of that counterparty.
At large amount of debt to refinance in a given time-frame.
the present time, we use standard International Swap Dealers Association ISDA documentation, which provides for netting in respect of all transactions governed by a specific During the year, National Grid Gas issued a mixture of short and long-term debt.
ISDA agreement with a counterparty, when transacting interest rate and exchange rate Note 16 to the regulatory accounting statements sets out the contractual maturities of derivatives.
borrowings over the next five years, with total contracted borrowings maturing over 45 years in Derivative financial instruments held for purposes other than trading compliance with the refinancing risk policy.
As part of its business operations, National Grid Gas is exposed to risks arising from Interest rate risk management fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates.
Financial instruments are used, including Interest rate exposure arising from borrowings and deposits is managed by the use of fixed and derivatives, to manage exposures of this type and they are a useful tool in reducing risk.
floating rate debt, interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
The interest rate National Grid Gass policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivative transactions risk management policy is to seek to minimise total financing costs being interest costs and can, to varying degrees, carry both counterparty and market risk.
changes in the market value of debt subject to constraints so that, even with large movements National Grid Gas enters into interest rate swaps to manage the composition of floating and in interest rates, neither the interest cost nor the total financing cost can exceed pre-set limits.
fixed rate debt and so hedge the exposure of borrowings to interest rate movements.
National Some of National Grid Gass bonds in issue are index-linked, that is their cost is linked to Grid Gas also enters into foreign currency swaps to manage the currency composition of changes in the UK Retail Prices Index RPI.
Management believe that these bonds provide a borrowings and so hedge the exposure to exchange rate movements.
Certain agreements are good hedge for revenues and National Grid Gass regulatory asset values that are also RPIcombined foreign currency and interest rate swap transactions.
Such agreements are known as linked under its price control formulae.
The performance of the Treasury function in interest rate risk management is measured by National Grid Gas enters into forward rate agreements to hedge interest rate risk on short-term comparing the actual total financing costs of our debt with those of a passively-managed debt and money market investments.
Forward rate agreements are commitments to fix an benchmark portfolio.
More information on the interest rate profile of debt is included in note interest rate that is to be paid or received on a notional deposit of specified maturity, starting at 27 a to the regulatory accounting statements.
Foreign exchange risk management More details on derivative financial instruments are provided in notes 11 and 26 to the National Grid Gas a policy of hedging certain contractually committed foreign exchange regulatory accounting statements.
transactions over a prescribed minimum size.
This covers a minimum of 75% of such transactions expected to occur up to six months in advance and a minimum of 50% of Valuation and sensitivity analysis transactions six to twelve months in advance.
Cover generally takes the form of forward sale or The fair value of debt and derivative instruments are calculated by discounting all future cash purchase of foreign currencies and must always relate to underlying operational cash flows.
flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date.
The market yield curve for each currency is obtained from external sources for interest and foreign exchange rates.
In the case National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 19 of instruments that include options, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is used to 2008 2007 calculate fair value.
m m 108 Future capital expenditure contracted but not provided for 481 The valuation techniques described above for interest rate swaps and currency swaps are a Total operating lease commitments 13 11 standard market methodology.
These techniques do not take account of the credit quality of either party, but this is not considered to be a significant factor, unless there is a material In addition, National Grid Gas has other commitments at 31 March 2008 of 84 million 2007: deterioration in the credit quality of either party.
213 million which relate to the company and are not attributable to the regulatory businesses.
For debt and derivative instruments held, National Grid Gas utilises a sensitivity analysis Information regarding obligations under pension and other post-retirement benefits is given technique to evaluate the effect that changes in relevant rates or prices will have on the market below under the heading Retirement arrangements.
National Grid Gas proposes to meet all of its commitments from existing cash and investments, Details of the sensitivity of the income statement and equity to changes in the UK Retail Prices operating cash flows, existing credit facilities, future facilities and other financing that it Index and UK interest rates are set out in note 27 d to the regulatory accounting statements.
reasonably expects to be able to secure in the future.
Under the assumptions set out in note 27 d, a 0.50% change in the UK Retail Prices Index would affect the income statement by 4 million, but would have no effect on equity, while a Details of material litigation as at 31 March 2008 0.50% change in UK interest rates would affect the income statement by 2 million and equity National Grid Gass gas transmission and LNG storage businesses were not party to litigation by 5 million.
that it considers to be material as at 31 March 2008.
Commodity contracts Related party transactions Commodity derivatives National Grid Gas provides services to and receives services from related parties.
In the year In the normal course of business, the NTS business is party to commodity derivatives.
These ended 31 March 2008, the gas transmission and LNG storage businesses charged 1 million have included gas futures, gas options and gas forwards that are used to manage commodity and received credits of 1 million from National Grid Gass related parties other than Directors prices associated with gas delivery operations.
This includes the buying back of capacity rights and key managers, compared with charges made of 2 million and charges received of already sold in accordance with gas transporter licence and Uniform Network Code obligations.
Further information relating to related party transactions is contained within note 24 to the These financial exposures are monitored and managed as an integral part of National Grid Gass financial risk management policy.
At the core of this policy is a condition that it will regulatory accounting statements.
Details of key management compensation are included engage in activities at risk only to the extent that those activities fall within commodities and within note 2 c to the regulatory accounting statements.
financial markets to which it has a physical market exposure, in terms and volumes consistent Retirement arrangements with its core business.
National Grid Gas does not issue, or intend to hold, derivative The substantial majority of National Grid Gass employees are members of the National Grid instruments for trading purposes, and holds such instruments consistent with its various licence UK Pension Scheme, which is operated by Lattice Group plc, an intermediate holding company and regulatory obligations.
National Grid Gas does not provide any other post-retirement benefits.
Commodity trading The scheme has both a defined benefit section, which is closed to new entrants, and a defined As part of gas transmission operations, National Grid Gas is obliged to offer for sale, through a contribution section, which is offered to all new employees.
series of auctions both shortand long-term, a predetermined quantity of entry capacity for every day in the year at predefined locations.
Where, on the day, the gas transmission systems As there is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost capability is constrained, such that gas is prevented from entering the system for which entry of the scheme to National Grid Gas, it accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined capacity rights have been sold, then the NTS business is required to buy back those entry contribution scheme and does not recognise any share of the assets and liabilities of the capacity rights sold in excess of system capability.
Forward and option contracts are used to scheme.
reduce the risk and exposure to on-the-day entry capacity prices.
Actuarial position Commitments and contingencies The last completed full actuarial valuation of the scheme was as at 31 March 2006.
This Commitments and contingencies outstanding at 31 March in respect of the gas transmission concluded that the pre-tax funding deficit was 371 million in the defined benefit section on the businesses are summarised in the following table: 20 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 basis of the funding assumptions.
Employer cash contributions for the ongoing cost of the Accounting policies scheme are currently being made at a rate of 32.7% of pensionable payroll.
Basis of accounting Contributions The actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 31 March 2007 is currently in progress, but has not The regulatory accounting statements present the results for the years ended 31 March 2008 yet been concluded.
In advance of finalising the valuation, National Grid Gas has made deficit and 2007 and the financial position as at 31 March 2008 and 2007 of the regulatory businesses contributions of 114 million during 2007 08, which were reimbursed by Lattice Group plc, and a therein.
They have been prepared using the accounting policies shown, in accordance with further 305 million to 31 May 2008, in addition to ongoing employer contributions.
National International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Grid is currently in the process of agreeing a recovery plan with the trustees in respect of the In complying with IFRS, National Grid Gas is also complying with the version of IFRS that has deficit expected to be included in the valuation.
been endorsed by the European Union for use by listed companies.
IFRS differ from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
Choices permitted under IFRS Since 1 April 2005, National Grid Gas has presented its regulatory accounting statements in accordance with IFRS.
National Grid Gas was required to make a number of choices on the adoption of IFRS and in addition it continues to choose from certain options that are available within accounting standards.
The principal choices made on the adoption of IFRS, which cannot be changed, were as follows: Transition date National Grid Gass opening IFRS balance sheets were established as at 1 April 2004.
National Grid Gas used certain balances in its previous UK GAAP regulatory accounting statements as the basis for the opening IFRS balance sheets.
Business combinations Business combinations prior to 1 April 2004 were not changed retrospectively.
Carrying value of assets In most cases National Grid Gas used brought forward depreciated cost, as at transition adjusted for changes in accounting policies to conform to IFRS, to be the opening carrying value under IFRS.
Share-based payments National Grid Gas recognised all active grants retrospectively.
Cumulative translation National Grid Gas chose to present cumulative translation differences arising differences since 1 April 2004 only.
Significant choices that National Grid Gas continues to make on an ongoing basis include the following: Presentation formats National Grid Gas uses the nature of expense method for its income statements and totals its balance sheets to net assets and total equity.
In the income statement, National Grid Gas presents subtotals of total operating profit, profit before tax and profit from continuing operations, together with additional subtotals excluding exceptional items and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are presented on the face of the income statement.
Pensions National Grid Gas recognises transactions with the defined benefits section of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme as if it was a defined contribution National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 21 scheme, and does not recognise any of the scheme assets and liabilities or costs, assets, liabilities include or comprise amounts which are not directly attributable to the and equity to regulatory actuarial gains and losses.
regulatory businesses concerned and which have been apportioned between businesses the regulatory businesses.
Significant judgement is exercised in determining Capitalised interest National Grid Gas capitalises interest into the cost of assets that it constructs those bases of apportionment.
Where there is no reasonable basis of where the conditions of IAS 23 are met.
apportionment, arbitrary bases have been adopted.
Capital contributions Contributions received towards capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income and amortised in line with the depreciation on the associated asset.
Amounts determined by apportionment within these regulatory accounting Financial instruments National Grid Gas normally opts to apply hedge accounting in most statements comprise net costs of 238 million included in the income circumstances where this is permitted.
statements 2007: 222 million, assets of 2,031 million 2007: 1,910 million and liabilities of 3,617 million 2007: 2,854 million.
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2007 08 Estimated economic The reported amounts for depreciation of property, plant and equipment can lives of property, plant In preparing these regulatory accounting statements, National Grid Gas has complied with be materially affected by the judgments exercised in determining their and equipment estimated economic lives.
International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and interpretations applicable for 2007 08.
The following amendments to standards and Depreciation of property, plant and equipment amounted to 115 million in interpretations were adopted during 2007 08, none of which resulted in a material change to 2007 08 and 90 million in 2006 07. results, assets or liabilities in 2007 08 or in those of previous periods.
Carrying value of assets The carrying value of assets recorded in the balance sheets could be and potential for materially reduced if an impairment were to be assessed as being required.
New interpretations impairment IFRIC 8, IFRIC 9, IFRIC 10 and IFRIC 11 contain guidance on accounting for Total assets at 31 March 2008 were 5,549 million, including 3,478 million of share-based exchange transactions, embedded derivatives, impairments in property, plant and equipment, 26 million of intangible assets and 1,588 half yearly reports and share-based payments.
Implementation of these million owed by National Grid Gass immediate parent undertaking.
interpretations did not have a material impact on results, assets or liabilities.
Impairment reviews are carried out either when a change in circumstance is identified that indicates an asset might be impaired.
An impairment review Segmental reporting involves calculating either or both of the fair value or the value-in-use of an As the results, assets and liabilities of the gas distribution and metering businesses are asset or group of assets and comparing with the carrying value in the balance reported separately in these regulatory accounting statements for each regulatory business, no sheet.
These calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the price that further segmental reporting is provided.
could be obtained for, or the future cash flows that will be generated by, an asset or group of assets, together with an appropriate discount rate to apply Critical accounting policies to those cash flows.
The application of accounting principles requires National Grid Gas to make estimates, Revenue Revenue includes an assessment of transportation services supplied to judgments and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue customers between the date of the last invoice and the year end.
Changes to the estimate of the transportation services supplied during this period would and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the accounts.
On an have an impact on reported results.
ongoing basis, National Grid Gas evaluates its estimates using historical experience, consultation with experts and other methods that are considered reasonable in the particular Estimates of unbilled revenues included in these regulatory accounting circumstances to ensure compliance with IFRS.
Actual results may differ significantly from statements amounted to 39 million at 31 March 2008 compared with 38 these estimates, the effect of which is recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise million at 31 March 2007. to the revision become known.
Assets and liabilities Certain assets and liabilities, principally financial investments and derivative carried at fair value financial instruments, are carried in the balance sheet at their fair value rather Certain accounting policies have been identified as critical accounting policies, as these policies than historical cost.
involve particularly complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The discussion of critical accounting policies below should be read in conjunction with the description of the accounting The fair value of financial investments is based on market prices, as are policies set out in these regulatory accounting statements.
those of derivative financial instruments where market prices exist.
Other derivative financial instruments are valued using financial models, which National Grid Gass critical accounting policies and accounting treatments for the gas include judgments on, in particular, future movements in exchange and distribution and metering businesses are considered to be: interest rates as well as equity prices.
Attribution of revenues, Many of the amounts reported in these regulatory accounting statements 22 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions could have on our reported results Hedge accounting National Grid Gas uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain economic exposures arising from movements in exchange and interest rates and financial position, the following sensitivities are presented: or other factors that could affect either the value of its assets or liabilities or Asset useful lives An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of one year on average affect future cash flows.
would reduce the annual depreciation charge on property, plant and Movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments may be equipment by 3 million, but would have a negligible effect on the annual accounted for using hedge accounting where we meet the relevant eligibility, amortisation charge on intangible assets.
documentation and effectiveness testing requirements.
If a hedge does not Revenue accruals A 10% change in the estimate of unbilled revenues at 31 March 2008 would meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is ineffectiveness result in an increase or decrease in recorded net assets and profit for the year or partial ineffectiveness, then the movements will be recorded in the income of approximately 3 million net of tax.
statement immediately instead of being recognised in the statement of Assets carried at fair A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair value would result in an recognised income and expense or by being offset by adjustments to the value increase or decrease in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments carrying value of debt.
Pensions Defined benefit pension obligations are accounted for as if the National Grid Hedge accounting If the gains and losses arising on derivative financial instruments during the UK Pension Scheme were a defined contribution scheme as there is neither a year ended 31 March 2008 had not achieved hedge accounting then the profit contractual arrangement, nor a stated policy under which National Grid Gas is for the year would have been 13 million higher than that reported net of tax charged for the costs of providing pensions.
and net assets would have been 10 million higher.
A change in these arrangements may lead to National Grid Gas recognising the cost of providing pensions on a different basis, together with a proportion Accounting developments of the actuarial gains and losses and of the assets and liabilities of the Forthcoming changes in IFRS pension scheme.
The following accounting standards and interpretations have not yet been adopted, but are Exceptional items and Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure expected to be adopted in future periods.
remeasurements that, in the judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, either by their nature or their size, to an Segment reporting IFRS 8 changes the reporting requirements for segmental reporting and will understanding of National Grid Gass financial performance and distort the apply with effect from 1 April 2009.
If IFRS 8 had been adopted in 2007 08, comparability between periods.
there would have been no change in business segments reported.
Borrowing costs An amendment to IAS 23 on borrowing costs will require interest to be Items of income or expense that are considered by management for capitalised into the cost of assets under construction.
National Grid Gas designation as exceptional items include such items as significant already follows this policy and so this will have no impact.
restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current assets, material changes in environmental provisions, gains or losses on disposals of Service concessions IFRIC 12 on service concessions, to be adopted from 1 April 2008, requires businesses or investments.
assets operated on behalf of a public authority as a concession, where the asset reverts back to the public authority at the conclusion of the Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the income statement arrangement, to be recognised as a financial or intangible asset depending on arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
whether income is recovered from the public authority or from users.
These fair values increase or decrease as a consequence of changes in financial indices and prices over which National Grid Gas has no control.
National Grid Gas does not operate any concessions of this type and so this will have no impact.
Tax estimates National Grid Gass tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax rates in effect, but it does not recognise current year transfer pricing Customer loyalty IFRIC 13, effective from 1 April 2008, requires the sale of goods or services programmes adjustments which are expected to be settled through use of group relief.
and associated loyalty programmes to be accounted for as multi-element transactions.
The separate elements will have to be fair valued and The determination of appropriate provisions for taxation requires National consideration allocated accordingly, which would defer recognition of an Grid Gas to take into account anticipated decisions of tax authorities and element of revenue.
estimate its ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings and tax planning.
These estimates and assumptions may differ from future events.
National Grid Gas does not have any loyalty programmes of this nature and so this will have no impact.
Pension IFRIC 14, on when net pension assets can be recognised in the balance National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 23 assets and minimum sheet and on how to account for minimum funding requirements, will apply National Grid Gas currently has no such instruments and so this will have no funding with effect from 1 April 2008.
In certain circumstances, the recognition of an impact.
accounting surplus in a pension plan as an asset on the balance sheet may be restricted, or provision may be required for minimum funding requirements in excess of pension obligations recognised in the balance sheet.
National Grid Gas does not recognise any net pension assets or obligations in our balance sheet and so this will have no impact.
Presentation Amendment to IAS 1, effective 1 April 2009, changes the presentation of of financial statements financial information, but does not affect the amounts of reported earnings or assets and liabilities.
The principal changes are: the statement of recognised income and expense must immediately follow the income statement and must include separate tax disclosure on each gain or loss recognised outside the income statement: the statement of changes in equity will be presented as a primary statement: and there will be an option to rename the primary statements.
This will have a significant impact on the presentation of the 2009 10 financial statements as described above.
However, there will be no impact on National Grid Gass results, assets or liabilities.
Business combinations IFRS 3 revised, expected to be adopted 1 April 2010, makes a number of changes to business combination accounting including: consideration payments fair valued at acquisition date: subsequent consideration payments at fair value through the income statement: changes to calculation of goodwill: and all transaction costs expensed.
IFRS 3 revised will be implemented prospectively and so will affect future business combinations, possibly materially compared with how they are accounted for under current standards.
However, this change will have no impact on National Grid Gass current results, assets or liabilities.
Non-controlling interests IAS 27 revised, expected to be adopted in 2010, requires transactions with non-controlling minority interests to be recorded in equity.
National Grid Gas does not have any material non-controlling interests and so this change will have no material impact.
Share based payments This amendment to IFRS 2, expected to be adopted 1 April 2009, clarifies the definition of vesting conditions and changes the accounting for cancellations.
For cancellation, rather than reversing the previous expense, any remaining expense will be accelerated.
This will affect the way National Grid Gas accounts for Save as You Earn share schemes, but due to the low levels of cancellations by employees in the past, it is not anticipate that this is likely to have a material impact on future results.
Financial instrument Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 require certain puttable financial presentation instruments, which impose an obligation to deliver a pro-rata share of net assets on liquidation, to be classified as liabilities.
24 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08
