The Northern Foods Operating board from left to right: Kuldip Kular, Julian Slade, Robin Walker, Stefan Barden, Jez Maiden, Graham Hunter and Garry Walsh.
Performance overview The firm foundation created by our 2006 07 Performance review disposal programme has allowed us to focus on attractive market segments: Over the last twelve successfully partner with customers who value high levels of quality, innovation months Northern and service: and implement a low cost, high performance business model.
Foods has made As a result of these actions, performance has steadily good progress improved.
As we work to realise the full potential of Northern Foods, our businesses are focused on developing products which demonstrate above average rates of sale, whilst we in delivering its continue to eliminate low margin and low volume products from our range, as well as progressively re-orientating the strategic plan Group towards markets growing at above average rates.
In measuring our performance, we seek to: drive shareholder returns: strengthen Group profitability: improve the performance of each business, whilst successfully navigating the volatile markets in which they operate: invest in future expansion to meet exciting market opportunities: drive cash generation to enable future investment and growth: and maintain a robust and well managed balance sheet.
Performance review | Northern Foods plc We improved shareholder returns during the year.
Return on by putting in place forward cover, where possible, for key areas invested capital ROIC, our preferred measure, increased of spend.
Our strategic plan target is to achieve a 2% improvement over three years.
This progress represents a We invested in future expansion, making acquisitions and good beginning.
We also began a share buy-back programme, investments to enhance the Groups competitive position.
We to maintain an efficient balance sheet.
acquired Ethnic Cuisine, a well regarded supplier to Sainsburys, together with a well invested chilled soup facility in Grimsby, into We strengthened Group profitability, achieving a 25.3% increase in which we plan to consolidate existing production and deliver new profit before tax to 50.1m 2006 07: 40m.
This was driven by an business.
We also acquired the rights to the brands and assets improved trading performance and lower financing costs.
We have of the McDougalls frozen pastry business and also expanded also changed our presentation of the net pensions financing salads capacity to meet exciting market growth opportunities.
credit to classify it within financing, rather than operations, thus facilitating a better understanding of our trading performance.
We continued to drive cash generation, with free cash flow of 39.0m in the year 2006 07: 83.0m, building on the previous We improved the performance in two of our three divisions.
Net capital expenditure remained carefully Profit from operations was 5.9% ahead at 48.4m 2006 07: focused at just 40% of depreciation 2006 07: 37% and working 45.7m, as we drove continuing improvement in margin capital was closely managed.
performance in our Chilled division, whilst securing the first benefits of our profit recovery plan in the Bakery division.
Finally we maintained a robust and well managed balance Disappointingly, profitability declined in our Frozen division and sheet.
Year end net debt was 200.2m 2006 07: 174.2m : despite we are working hard on our plans to stabilise this performance.
acquisitions costing 22.0m, special pension contributions of Corporately, we completed our targeted 12 million reduction 22.0m: and 9.4m spent on share purchases.
Our strong balance in annual centre costs which are allocated to the divisions, sheet provides us with capacity for future growth through reflecting a simpler operating structure which devolves decision investment in our existing businesses and selective acquisitions.
making to dedicated management teams, whilst ensuring scale At the same time, the Groups retirement benefit obligations services, such as Information Services IS are centralised and moved into surplus during the year on an International Financial appropriate levels of governance maintained.
We continued Reporting Standards IFRS basis, with a net 61.6m year end to perform in volatile markets, successfully recovering surplus pre-tax 2006 07: deficit 8.6m.
The Groups long history of unprecedented commodity inflation experienced in the year.
providing attractive pension benefits has resulted in a significant Material costs in the period were almost 5% higher than the pension asset and accompanying liability relative to the Groups prior year, representing an annualised impact of approximately size.
With good funding in place, we have initiated action to 40m.
We have sought to manage the risk of further increases reduce future volatility in the balance sheet.
Northern Foods plc | Performance review 9 To continue to deliver better performance, the Group needs KPI 2007 08 2006 07 excellent, motivated talent.
We want all our employees to profit 9 Revenue growth underlying 3.3% 3.1% together through our performance, in terms of career and skills Operating margin 5.2% 5.1% development and also financially.
During the year we invested Return on net assets RONA 13.7% 12.2% 1.1m in employee training and development programmes Free cash flow 39.0m 83.0m to support this agenda.
We also successfully implemented Debt ratio 2.0 times 1.8 times a savings-related share option scheme for all employees.
Return on invested capital ROIC 11.0% 10.2% Launched in November 2007, the scheme saw strong demand across the workforce with take up exceeding the 10 million shares available, necessitating a scale back of 11%, a sign of strong confidence in the Group from our dedicated, talented workforce.
Each KPI is defined and assessed within this review.
Non-financial Outlook KPIs are featured in the Corporate social responsibility report.
Investment in brand advertising and costs to commission the Grimsby soup facility during the first half year are expected Revenue The Group seeks to deliver selective, profitable increases to result in profit being more second half phased, in addition in revenue by focusing on attractive market segments with to the typical seasonal bias.
The net pensions financing credit strong growth potential in areas where margin is enhanced.
is expected to decline by approximately 6.5m compared to We continue to exit low margin and low volume products 2007 08 due to year end market factors.
In addition, we continue through selective range rationalisation.
This in turn reduces to explore opportunities to mitigate the adverse impact of the complexity and drives efficiency improvements in our facilities.
strong Euro on our Irish based business.
The Group has made good progress in selectively driving The current trading environment remains challenging, with profitable sales growth, whilst fully recovering commodity continuing commodity cost pressures which we are committed price increases.
Continuing revenue was up 4.9% at 931.9m to recovering.
Despite some caution, we expect the underlying 2006 07: 888.5m.
Underlying revenue growth, a key measure business to continue to make good progress in 2008 09. for the Group, was up 3.3%.
Prices increased by 2.8%, reflecting the commodity price recovery effect, whilst volumes were up Summary financial performance and dividend 0.5%.
Sales to the Groups top five customers by value Asda, Revenue grew to 931.9m 2006 07: 888.5m.
Profit from Marks & Spencer, Morrisons, Sainsburys and Tesco represent operations improved to 48.4m 2006 07: 45.7m, whilst lower 77% 2006 07: 77% of total revenue.
financing charges resulted in improved profit before taxation and restructuring items of 50.1m 2006 07: 40.0m.
With restructuring Operating margin items for continuing operations after taxation of 3.9m 2006 07: Profit from operations before restructuring items for continuing 3.9m, profit for the period was 34.5m 2006 07: loss 22.5m.
operations was 5.9% ahead of prior year at 48.4m 2006 07: 45.7m.
A strong performance in Chilled and Bakery was Earnings per share EPS from continuing operations before offset by lower profits in our Frozen division.
Commodity prices restructuring items increased strongly, up 20.9% to 7.88 pence increased markedly in the second half, especially in cereals, 2006 07: 6.52 pence, despite an increase in the effective tax rate dairy, cocoa and fats, reflecting difficult global market conditions to 23.4% 2006 07: 20.3%.
As a result, material costs were nearly 5% higher than the prior year.
Operating margin at Given the underlying improvement in the operational and financial 5.2% was slightly ahead of the prior year margin 2006 07: 5.1%, performance of the Group, the Board proposes a 5.9% increase despite the dilutive impact of recovering higher commodity costs.
in the total dividend payable in respect of 2007 08 performance to 4.50 pence per share 2006 07: 4.25 pence.
This represents RONA adjusted EPS cover of 1.8 times 2006 07: 1.5 times.
Board policy Whilst delivering a better operating margin is important, each is that future dividend growth will be driven by performance business is focused on driving stronger returns from the improvement, with dividends covered between 1.5 times and assets utilised in that business.
Better management of capital 2 times on an adjusted EPS basis and fully covered by free 10 investment, together with careful use of working capital cash flow in the medium term.
leads to improved asset utilisation.
The combination of margin and Subject to shareholder approval, a final dividend of 2.95 pence asset utilisation is measured through return on net assets per share 2006 07: 2.75 pence will be payable on 28 August 2008 RONA profit from operations divided by average operating to shareholders on the register at 8 August 2008. assets invested in the business.
Key performance indicators During the year RONA improved from 12.2% to 13.7%, reflecting Alongside absolute profit and debt measures, the Group uses improvements in both operating margin and asset utilisation.
several financial key performance indicators KPIs to measure We target 15% as a minimum medium term RONA for each progress, as follows: business and in 2007 08 the Chilled division made strong progress towards this target, whilst the Bakery division achieved a return well above this minimum target.
As indicated, the Frozen division had a difficult year, impacting RONA.
9 Underlying revenue excludes the impact of currency translation, product categories no longer manufactured, acquisitions and discontinued operations 10 Working capital is defined as inventories plus trade and other receivables less trade and other payables 10 Performance review | Northern Foods plc Profit 2007 08 2006 07 Net finance costs on external debt reduced by 4.2m at 14.0m m m 2006 07: 18.2m, reflecting lower average debt levels during Operating cash flow before working the year.
The Group was protected from short term interest rates capital & special pension contributions 84.0 89.9 driven higher by the credit crunch through its long term partial Movement in working capital 11.6 33.6 interest rate hedges.
An increase in the net pensions financing Net interest paid 13.6 18.6 credit of 3.2m to 15.7m 2006 07: 12.5m reflected the additional Net taxation paid 3.0 0.4 cash injected into the pension scheme and improved bond Capital expenditure 21.5 29.5 rates.
The combined effect of these pension and interest Asset sales 4.4 6.7 benefits saw the net finance charge improve by 7.4m, Grants received 0.3 1.3 with a credit in the current year of 1.7m 2006 07: cost 5.7m.
Free cash flow 39.0 83.0 Profit before taxation and restructuring items for continuing operations increased by 25.3% to 50.1m 2006 07: 40.0m.
Debt The charge for restructuring items before taxation was 4.7m Using its free cash flow, the Group invested 22.0m in selective 2006 07: 5.6m, relating primarily to rationalisation of the Frozen bolt-on acquisitions, comprising Ethnic Cuisine in November divisions Meat grills business and central cost reduction 2007 and the Baxters Foods chilled soup facility in January 2008, initiatives.
The charge for restructuring items comprised both in the Chilled Ready Meals business, and the rights to 2.2m in cash and 2.5m in non-cash items.
the brands and assets of the McDougalls pastry business in November 2007 in the Frozen division.
With a robust balance With an increase in the effective taxation rate to 23.4% 2006 07: sheet, ongoing opportunities will be considered for selective 20.3%, reflecting a lower proportion of profit being generated in acquisition in growth markets, where these can be delivered the Frozen division, which benefits from low Irish tax rates, Group profitably.
During 2007 08, the Group also received 6.7m in profit for the period was 34.5m 2006 07: loss 22.5m.
Adjusted deferred consideration from a previous disposal.
Net of restructuring items and discontinued businesses in the In addition, the Group spent 9.3m on restructuring prior year, basic EPS was 7.08 pence 2006 07: loss 4.60 pence.
programmes, including settlement of provisions relating to our strategic disposal programme and ongoing restructuring Free cash flow and capital management of both the corporate centre and the Frozen meat grills business.
A continued focus on cash management was supported A special pension contribution of 22.0m was made to the by our drive to achieve more profitable utilisation of existing principal UK pension scheme, following the disposal programme, capacity.
Using RONA as a KPI to embed this discipline across which completed the deficit reduction programme agreed with the Group, each business assesses its capital requirements, the trustee.
We currently expect only ongoing pension service utilising robust project evaluation techniques which evaluate contributions to be payable in the future.
The Group also spent 9.4m on share purchases.
A total Gross capital expenditure the purchase of property, plant of 6,056,846 shares were repurchased under a buy-back and equipment in the year was just 21.5m 2006 07: 29.5m, programme announced in December 2007 at a cost of 5.3m compared with depreciation and amortisation of 41.7m an average price of 87.4 pence per share, with the balance of 2006 07: 57.6m.
This represents 52% of depreciation 2006 07: purchases used to meet long term incentive plan requirements.
Key projects included the creation of new capacity in The share buy-back programme is expected to continue our Salads business at the Corby chilled site, together with in 2008 09.
2.1m on casseroles and cooking capacity in Ready Meals and packaging efficiency investment in our Biscuits business.
With dividend cash payments of 21.0m during the year We expect capital expenditure to increase in the new financial 2006 07: 11.5m, the resultant net debt at the balance sheet date year as we invest in a number of capacity and efficiency was 200.2m 2006 07: 174.2m.
This level of debt, the majority of improvement projects across the Group, including seasonal which is at fixed rates, continues to position the Group favourably biscuits packing automation in the Bakery division.
Asset in current volatile credit markets.
A key measure of our financial disposals generated 4.4m 2006 07: 6.7m, as we continued 11 flexibility is our debt ratio.
This is the ratio of net debt to EBITDA to identify and release non-productive assets.
calculated under frozen UK GAAP the accounting basis used Despite the unprecedented inflationary increases, which when the Groups current financing facilities were established.
particularly impacted our Bakery and Frozen businesses This is targeted to be below 3.5 times, the limit imposed by our where a larger proportion of Group inventory and receivables financing agreements.
For 2007 08, the debt ratio was 2.0 times are carried, working capital remained tightly managed, increasing 2006 07: 1.8 times.
by 11.6m in existing businesses during the year.
At the balance sheet date, working capital remained favourably negative, at ROIC 25.9 m 2006 07: 29.7 m. Group total equity improved to 165.4m 2006 07: 121.2m, reflecting the strong profit for the period and the movement As a result of these successes, following a step change of the Groups retirement benefit obligation into surplus.
improvement in free cash flow in the previous year, the Group The Groups return on invested capital ROIC, measuring has maintained its disciplines over cash management and the pre-tax return on shareholders invested capital, improved generated further free cash flow of 39.0m 2006 07: 83.0m.
during the year to 11.0% 2006 07: 7.8% for the overall business, Free cash flow measures the cash generated by the Group from 10.2% for the continuing business.
its normal trading activities and represents the cash available after paying tax and interest costs, for example, to finance dividends and acquisition activity.
It is analysed as follows: 11 EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
It is calculated as profit from operations before restructuring items plus depreciation and amortisation Northern Foods plc | Performance review 11 Chilled 13.2% 481.5m 22.1m RONA increased to 13.2% Continuing revenue Continuing profit from 2006 07: 8.6% up 7.8% to 481.5m operations up 51.4% 2006 07: 446.7m to 22.1m 2006 07: 14.6m The Chilled division delivered improved performance growing revenue, operating margin and profit From a 19.5% share, Northern Foods delivered 47.0% of the total ready meal market growth Sandwiches & Salads continued to go from strength to strength, with underlying sales 5.0% ahead 2007 08 has seen a strong performance from the Chilled The focus for the Chilled division businesses Sandwiches & Salads and Ready Meals.
is on making fresh, short shelf life Sandwiches & Salads has continued its profitable growth, securing greater volumes in each of its markets.
Ready Meals products which meet consumers has continued to rationalise its product range, creating centres of excellence which add value through delivering genuinely desires for convenient, high quality market leading products, manufactured efficiently, whilst food that reflects the demands of identifying unprofitable business to be exited.
As a result, the Chilled division delivered improved performance, successfully growing revenue, operating margin and profits.
With a long standing enviable reputation for delivering superior Total sales growth of 7.8% reflected both acquisition and quality, service and innovation, the division has focused in the underlying revenue growth in the existing businesses of 5.6%.
last two years on driving more profitable growth, whilst reducing Underlying revenue was 471.8m 2006 07: 446.7m.
Underlying high cost complexity in its operations.
volume was 4.6% ahead, whilst average selling prices were 1.0% higher as higher commodity costs were successfully recovered during the year.
14 Performance review | Northern Foods plc Continuing profit from operations for the Chilled division whilst unlocking efficiencies through our procurement capability.
increased by 51.4% to 22.1m 2006 07: 14.6m, whilst operating As a consequence, 2007 08 saw the consolidation of two bolt-on margin improved to 4.6% 2006 07: 3.3%.
This strong performance acquisitions within Ready Meals.
Ethnic Cuisine was acquired in was driven by a continued focus on simplification, combined November 2007.
A supplier of Oriental ready meals to Sainsburys, with growth delivered by making great tasting food which Ethnic Cuisine is a profitable business, with a strong reputation achieved strong repeat purchase rates and demonstrated for quality.
This acquisition extended our ready meals base above average category growth.
Offering scope for expansion through selective investment, the integration of the Ethnic Cuisine The divisions improved profitability, combined with limited capital business is progressing on plan and the facility enjoyed investment, delivered an improved RONA of 13.2% 2006 07: 8.6%.
Whilst this performance is encouraging, we believe that significant further progress can be made to achieve better returns in Chilled.
This acquisition was supplemented in January 2008 with the purchase of the Baxters Foods chilled soup facility in Grimsby.
Acquiring this well invested but empty plant allows us to transfer Ready Meals our capacity constrained soup business during Summer 2008, The Ready Meals business consolidated its market leadership into a highly automated bespoke production site with significant in the sector.
Driving efficiency, the Riverside facility was exited, capacity to add new customers in this fast growing category.
allowing transfer and consolidation of M&S business into centres The plant is expected to become profitable in 2009 10. of excellence at Sheffield and Carlisle.
Reaching new customers, we acquired long time Sainsburys supplier Ethnic Cuisine: with Sandwiches & Salads our Asda and Morrisons business serviced from Hull, we now Sandwiches & Salads continued to go from strength to have four customers in this business unit.
Underlying sales were ahead 5.0% in the period, innovation and quality, Northern Foods delivered 47% of the total despite unseasonably poor summer weather.
Strong cost market growth from just a 19.5% market share TNS Worldpanel control, together with selected product development, 52w e 23 3 08. maintained a robust margin performance.
Excluding In Sandwiches, our sales grew at 4.2% over the year, slightly acquisition, underlying revenue was up 6.2%, outperforming behind the total market growth of 7.0% overall market growth which slowed to 2.2% during the year AC Nielsen 52 w e and which we forecast to turn negative in 2008 09 before 15 03 08.
Sustained innovation is a feature of this market, with returning to growth.
Our products continued to attract both new regular range refresh for our customers resulting in over 25% shoppers and drive frequency of purchase.
A strong innovation of new products every year.
The business demonstrated its process supports the introduction of new products, which this continued ability to stay in tune with consumer demand and year included Melting Middle fishcakes for M&S and Slow Cooked create value for both our customers and shareholders.
Lamb with Roasted Vegetables for Asda.
We also updated Successful new recipe variants launched during the year classic recipes, such as M&S Chicken Curry, responding to included a Ploughmans Baguette for Tesco and a Houmous changing consumer tastes.
Once again, the business had some strong Christmas specials, such as the Turkey Feast for M&S.
We are focused on delivering acceptable profitability to create shareholder value from this business.
Profitability in Ready Meals Our prepared Salads business also performed well, improved during the year, as we actively managed our existing characterised by premium recipes such as Tuna & Sweetcorn product portfolio to exit products which add operational and Salmon & Dill Pasta salads for Sainsburys.
Our sales grew complexity and cost, without delivering a commensurate return.
by 15.6%, outperforming market growth of 14.0% AC Nielsen 52 In August 2007, we completed our planned exit from our former w e 22 03 08.
Our 9m investment in additional salad capacity Riverside facility in Nottingham, which had been sold as part at our Corby facility was commissioned on schedule in May 2008 of the disposal programme in January 2007.
Production was and will provide us with further capacity for growth in this attractive successfully transferred, principally into our Carlisle and Sheffield market during Summer 2008.
In the more mature wet Salads facilities, helping drive greater efficiencies in those plants.
market, our sales grew by 4.2%, ahead of the market, where growth slowed to 2.6% due to disappointing summer weather.
In addition, in May 2008, we announced the proposed mothballing of our Fenland Foods facility in Grantham, which Our chilled Pizza sales grew by 2.0% in the year, although produces Italian based cuisine for M&S but which is unprofitable.
profitability in this predominantly retailer own brand ROB We were unable to reach agreement to return Fenland to business was diluted by the impact of increased promotional profitability, consistent with our stated strategy to continue with activity across our customers.
New product development business only where terms generate an adequate return for included Stuffed Crust and Finest products for Tesco, with our the Groups shareholders.
The mothballing proposal is not Tomato & Mozzarella Tuscan Pizza becoming the top selling expected to impact materially the Groups profit before tax and Finest product.
We also entered the chilled pizza market with restructuring items.
However, subject to employee consultation, the launch of our Goodfellas brand, the market leader in frozen it is expected to result in a cash restructuring cost and a pizza.
The Signatore range was launched into test market in non-cash write down of asset value in the 2008 09 financial October 2007 and will, we believe, attract a significant share results.
At 29 March 2008 the facility had a net book value of of chilled sales over the medium term.
Given the facilitys excellent track record and reputation, we are seeking new customers with whom to In our niche sushi market, new product variants were develop the site in the future.
supplemented in the second half year with additional investment in authentic production capacity.
We have identified opportunities for Northern Foods to consolidate its leading position, by acquiring strong independent players with established customer relationships and under utilised production capabilities.
We believe we can leverage our strong commitment to product quality, service and innovation, Northern Foods plc | Performance review 15 Frozen 10.0% 245.4m 11.4m RONA declined to 10.0% Continuing revenue Continuing profit from 2006 07: 14.9% up 0.4% to 245.4m operations down 38.0% 2006 07: 244.5m to 11.4m 2006 07: 18.4m Action plan initiated to address Frozen performance The successful integration of the McDougalls pastry business in March 2008 will benefit the new financial year In Pizza, Goodfellas continues to lead the market with brand share remaining number one at over 30% Our Irish Fish business continued to deliver strong growth of 16.3% 2007 08 saw poor summer weather, intense promotional activity The focus for our Frozen division and a strong Euro combine to create a difficult year for the is to consolidate our market division.
In Pizza, our Goodfellas brand held its market leadership, although Pizza profitability was lower than last year impacted leadership across key categories by currency and tough trading conditions in ROB.
Our Fish & Vegetables business performed strongly, but both our Pastry in this branded but highly and Meat & Meat-free grills businesses underperformed, promoted market.
adversely impacting both revenue and profitability.
We took steps during the year to address these issues, including acquiring the rights to the McDougalls pastry brand and assets, This brings opportunities to improve profitability over time and restructuring at our Meat grills business and the launch of the to bring further innovation and development to staple consumer George Foreman Lean Mean Grillers range.
18 Performance review | Northern Foods plc Total sales revenue was 0.4% higher at 245.4m 2006 07: Fish & Vegetables 244.5m, with underlying revenue 1.6% lower.
Average selling Our Fish & Vegetables business performed strongly.
Donegal prices were 2.8% higher as we successfully recovered higher Catch, our market leading AC Nielsen 52 w e 22 03 08 Irish commodity costs although volumes were lower by 4.4%.
branded Fish business continued to deliver strong value growth The division has been working hard to reverse this trend in of 16.3%, outperforming market growth of 4.6% AC Nielsen performance.
The successful integration of the McDougalls 52 w e 22 03 08.
New seafood and naked fillet ranges were pastry business, completed in March 2008, will benefit the successfully launched, reflecting increased consumer preference new financial year.
for fish as part of a healthy diet.
Donegal Catch recently launched its first product with a leading retailer in the UK Continuing profit from operations for the Frozen division and the initial rate of sale is encouraging.
Operating margin Green Isle Frozen Vegetable brand also performed well.
has continued to be constrained, with a strengthening Euro adversely impacting profitability of the divisions Irish operations Pastry, Meat & Meat-Free Grills by 1.2 million.
Divisional operating margin declined to 4.6% Recovering from loss making positions in Meat grills and Pastry 2006 07: 7.5% and RONA declined to 10.0% 2006 07: 14.9%.
Our Meat grills business missed out on its important barbeque season due to the poor summer weather.
Pizza A restructuring programme was implemented in October, In Pizza, our Goodfellas brand continues to lead the market, resulting in the loss of 80 jobs and a significant reduction supported by ongoing product innovation and marketing in the cost base at the Dalepak site.
We also launched a new support.
In 2007 08, our UK brand share in frozen remained grill range, under the George Foremans Lean Mean Grillers number one at over 30% AC Nielsen 52 w e 22 03 08, with brand in the second half year.
This features recipes such as a UK and Irish retail brand value exceeding 130 million.
Lemon and Black Pepper Salmon fillets and Chargrilled Chicken fillets, in line with the growth in the premium, healthier cooking As expected, volumes in our Pizza business declined during the market.
Trade interest has been good and we continue to build autumn as a result of the rapid and successful action taken to market presence with this range.
We have also acquired the recover significant commodity cost increases, including on flour, rights to Gardein Protein, a meat-free raw material which will oils & fats, and dairy.
Goodfellas recovered share in the fourth allow us to expand in this growth market, alongside our quarter as overall market prices increased and we restored our Grassingtons product range.
promotional activity to consolidate our leadership.
Overall for the year, Pizza revenues increased slightly.
We also took determined action to restore profitability in Frozen Pastry.
Over the past two years, falling demand and excess Constant innovation and ongoing range refreshes continued industry capacity have destroyed value.
In October 2007, we to drive Goodfellas performance.
In October, we extended the acquired the production assets, trade marks and licences for Goodfellas brand into the chilled cabinet with the launch of the Upper Crust, Tiffany and McDougalls frozen pastry brands.
The chilled pizza market is growing at 8.4% per annum Our integration of these into our existing production capacity AC Nielsen 52 w e 22 03 08 and, in 2006, overtook the frozen in Portumna, Ireland is now complete.
The acquisition allows market in total value.
Signatore is establishing itself in line with us to tackle oversupply, improve factory efficiency and enhance expectations and supports our long term ambition to be the our product offering to customers.
At the same time, our actions number one supermarket pizza brand in the UK.
We expect to improve performance of our regional Hollands pastry brand to continue to grow sales in the coming year.
A 2m marketing delivered some early success.
campaign for the Goodfellas brand, and specifically Signatore, began at the start of the new financial year.
In a highly price sensitive market, it is also key to maximise operational efficiency.
Frozen pizza supply is Continental Europebased, with our major competitors based in Germany and Italy.
To compete effectively, this requires a Eurozone based production facility, ours being in Ireland.
However, with nearly 70% of our Irish production exported to the UK, the increasing strength of the Euro progressively impacted the profitability of the Irish business, by 1.2m in 2007 08.
Were the Euro to remain at the closing 2007 08 exchange rate throughout 2008 09, a further adverse impact of over 4m could result.
Given this impacts the whole supply base, some price recovery is anticipated.
However, we are also partially offsetting this through ongoing productivity gains.
During the last financial year, significant improvements were introduced at our Naas facility, reducing further labour utilised in the production process.
Northern Foods plc | Performance review 19 Bakery 21.0% 205.0m 14.9m RONA increased 37.3% Continuing revenue Continuing profit from to 21.0% 2006 07: 15.3% up 3.9% to 205.0m operations up 17.3% to 2006 07: 197.3m 14.9m 2006 07: 12.7m The progress made in our Bakery performance has been particularly pleasing The biscuits market Our Puddings offers opportunities business had another for significant profit successful Christmas improvement over trading period the medium term The division entered 2007 08 with declining revenue and margin.
The focus in the Bakery division It is therefore encouraging to note the improvement in both is to sell premium indulgent performance metrics during the year as the early benefits of greater focus were delivered.
Foxs biscuits and Matthew Total sales revenue for the division was ahead by 3.9% to Walker puddings which meet 205.0m 2006 07: 197.3m.
Underlying revenue was ahead consumer desires for quality, 3.9% in the full year, with average selling prices up 6.6%, with the successful recovery of significant commodity cost increases, taste and enjoyment.
Volume reduced by 2.7%, reflecting the impact of exiting both unprofitable private label contracts Consequently, the year has seen a strong focus on innovative and reducing promotional activity in Biscuits.
The Matthew Walker branding, relaunch and repackaging of the product range, and puddings business also grew volume, with the successful adding real value to the consumer proposition.
Deliberately, the launch of The Pudding for the key Christmas season and division has become less busy, targeting where its brands and further development of an all year round sponge offer.
products really work and reducing wasteful promotional activity.
22 Performance review | Northern Foods plc Continuing profit from operations for the Bakery division Greater focus is being delivered by improving the effectiveness increased by 17.3% to 14.9m 2006 07: 12.7m.
Operating margin of promotions across all three sectors: 7% fewer sales were improved to 7.3% 2006 07: 6.4%.
This reflected the benefits of made on promotion during the year.
We also exited a number improvements in factory efficiency and reduced complexity of low margin products to reduce production complexity.
in the Biscuits business, together with improved profitability in In the last 12 months, 28% of the entire product range has Puddings.
This improvement in profitability, together with strong been removed, whilst we continue to innovate where we can capital management, increased RONA to 21.0% 2006 07: 15.3%.
Biscuits Greater efficiency was initiated during the year, with investment In Biscuits, a new management structure has successfully in a number of automation projects which we anticipate will created dedicated teams which address the very different deliver cost reductions and improved operational efficiency needs of the All Year Round Branded, Seasonal Speciality across our Biscuit production sites.
We are currently investing and ROB sectors in which the Biscuits business operates.
3 million to automate seasonal packing, delivering major Each market has different consumer needs, different customer productivity benefits.
selling requirements and different manufacturing needs.
New management talent has joined the business, whilst Taken together, these actions are expected to drive further streamlining of the manufacturing and indirect cost base improvement in Biscuits profitability over the medium term.
around this structure will further strengthen focus and efficiency.
Puddings As outlined to shareholders in our October 2007 strategic The Puddings business had another successful Christmas update, we believe that the Biscuits market offers opportunity trading period.
Building on its market leading Christmas pudding for significant profit improvement over the medium term.
position, Matthew Walker successfully launched The Pudding, The sweet biscuit market grew by 6.3% in 2007 08 AC Nielsen 52 a new premium branded offer for Christmas 2007, which w e 22 03 08 sweet biscuit market and, although the Foxs performed exceptionally well in taste tests and received a brand share of this market reduced slightly from 9.5% to 8.6%, Gold Award in the UKs Great Taste Awards.
Commanding this reflected deliberate action to improve profitability by exiting a strong price premium, sales in the first year of launch, test marginal promotions.
The brand is well placed to exploit its marketed with one customer, were very encouraging and quirky character, its reputation for superior chocolate indulgence provide a platform for future growth alongside our existing and a strong new product pipeline in its heartland product ROB, foodservice and export ranges of Christmas puddings.
In addition, there are significant opportunities to drive productivity improvements across the manufacturing base.
We continue to focus on providing a full range of puddings to our customers, offering a wide range of high quality ROB Our new brand strategy will ensure that we maximise the puddings, both for lovers of traditional recipes and for those strengths of the Foxs brand.
This review has refocused the seeking alternatives, such as nut free or gluten free puddings.
brand on grown up indulgence, seasonal gifting and on the In addition, new investment in capacity will increase production go snacking chocolate biscuit bars, where Foxs premium of our all year round puddings, such as our successful Fairtrade positioning is strongest.
Building on these areas of strength, chocolate and sponge puddings for the Co-op.
Matthew Walker rather than the more commoditised areas of the market, continues to provide a successful platform for future growth in will further improve business performance.
For example, this niche market.
our Chunkie Cookies, Viennese Melts and Chocolatey Shortcake Rounds all enjoy rates of sale well above the average, demonstrating the appeal, taste and quality of our products.
Similarly, our technology in Creams gives us the number one position AC Nielsen Scantrack MAT 19 04 08 Total Coverage in this segment of the market and we are actively innovating to grow this area of our portfolio.
To support this strategy, a new Foxs logo and pack design strategy was developed during the year and this has now been rolled out across the entire brand portfolio, creating a compelling on shelf presence.
A new 5 million advertising campaign, launched in June 2008, will build further awareness of our refreshed and refocused Foxs brand.
In our Seasonal speciality business we are the market leader and in 2007 08 we delivered more revenue from the Christmas gifting market.
Our ROB business is being progressively refocused around fewer, more premium orientated product lines which complement our branded pedigree.
Northern Foods plc | Performance review 23 raised as fixed interest debt.
At the year end, 71% of the Groups Pensions net debt was fixed in this way.
Board approval is required for Following completion of the deficit funding programme for use of any interest rate derivative.
Interest cover at year end the principal UK pension scheme, the balance of assets the ratio of EBITDA to net interest charge, measured under over liabilities for total Group post retirement benefit schemes, frozen UK GAAP had improved to 7.1 times 2006 07: 6.2 times.
calculated under International Accounting Standard IAS 19, has improved during 2007 08.
This has resulted in a net deficit Currency risk management occurs at a transactional level for of 8.6m before taxation at 1 April 2007 becoming a net surplus example, in purchasing ingredients in foreign currencies and of 61.6m before taxation at 29 March 2008.
This includes at a translational level for example, in relation to Irish operations recognising increased longevity, with a move to the medium or foreign currency debt.
Board policy is to hedge transactional cohort mortality assumption.
Whilst the assets of the schemes exposures using forward foreign exchange contracts wherever have reduced during the year following the falls in global equity material and feasible, whilst translational exposures are generally markets, corporate bond rates have risen following the credit unhedged although may be offset against transactional impacts crunch and consequently liabilities have also reduced.
The US private placement debt has been hedged using currency swaps of similar maturity subject to a Both the balance of pension assets and liabilities, and the net one off right for the counterparty bank to break the swap after pensions financing credit in the income statement, are likely seven years.
to remain volatile in future on the current investment basis.
In 2008 09 the net pensions financing credit is expected to Risks and uncertainties decline by approximately 6.5m compared to 2007 08 due The operation of a public company involves a series of risks and to year end market factors.
uncertainties across a range of strategic, commercial, operational and financial areas.
Northern Foods has a robust internal control Northern Foods long history of providing defined benefit and risk management process, as outlined in the Corporate pensions to its employees has resulted in a sizeable liability governance report, which is designed to provide assurance but and asset on the Groups balance sheet.
Work is well advanced which cannot avoid all risks.
Outlined below are potential risks that aimed at reducing, but not eliminating, the potential for future could impact the Companys performance, causing actual results funding volatility caused by both the schemes liability profile to vary from those experienced previously or described in forward and the current asset allocation.
This will be achieved by the looking statements within this document.
These risks are monitored progressive introduction of a liability driven approach to the on an ongoing basis through the Companys risk management investment programme, whilst, at the same time, recognising processes.
Additional risks and uncertainties not identified may that the future service accrual needs to remain affordable to also have an adverse material effect on the Company.
both the Company and scheme members.
Customer relationships the Company seeks to manage the risks presented by its consolidated customer base, and the The trustee of the principal UK scheme is also conducting highly competitive environment that characterises the industry a triennial scheme valuation as at 31 March 2008.
The current which generally operates without long term contracts, through company ordinary cash contribution rate is 9.9% of payroll, its high service, high quality, low cost model targeted across a cash cost in 2007 08 of 6.8m 2006 07: 13.4m.
This is not a portfolio of markets where it has strong positions.
This is expected to change in 2008 09.
The future cost of delivering supported by product development programmes and by benefits beyond the current year is currently under review in light maintaining and developing strong robust relationships of current benefit costs and the scheme investment strategy.
with customers: Consumer trends exposure to changing consumer trends Financing and treasury management can impact profitability.
The Company seeks to manage these The Group has a centralised treasury function, which operates through portfolio changes, with greater weight towards growth within a policy framework approved by the Board.
The policy was trends which include health, convenience and indulgence, reviewed by the Board during the period and the Board receives for example, by managing new product innovation to expand a monthly update on compliance.
The principal areas of treasury sales in these areas, while managing the exposure to declining management and respective policies cover the management market sectors: of liquidity risk, interest rate risk and currency risk.
Operational disruption the short lead times involved in servicing our customers can lead to an adverse impact from Liquidity risk management ensures sufficient debt funding is disruption to our manufacturing and distribution facilities for available for the Groups day to day needs.
Board policy is to example, by fire, health and safety failure, problems of supply, maintain reasonable headroom of unused, committed bank information systems failure, workforce action or environmental facilities in a range of maturities at least twelve months beyond incident.
This is managed through a process including systems the year end.
Current committed facilities are a 2010 Revolving of standard operating procedure, regulatory compliance, credit facility of 460m and 20122017 Senior loan notes of dedicated steering groups, monitoring, audit, consultation US$155m and 54.3m private placement bonds.
The facilities remain committed and available, subject to certain conditions, and multiple sourcing.
Insurance cover is maintained where which are in line with typical commercial borrowing arrangements.
appropriate but may not cover all risks and losses: The principal conditions require sufficient coverage of the last New legislation, regulation and litigation Northern Foods twelve month EBITDA to each of net debt and interest charge manages a range of regulatory requirements regarding the covenants, which are tested half yearly see debt ratio under production, sale, safety, labelling, composition ingredients KPIs on page 10. and disposal of its products.
Compliance monitoring and proactive initiatives seek to manage this risk.
Litigation claims Interest risk management balances debt financing as a tool and proceedings can have an adverse effect on the to improve returns through leverage in the capital structure, with Companys results: the potential for higher interest rates to impact profits negatively.
Change management, recruitment and retention ongoing Board policy is to operate with fixed rate borrowings within a change requires close management attention and the range of 20% to 50% of total net borrowings over the medium Company has experience of managing such risks and has term although the Group may and has operated outside this action plans to mitigate them, including Board oversight and range in the short term.
The US private placement bonds were project management processes.
Failure to implement and 24 Performance review | Northern Foods plc Provisions using information available at the balance sheet complete change can impact financial results, employee date, the directors make judgements based on experience recruitment and retention, with the latter also subject to the on the level of provision required.
Further information availability of a suitable pool of domestic and overseas staff.
received after the balance sheet date may impact the Proactive initiatives for this are included in the Corporate level of provision required: responsibility report: Share based payments in accordance with IFRS 2 ShareManaging procurement costs exposure to price and based payments, share options and other share awards are supply fluctuations for raw materials and services is managed measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The valuation of by a central procurement function, to better negotiate with these share based payments requires several judgements relationship based suppliers, agreeing forward prices where to be made in respect of the number of options that are appropriate and available.
The Company seeks to pass expected to be exercised.
Details of the assumptions are on cost increases, where possible, to its customers through disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
price rises but constraints in achieving this can affect the Changes in these assumptions could lead to changes in the Companys results: income statement expense in future periods: Food safety appropriate product manufacturing, storage Impairment the Group has reviewed the carrying value of and avoidance of contamination are critical.
Standard goodwill and fixed assets and, from time to time, has impaired manufacturing and distribution protocols are in place, together certain fixed asset values on a value in use basis.
Future changes with proven product recall processes for product recovery.
in performance or disposals could impact these values.
Widespread food scares can impact directly through the sale of a contaminated product or indirectly through lack of supply In addition to its key accounting judgements, the Group has or reduced consumer demand: significant accounting policies for revenue recognition, foreign Environment the Company maintains environmental policies currencies, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, and relationships with relevant regulators to manage the impact inventories, and derivative financial instruments and hedge its activities have on the environment.
In addition, the Company accounting, which are set out in the notes to the consolidated has an active programme described in the Corporate social financial statements.
responsibility report to reduce this impact over time.
Nevertheless, changes in environmental legislation or unplanned incidents Basis of preparation could impact the Companys operations adversely: This financial information has been prepared in accordance Business continuity the Group is at risk to disruption at key with IFRS.
The comparative information for 2006 07 has been sites from incidents such as a major fire which could result amended to reflect the change to the presentation of the net in significant operational issues.
Our businesses have incident pensions financing credit which has been moved from profit management processes and continuity plans in place to from operations into finance items.
manage the impact of such an event as well as insurance to mitigate the financial impact.
A major update of these plans Forward looking statements is currently in progress: Forward looking statements are made throughout this Annual Financial risks the Company has committed financing in report, including in the Performance review, the Directors report place, which can only be withdrawn in the event of a breach and the Directors remuneration report.
These forward looking of financing agreement, such as covenants, when the Company statements are based on a number of assumptions concerning might be restricted in its ability to operate normally and could future events and information currently available.
The user of be required to dispose of assets to pay down debt and incur these accounts should not rely unduly on these forward looking additional costs.
Pension schemes could require increases statements, which are not a guarantee of performance and which in future Company funding and pension regulation could are subject to a number of uncertainties and other facts, many restrict the freedom of the Company to undertake certain of which are outside of the Companys control and could cause corporate activities including disposals and return of capital actual events to differ materially from those in these statements.
The Company has certain tax exposures in addition to trading tax balances.
These exposures total 28.5m Although Northern Foods believes that the expectations which are provided for but which, in the event of an adverse reflected in those forward looking statements are reasonable, finding by taxation authorities, could result in a substantial it cannot assure users that those expectations will prove to be payment of cash.
In addition to those factors described under Risks and uncertainties other factors could cause actual results to differ Key accounting judgements materially from our expectation, including economic and political Taking into account this analysis of risks and uncertainties, the conditions, changes in laws, regulation and accounting key accounting judgements which could impact future financial standards, customer relationships and actions, effectiveness performance include the following: of spending and marketing programmes and unusual weather Pensions movements in asset markets, interest rates and life patterns.
No guarantee can be given of future results, levels expectancy could materially affect the level of surpluses and of activity, performance or achievements.
deficits in the pension schemes.
The key assumptions used to value pension liabilities are set out in the notes to the financial Comparative statements statements: In this report, Northern Foods makes certain statements with Tax the Group carries out tax management consistent with respect to its market position or its products or its brands a business of its size, and makes appropriate provision, based on best estimates, until tax computations are agreed with the market positions by comparisons with third parties or their tax authorities: products or brands.
These statements are based on both Useful economic life estimates the Group reviews the useful internal sources and independent sources and are accurate economic lives attributed to assets on an ongoing basis to the best of the knowledge and belief of Northern Foods.
to ensure they are appropriate.
Changes in economic life could impact the carrying value and charges to the income statement in future periods: Northern Foods plc | Performance review 25
