8 Business Review 2008: Performance Review As a result of the early management decisions we had taken, The Market we reduced debt in the second half of the year to leave us The UK housing market has experienced one of the most with total borrowings of 599m, down from 906m at the severe downturns in activity due to a significant reduction in half year.
This debt reduction was assisted by a corporation tax mortgage availability and the loss of buyer confidence.
As a repayment received in November from HMRC of c. 150m.
result, 2008 has been a year of change for Persimmon during The continued deterioration of the housing market led us which we have redefined and refocused our business.
to review the value of our land and work in progress.
We saw the first signs of the impact of the credit tightening We announced a provision of 40m at the time of our half in September 2007 which produced a lower forward order year results.
However, with the worsening of the banking book for 2008 down by 14% from the previous year.
crisis and its growing impact on the economy and During the first quarter of 2008 market concerns regarding employment, we experienced poorer market conditions credit availability and consumer confidence resulted in a against which we have assessed the net realisable value of 17% reduction in visitor numbers to our sites compared to our land holdings.
This exercise has resulted in an overall 2007.
However, our reservations declined by c. 30% showing provision requirement of 652m, which is in line with the a noticeable disconnection between the number of visitors guidance given in our Interim Management Statement in to site and the number of reservations, which are normally October 2008. aligned with each other.
This clearly indicated that the The continued weakening of the market has resulted in shortage of credit was having an adverse impact on further restructuring and a reduction in our staffing levels to the business.
c. 2,300, a process which is now complete.
Since early 2008 In April mortgage provision tightened and our reservation we have reduced our operational and administrative staff by levels reduced further.
We had already limited our exposure c. 55%.
However, we retain our strong geographical coverage to further land expenditure as a result of the increasing with 25 regional offices.
uncertainties in the housing market, and took the decision to reduce further our work in progress commitment on site.
Refinancing We also postponed the start of all new developments at that In order to ensure the business has a secure long term time.
As a result, we have been able to reduce our stock platform from which to operate, we have agreed new terms properties by c. 36%, which now stand at c. 850 units.
and conditions for the amendment of our existing credit We offered more incentives to maintain our sales rates facilities.
Our revised UK banking agreement provides a three and reduced prices, which culminated in a 5% reduction year committed facility from the combination of our existing in selling prices in the first half of the year.
revolving credit facility and a new Forward Start Facility with As a consequence of the market outlook and downturn in our key banking partners.
The Forward Start Facility matures our sales reservations, we have restructured the business to on 31 March 2012.
We have also taken the opportunity to match staffing levels to the lower anticipated sales volumes.
adjust some of our covenants to reflect the current environment for both the UK revolving credit facility and the During the quiet summer months we were able to maintain private loan notes we have in issue.
Final documentation is reservations at the lower levels experienced in April.
However, this was achieved at the expense of further reductions to selling prices and increased incentives which, in turn, created pressure on our operating margins.
During September the deepening of the banking crisis, both in the US and UK, had a further impact on consumer sentiment and an increase in the rate of price decline.
The impact was a further 10% reduction to the underlying selling price for the second half of the year.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008 9 Business Review 2008: Performance Review continued Divisional Structure Our geographic In order to maintain our capability for the future we have retained three divisions and maintained the three core brands: Persimmon, Charles Church andWestbury Partnerships.
We spread enhances have reduced the number of our operating businesses from 36 to 25 with a number of operating businesses dual branding the number of sales Persimmon and Charles Church.
This reduction was as a result of the slower economy and poorer consumer sentiment experienced in theYorkshire and North West regions.
In Scotland the market remained stronger in the first half although we experienced a reduction in activity during the second half of the year.
Prices remained resilient in the North East as a result of our existing competitive pricing strategy.
We have reduced the number of operating businesses from fifteen to eight and this reduction has been evenly distributed throughout the division.
In order to balance the Groups volumes, the NorthWest region was transferred into the North division from the Central division.
We retain two operating businesses in Scotland, with our Partnerships brand operating from theWest Scotland office and Charles Church brand operating from the East Scotland office.
The average selling price for the North division fell to 157,157 a 10% reduction on prior year.
We completed 420 affordable homes in the North which equates to 15% of the homes sold in the division.
Central Division The number of homes sold in this division was 2,748 2007: 4,224.
The average selling price reduced from 176,672 in 2007 to 164,614.
The Central division housing market has been stronger in the outskirts of London and the Shires, but pricing has been more competitive in and around Birmingham, particularly in the apartment market.
We have retained eight operating businesses in the Central division, a small reduction from our previous level of ten businesses.
We have been successful in completing 780 affordable homes equating to 28% of homes sold in the division.
We achieved Above Persimmon Homes, Saltersgate, Lugton, East Scotland particularly strong performances from the East Midlands and Below Charles Church, St Pauls on the Green, Haywards Heath, East Sussex Anglia companies, which have a longer established record in this market.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008 10 Business Review 2008: Performance Review continued South Division in these locations in the future.
Westbury Partnerships has recently been granted preferred bidder status with Sarsen In this division there has been a 33% reduction of homes Housing Association for a PFI scheme of 400 homes in sold to 2,436 2007: 3,609 and of these, 547 were affordable WestWiltshire.
homes, which represents 22% of the divisions legal completions.
For Persimmon, this was the strongest In 2008 the Persimmon Group completed 2,389 affordable performance of the three divisions in terms of maintaining home units, an increase of 22% over the prior year.
As a sales volumes, whilst pricing has remained under pressure Group we recognised the need for the expansion of with an underlying reduction of 7%.
This stronger volume affordable housing in this country and therefore our decision performance has resulted in only two operating businesses to invest in this activity has proved to be particularly being closed.
This division retains nine businesses.
beneficial when the general housing market is so difficult.
Our close working relationship with Homes & Communities Charles Church Agency and strong contacts with a number of substantial Housing Associations throughout the UK will enable us to Despite challenging conditions the Charles Church brand has sustain affordable housing volumes for the Group in 2009. performed well completing 1,924 homes 2007:2,579, with the volume of homes sold increasing in Southern andWales, Space4 where we legally completed three large apartment schemes that had strong forward sales from 2007.
The reduction in the This has been a very challenging year for the Space4 business number of homes sold year on year by Charles Church was less which completed 1,238 units compared to 2,629 in 2007. marked than for Persimmon, although the average sales price This reduction is a combination of reduced demand from the reduced by 13% to 222,535 as compared to 257,009 in Persimmon Group and a loss of sales to external purchasers 2007.
We completed 301 affordable homes from the Charles due to a lower level of demand for new homes.
In order to Church business representing 16% of its total output.
meet increasing sustainability requirements for our new homes and improve operational efficiency Space4 has Westbury Partnerships developed a new Eco-housing range which has been well received by both our business and external partners and has Our specialistWestbury Partnerships operation is continuing resulted in an increase of our forward order book to c. 1,900 to grow having completed 341 units 2007: 296, a 15% units compared to c. 1,550 units a year ago.
The team continues to develop its close working relationships with a number of Housing Associations and has successfully completed schemes in Bristol and Portishead, which should lead to further business 50 32 31 27 27 27 32 31 19 19 18 21 20 15 14 14 2 1 Detached Semi Town house Apartment Bungalow 150,000 150,000 to 200,000 to 250,000 detached 199,999 249,999 1 Source NHBC New House Building statistics 2008 calendar year.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008 11 Business Review 2008: Performance Review continued Landbank Currently our landbank stands at 69,279 plots owned and Building affordable under control.
This compares to 78,863 plots in 2007.
Based on current output this equates to 6.8 years land supply and homes for all.
provides us with significant flexibility.
Since last April we have reviewed the Groups entire land holding and have been very selective when deciding which sites we propose to start developing.
In light of the current market conditions we have taken the opportunity to re-plan a number of sites, reducing the number of apartments and replacing them with more marketable traditional two and three storey family homes.
On our larger strategic housing schemes we are negotiating revisions to Section 106 planning obligations for infrastructure with local authorities to reduce the impact of cash flow requirements for these schemes.
Corporate Responsibility Sustainable Homes Our commitment to build sustainable homes remains.
Our approach to sustainability is a practical one and we incorporate proven technology into many of our homes to make them more energy efficient.
In 2008 we built 1,653 homes to the Eco-homes standard, representing over 16% of all the new homes we completed, an increase of over 7% on the previous year.
Waste We continue to monitor the efficiency of our building operations by monitoring the amount of waste generated.
We minimise waste generation through careful ordering of materials and by using modern methods of construction.
During 2008 we reduced the amount of waste generated per property completed to 8.9 tonnes, a reduction of over 6%.
Most importantly we increased the amount of waste that we recycled to 70% resulting in only 2.7 tonnes of waste per home going to landfill.
Westbury Partnerships affordable homes at: Above Sandfields, Lichfield, Staffordshire Below MalvernVale, Malvern, Worcestershire Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008 12 Business Review 2008: Performance Review continued Health and Safety The health and safety of our employees continues to be a top High levels of priority for us.
We take a proactive approach to managing risk, based on assessment and prevention, and we work hard customer service to embed this philosophy across the Group.
Our policy has been rewarded by a substantial reduction in the number of incidents reported to the Health and Safety Executive under and trust remain the Reportable Injuries Disease and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDORs, reducing by 25% the number of essential.
Employees During the course of 2008 the restructuring of our business has unfortunately resulted in a significant proportion of our employees being made redundant.
Our HR Department and management teams have worked diligently to ensure that redundancy consultations have been undertaken in a practical and sympathetic manner, in accordance with the obligations placed on us.
Notwithstanding this redundancy programme, we have continued to invest in training and development for our employees, particularly in the area of health and safety where we delivered 274 days of health and safety training.
I am particularly pleased that David Bullock, Site Manager at Wyncliffe Gardens Cardiff won the NHBC Supreme Award in the large housebuilder category of the NHBC Pride in the Job Awards.
This demonstrates the business continuing commitment to deliver quality homes to our customers.
Indeed our customers satisfaction improved during the year with 89% of our customers confirming that they would recommend Persimmon or Charles Church to a friend.
Current Trading Outlook The Market Despite the current economic climate we have seen an increase in site visitors in January when compared with the last quarter of 2008, which is typical for this time of year.
Due to the postponement of new site starts we have reduced the number of our developments to c. 420 which compares to c. 500 schemes in early 2008.
Therefore, in the first few weeks of 2009 whilst total visitors are down on last year, the number of visitors per site remains resilient.
Cancellation rates have also recently improved to a level of c. 17% 2008: c. 21%, an improvement on the c. 35% cancellation rate experienced during the last quarter of 2008.
Sales rates in the first few weeks of 2009 have picked up and are ahead of those Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008 13 Business Review 2008: Performance Review continued experienced through the second half of last year.
However, Summary the market is still very competitive and prices, hence margins, This has been a year of transition for the Persimmon Group, are under pressure.
in which the business has changed its focus and delivered We are encouraged by the Governments new HomeBuy good cash flow generation in difficult circumstances.
Persimmon has been successful in being strategy is set to continue with further debt reductions allocated one of the largest shared equity grant allocations for expected in 2009. c. 2,800 properties on c. 200 sites under the HomeBuy Direct The Group has now successfully been restructured to a size Scheme.
The scheme will enable more buyers to purchase a appropriate to the level of current demand, whilst retaining Persimmon or Charles Church home by allowing them to the ability to expand in the future.
Our continued focus on borrow a minimum of 70% of a propertys price, with the affordable housing will generate positive cash flows for the remaining 30% of the price being provided equally by the business.
The Governments HomeBuy Direct Scheme and a Government and Persimmon as shared equity.
low interest rate environment should assist our sales this year.
Our own shared equity scheme has also been popular However, the current economic situation, in particular the with purchasers and we believe this will provide a good latest information regarding job losses and the continued source of sales in the future.
The value of the anticipated cash mortgage shortage, indicate that 2009 will be a challenging receipt of the shared equity debt is recognised on the balance year for both the Group and the industry as a whole.
sheet at fair value at inception, in line with International The Group retains a strong balance sheet with assets of over Accounting Standard 18 - Revenue.
This has resulted in a 1.55bn after the impairments previously mentioned and a reduction in turnover and profits of 9.8m in 2008, which year end gearing of 39%.
In addition, our recently agreed will reverse over future years as a proportion of the deferred refinancing gives the business a strong platform for element of sale proceeds will be recognised annually as the future.
Finally, I would like to thank all our staff for their loyalty and Part exchange continues to be a popular and successful commitment during this transitional period for the business.
marketing tool for our customers.
The value of part exchange With our experienced and dedicated management teams the stock properties owned has reduced significantly to c. 55m, Group is well placed to meet the challenges in the future.
At this stage we have not seen any increase in the provision of mortgage lending.
The Governments recent announcement regarding the Asset Protection Scheme for the Banks, and Mike Farley Group Chief Executive confirmation that Northern Rock will recommence mortgage 2 March 2009 lending, should benefit the market in the longer term.
We currently have forward sales of c. 698m, which totals 4,907 units and of these sales c. 40% are contracted.
We are scheduled to open c. 60 new developments in the first six months of 2009 which will increase availability of new homes in new locations.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008
