Financial review Net profits increased Dividend increased for the third year in a row Drop in fourth quarter costs bodes well for the year ahead Total revenue for the group of US$338.6 million increased by 20% on the previous year on the back of a higher average gold price received of US$792 per ounce.
Attributable production of 428 426 ounces was slightly lower than the previous years 444 573 ounces, following the drop in the average grade of ore mined at Morila.
Net profit for the year was US$47.0 million, an increase of 3% compared to the previous year.
Higher revenues were partially offset by higher mining costs at both operations, due to the impact of higher diesel prices, the effect of the weak US dollar on the euro-based component of the operational costs, increased royalties payable resulting from the higher average gold price received and general cost increases in other commodities and consumables.
Profit would have been US$57.4 million up 26% had it not been for a non-cash provision of US$10.3 million against investments in auction rate securities, explained below.
Earnings per share of 54 cents were down on the 60 cents of 2007, following the increase in the number of shares outstanding in 2008 and increased earnings attributable to minority shareholders.
Cash operating costs for the group were US$421 per ounce, up from US$315 per ounce in 2007.
After royalties, total cash costs for the group were US$467 per ounce for the year compared to US$356 per ounce in 2007.
Diesel constituted approximately a third of production costs in the year, hence its significant impact on cost pressures.
Unit cost showed a 25% increase to US$40 per tonne milled, reflecting the higher mining cost environment as noted above, as well as an increase in total tonnes mined at Loulo.
In the fourth quarter, the drop in the oil price and other input costs did begin to result in lower unit costs, notwithstanding the mines long supply chains.
The lower grade processed at Morila also affected the cost per ounce.
Grades at Morila decreased from 3.7g t in 2007 to 3.4g t, while Loulos grade remained relatively consistent at 3.2g t 2007: 3.3g t. The drop in grade at Morila was in line with the mine plan as the mine nears the end of in pit mining.
At Loulo, mined grades were slightly lower than expected due to the slower than planned ramp-up in the Yalea underground development.
Expenditure on exploration and corporate costs increased by US$9.3 million.
Drilling programmes were undertaken in all six African countries where we are active, but especially at the Massawa project in Senegal.
Since the company was listed in 1997, it has discovered over 17 million reserve ounces which, when divided by the exploration and corporate costs over this period, equates to less than US$15 per ounce of gold.
Morilas five year corporate tax holiday ended in November 2005 and the accounts include a charge of US$24.6 million for the tax payable compared to US$21.3 million the previous year.
Loulo continues to benefit from exoneration from corporate tax for five years from the date of first commercial production, which was 8 November 2005, as will Tongon when it comes into production.
16 | Randgold Resources The companys cash position is very healthy with US$257.6 million inventories and ore stockpiles is due to the additional demand for supplies and strategic spares at Loulo with the of cash 2007: US$294.2 million on the balance sheet and development of the underground mine and improved borrowings of US$5.8 million 2007: US$9.5 million.
Net production, as well as an increase in the stockpiles at Morila cash has remained at a significant level despite the substantial in line with the Life of Mine plan.
Mining at Morila will stop expenditure on capital expenditure and exploration and during the second quarter of 2009, after which the lower corporate costs: US$85.0 million was spent on capital projects, grade stockpiles will be processed until 2013.
During this mainly on the Loulo underground project, including the time, cash costs as defined are expected to rise as the development of the twin declines, as well as upgrades to stockpile asset is expensed through the income statement.
the crushing plant and expenditure on the overland conveyor However, cash flow from the operation is still expected to be and power plant expansion.
Expenditure related to the strong as a large portion of the costs had already been Tongon project amounted to US$22.7 million and consists paid for when the stockpiled material was mined.
primarily of down payments on the mills and motors, as well as site establishment costs, infrastructure improvements and The financial liability in respect of forward gold contracts advanced grade drilling.
decreased significantly to US$53.1 million during the year, following a 39% reduction in the ounces still to be delivered, As disclosed in the 2007 accounts, subsequent to the third and reflects the marked-to-market valuation of the hedged quarter of 2007 the company transferred US$49.0 million ounces at the year end spot price of US$865 per ounce from cash and cash equivalents to available-for-sale financial 2007: US$836 per ounce.
This related to its portfolio of auction rate securities all relate to Loulo and are scheduled to be delivered until ARS.
The trading market for these instruments has become 2010, representing approximately 11% of the groups attributable production over this period.
substantially illiquid as a result of the unusual conditions in the credit markets.
During the third quarter of 2008, following Looking forward to 2009, notwithstanding the additional nonthe deterioration of the underlying credit ratings of the cash adjustments relating to the Morila stockpiles, total cash collateral of certain of the ARS, the company decided to costs per ounce for the group are forecast to be lower than provide US$8.8 million against these assets, and provided the costs reported in 2008, depending on the actual oil price an additional amount of US$1.5 million in the fourth quarter, and euro dollar exchange rates received.
We are monitoring this situation closely and to date we have continued to receive interest on Capital expenditure at Loulo for this year is estimated at all of the ARS investments.
We have also commenced US$60 million, after which the Yalea underground will be arbitration proceedings against the individual brokers fully operational.
The Gara underground development is and the investment bank who sold us these products, on the planned to start in early 2010.
The development of the grounds of what we believe to be fraud and gross Tongon project has started with significant capital expenditure misrepresentation of the nature of these investments.
The increased mining Arbitration of these proceedings should be concluded by cost environment experienced during the year also impacted the end of 2009.
There can be no assurance that we will be on capital cost estimates, but the global economic downturn successful in our actions against the individual brokers or resulted in a decrease in these costs in the fourth quarter.
the investment bank, and consequently we have not relied Based on our current forecasts, the group has sufficient cash upon this for the determination of the provision.
resources to fund all its existing capital projects and ongoing exploration programmes.
Property, plant and equipment increased significantly year In view of the strong cash flows from operations and the on year, mainly due to investments made on the underground companys robust balance sheet, the board again decided development at Loulo and the Tongon development project.
to declare an increased annual dividend of 13 cents per Long term receivables decreased by US$13.4 million over share US$9.9 million.
Shareholders have also enjoyed the year due to a recoupment of the TVA VAT balance at substantial capital appreciation in the year with the share Morila.
The non-current receivables of US$9.4 million are price rising 18% from US$37.13 to US$43.92 despite the those parts of the receivables from MDM Ferroman Pty Ltd turmoil experienced in global equity markets.
Since 2000 in liquidation MDM and the Malian government which, the share price has risen by more than 2 000%.
while legally payable immediately, are expected to be paid after more than 12 months.
The company continues to believe it will receive the amounts accrued as owing to it by MDM US$12.1 million.
Short term receivables increased partly due to an increase in the TVA balance at Loulo, since the end of the three-year custom duties and TVA exoneration period on 8 November 2008, as well as advances made to contractors and Graham Shuttleworth an increase in insurance prepayments.
The increase in Financial director Randgold Resources | 17 1
