Financial review 2005 and tax paid by Alcan.
This decrease is due to Cash flow paid of US$489 million for 2007 was an impairment charge of US$6.6 billion 2008 compared with 2007 US$361 million higher than 2006, arising relating to goodwill that arose on the Cash flow from operations, including mostly from Alcan acquisition debt acquisition of Alcan that was tested for dividends from equity accounted units, was arrangement costs and interest paid on the impairment for the first time on 31 October a record US$20,668 million, 64 per cent Alcan debt.
2008. higher than 2007 due to the effect of higher The Group invested at record levels, in Net debt decreased by US$6.5 billion commodity prices for the first nine months particular in expansion projects.
over the period to US$38.7 billion.
Expenditure on property, plant and movement was a result of free cash flow, Tax paid for 2008 increased to US$3,899 equipment and intangible assets was asset disposals and other derivative and million, US$478 million higher than for 2007 largely due to the increase in taxable US$4,968 million in 2007, an increase of exchange movements.
Net debt to total profits and the payment of tax on the US$980 million over 2006.
This included the capital remained unchanged at 63 per cent disposal of the Greens Creek and Cortez completion of the second phase of the at 31 December 2008 following the mines.
Net interest paid of US$1,538 million Dampier port and Yandicoogina iron ore impairment charges and the decline of the for 2008 was US$1,049 million higher than mine expansions, as well as construction of Australian and Canadian dollars, and 2007, arising mostly from interest paid on the Hope Downs iron ore mine in Western interest cover was ten times compared to the Alcan debt.
Australia, the expansion of the Yarwun 20 times in 2007.
The Group invested at record levels, in alumina refinery, the A418 dike construction In addition, the Groups share of the particular in expansion projects.
Capital at the Diavik diamond mine and the third party net debt of equity accounted expenditure on property, plant and Madagascar ilmenite mine.
units totalled US$1.0 billion at 31 December equipment and intangible assets was The net cash cost of acquisitions in 2007 2008.
US$0.3 billion of this debt is with US$8,574 million in 2008, an increase of was US$37,526 million, which was net of recourse to the Rio Tinto Group.
This included US$13 million related to disposals.
Almost The Group had available at 31 December the expansion of the Cape Lambert port and all of the acquisition cost related to Alcan.
2008 undrawn committed facilities of the Hope Downs mine in Western Australia, The acquisition was financed by US$38 US$8.1 billion up to October 2010. the expansion of the Yarwun alumina billion of syndicated bank loans.
Provisions for post retirement benefit refinery and the construction of the Acquisitions less disposals were US$279 plans increased as a result of the fall in the Clermont thermal coal mine in Queensland, million in 2006 mainly relating to the value of assets held in the pension plans.
the A418 dike at the Diavik diamond mine acquisition of an initial stake in Ivanhoe This was offset, to some extent, by a fall in and the completion of the Madagascar Mines.
the value of the obligations resulting from ilmenite mine.
Certain major capital projects Dividends paid in 2007 of US$1,507 higher discount rates and lower expected have been deferred or slowed to bring capital million were US$1,066 million lower than inflation.
This increase in the provision expenditure down to US$4 billion in 2009. dividends paid in 2006 which included a resulted in a loss of US$1.3 billion being However, some of these projects will be special dividend of US$1.5 billion.
The share recognised directly in equity.
reviewed in light of the proposed strategic buyback programme was discontinued after Net assets attributable to Rio Tinto partnership with Chinalco.
the announcement of the Alcan acquisition shareholders decreased by US$4.1 billion.
The net cash proceeds of disposals in on 12 July 2007: returns to shareholders The decrease reflected profit after tax 2008 were US$2,563 million, and related to from the on market buyback of Rio Tinto plc attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders of Cortez, Greens Creek and Alcans aerospace shares in 2007 totalled US$1,611 million US$3.7 billion less US$1.9 billion of service centres business.
Acquisitions less net of US$13 million proceeds from the dividends.
In addition, there was a negative disposals were US$37,526 million in 2007 exercise of options, compared with currency translation effect of US$5.0 billion mainly relating to the acquisition of Alcan.
US$2,339 million in 2006. as the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar Dividends paid in 2008 of US$1,933 and the Euro all weakened against the US million were US$426 million higher than Balance sheet dollar.
dividends paid in 2007, following the 31 per Rio Tinto commissioned independent expert cent increase in the 2007 final dividend valuation consultants to advise on the fair Financial risk management which was paid in 2008.
The share buyback values of Alcans assets.
As required under The Groups policies with regard to financial programme was discontinued after the International Financial Reporting Standards risk management are clearly defined and announcement of the Alcan acquisition on IFRS, the tangible and intangible assets of consistently applied.
They are a 12 July 2007: returns to shareholders from the the acquired business have been uplifted to fundamental part of the Groups long term on-market buyback of Rio Tinto plc shares in fair value.
The residue of the purchase price strategy covering areas such as foreign 2007 totalled US$1,648 million.
not allocated to specific assets and liabilities exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity has been attributed to goodwill.
In price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and 2007 compared with 2006 accordance with IFRS 3 Business capital management.
From 1 January 2008, Cash flow from operations, including Combinations, the provisional price Rio Tinto Alcan adopted the Rio Tinto Group dividends from equity accounted units, was allocations at acquisition have been revised policy on trading and hedging.
US$12,569 million in 2007, 15 per cent to reflect revisions to fair value adjustments The Groups business is finding, mining higher than in 2006 due to the effect of recorded in 2008.
This led to an increase in and processing mineral resources, and not higher earnings and favourable working goodwill of US$5.6 billion see note 41 to the trading.
Generally, the Group only sells capital movements.
Goodwill at commodities it has produced but may Tax paid for 2007 increased to US$3,421 31 December 2008 was US$14.3 billion and purchase commodities to satisfy customer million, US$622 million higher than for that relating to equity accounted units was contracts from time to time and to balance 2006 largely due to the delayed tax effect of US$1.6 billion compared to US$21.1 billion the loading on production facilities.
In the the increased earnings in 2006 compared to and US$1.9 billion respectively at long term, natural hedges operate in a 92 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Financial review ratings from A-2 to A-3.
Ratings agencies number of ways to help protect and stabilise cancelled amount of any undrawn have retained a negative outlook in respect earnings and cash flow.
commitments under Facility B, and net of their ratings.
In the medium term the The Group has a diverse portfolio of proceeds beyond this cancellation would Group aims to restore its long term credit commodities and markets, which have finally be applied in prepayment of any rating to a single A credit rating in order to varying responses to the economic cycle.
The enhance its ability to access the credit The relationship between commodity prices Groups committed bank standby facilities markets on more favourable terms.
and the currencies of most of the countries contain no financial undertakings relating to in which the Group operates provides interest cover and are not affected to any Gross debt maturity prole further natural protection in the long term.
as at 31 December 2008 US$m material extent by a reduction in the Groups 2009 9,782 Production of minerals is an important credit rating.
The syndicated bank facilities 2010 9,700 contributor to the Gross Domestic Products also contain a financial covenant requiring 2011 449 of Australia and Canada, countries in which the maintenance of a ratio of net borrowings 2012 10,605 the Group has a large presence.
As a to EBITDA no greater than 4.5 times.
A 2013 3,124 consequence, the Australian and Canadian compliance certificate must be produced for 2014 500 2015 currencies have historically tended to 509 this ratio on a semi annual basis.
In addition 2016 145 strengthen when commodity prices are high.
the facility agreement contains restrictions 2017 250 In addition, the Groups policy of borrowing on the Group, including that it be required to 2018 4,146 2035 primarily at floating US dollar interest rates observe certain customary covenants helps to counteract the effect of economic including but not limited to i maintenance and commodity price cycles.
These natural The Alcan acquisition was financed under of authorisations: ii compliance with laws: hedges significantly reduce the necessity for syndicated bank facilities of up to US$40 iii change of business: iv negative pledge using derivatives or other forms of synthetic billion at floating interest rates, of which subject to certain carve outs : v hedging.
Such hedging is therefore US$38 billion was drawn down in environmental laws and licences: and vi undertaken to a strictly limited degree, as connection with the acquisition.
At subsidiaries incurring financial described in the sections on currency, 31 December 2008, US$28 billion was drawn indebtedness.
interest rate, commodity price exposure and down under the syndicated bank facilities.
The Group maintains backup liquidity for treasury management below.
The syndicated bank facilities are split into its commercial paper programme and other The Groups 2008 Full financial statements two term facilities Facilities A and D, which short term debt by way of committed biand disclosures show the full extent of its are fully drawn and two revolving facilities lateral bank facilities and syndicated credit financial commitments including debt.
Facilities B and C, which are available for facilities related to the US$40 billion Alcan The risk factors to which the Group is utilisation until shortly before their acquisition facility.
At 31 December 2008, the subject that are thought to be of particular respective maturity dates.
Facility C may Group has available committed financing of importance are summarised on pages 24 also be used as a swingline facility.
Term US$5.0 billion under Alcan Facility C, US$0.9 to 28.
Facility A was originally for an amount of billion under Facility B and US$2.2 billion The effectiveness of internal control US$15 billion, of which US$8.9 billion unused committed bilateral banking facilities.
procedures continues to be a high priority in remained outstanding at 31 December 2008.
The Groups net debt as a percentage the Rio Tinto Group.
The Boards statement The maturity date for Facility A was of total capital was 63 per cent at on internal control is included under originally October 2008, but with an 31 December 2008, unchanged from Corporate governance on page 164. extension option to October 2009, which has 31 December 2007. been exercised.
Revolving Facility B is for an Net debt and equity Capital resources and contractual amount of up to US$10 billion, of which 70% obligations US$9.1 billion was drawn at 31 December 50,000 45,000 The Groups total capital is defined as Rio 2008.
The maturity date for Facility B is 60% 40,000 Tintos shareholders funds plus amounts October 2010.
Revolving Facility C is for an 50% 35,000 attributable to outside equity shareholders amount of up to US$5 billion, all of which is 30,000 40% plus net debt and amounted to US$61 billion undrawn.
The maturity date for Facility C is 25,000 Equity US$m 30% 20,000 at 31 December 2008 2007: US$71 billion.
Term Facility D was originally Net debt US$m 15,000 20% The Groups overriding objectives when for an amount of US$10 billion, the full 10,000 Net debt as a managing capital are to safeguard the amount of which remains outstanding at 10% percentage of 5,000 total capital business as a going concern: to maximise 31 December 2008.
The maturity date for 0 0% 05 06 07 08 returns for shareholders and benefits for Facility D is December 2012.
Advances under other stakeholders and to maintain an each Facility generally bear interest at rates optimal capital structure in order to provide per annum equal to the margin for that Includes minority interest share of net debt a high degree of financial flexibility at the Facility plus LIBOR and any mandatory costs.
Calculated as borrowings divided by total capital.
Facilities A and B are subject to mandatory Total capital is the sum of net debt and equity, The unified credit status of the Group is prepayment and cancellation to the extent of including minority interests.
maintained through cross guarantees net proceeds received from disposals of whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto assets and from the raising of funds through Rio Tinto does not have a target debt to plc and Rio Tinto Limited are automatically capital markets, subject to specified equity ratio, but has a policy of maintaining guaranteed by the other.
In December 2008, thresholds and conditions.
Any such net a flexible financing structure so as to be able Moodys downgraded the long-term ratings proceeds must first be applied in prepayment to take advantage of new investment of the Group from A3 to Baa1 and S&P of the amounts outstanding under Facility A. opportunities that may arise.
Following the downgraded its long-term ratings from BBB Further net proceeds would then be retained acquisition of Alcan, the Group has publicly to BBB and its short-term corporate credit by the Group up to a corresponding and stated an objective to reduce its debt to Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 93 Financial review continued equity ratio from current levels through a agreement to sell its potash assets and cash of which US$90 million is included in targeted asset divestment programme, Brazilian iron ore operation for US$1.6 billion.
the interest line in the cash flow statement.
capital restructurings and through operating The sale of potash assets was completed on The funds were used to pay down debt.
As a cash flows to a level consistent with a solid 5 February 2009 and the US$850 million cash result of the unwinding of the swaps the investment grade credit rating.
This policy is proceeds have been used to pay down debt.
ratio of fixed to floating rate debt moved to balanced against the desire to ensure The completion of the sale of the Brazilian 73 per cent floating 27 per cent fixed.
If the efficiency in the debt equity structure of the iron ore assets, from which proceeds of swaps had remained in place the ratio would Group balance sheet in the longer term US$750 million will be received, is subject to have been 88 per cent floating 12 per cent through proactive capital management regulatory approvals which are expected fixed.
The Group continues to maintain a programmes.
On 10 December 2008, during the second half of 2009. preference for floating rate debt but will Rio Tinto announced certain key initiatives During December 2008 the Group continue to actively manage its ratio of fixed and commitments to reduce net debt by unwound interest rate swaps with a to floating rate debt.
US$10 billion in 2009, including US$8.9 principal amount of US$5.9 billion to take As at 31 December 2008, the Group had billion due in October 2009. advantage of market conditions and contractual cash obligations arising in the In January 2009, Rio Tinto reached an generated approximately US$800 million in ordinary course of business as follows: Total Less Between Between After 5 than 1 1 and 3 3 and 5 years year years years Contractual cash obligations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Expenditure commitments in relation to: Operating leases 1,561 336 565 345 315 Other mainly capital Commitments 4,354 3,568 487 228 71 Long term debt and other financial obligations: Debt a 39,378 10,079 9,902 13,637 5,760 Interest payments b 8,024 1,375 2,053 1,230 3,366 Unconditional purchase obligations c 10,345 1,245 1,643 1,153 6,304 Other mainly trade creditors 6,628 5,942 344 219 123 Total 70,290 22,545 14,994 16,812 15,939 Notes payments are subject, therefore, to change in line mainly relate to commitments under take or pay a Debt obligations include bank borrowings with market rates.
They exclude repayable on demand.
c Unconditional purchase obligations relate to unconditional purchase obligations of jointly b Interest payments have been projected using the commitments to make payments in the future for controlled entities apart from those relating to the interest rate applicable at 31 December 2008, fixed or minimum quantities of goods or services Groups tolling arrangements.
including the impact of interest rate swap at fixed or minimum prices.
The future payment agreements where appropriate.
Much of the debt commitments have not been discounted and is subject to variable interest rates.
Future interest Information regarding the Groups pension benefit and defined contribution pension remediate in the long term are not fixed as commitments and funding arrangements is plans, was US$615 million.
In addition there to amount and timing and are not therefore provided in the post retirement benefits were contributions of US$53 million in included in the above table.
section of this Financial review and in note 49 respect of unfunded healthcare schemes.
Favourable market conditions came to an to the 2008 Full financial statements.
The level Contributions to pension plans for 2009 are abrupt halt during the fourth quarter of 2008. of contributions to funded pension plans is estimated to be around US$150 million A very significant financial turbulence led to determined according to the relevant higher than for 2008.
This is predominantly sharp declines in the rate of global economic legislation in each jurisdiction in which the attributable to the decline in financial growth, in global demand for commodities Group operates.
In some countries there are markets during 2008 which has resulted in a and in the price of most of the Groups statutory minimum funding requirements deterioration of the funding positions of most principal products.
These negative trends while in others the Group has developed its of the Groups plans.
Healthcare plans are adversely impacted the Groups near term own policies, sometimes in agreement with unfunded and contributions for future years cash flows and financial outlook.
Based on the local trustee bodies.
The size and timing will be equal to benefit payments and current forecasts and the available undrawn of contributions will usually depend upon the therefore cannot be predetermined.
committed borrowing facilities of US$8.1 performance of investment markets.
Information regarding the Groups close billion, the directors expect that the Group Depending on the country and plan in down and restoration obligations is provided will be able to meet its debt and other question the funding level will be monitored in the relevant section of this review and in obligations in the foreseeable future.
quarterly, bi-annually or annually and the note 27 to the 2008 Full financial statements.
Nevertheless owing to the continued volatility contribution amount amended appropriately.
Close down and restoration costs are a and uncertainty in the markets the directors Consequently it is not possible to predict with normal consequence of mining, and the have carried out a detailed review of actions any certainty the amounts that might become majority of close down and restoration available to them to address the risk of payable in 2010 onwards.
The impact on cash expenditure is incurred at the end of the operational cash flows being insufficient to flow in 2008 of the Groups pension plans, relevant operation.
Generally, the Groups meet the Groups scheduled debt repayments.
being the employer contributions to defined close down and restoration obligations to On 12 February 2009 the Group 94 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Financial review a position to pay fully franked dividends for US$588 million at 31 December 2008. announced that the board is recommending to the reasonably foreseeable future.
Other commitments include capital shareholders a transaction with Aluminium expenditure, operating leases and Corporation of China Chinalco.
This Treasury management and financial unconditional purchase obligations as set transaction is subject to a number of instruments out in the table of contractual cash conditions, including shareholder, government Treasury operates as a service to the obligations, included in the liquidity and and regulatory approvals.
The directors business of the Rio Tinto Group and not as a capital resources section above.
remain confident that the transaction will profit centre.
Strict limits on the size and complete in the expected timeframe, although type of transaction permitted are laid down Exchange rates, reporting currencies and a number of the conditions are outside their by the Rio Tinto board and are subject to currency exposure control.
If the transaction is not approved, the directors will consider alternative measures to rigorous internal controls.
Rio Tintos shareholders equity, earnings address the Groups debt obligations in a Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue and cash flows are influenced by a wide timely and cost effective manner, which will derivative financial instruments for trading or variety of currencies due to the geographic depend primarily upon market conditions and speculative purposes: nor does it believe that diversity of the Groups sales and the continued progress with the Groups it has exposure to such trading or speculative countries in which it operates.
The US dollar, divestment programme.
holdings through its investments in joint however, is the currency in which the great ventures and associates.
Derivatives are used majority of the Groups sales are Dividends and capital management to separate funding and cash management denominated.
Operating costs are influenced Rio Tintos progressive dividend policy aims decisions from currency exposure and by the currencies of those countries where to increase the US dollar value of dividends interest rate management.
The Group uses the Groups mines and processing plants are over the long term, while ensuring that a solid interest rate and cross currency interest rate located and also by those currencies in investment grade credit rating is maintained.
swaps in conjunction with longer term funds which the costs of imported equipment and Dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and raised in the capital markets to achieve a services are determined.
The Australian and Rio Tinto Limited shares are equalised on a predominantly floating rate obligation which Canadian dollars and the Euro are the most net cash basis: that is without taking into is consistent with the Groups interest and important currencies apart from the US account any associated tax credits.
Dividends exchange rate policies, primarily US dollar dollar influencing costs.
In any particular are determined in US dollars.
However the group reserves the right year, currency fluctuations may have a dividends are declared and paid in pounds to realise swap positions to take advantage of significant impact on Rio Tintos financial sterling and Rio Tinto Limited dividends are favourable market conditions and to manage results.
A strengthening of the US dollar declared and paid in Australian dollars, counterparty credit risk.
No material exposure against the currencies in which the Groups converted at exchange rates applicable to the is considered to exist by virtue of the possible costs are partly determined has a positive US dollar two days prior to the announcement non performance of the counterparties to effect on Rio Tintos underlying earnings.
Holders of American Depositary financial instruments held by the Group.
The following sensitivities give the Receipts ADRs receive a US dollar dividend Derivative contracts are carried at fair estimated effect on underlying earnings at the rate declared.
Changes in exchange value based on published price quotations assuming that each exchange rate moved in rates could result in a reduced sterling or for the period for which a liquid active isolation.
The relationship between Australian dollar dividend in a year in market exists.
Beyond this period, Rio Tintos currencies and commodity prices is a which the US dollar value is maintained or own assumptions are used.
complex one and movements in exchange increased.
The interim dividend for each year rates can cause movements in commodity in US dollar terms will be equivalent to 50 per Off balance sheet arrangements prices and vice versa.
Where the functional cent of the total US dollar dividends declared In the ordinary course of business, to currency of an operation is that of a country in respect of the previous year.
manage the Groups operations and for which production of commodities is an On 10 December 2008 the Group financing, Rio Tinto enters into certain important feature of the economy, such as announced that the 2008 dividend was to be performance guarantees and commitments the Australian dollar, there is a certain degree maintained at the 2007 level of 136 US cents for capital and other expenditure.
of natural protection against cyclical with no 20 per cent uplift in 2009.
The aggregate amount of indemnities fluctuations, in that the currency tends to be Final 2008 dividends to Rio Tinto and other performance guarantees, on which weak, reducing costs in US dollar terms, Limited shareholders will be fully franked.
no material loss is expected, including those when commodity prices are low, and The board expects Rio Tinto Limited to be in related to joint ventures and associates, was vice versa.
Earnings sensitivities exchange rates Average Effect on net and exchange underlying earnings rate for of 10% change in 2008 full year average - US$m Australian dollar a US 86 cents 502 Canadian dollar a US 94 cents 214 Euro US 147 cents 34 Chilean peso US$1 522 pesos 17 New Zealand dollar US 71 cents 29 South African rand US 12 cents 47 UK sterling US 186 cents 22 a The sensitivities in the Average exchange rate for 2008 column are based on 2008 prices, costs and volumes and assume that all other variables remain constant.
Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 95 Financial review continued other financial assets and liabilities including into hedges to maintain financial stability.
The exchange rate sensitivities quoted above intragroup balances are not held in the Currency protection measures may be include the effect on operating costs of functional currency of the relevant deemed appropriate in specific commercial movements in exchange rates but exclude subsidiary.
This results in an accounting circumstances and are subject to strict limits the effect of the revaluation of foreign exposure to exchange gains and losses as the laid down by the Rio Tinto board, typically currency financial assets and liabilities.
They financial assets and liabilities are translated hedging of capital expenditure and other should therefore be used with care.
into the functional currency of the subsidiary significant financial items such as tax and Given the dominant role of the US that accounts for those assets and liabilities.
There is a legacy of currency currency in the Groups affairs, the US dollar These exchange gains and losses are recorded forward contracts used to hedge operating is the currency in which financial results are in the Groups income statement except to cash flow exposures which were acquired presented both internally and externally.
It is also the most appropriate currency for the extent that they can be taken to equity with Alcan and the North companies.
Details borrowing and holding surplus cash, although under the Groups accounting policy which is of currency derivatives held at 31 December a portion of surplus cash may also be held in explained in note 1 of the 2008 Full financial 2008 are set out in note 34 to the 2008 other currencies, most notably Australian statements.
Gains and losses on US dollar net Full financial statements.
dollars, Canadian dollars and the Euro.
This debt and on intragroup balances are The sensitivities below give the estimated cash is held in order to meet short term excluded from underlying earnings.
Other effect on underlying earnings, net earnings operational and capital commitments and, for exchange gains and losses are included in and equity of a ten per cent strengthening in the Australian dollar, dividend payments.
the full year closing US dollar exchange rate, Group finances its operations primarily in US Under normal market conditions, the assuming that each exchange rate moved in dollars, either directly or using cross currency Group does not generally believe that active isolation.
Financial assets and liabilities will interest rate swaps.
A substantial part of the currency hedging of transactions would not remain constant throughout 2009, Groups US dollar debt is located in provide long term benefits to shareholders.
however, and therefore these numbers should subsidiaries having a US functional currency.
The Group reviews on a regular basis its be used with care.
However, certain US dollar debt and exposures and reserves the right to enter Earnings sensitivities exchange on financial assets liabilities Closing exchange rate Effect on net Of which amount Effect of items US cents earnings of 10% impacting underlying impacting directly strengthening of US$ earnings on equity US$m US$m US$m Functional currency of business unit: Australian dollar 69 12 78 5 Canadian dollar 82 159 193 56 South African rand 11 13 19 Euro 141 249 28 2 New Zealand dollar 58 21 2 a The sensitivities show the net sensitivity of US denominated external and intragroup debt held in d The sensitivities include the Rio Tinto share of the dollar exposures in Australian dollar functional Canada and is taxed on a Canadian currency basis.
sensitivities of equity accounted units.
currency companies, for example, and Australian The above sensitivities as at 31 December 2008 e Some US dollar functional currency companies dollar exposures in US dollar functional currency for a ten per cent strengthening of the US dollar are exposed to exchange movements on local companies.
do not include any tax benefit related to this debt currency deferred tax balances.
The only material b The sensitivities indicate the effect of a ten per because the capital losses generated would not be exposure is to the Canadian dollar and a 10 per cent strengthening of the US dollar against each recognised.
If the US dollar weakened below 97 cent strengthening of the US dollar would reduce currency.
Canadian cents then tax charges would begin to underlying earnings by US$115 million.
This c Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. which has a US functional be recognised at 15 per cent.
would partially offset the US$193 million gain currency, has a significant amount of US dollar shown above.
The functional currency of many operations gains or losses arising on translation to US on equity.
The approximate translation within the Rio Tinto Group is the local dollars of the net assets of non US functional effects on the Groups net assets of ten per currency in the country of operation.
The currency operations are taken to equity and, cent movements from the year end exchange former Alcan aluminium and alumina with effect from 1 January 2004, recorded in rates are as follows: producing operations primarily use a US a currency translation reserve.
Foreign currency of the US dollar would have a positive effect 96 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Financial review Net assets sensitivities exchange on translation Closing 2008 exchange rate Effect on net assets US cents of 10% change in closing rate - US$m Australian dollar 69 1,264 Euro 141 621 Canadian dollar 82 180 limits laid down by the Rio Tinto board and selling price is subject to final adjustment at Interest rates to rigid internal controls.
Rio Tintos the end of a period normally ranging from Rio Tintos interest rate management policy exposure to commodity prices is diversified 30 to 180 days after delivery to the is generally to borrow and invest at floating by virtue of its broad commodity spread and customer, based on the market price at the interest rates.
This approach is based on the the Group does not generally believe relevant quotation point stipulated in the historical correlation between interest rates commodity price hedging would provide contract.
Revenue on provisionally priced and commodity prices.
In some long term benefit to shareholders.
The sales is recognised based on estimates of fair circumstances, an element of fixed rate Group may hedge certain commitments with value of the consideration receivable based funding may be considered appropriate.
some of its customers or suppliers.
Details of on forward market prices.
At each reporting Rio Tinto hedges interest rate and currency commodity derivatives held at 31 December date provisionally priced metal is marked to risk on most of its foreign currency 2008 are set out in note 34 to the 2008 Full market based on the forward selling price for borrowings by entering into cross currency interest rate swaps in order to convert fixed financial statements.
The forward contracts to the period stipulated in the contract.
For this rate foreign currency borrowings to floating sell copper were entered into as a condition purpose, the selling price can be measured rate US dollar borrowings.
The market value of the refinancing of Palabora in 2005.
Many reliably for those products, such as copper, of these interest rate and cross currency of the aluminium forward contracts for which there exists an active and freely interest rate swaps moves in alignment with and embedded derivatives were acquired traded commodity market such as the the market and at times can act as with Alcan.
London Metal Exchange and the value of alternative sources of funding.
The Group Metals such as copper and aluminium product sold by the Group is directly linked reviews the positions on a regular basis and are generally sold under contract, often long to the form in which it is traded on that may act to either monetise in-the-money term, at prices determined by reference to market.
At the end of 2008 the Group had value or achieve lower costs of funding.
At prevailing market prices on terminal 183 million pounds of copper sales 2007: the end of 2008, US$10.6 billion 2007: markets, such as the London Metal Exchange 270 million pounds that were provisionally US$4.9 billion of the Groups debt was at and COMEX in New York, usually at the time priced at 133 US cents per pound 2007: 304 fixed rates after taking into account interest of delivery.
Prices fluctuate widely in US cents per pound.
The final price of these rate swaps and finance leases.
Based on the response to changing levels of supply and sales will be determined in 2009.
The impact Groups net debt and other floating rate demand but, in the long run, prices are on earnings of a ten per cent change in the financial instruments at 31 December 2008, related to the marginal cost of supply.
Gold price of copper for the provisionally priced the effect on the Groups net earnings of a is also priced in an active market in which sales would be US$15 million 2007: US$58 half percentage point increase in US dollar prices respond to daily changes in quantities million.
LIBOR interest rates with all other variables offered and sought.
Newly mined gold is Approximately 24 per cent of Rio Tintos held constant, would be a reduction of only one source of supply: investment and 2008 net earnings from operating businesses US$100 million.
These balances will not disinvestment can be important elements of came from products whose prices were remain constant throughout 2009, however, supply and demand.
Contract prices for terminal market related and the remainder and therefore these numbers should be used many other natural resource products came from products priced by direct with care.
including iron ore and coal are generally negotiation.
The reduction from 52 per cent agreed annually or for longer periods with in 2007 is due to the reduction in Copper Commodity prices customers, although volume commitments net earnings combined with a significant The Groups normal policy is to sell its vary by-product.
increase in Iron Ore and Energy net products at prevailing market prices.
Certain products, predominantly copper earnings.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict concentrate, are provisionally priced, ie the Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 97 Financial review continued The Group continued to achieve high weigh on average prices in 2009.
In the underlying and net earnings of a ten per average prices for its products in 2008 longer run, urbanisation and income drivers cent change from the full year average despite prices in terminal markets declining in emerging markets in countries such as market price in 2008 for the following sharply during the second half of the year.
China and India are likely to reassert products would be: The poor economic outlook and themselves in rising demand for metals.
weakness in metals demand is likely to The approximate effect on the Groups Earnings sensitivities commodity prices b Unit Average Effect on market price underlying and for 2008 net earnings of US$ 10% change in full year average - US$m Copper pound 3.20 389 Aluminium a pound 1.18 739 Gold ounce 872 30 Molybdenum pound 31 62 Iron ore dmtu N A 829 a The above sensitivities are based on 2008 volumes.
b Excludes impact of commodity derivatives.
financial items that can be net settled but The sensitivities give the estimated impact on contracts embedded in electricity purchase were entered into and continue to be held net earnings of changes in prices assuming contracts outstanding at 31 December 2008. that all other variables remain constant.
These for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of The impact is expressed in terms of the should be used with care.
As noted previously, the non financial item in accordance with resulting change in the Groups net earnings the relationship between currencies and the business units expected purchase, sale for the year or, where applicable, the change commodity prices is a complex one and or usage requirements.
The sensitivities are based on the changes in exchange rates can influence These sensitivities should be used with assumption that the market price increases commodity prices and vice versa.
The relationship between currencies and by ten per cent with all other variables held The table below summarises the impact commodity prices is a complex one and constant.
The Groups own use contracts are of changes in the market price on the changes in exchange rates can influence excluded from the sensitivity analysis below following commodity derivatives including as they are outside the scope of IAS 39.
Own commodity prices and vice versa.
those aluminium forward and option use contracts are contracts to buy or sell non Earnings sensitivities commodity price on financial assets liabilities Effect on Effect of items net earnings of impacting directly 10% increase on Rio Tinto share from year of equity of 10% end price increase from year end price Products US$m US$m Copper 13 Coal 8 Aluminium 62 16 Total 62 37 98 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Financial review Sales revenue 2008 2007 2006 Commodity Source Unit US$ US$ US$ Aluminium LME pound 1.18 1.20 1.16 Copper LME pound 3.20 3.24 3.06 Gold LBMA ounce 872 691 602 Iron ore Australian benchmark fines a dmtu b 1.29 0.79 0.71 Molybdenum Metals Week: quote for dealer oxide price pound 31 30 25 a average for the calendar year b dry metric tonne unit higher volume and price for bauxite and The above table shows published volumes were lower as a result of a seven aluminium and lower volume and price for benchmark prices for Rio Tintos week strike in the first and second quarters alumina.
commodities for the last three years where of the year and this was only partly A significant proportion of Rio Tintos these are publicly available, and where there mitigated by higher prices.
coal production is sold under long term is a reasonable degree of correlation The 2008 sales revenues of the contracts.
In Australia, the prices applying to between the benchmark and Rio Tintos Aluminium group decreased by one per cent sales under the long term contracts are realised prices.
The prices set out in the against 2007 on a combined adjusted basis generally renegotiated annually: but prices table are the averages for each of the and increased by 224 per cent on a non are fixed at different times of the year and on calendar years, 2006, 2007 and 2008. adjusted basis due to the inclusion of a full a variety of bases.
For these reasons, average The Groups sales revenue will not year of Alcan.
The average aluminium price necessarily move in line with these of 118 US cents per pound was two per cent realised prices will not necessarily reflect the benchmarks for a number of reasons which lower than the 2007 average price.
movements in any of the publicly quoted are discussed below.
Aluminium prices were strong for the first benchmarks.
Moreover, there are significant The discussion of revenues below relates nine months of the year.
The fourth quarter product specification differences between to the Groups gross revenue from sales of saw a sharp fall in aluminium prices from mines.
Sales volumes will vary during the commodities, including its share of the around 110 US cents per pound to 66 US year and the timing of shipments will also revenue of equity accounted units, as cents per pound at year end.
The decline in result in differences between average realised included in the Financial Information by prices underlines the weakness in demand prices and benchmark prices.
Business Unit in the 2008 Full financial causing a continued build-up of LME stocks.
Sales revenues for the Energy & Minerals statements.
Despite the fact that the fall in aluminium group increased by 49 per cent in 2008 The sales revenues of the Iron Ore group prices has been accompanied by a fall in compared with 2007 due to higher prices increased by 80 per cent in 2008 compared costs, producers have also been responding and sales volumes.
There was an 86 per cent to the downturn and the weakness in coal spot prices came off their highs in the weighted average increase in the benchmark demand by cutting back output.
However, second half of 2008 due to the general price, mainly effective from 1 April 2008 these have not been of sufficient magnitude slump in demand across all economies in which resulted in a 63 per cent increase in to support prices as LME stocks have reaction to the global economic downturn.
the average Australian iron ore fines continued to rise.
Published 2008 market indications for benchmark for the calendar year.
In The Aluminium groups sales revenues Australian thermal coal showed an increase addition, spot market sales had a significant are from aluminium and related products of 93 per cent and an increase of 145 per positive impact.
Although the price for iron such as alumina and bauxite.
Aluminium cent in the coking coal benchmark price.
ore on the spot market decreased during the production was unchanged overall from the Revenues of the Groups Australian coal final three months of 2008, the impact on prior year, while bauxite and alumina operations increased by 126 per cent in Rio Tinto was limited since the vast majority production rose by 12 per cent and six per 2008 due to higher thermal coal prices and of its iron ore spot market sales were made cent respectively over 2007.
The bauxite higher coking prices.
Hard coking coal in the first nine months of the year when production increase reflects investment in production from the Queensland coal spot prices were in excess of long term increased capacity at Weipa and the operations increased by 20 per cent contracts.
IOC enjoyed a more stable alumina production reflects a 23 per cent compared with 2007 as a result of higher operating environment in 2008 after the increase at the Gove refinery as it continues demand and increasing port capacity.
resolution of the industrial action in 2007. to increase capacity.
Revenues of the Groups Australian coal The Australian iron ore fines benchmark The average 2007 aluminium price of operations decreased by three per cent in increased by 9.5 per cent in April 2007.
In 120 US cents per pound was three per cent 2007 with lower thermal coal sales largely addition to higher prices, sales revenues at above the 2006 average price.
Alcans sales attributable to infrastructure constraints and Hamersley Iron were higher from record revenue for the two months from a severe weather event.
Published 2007 production following completion of the acquisition, which includes revenue from thermal coal benchmarks in Australia second phase of the Dampier port upgrade Engineered Products, was US$3,798 million.
improved by 33 per cent in the calendar year and the Tom Price brownfield and Rio Tinto Aluminiums sales revenue whilst coking coal benchmarks decreased by Yandicoogina JSE mine expansions.
At IOC, increased by one per cent in 2007 reflecting 13 per cent.
Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 99 Financial review continued Critical accounting policies and estimates Asset lives Rio Tinto Energy Americas 2008 revenues Dual listed company reporting Intangible assets are considered to have have benefited from new contracts at higher As explained in detail in the Outline of Dual indefinite lives when, based on an analysis prices.
Volumes in 2008 are higher than 2007 Listed Companies Structure and basis of of all of the relevant factors, there is no due to recent investment and expansion at financial statements section in the 2008 Full foreseeable limit to the period over which Antelope, Jacobs Ranch and Spring Creek financial statements, the consolidated financial the asset is expected to generate cash flows mines to meet the robust market demands of statements of the Rio Tinto Group deal with for the Group.
The factors considered in Powder River Basin coal.
In the US, published the results, assets and liabilities of both of the making this determination include the market indications of spot prices for dual listed companies, Rio Tinto plc and Rio existence of contractual rights for unlimited Wyoming Powder River Basin thermal coal Tinto Limited, and their subsidiaries.
In other terms: or evidence that renewal of the 8800 BTU 0.80 sulphur show an increase of 36 per cent for the average spot price in 2008 words, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are contractual rights without significant compared with 2007.
These same prices viewed as a single parent company with their incremental cost can be expected for showed a decrease of around 20 per cent in respective shareholders being the indefinite periods into the future in view of 2007 compared with 2006.
However, Rio shareholders in that single company.
the Groups future investment intentions.
Tinto Energy Americas revenues increased by The 2008 Annual report and Full financial The life cycles of the products and processes nine per cent in 2007 with improved realised statements satisfy the obligations of Rio Tinto that depend on the asset are also considered.
prices due to its long term contracts.
Limited to prepare consolidated accounts A change in the prospects for renewal of the The Copper & Diamonds group also under Australian company law, as amended contractual rights without a significant produces gold and molybdenum as by an order issued by the Australian incremental cost could impact on the significant by-products.
The average copper Securities and Investments Commission Groups depreciation and amortisation rates price of 320 US cents per pound was one per on 27 January 2006 as amended on and asset carrying values.
cent below the 2007 average price.
The 2008 Full financial price averaged US$872 per ounce, an statements disclose the effect of the Acquisition accounting increase of 26 per cent on the prior year, adjustments to consolidated EU IFRS profit, On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the whilst the average molybdenum price was consolidated total recognised income and purchase method of accounting is used US$31 per pound, an increase of three per consolidated shareholders funds for the whereby the purchase consideration is cent compared with 2007.
Total Copper & Group that would be required under the allocated to the identifiable assets, liabilities Diamonds Group sales revenues in 2008 version of IFRS that is applicable in Australia and contingent liabilities identifiable net decreased by 30 per cent over 2007.
assets on the basis of fair value at the date by-product prices were more than offset by The US dollar is the presentation of acquisition.
lower volumes of copper, gold and currency used in these financial statements, Rio Tinto acquired Alcan Inc during molybdenum.
Kennecott Utah Copper sales as it most reliably reflects the Groups global 2007.
The Group commissioned expert were impacted by a scheduled smelter business performance.
valuation consultants to advise on the fair shutdown during the second half of 2008. values and asset lives of Alcans assets.
The Escondida experienced lower volumes due to Ore reserve estimates residue of the purchase price not allocated lower grades and operational difficulties at Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and to specific assets and liabilities has been the Laguna Seca SAG mill, and Grasberg was mineral resources based on information attributed to goodwill.
The provisional adversely impacted by a pit wall failure in compiled by Competent Persons as defined in values and asset lives incorporated in the September 2008.
Diamond prices realised by accordance with the Australasian Code for 2007 Full financial statements have been Rio Tinto depend on the size and quality of Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral revised in 2008 within 12 months of the diamonds in the product mix.
Diamond sales Resources and Ore Reserves of December date of acquisition as permitted by IFRS 3 revenue decreased by 18 per cent in 2008 2004 the JORC code.
The amounts presented Business Combinations.
against 2007 primarily due to lower grades under EU and Australian IFRS are based on processed.
the reserves, and in some cases mineral Asset carrying values Total Copper & Diamonds group sales resources, determined under the JORC code.
Events or changes in circumstances can give revenues in 2007 increased by 20 per cent There are numerous uncertainties rise to significant impairment charges or over 2006.
Copper revenues increased by inherent in estimating ore reserves and reversals of impairment provisions in a 17 per cent reflecting higher volumes at KUC assumptions that are valid at the time of particular year.
In 2008, the Groups results and Escondida as well as higher prices.
Gold estimation may change significantly when included impairment charges of US$8.4 revenue increased by 69 per cent with new information becomes available.
billion after tax, which related mainly to higher volumes at Kennecott Minerals and Changes in the forecast prices of impairment of goodwill arising on the the Grasberg joint venture.
commodities, exchange rates, production acquisition of Alcan.
In 2007, the Groups Diamond sales revenue increased by costs or recovery rates may change the results included net impairment charges of 22 per cent in 2007 against 2006 due to economic status of reserves and may, US$113 million after tax and outside higher sales volumes and polished pink ultimately, result in the reserves being shareholders interests.
An impairment diamond tender prices as the result of restated.
Such changes in reserves could charge was recognised at Argyle, which was tighter supply and higher demand.
impact on depreciation and amortisation partially offset by impairment reversals at rates, asset carrying values, deferred Palabora and Tarong.
stripping calculations and provisions for When such events or changes in close down, restoration and environmental circumstances impact on a particular asset clean up costs.
or cash generating unit, its carrying value is assessed by reference to its recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use being the net 100 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Financial review status for such material has not yet been cash flows of one quarter of one percent.
present value of expected future cash flows done because this would involve incurring Upstream Aluminium benefits from a global of the relevant cash generating unit.
This is costs earlier than is required for the efficient marketplace with substantial barriers to often estimated using discounted cash flow planning and operation of the mine.
entry and there are a limited number of techniques.
Where the recoverable amount of a cash competitors who are able to access Where the recoverable amounts of generating unit is dependent on the life of its effectively the key resources necessary to Group cash-generating units are assessed by associated ore body, expected future cash make aluminium.
In addition, continued analyses of discounted cash flows, the flows reflect long term mine plans, which are global industrialisation will support demand resulting valuations are particularly sensitive based on detailed research, analysis and for aluminium.
to changes in long term commodity prices: iterative modelling to optimise the level of The useful lives of the major assets of a exchange rates: operating costs: discount rates: and, in the case of the Groups return from investment, output and sequence cash generating unit are often dependent on upstream aluminium business Upstream of extraction.
The mine plan takes account of the life of the orebody to which they relate.
Aluminium, the real term growth rate all relevant characteristics of the ore body, Where this is the case, the lives of mining incorporated into the calculation of its including waste to ore ratios, ore grades, haul properties, and their associated smelters, terminal value.
distances, chemical and metallurgical concentrators and other long lived processing The great majority of the Groups sales are properties of the ore impacting on process equipment generally relate to the expected life based on prices denominated in US dollars.
To recoveries and capacities of processing of the orebody.
The life of the orebody, in turn, the extent that the currencies of countries in equipment that can be used.
The mine plan is estimated on the basis of the long term which the Group produces commodities is therefore the basis for forecasting mine plan.
Where the major assets of a cash strengthen against the US dollar without production output in each future year and generating unit are not dependent on the life commodity price offset: cash flows and, for forecasting production costs.
of a related orebody, management applies therefore, net present values are reduced.
For upstream aluminium, forecast cash judgement in estimating the remaining Management considers that over the long flows are determined over a period of ten service potential of long lived assets.
term, there is a tendency for movements in years.
The cash flow projections are based Forecast cash flows are discounted to commodity prices to compensate to some on long term production plans covering the present values using Rio Tintos weighted extent for movements in the value of the US expected operating life of each plant, in line average cost of capital with appropriate dollar and vice versa.
However, such with normal practice in the aluminium adjustment for the risks associated with the compensating changes are not synchronised industry.
relevant cash flows, to the extent that such and do not fully offset each other.
Rio Tintos cash flow forecasts are based risks are not reflected in the forecast cash Reviews of carrying values relate to cash on assessments of expected long term flows.
For final feasibility studies and ore generating units which, in accordance with commodity prices, which for most reserve estimation, internal hurdle rates are IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, are identified commodities are derived from an analysis of used which are generally higher than the as the smallest identifiable group of assets the marginal costs of the producers of the weighted average cost of capital.
that generates cash inflows, which are relevant commodities.
These assessments Value in use and ore reserve estimates largely independent of the cash inflows from often differ from current price levels and are are based on the exchange rates current at other assets.
In some cases, the business updated regularly.
the time of the evaluation.
In final feasibility units within the product groups consist of In some cases, prices applying to some studies and estimates of fair value, a forecast several operations with independent cash part of the future sales volumes of a cash of the long term exchange rate is made generating streams, which therefore generating unit are predetermined by having regard to spot exchange rates, constitute separate cash generating units.
The effects of such historical data and external forecasts.
Goodwill acquired through business contracts are taken into account in Forecast cash flows for ore reserve combinations has been allocated to groups forecasting future cash flows.
estimation for JORC purposes and for of cash generating units that are being As denoted above, cost levels impairment testing are generally based on managed as a combined business.
These incorporated in the cash flow forecasts are Rio Tintos long term price forecasts.
For groups of cash-generating units represent based on the current long term mine plan Upstream Aluminium, the prices used fall the lowest level within the Group at which or long term production plan for the cash within the range of analysts long term goodwill is monitored for internal generating unit.
For value in use calculations consensus forecasts current around the date management purposes and these groups are used in impairment reviews, recent cost of the evaluation.
not larger than the Groups reporting levels are considered, together with expected All goodwill and intangible assets that segments, which are its product groups.
changes in costs that are compatible with are not yet ready for use or have an The cash flow forecasts are based on the current condition of the business.
indefinite life are tested annually for best estimates of expected future revenues Because future cash flows are estimates for impairment regardless of whether there has and costs.
These may include net cash flows the asset in its current condition, value in been any change in events or circumstances.
expected to be realised from extraction, use does not reflect future cash flows processing and sale of mineralised material associated with improving or enhancing an that does not currently qualify for inclusion assets performance.
in proved or probable ore reserves.
Such non The recoverable amount for upstream reserve material is included where there is a aluminium includes an assumption the high degree of confidence in its economic business will continue in perpetuity.
This expectation is usually based assumption is incorporated through the use on preliminary drilling and sampling of of a terminal value, which represents the areas of mineralisation that are contiguous value of the cash flows beyond the tenth with existing reserves.
The terminal value assumes annual additional evaluation to achieve reserve real terms growth in Upstream Aluminiums Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 101 Financial review continued Overburden removal costs a more practical basis for matching costs with Close down, restoration and clean up In open pit mining operations, it is the related economic benefits where there are obligations necessary to remove overburden and other important co-products or where the grade of Provision is made for environmental barren waste materials to access ore from the ore is relatively stable from year to year.
remediation costs when the related which minerals can economically be The life of mine or pit waste-to-ore ratio environmental disturbance occurs, based on extracted.
The process of mining overburden is a function of an individual mines pit the net present value of estimated future and waste materials is referred to as design and therefore changes to that design costs.
During the development of a will generally result in changes to the ratio.
Close down and restoration costs are a mine, before production commences, it is Changes in other technical or economic normal consequence of mining, and the generally accepted that stripping costs are parameters that impact on reserves will also majority of close down and restoration expenditure is incurred at the end of the life capitalised as part of the investment in have an impact on the life of mine or pit of the mine.
The costs are estimated on the construction of the mine.
ratio even if they do not affect the pit basis of a closure plan.
The cost estimates Where a mine operates several open pits design.
Changes to the life of mine or pit are calculated annually during the life of the that are regarded as separate operations for ratio are accounted for prospectively.
operation to reflect known developments, eg the purpose of mine planning, stripping costs In the production stage of some updated cost estimates and revisions to the are accounted for separately by reference to operations, further development of the mine estimated lives of operations, and are subject the ore from each separate pit.
If, however, requires a phase of unusually high to formal review at regular intervals.
the pits are highly integrated for the purpose overburden removal activity that is similar Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is of mine planning, the second and in nature to preproduction mine uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate subsequent pits are regarded as extensions of development.
The costs of such unusually their respective costs based on feasibility the first pit in accounting for stripping costs.
high overburden removal activity are and engineering studies using current In such cases, the initial stripping of the deferred and charged against reported restoration standards and techniques.
The second and subsequent pits is considered to profits in subsequent periods on a units of initial closure provisions together with be production phase stripping relating to the production basis.
This accounting treatment changes, other than those arising from the combined operation.
is consistent with that for stripping costs unwind of the discount applied in Stripping of waste materials continues incurred during the development phase of a establishing the net present value of the during the production stage of the mine or mine or pit, before production commences.
provision, are capitalised within property, pit.
Some mining companies expense these Deferred stripping costs are included in plant and equipment and depreciated over production stage stripping costs as incurred, property, plant and equipment or in the lives of the assets to which they relate.
while others defer such stripping costs.
In investment in equity accounted units, as Clean up costs result from operations that experience material appropriate.
These form part of the total environmental damage that was not a fluctuations in the ratio of waste materials to investment in the relevant cash generating necessary consequence of mining, including ore or contained minerals on a year to year unit, which is reviewed for impairment if remediation, compensation and penalties.
basis over the life of the mine or pit, deferral events or changes in circumstances indicate These costs are charged to the income of stripping costs reduces the volatility of the that the carrying value may not be statement.
Provisions are recognised at the cost of stripping expensed in individual recoverable.
Amortisation of deferred time the damage, remediation process and reporting periods.
Those mining companies stripping costs is included in operating costs estimated remediation costs become known.
that expense stripping costs as incurred will or in the Groups share of the results of its Remediation procedures may commence therefore report greater volatility in the results jointly controlled entities and associates as soon after this point in time but may of their operations from period to period.
continue for many years depending on the Rio Tinto defers production stage During 2008, production stage stripping nature of the disturbance and the stripping costs for those operations where this costs incurred by subsidiaries and equity remediation techniques.
is the most appropriate basis for matching accounted operations were US$175 million As noted above, the ultimate cost of costs with the related economic benefits and higher than the amounts charged against environmental disturbance is uncertain and the effect is material.
Stripping costs incurred pre tax profit 2007: production stage costs cost estimates can vary in response to many in the period are deferred to the extent that exceeded the amounts charged against factors including changes to the relevant the current period ratio exceeds the life of pre-tax profit by US$56 million.
In addition, legal requirements, the emergence of new mine or pit ratio.
Such deferred costs are then US$117 million of deferred stripping was restoration techniques or experience at charged against reported profits to the extent written off in 2007 as part of the Argyle other mine sites.
The expected timing of that, in subsequent periods, the ratio falls impairment.
The net book value carried expenditure can also change, for example in short of the life of mine or pit ratio.
The life of forward in property, plant and equipment response to changes in ore reserves or mine or pit ratio is based on the proved and and in investments in jointly controlled production rates or economic conditions.
As probable reserves of the mine or pit and is entities and associates at 31 December 2008 a result there could be significant obtained by dividing the tonnage of waste was US$1,026 million 2007: US$884 adjustments to the provision for close down mined either by the quantity of ore mined or million.
and restoration and environmental clean up, by the quantity of minerals contained in the Information about the stripping ratios which would affect future financial results.
In some operations, the quantity of ore is of the business units, including equity 102 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Financial review accounted units that account for the 31 December 2008, along with the year in fully amortised, is set out in the following majority of the deferred stripping balance at which deferred stripping is expected to be table: Actual stripping Life of mine ratio for year stripping ratio 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Kennecott Utah Copper 2019 a b 1.98 1.99 2.04 1.24 1.32 1.36 Grasberg Joint Venture 2015 a 3.27 3.47 3.01 2.87 3.05 2.63 Diavik 2008 c 1.23 0.42 0.89 1.20 0.91 0.96 Escondida 2041 d 0.12 0.07 0.08 0.10 0.10 0.12 Notes a Stripping ratios shown are waste to ore. c Diaviks stripping ratio is disclosed as bench cubic commercial production scheduled to end in Q2 b Kennecotts life of mine stripping ratio decreased metre per carat.
The 2007 deferred stripping ratio 2009 and early Q3 2011 respectively.
as the latest mine plan included higher metals is based on single open pit commercial d Escondidas stripping ratio is based on waste prices, which made previously uneconomic production with a scheduled end in Q4 2008.
The tonnes to pounds of copper mined.
material waste economic to mine as ore. 2008 deferred stripping ratio is based on a dual pit Rio Tinto Borax capitalised stripping costs Exchange gains and losses which arise on based on the difference between their as part of a distinct period of new balances between Group entities are taken carrying value and their nil income tax base.
development during the production stage of to the foreign currency translation reserve The existence of a tax base for capital gains the mine.
Capitalisation stopped in 2004. where the intra group balance is, in tax purposes was not taken into account in The capitalised costs will be fully amortised substance, part of the Groups net determining the deferred tax provision in 2034. investment in the entity.
relating to such mineral rights because it is The balance of the foreign currency expected that the carrying amount will be Functional currency translation reserve relating to an operation recovered primarily through use and not The determination of functional currency that is disposed of is transferred to the from the disposal of the mineral rights.
Also, affects the carrying value of non current income statement at the time of the the Group is only entitled to a deduction for assets included in the balance sheet and, as disposal.
capital gains tax purposes if the mineral a consequence, the amortisation of those The Group finances its operations rights are sold or formally relinquished.
assets included in the income statement.
It primarily in US dollars but part of the For acquisitions after 1 January 2004 also impacts exchange gains and losses Groups US dollar debt is located in provision for such deferred tax on acquisition included in the income statement.
subsidiaries having functional currencies results in a corresponding increase in the The functional currency for each entity other than the US dollar.
Except as noted amounts attributed to acquired assets and or in the Group, and for jointly controlled above, exchange gains and losses relating to goodwill under EU IFRS.
entities and associates, is the currency of the such US dollar debt are charged or credited to primary economic environment in which it the Groups income statement in the year in Post retirement benefits operates.
For many of Rio Tintos entities, which they arise.
This means that the impact The difference between the fair value of the this is the currency of the country in which of financing in US dollars on the Groups plan assets if any of post retirement plans each operates.
Transactions denominated in income statement is dependent on the and the present value of the plan obligations currencies other than the functional functional currency of the particular is recognised as an asset or liability on the currency are converted to the functional subsidiary where the debt is located.
The Group has adopted the currency at the exchange rate ruling at the the above exceptions, and except for option under IAS 19 to record actuarial gains date of the transaction unless hedge derivative contracts which qualify as cash and losses directly in the Statement of accounting applies.
Monetary assets and flow hedges, exchange differences are Recognised Income and Expense.
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies charged or credited to the income statement The most significant assumptions used are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
in the year in which they arise.
in accounting for post retirement plans are The US dollar is the currency in which the the long term rate of return on plan assets, Groups Financial statements are presented, Deferred tax on fair value adjustments the discount rate and the mortality assumptions.
as it most reliably reflects the global business On transition to EU IFRS with effect from The long term rate of return on plan performance of the Group as a whole.
1 January 2004, deferred tax was provided in assets is used to calculate interest income on On consolidation, income statement respect of fair value adjustments on pension assets, which is credited to the items are translated into US dollars at acquisitions in previous years.
No other Groups income statement.
The mortality average rates of exchange.
Balance sheet adjustments were made to the assets and assumption is used to project the length of items are translated into US dollars at year liabilities recognised in such prior year time for which future pension payments will end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on acquisitions and, accordingly, shareholders be made.
The discount rate is used to the translation of the net assets of entities funds were reduced by US$720 million on determine the net present value of those with functional currencies other than the US transition to EU IFRS primarily as a result of future payments and each year the dollar, and any offsetting exchange deferred tax on fair value adjustments to unwinding of the discount on those liabilities differences on net debt hedging those net mining rights.
In general, these mining rights is charged to the Groups income statement.
assets, are recognised directly in the foreign are not eligible for income tax allowances.
In Valuations are carried out using the currency translation reserve.
such cases, the provision for deferred tax was Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 103 Financial review continued EU IFRS US$m Sensitivity of Groups 2008 net earnings to changes in: Expected return on assets increase of 1 percentage point 90 decrease of 1 percentage point 90 Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points decrease of 0.5 percentage points 2 Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points 13 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 12 Demographic allowance for additional future mortality improvements participants assumed to be one year older 15 participants assumed to be one year younger 15 projected unit method.
The expected rate of average future increase in compensation Temporary differences related to closure return on pension plan assets is determined levels was assumed to be 3.7 per cent and costs and finance leases as managements best estimate of the long this will decrease to three per cent for 2009 Under the initial recognition rules in term return on the major asset classes, ie reflecting lower assumed inflation in most paragraphs 15 and 24 of IAS 12 Income Taxes, deferred tax is not provided on the equity, debt, property and other, weighted by territories.
The average discount rate used initial recognition of an asset or liability in a the actual allocation of assets among the for the Groups plans in 2008 was 5.6 per transaction that does not affect accounting categories at the measurement date.
The cent and the average discount rate used in profit or taxable profit and is not a business expected rate of return is calculated using 2009 will be 6.2 per cent reflecting the net combination.
impact of changes in corporate bond yields The Groups interpretation of these The sources used to determine in the regions where the Group has pension managements best estimate of long term obligations.
initial recognition rules has the result that returns are numerous and include country The weighted average expected long no deferred tax asset is provided on the specific bond yields, which may be derived term rate of return on assets used to recognition of a provision for close down from the market using local bond indices or determine 2008 pension cost was 6.4 per and restoration costs and the related asset, by analysis of the local bond market, and cent.
This will decrease to 5.9 per cent for or on recognition of assets held under country specific inflation and investment 2009.
This reduction results mainly from finance leases and the associated lease market expectations derived from market lower government bond yields in most liability, except where these are recognised data and analysts or governments territories which drives assured return on as a consequence of business combinations.
On creation of a closure provision, for In particular, the Group estimates long Based on the known changes in instance, there is no effect on accounting or term expected returns on equity based on assumptions noted above and other expected taxable profit because the cost is capitalised.
the economic outlook, analysts views and circumstances, the impact of post retirement As a result, the initial recognition rules those of other market commentators.
This is costs on the Groups EU IFRS net earnings in would appear to prevent the recognition of a the most subjective of the assumptions used 2009 would be expected to increase by some deferred tax asset in respect of the provision and it is reviewed regularly to ensure that it US$72 million to US$439 million.
This and of a deferred tax liability in respect of remains consistent with best practice.
increase is mainly attributable to the lower the related capitalised amount.
The discount rate used in determining expected return on assets.
The actual charge The temporary differences will reverse in the service cost and interest cost charged to may be impacted by other factors that cannot future periods as the closure asset is income is the market yield at the start of the be predicted, such as the effect of changes in depreciated and when tax deductible year on high quality corporate bonds.
For benefits and exchange rates.
payments are made that are charged against countries where there is no deep market in The table below sets out the potential the provision.
Paragraph 22 of IAS 12 extends such bonds the yield on government bonds change in the Groups 2008 net earnings the initial recognition rules to the reversal of is used.
For determining the present value of after tax and outside interests that would temporary differences on assets and liabilities obligations shown on the balance sheet, result from hypothetical changes to post to which the initial recognition rules apply.
market yields at the balance sheet date are retirement assumptions and estimates.
The Therefore, deferred tax is not recognised on used.
sensitivities are viewed for each assumption the changes in the carrying amount of the Details of the key assumptions are set out in isolation although a change in one asset which result from depreciation or from assumption is likely to result in some offset the changes in the provision resulting from in note 49 to the 2008 Full financial statements.
When tax relief on expenditure For 2008 the charge against income for The figures in the above table only show is received this will be credited to the income post retirement benefits net of tax and the impact on underlying and net earnings.
statement as part of the current tax charge.
This charge The unwind of the discount applied in included both pension and post retirement Changing the assumptions would also have establishing the present value of the closure healthcare benefits.
The charge is net of the an impact on the balance sheet.
costs does affect accounting profit.
Therefore, expected return on assets which was US$697 Further information on pensions and this unwinding of discount results in the million after tax and minorities.
other post retirement benefits is given in recognition of deferred tax assets.
In calculating the 2008 expense the note 49 to the 2008 Full financial statements.
104 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Financial review annum by management and the results of The application of this initial recognition these reviews are reported to the Audit exemption has given rise to diversity in committee.
In the case of undeveloped practice: some companies do provide for projects, there may be only inferred deferred tax on closure cost provisions and resources to form a basis for the impairment the related capitalised amounts.
The review is based on a status tax accounting on initial recognition is report regarding the Groups intentions for currently the subject of an IASB FASB development of the undeveloped project.
In convergence project which may at some some cases, the undeveloped projects are future time require the Group to change this regarded as successors to orebodies, smelters aspect of its deferred tax accounting policy.
If the Group were to provide for deferred or refineries currently in production and tax on closure costs and finance leases may therefore benefit from existing under EU IFRS the benefit to underlying and infrastructure and equipment.
net earnings would have been US$39 million 2007: US$21 million and to equity would Contingencies have been US$182 million 2007: US$185 Disclosure is made of material contingent million.
liabilities unless the possibility of any loss arising is considered remote.
Contingencies Deferred tax potentially recoverable on are disclosed in note 35 to the 2008 Full Group tax losses financial statements.
The Group has carried forward losses: mainly in the UK, French and Canadian tax Underlying earnings groups: that have the potential to reduce tax The Group presents Underlying earnings as charges in future years.
Deferred tax assets an additional measure to provide greater have been recognised on these tax losses to understanding of the underlying business the extent their recovery is probable, having performance of its operations.
The regard to the projected future taxable profits adjustments made to net earnings to arrive of the relevant tax groups.
at underlying earnings are explained above The possible tax assets on these losses in the section on underlying earnings.
totalled US$1,000 million at 31 December 2008 31 December 2007: US$1,196 million.
Of these, US$899 million have been recognised as deferred tax assets 31 December 2007: US$868 million, leaving US$101 million 31 December 2007: US$328 million unrecognised, as recovery is not considered probable.
This amount excludes unrecognised capital losses which can only be recovered against future capital gains.
Within the UK tax group, US$246 million in tax losses have been recognised as deferred tax assets 31 December 2007: US$162 million, with no amounts unrecognised.
Within the French tax group, US$309 million in tax losses have been recognised as deferred tax assets 31 December 2007: US$407 million with no amounts unrecognised.
Within the Canadian tax group, US$172 million in tax losses have been recognised as deferred tax assets 31 December 2007: US$62 million, with no amounts unrecognised.
Exploration Under the Groups accounting policy, exploration and evaluation expenditure is not capitalised until the point is reached at which there is a high degree of confidence in the projects viability and it is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
The carrying values of exploration and evaluation assets are reviewed twice per Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 105 No project represents the diverse portfolio at Rio Tinto more than Oyu Tolgoi Turquoise Hill in the South Gobi desert of Mongolia.
A modern mining complex promises to extract huge volumes of valuable copper and gold from beneath the desert steppe, and also bring change to regional and national communities on a grand and exciting scale.
The people of the Gobi are preparing for transformations not only of the landscape but of their livelihoods, and a Rio Tinto initiative is equipping community members near the project for mining and construction related careers.
