Andrew Shilston Finance Director Strong progress in dicult conditions The Group delivered a strong increase in underlying revenues and improved profits.
The published results were heavily inuenced by the significant adjustments in foreign exchange rates in 2008.
Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Business review continued 55 Finance Directors review Andrew Shilston Introduction Foreign exchange eects on published results The progress made by the Group in 2008 should be viewed against a rapidly deteriorating The pace and extent of currency movements external environment with significant negative have had a significant eect on the Groups pressures starting to inuence many industries financial reporting in 2008, with the sterling and companies.
exchange rate with the US dollar and the euro having the biggest impact.
These movements The Group delivered a strong 17 per cent have inuenced both the reported income increase in underlying revenues, a ten per cent statement and the cash ow and closing net increase in underlying profit before tax to cash position, as set out in note 2 and the cash 880 million and a further 570 million cash ow statement in the financial statements, inow which benefited from retranslation in the following ways: eects.
The strong improvement in profits was achieved despite some significant headwinds, 1.
Income statement the most important notably a further eight cents deterioration impact was the end of year mark to market in the GBP USD achieved rate that cost of outstanding financial instruments foreign the Group 104 million in 2008: and there exchange contracts, interest rate, commodity was a four per cent increase in unit costs.
The principal adjustments related to the GBP USD hedge book.
The published results were heavily inuenced by the significant adjustments in foreign exchange The principal movements in 2008 were rates in 2008, especially the GBP USD and the as follows: Open Close GBP EUR which are explained below.
GBP USD 1 $1.991 1 $1.438 The Group benefited from a strong financial position and credit rating with net cash of GBP EUR 1 1.362 1 1.034 1,458 million at the year end and with average Oil Spot Brent $93 bbl $49 bbl net cash throughout the year of 375 million.
The changes made to the Groups UK pension The impact of this mark to market is included schemes in 2007 mean that the deficit has in net nancing in the income statement and remained stable and modest and the schemes caused a net 2.5 billion cost, contributing ended the year with a net deficit of 142 million, to a published loss before tax of 1,892 million.
as detailed in note 18 of the financial statements These adjustments are non-cash, accounting on page 126.
The very unusual circumstances adjustments required under IAS39 Financial that have developed through 2008 in global Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
debt markets have, however, caused a large, As a result, reported earnings do not reect the unrecognised surplus to develop on the UK economic substance of derivatives that have dened benefit pension schemes.
been settled in the financial year, but do include The redemptions on the Groups existing the unrealised gains and losses on derivatives bond nancing, at around 1.0 billion, are well that will only aect cash ows when they are spread with no material maturities in 2009, settled at some point in the future to match US$187 million due in the second half of 2010 trading cash ows.
and a 750 million note due in 2011 as shown in the chart below.
The Group had a further 650 million in term funding available to it that was undrawn at the year end.
Maturity profile of outstanding Group debt facilities m 502 201 132 47 107 12 00 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Business review continued Finance Directors review continued 56 Underlying earnings are presented on a basis The marine business continued to grow that shows the economic substance of the rapidly in 2008 with underlying revenues Groups hedging strategies in respect of increasing 42 per cent from 2007 to transactional exchange rates and commodity 2,204 million, driven by strong demand price movements.
Further details and for product and support in the oshore information are included within the section oil and gas sector.
Overall new equipment on key performance indicators on page15 and revenues increased by 49 per cent to in notes 2 and 5 of the financial statements.
1,492 million with services revenues increasing 31 per cent to 712 million.
The achieved rate on selling net US dollar The energy business made good progress income will be similar in 2009 to that in 2008 in the year with underlying revenues and will gradually improve thereafter as the up 35 per cent, supported by good Group is able to absorb the lower value of growth in both original equipment and sterling in its hedge books into the achieved services activities.
The revaluation costs, which are measured at a point in time, do not, therefore, represent Overall underlying services revenues increased additional currency headwinds.
The improving by 11 per cent in 2008 to 4,755 million and average rate in the hedge book will lead to accounted for 52 per cent of Group revenues improving achieved rates over time.
Underlying profit margins before nancing 2.
Cash ow and balance sheet the Group costs reduced slightly from 10.6 per cent in maintains a number of currency cash balances 2007 to ten per cent in 2008.
The reduction in which vary throughout the financial year.
margin was the result of an increased proportion Given the significant movements in foreign of original equipment to service revenues, exchange rates in 2008, a number of these increased unit costs and further headwinds on cash balances were inated by the eects of foreign exchange.
These were partially oset by retranslation at the year end, causing an increase the benets of increased volumes, improving of 439 million in the 2008 cash ow and hence productivity and cost reduction activity.
the closing balance sheet cash position.
Underlying nancing costs remained relatively stable at 39 million 2007 32 million including net interest of 10 million and finance costs Summary associated with financial risk and revenue The Groups revenues increased by 22 per cent sharing partnerships.
in 2008 to 9,082 million with 84 per cent of Restructuring charges in 2008 increased revenues from customers outside the UK.
to 82 million 2007 52 million as the Underlying growth of 11 per cent in Group continued its focus on operational civil aerospace revenues was supported improvements, including the reduction by strong growth from original equipment in the number of people working in support with 987 engines delivered in the year, functions.
These costs are included within a 16 per cent increase over 2007, operating costs.
and growth across all sectors widebody, A final payment to shareholders of 8.58p narrowbody and corporate and regional.
per share, in the form of C Shares, is proposed, Services revenues increased by seven making a total of 14.30p per share, a ten per cent over 2007. per cent increase over the 2007 total.
Underlying defence aerospace revenues were similar to 2007 with new equipment revenues down seven per cent and services revenues increasing by eight per cent over 2007. Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 57 Order book Cash The order book at December 31, 2008, Cash inow during the year was 570 million at constant exchange rates, was 55.5 billion 2007 562 million, before the special injection 2007 45.9 billion with strong growth across of 500 million into the UK pension schemes.
Continued growth in underlying profits and good cash conversion were supported This included rm business that had been by increases in customer deposits and announced but for which contracts had not yet progress payments of 400 million and been signed of 6.1 billion 2007 7.1 billion.
the benefit of 439 million from year-end In civil aerospace, it is common for a customer currency revaluations.
to take options for future orders in addition Working capital increased by 38 million to rm orders placed.
Such options are excluded during the year with increased inventory of from the order book.
208 million, oset by reduced financial working In defence aerospace, long-term programmes capital of 170 million.
Inventory increased in are often ordered for only one year at a time.
the year to support growth across all businesses In such circumstances, even though there and to minimise disruption during the transition may be no alternative engine choice available to new operational facilities.
Some reductions to the customer, only the contracted business in deposits are expected in 2009. is included in the order book.
Cash investments of 675 million in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Aftermarket services agreements, including and payments to shareholders of 200 million TotalCare packages, represented 26 per cent of represented the major cash outows in the the order book, having increased by 1.4 billion period.
Tax payments increased in the year in the year.
These are long-term contracts where to 117 million 2007 71 million.
only the first seven yearsrevenue is included in the order book.
As a consequence average net cash was 375 million 2007 350 million.
The net cash balance at the year end was 1,458 million Aftermarket services 2007 888 million.
The Group continues to be successful in developing its aftermarket services activities.
These grew by 11 per cent on an underlying Taxation basis in 2008 and accounted for 52 per cent The overall tax credit on the loss before tax of Group revenue.
was 547 million 2007 133 million charge, In particular, TotalCare packages in the civil a rate of 28.9 per cent 2007 18.1 per cent.
aerospace sector now cover 57 per cent, The tax credit in 2008 mainly reects the loss by value, of the installed eet.
TotalCare caused by the mark to market of outstanding packages cover long-term management financial instruments at the year end.
of the maintenance and associated logistics The tax charge on underlying profit was for our engines and systems, monitoring the 217 million 2007 193 million a rate of equipment in service to deliver the system 24.7 per cent 2007 24.1 per cent.
availability our customers require with predictable costs.
The pricing of such contracts The overall tax credit was increased by reects their long-term nature.
Revenues and 25 million in respect of the expected benefit costs are recognised based on the stage of of the UK research and development tax credit.
completion of the contract, generally measured This reduced the underlying tax charge by the by reference to ying hours.
The overall net same amount.
In addition, 11 million of position of assets and liabilities on the balance provisions for prior yearstax liabilities were sheet for TotalCare packages was an asset of written back following settlement of a number 848 million 2007 550 million.
The underlying tax rate is expected to increase to around 26 per cent.
Business review continued Finance Directors review continued 58 The operation of most tax systems, including Pensions the availability of specic tax deductions, The charges for pensions are calculated in means that there is often a delay between the accordance with the requirements of IAS 19 Group tax charge and the related tax payments, Employee Benets.
The decision by the trustees of each of The Group operates internationally and is the principal UK dened benefit schemes, subject to tax in many diering jurisdictions.
in consultation with the Group, to adopt a lower As a consequence, the Group is routinely risk investment strategy during 2007 has served subject to tax audits and examinations which, its members and the Group well during 2008. by their nature, can take a considerable period The combination of: to conclude.
Provision is made for known issues based on managements interpretation i reducing the overall UK pensions asset of country specic legislation and the likely allocation to equities from approximately outcome of negotiation or litigation.
80 per cent to 20 per cent: The Group believes that it has a duty to ii hedging the majority of interest rate and shareholders to seek to minimise its tax ination risks associated with the pension burden but to do so in a manner which is liabilities, using swap contracts backed by consistent with its commercial objectives short-term money market assets: and and meets its legal obligations and ethical iii an incremental 500 million cash standards.
While every eort is made to contribution from the Group to the main maximise the tax eciency of its business UK dened benefit schemes in 2007, transactions, the Group does not use articial structures in its tax planning.
The Group has has signicantly reduced volatility and losses as regard for the intention of the legislation equity prices and interest rates have fallen.
concerned rather than just the wording itself.
Reducing the volatility of the pension The Group is committed to building open schemes is the primary objective of the revised relationships with tax authorities and to investment strategy to enable the trustees following a policy of full disclosure in order and the Group to plan a schedule of more to eect the timely settlement of its tax aairs stable contributions with greater confidence and to remove uncertainty in its business of the schemes being fully funded in the future.
Where appropriate, the Group enters into consultation with tax authorities Further information and details of the to help shape proposed legislation and future pensionscharge and the dened benefit tax policy.
schemesassets and liabilities are shown in note 18 to the financial statements.
The net Transactions between Rolls-Royce subsidiaries deficit, after taking account of deferred tax, was and associates in dierent jurisdictions are 93 million 2007 88 million.
Changes in this conducted on an arms-length basis and net position are aected by the assumptions priced as if the transactions were between made in valuing the liabilities and the market unrelated entities, in compliance with the performance of the assets.
OECD Model Tax Convention and the laws of the relevant jurisdictions.
Before entering into a transaction the Group makes every eort to determine the tax eect of that transaction with as much certainty as possible.
To the extent that advance rulings and clearances are available from tax authorities, in areas of uncertainty, the Group will seek to obtain them and adhere to their terms.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 59 Investments Partnerships The Group continues to subject all The development of eective partnerships investments to rigorous examination of risks continues to be a key feature of the Groups and future cash ows to ensure that they long-term strategy.
Major partnerships are of create shareholder value.
All major investments two types: joint ventures and risk and revenue require Board approval.
The Group has a portfolio of projects at dierent stages of their life cycles.
Discounted cash Joint ventures ow analysis of the remaining life of projects Joint ventures are an integral part of our is performed on a regular basis.
They are involved in engineering, in production are assessed against criteria in manufacturing, repair and overhaul, and the original development programme to ensure financial services.
They are also common that overall value is enhanced.
business structures for companies participating Gross research and development investment in international, collaborative defence projects.
They share risk and investment, bring expertise Net research and development charged and access to markets, and provide external to the income statement was 403 million objectivity.
Some of our joint ventures have 2007 381 million.
The level of self-funded become substantial businesses.
A major investment in research and development is proportion of the debt of the joint ventures expected to remain at approximately five per is secured on the assets of the respective cent of Group sales in the future.
The impact companies and is non-recourse to the Group.
of this investment on the income statement will reect the mix and maturity of individual development programmes and will result Risk and revenue sharing in a similar level of net research and partnerships RRSPs development charged within the income statement in 2009.
RRSPs have enabled the Group to build a broad portfolio of engines, thereby reducing the The continued development and replacement exposure of the business to individual product of operational facilities contributed to the total risk.
The primary financial benefit is a reduction investment in property, plant and equipment of the burden of research and development of 283 million 2007 304 million.
Investment R&D expenditure on new programmes.
in 2009 is anticipated to be slightly reduced from the 2008 level as the investments in new The related R&D expenditure is expensed facilities in the US and Singapore are rephased through the income statement and the initial to reect the timing of major new airframe programme receipts from partners, which programmes.
reimburse the Group for past R&D expenditure, are also recorded in the income statement, Investment in training was 30 million as other operating income.
RRSP agreements are a standard form of co-operation in the civil aero-engine industry.
Intangible assets They bring benets to the engine manufacturer and the partner.
Specically, for the engine The Group carried forward 2,286 million manufacturer they bring some or all of the 2007 1,761 million of intangible assets.
following benets: additional financial and This comprised purchased goodwill of engineering resource: sharing of risk: and 1,008 million, engine certication costs and initial programme contribution.
As appropriate, participation fees of 403 million, development the partner also supplies components expenditure of 456 million, recoverable engine and as consideration for these components, costs of 213 million and other intangible receives a share of the long-term revenues assets of 206 million.
generated by the engine programme in Expenditure on intangible assets is expected proportion to its purchased programme share.
to increase modestly in 2009. Business review continued Finance Directors review continued 60 The sharing of risk is fundamental to RRSP Financial risk agreements.
Partners share financial investment The Group uses various financial instruments in in the programme, in general they share: order to manage the exposures that arise from market risk as they receive their return its business operations as a result of movements from future sales: in financial markets.
All treasury activities are focused on the management and hedging of currency risk as their returns are risk.
It is the Groups policy not to trade financial denominated in US dollars: instruments or to engage in speculative financial sales nancing obligations: transactions.
There have been no significant changes in the Groups policies in the last year.
warranty costs: and The principal economic and market risks where they are manufacturing or continue to be movements in foreign currency development partners, technical exchange rates, interest rates and commodity and cost risk.
The Board regularly reviews the Groups Partners that do not undertake development exposures and financial risk management work or supply components are referred to as and a specialist committee also considers financial RRSPs and are accounted for as financial these in detail.
instruments as described in the accounting All such exposures are managed by the policies on page 91.
Group Treasury function, which reports to In 2008, the Group received other operating the Finance Director and which operates income of 79 million 2007 50 million.
within written policies approved by the Board and within the internal control framework Payments to RRSPs are recorded within cost described on page 80. of sales and increase as the related programme sales increase.
These payments amounted to 268 million 2007 199 million.
Counterparty credit risk The classication of financial RRSPs as The Group has an established policy for financial instruments has resulted in a managing counterparty credit risk.
A common liability of 455 million 2007 315 million framework exists to measure, report and being recorded in the balance sheet and control exposures to counterparties across an associated underlying nancing cost the Group using value-at-risk and fair-value of 26 million 2007 26 million recorded techniques.
The Group assigns an internal credit in the income statement.
rating to each counterparty, which is assessed with reference to publicly available credit In the past, the Group has also received information, such as that provided by Moodys, government launch investment in respect Standard & Poors, and other recognised of certain programmes.
The treatment of this market sources, and is reviewed regularly.
investment is similar to non-financial RRSPs.
Financial instruments are only transacted with counterparties that have a publicly assigned Risk management long-term credit rating from Standard & Poors The Board has an established, structured ofA-or better and from Moodys ofA3or better.
The risk committee see page 69 has accountability for the system of risk management and reporting the key risks and associated mitigating actions.
The Director of Risk reports to the Finance Director.
The Groups policy is to preserve the resources upon which its continuing reputation, viability and profitability are built, to enable the corporate objectives to be achieved through the operation of the Rolls-Royce business processes.
Risks are formally identied and recorded in a corporate risk register and its subsidiary registers within the businesses, which are reviewed and updated on a regular basis, with risk mitigation plans identied for significant risks.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 61 The Groups 250 million bank revolving Funding and liquidity credit facility contains a rating price grid, The Group nances its operations through a which determines the borrowing margin mixture of shareholdersfunds, bank borrowings, for a given credit rating.
The Groups current bonds, notes and finance leases.
The Group borrowing margin would be 20 basic points borrows in the major global markets in a range bp over sterling LIBOR if drawn.
The borrowing of currencies and employs derivatives where margin on this facility increases by approximately appropriate to generate the desired currency 5bp per one notch rating downgrade, and interest rate prole.
up to a maximum borrowing margin of 55bp.
The facility was not drawn during 2008.
The Groups objective is to hold financial investments and maintain undrawn committed There are no rating price grids contained facilities at a level sucient to ensure that in the Groups other borrowing facilities.
the Group has available funds to meet its The Group continues to have access to medium-term capital and funding obligations all the major global debt markets.
and to meet any unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
The Group holds cash and short-term investments which, together with Credit rating the undrawn committed facilities, enable it to manage its liquidity risk.
The Group subscribes to both Moodys Investors Service and Standard & Poors for its ocial Short-term investments are generally held as publicised credit ratings.
As at December 31, bank deposits or inAAArated money market 2008 the Groups assigned long-term credit funds.
The Group operates a conservative ratings were: investment policy which limits investments Rating agency Rating Outlook Category to high quality instruments with a short-term credit rating ofA-1from Standard & Poors Moodys A3 Stable Investment or better andP-1from Moodys.
Counterparty grade diversication is achieved with suitable riskStandard AStable Investment adjusted concentration limits.
Investment & Poors grade decisions are rened through a system of monitoring real-time equity and credit-default As a long-term business, the Group attaches swap CDS price movements of potential significant importance to maintaining an investment counterparties which are compared investment grade credit rating, which it views as to other relevant benchmark indices and then necessary for the business to operate eectively.
The Groups objective is to maintain anA During 2008, the Group did not experience category investment grade credit rating from any capital losses relating to its investments both agencies.
as a result of the credit crisis.
The Group increased its borrowing facilities Currency risk during 2008 with the addition of a new 200 million loan facility from the European The Group is exposed to movements in Investment Bank EIB relating to research and exchange rates for both foreign currency development.
As at December 31, 2008 the transactions and the translation of net assets Group had total committed borrowing facilities and income statements of foreign subsidiaries.
There are The Group regards its interests in overseas no material debt facility maturities until 2011. subsidiary companies as long-term investments The maturity prole of the borrowing facilities and manages its translational exposures through is staggered to ensure that renancing levels the currency matching of assets and liabilities are manageable in the context of the business where applicable.
The matching is reviewed and market conditions.
regularly, with appropriate risk mitigation There are no rating triggers contained in any performed where material mismatches arise.
of the Groups facilities that could require the The Group is exposed to a number of foreign Group to accelerate or repay any facility for currencies.
The most significant transactional a given movement in the Groups credit rating.
currency exposures are US dollars to sterling and US dollars to euros.
Business review continued Finance Directors review continued 62 The Group manages its exposure to movements The consequence of this policy has been to in exchange rates at two levels: maintain relatively stable long-term foreign exchange rates.
Note 16 to the financial i Revenues and costs are currency matched statements includes the impact of revaluing where it is economic to do so.
The Group forward currency contracts at market values actively seeks to source suppliers with the on December 31, 2008, showing a negative relevant currency cost base to avoid the risk value of 2,181 million 2007 positive value of or to ow down the risk to those suppliers 379 million which will uctuate with exchange that are capable of managing it.
The Group has entered into risk is also a prime consideration when these forward contracts as part of the hedging deciding where to locate new facilities.
policy, described above, in order to mitigate US dollar income converted into sterling the impact of volatile exchange rates.
represented 26 per cent of Group revenues in 2008 2007 25 per cent.
US dollar income converted into euros represented Interest rate risk four per cent of Group revenues in 2008 The Group uses xed rate bonds and oating 2007 four per cent.
rate debt as funding sources.
The Groups policy ii Residual currency exposure is hedged via is to maintain a proportion of its debt at xed the financial markets.
The Group operates rates of interest having regard to the prevailing a hedging policy using a variety of financial interest rate outlook.
To implement this policy instruments with the objective of the Group may utilise a combination of interestminimising the impact of uctuations rate swaps, forward-rate agreements and in exchange rates on future transactions interest-rate caps to manage the exposure.
Market exchange rates Commodity risk 2008 2007 The Group has an ongoing exposure to the USD per GBP price of jet fuel and base metals arising from Year-end spot rate 1.438 1.991 business operations.
The Groups objective is to minimise the impact of price uctuations.
Average spot rate 1.854 2.001 The exposure is hedged, on a similar basis EUR per GBP to that adopted for currency risks, in accordance with parameters contained in written policies Year-end spot rate 1.034 1.362 set by the Board.
Average spot rate 1.258 1.461 The permitted range of the amount of cover Sales nancing taken is determined by the written policies set In connection with the sale of its products, by the Board, based on known and forecast the Group will, on some occasions, income levels.
provide nancing support for its customers.
The forward cover is managed within the This may involve the Group guaranteeing parameters of these policies in order to achieve nancing for customers, providing asset-value the Groups objectives, having regard to the guarantees AVGs on aircraft for a proportion Groups view of long-term exchange rates.
of their expected future value, or entering Forward cover is in the form of standard foreign into leasing transactions.
exchange contracts and instruments on which The Group manages and monitors its sales the exchange rates achieved are dependent finance related exposures to customers and on future interest rates.
The Group may also products within written policies approved write currency options against a portion of by the Board and within the internal framework the unhedged dollar income at a rate which described in the corporate governance section.
is consistent with the Groups long-term The contingent liabilities represent the target rate.
At the end of 2008 the Group maximum discounted aggregate gross and had US$17.1 billion of forward cover net exposure that the Group has in respect of 2007 US$9.4 billion.
delivered aircraft, regardless of the point in time at which such exposures may arise.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 63 The Group uses Ascend Worldwide Limited as Accounting standards an independent appraiser to value its security The consolidated financial statements have portfolio at both the half year and year end.
been prepared in accordance with International Ascend provides specic values both current Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted and forecast future values for each asset in the by the EU.
No standards or interpretations that security portfolio.
These values are then used become eective during 2008 had a significant to assess the Groups net exposure.
impact on the Groups financial statements.
The permitted levels of gross and net exposure A summary of other changes, which have not are limited in aggregate, by counterparty, been adopted in 2008, is included within the by product type and by calendar year.
accounting policies in note 1 to the financial The Groups gross exposures were divided statements.
approximately 55:45 between AVGs and credit guarantees in 2008 2007 55:45.
They are spread over many years and relate to a number Share price of customers and a broad product portfolio.
During the year the Companys share price The Board regularly reviews the Groups sales decreased by 39 per cent from 546p to 335.5p, finance related exposures and risk management compared to a 28 per cent decrease in the activities.
Each nancing commitment is subject aerospace and defence sector and a 31 per cent to a credit and asset review process and prior decrease in the FTSE100.
The Companys shares approval in accordance with Board delegations ranged in price from 547p in January to 249p of authority.
The Group operates a sophisticated risk-pricing The number of ordinary shares in issue at the model to assess risk and exposure.
end of the year was 1,844 million, an increase of 24 million of which 12 million related to share Costs and exposures associated with providing options and 12 million related to conversion nancing support are incorporated in any of B Shares into ordinary shares.
decision to secure new business.
The average number of ordinary shares in issue The Group seeks to minimise the level of was 1,820 million 2007 1,800 million.
exposure from sales finance commitments by: the use of third-party non-recourse debt Andrew Shilston where appropriate: Finance Director the transfer, sale, or reinsurance of risks: and February 11, 2009 ensuring the proportionate ow down of risk and exposure to relevant RRSPs.
Each of the above forms an active part of the Groups exposure management process.
Where exposures arise, the strategy has been, and continues to be, to assume where possible liquid forms of nancing commitment that may be sold or transferred to third parties when the opportunity arises.
Note 23 to the financial statements describes the Groups contingent liabilities.
There were no material changes to the Groups gross and net contingent liabilities during 2008.
Corporate governance 64 65 Board of directors 80 Internal control and risk management 65 Biographies 80  for internal control 66 Group Executive and Advisory Boards 80 Organisation structure 67 Composition of the Board 80 The risk management system 67 Independence of the non-executive directors 80 Systems of internal control 67 Role of the Board 81 Shareholders and share capital 67 Directorsinduction, training and information 81 Share capital and voting rights 68 Board eectiveness 81 Payments to shareholders 68 Conicts of interest 81 Communication with shareholders 68 Indemnity 81 Share class rights 69 Board committees 82 Restrictions on transfer of shares and limitations on holdings 69 Attendance at meetings of the Board and its principal committees in 2008 82 Shareholder agreements and consent requirements 69 Remuneration committee 82 Authority to issue shares 69 Nominations committee 82 Authority to purchase own shares 69 Audit committee 82 Voting rights 69 Ethics committee 82 Major shareholdings 69 Risk committee 83 Other statutory information 70  report 83 Political donations 70 Introduction 83 Change of control 70 The remuneration committee 83 Essential commercial relationships 70 Remuneration policy 84 Annual report and the financial statements 70 The main components of remuneration 84 Statement of  72 Service contracts 84 Going concern 72 External directorships of executive directors 84 Disclosure of information to auditors 73 Non-executive directors 84 Responsibility statement 73 Performance graph 74 Aggregate directors' remuneration 74 Directorsemoluments 74 Payments made to former directors of the Company 75 Pensions 76 Directorsshare interests 78 Share options 78 Long-term incentive awards Rolls-Royce attaches the highest priority to corporate governance, the system by which the Company is directed, managed and controlled in the interests of all its stakeholders.
The strength of the Companys corporate values, its reputation and its ability to achieve its objectives are influenced by the effectiveness of the Companys approach towards corporate governance.
The Company is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code.
A copy of the code can be obtained free of charge from FRC publications, telephone: 44 0 20 8247 1264, email: customer.
The Board confirms that throughout 2008, the Company complied with the Combined Code.
This report explains how the Company discharges its corporate governance responsibilities.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008
