Chief Financial Officers review Our revenue growth reflects the groups success in expanding its volumes while also achieving significant price and mix gains.
Key performance indicators KPIs Volumes SABMiller has a clear strategic focus, The adjacent chart shows the groups with four strategic priorities, as noted in organic growth in lager volumes for each the Chief Executives review.
Management of the last four years.
The groups growth use a range of KPIs to monitor progress in each year is significantly ahead of the against these priorities.
Some of the most growth rate of the global beer industry.
important measures used are: This years results demonstrate the Volume growth on an organic basis: operating strength of our group and our recent volume increases in part reflect our Group revenue growth on a reported strong presence in higher growth markets.
and organic constant currency basis: Total beverage volumes, including soft Growth in volumes of premium brands drink volumes, grew by 6% on an organic also called worthmore brand volumes basis and 6% on a reported basis to 288 in North America : million hl.
Within this total, lager volumes at 239 million hl were up by 7% on an organic Volume growth of selected international basis and 11% on a reported basis.
Malcolm Wyman, Chief Financial Officer and regional premium brands outside Particularly strong growth in lager volumes their home markets: was recorded in Europe and Africa & Asia.
Organic constant currency EBITA growth Revenue and EBITA margin progression: and Our revenue growth reflects the groups In addition, various non-financial success in expanding its volumes while Lager: organic volume growth metrics relevant to functional areas.
also achieving significant price and mix % gains illustrating the strength of our Certain KPIs are discussed in further brands, front-line pricing and good 12 detail below within the review of the revenue management.
The adjacent current years financial performance.
chart illustrates the organic growth in 10 Other non-financial KPIs have been group revenue for each of the last four dealt with in the Chief Executives review years with each years performance 8 and in the operations review.
6 Selected disclosures of results on an Group revenue including our share organic, constant currency basis are of associates of US$2,418 million was 4 made to illustrate underlying performance.
This represents an These exclude the effects of acquisitions increase of 9.6% on an organic, constant 2 net of disposals, and changes in exchange currency basis and is ahead of the growth rates.
Organic results exclude the first in volumes.
Real price mix gains of 05 06 07 08 12 months results in the case of 3.3% were achieved, principally in North Source: SABMiller plc 2008 acquisitions and investments, and the last America, Europe and Latin America, 12 months results from disposals.
Constant with stronger gains in the second half currency results have been determined by of the year.
translating the local currency denominated results for the year ended 31 March 2008 Currency movements during the year Group revenue growth at the exchange rates for the comparable increased reported revenue by 5.5%, % Organic constant currency basis period in the prior year.
as the majority of the currencies in which 12 the group trade strengthened against the US dollar with the exception of the South 10 African rand.
Transactions completed in the financial year in the Netherlands and 9.6% 8 Poland offset by soft drinks business increase in group revenue on an disposals in Latin America and China 6 organic constant currency basis had the effect of increasing reported revenue by 0.8%.
4 Since the Miller transaction in July 2002, 2 the group has grown revenue strongly, both on an organic basis and by acquisition.
05 06 07 08 The compound annual organic growth rate Source: SABMiller plc 2008 18 Chief Financial Officers review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Double digit organic constant currency growth in EBITA was achieved by Europe, North America and Africa & Asia.
EBITA margin performance EBITA growth % Organic constant currency basis 2007 2008 % Organic constant currency basis 20 Latin Europe North Africa & SA Beverages Hotels & Group America America Asia Gaming 40 15 30 10 20 5 10 05 06 07 08 Source: SABMiller plc 2008 Source: SABMiller plc 2008 UK GAAP in volumes has been 5.6%.
The group has the group is managed.
SABMiller believes in group EBITA margin trends in the leveraged volume growth through price that the reported EBITA profit measures chart above.
In this year of significantly and mix benefits to generate compound give shareholders additional information rising input costs, revenue growth annual group revenue growth of 9.3% on trends and make it easier to and production efficiencies enabled the over that period.
Segmental group to recover the increases in costs performance is reported after the specific experienced and the group has maintained Input costs apportionment of attributable head office its EBITA margin at 17.4%.
This is a Input cost pressures have been significant service costs.
In addition to in the past year.
Most notably there have the input price pressures experienced been substantial increases in the market The chart above shows the organic the group suffered the adverse impact on prices of malt, barley and hops.
The price increase in EBITA for each of the last four volume and mix of the loss to a competitor of malt and barley has more than doubled years with each years performance shown of the licence to produce a premium brand in the last two years, while the price of in constant currency.
EBITA grew 9% on which had previously accounted for 9% of hops has increased by seven to ten times an organic, constant currency basis.
over the same period, with a significant Reported EBITA, which includes the impact spike in the last 12 months in particular.
of currency movements and acquisitions, The impact of this on profitability has been grew by 15% to US$4,141 million.
Growth tempered through supply contracts for in EBITA reflects the benefits of volume and 9% future requirements and an active hedging revenue increases as well as productivity.
programme, combined with programmes The group has a record of improving its EBITA growth on organic to support development of local barley productivity over time, notwithstanding constant currency basis farming in both Africa and India, increases in capital investment and in underpinning our supply in these areas.
sales and marketing expenses which can The groups reported EBITA margin As a consequence the impact of input impact productivity in any individual year.
on an organic constant currency basis cost increases has been more muted, with Double digit organic constant currency is 10 basis points lower, as currency total raw material costs increasing 9% per growth in EBITA was achieved by Europe, movements that have favoured the hl in constant currency.
Our total cost of North America and Africa & Asia, which weighting of higher margin businesses goods sold per hl, which includes other enabled the group to absorb the EBITA in the group total are excluded from variable costs, is up about 6% on the decline in South Africa and still achieve this measure.
same basis reflecting the lower cost a good overall performance for the year.
pressures experienced on other inputs.
The group has continued investment Latin America is now the largest beverage in future growth, particularly capacity EBITA segment, contributing 25% of group EBITA expansion, and also in brand support EBITA is defined as operating profit and this represents the significant progress and sales capability.
There has also before exceptional items and amortisation made by the group in developing a been a focus on productivity and cost of intangible assets excluding software.
Overall this investment It includes the groups share of associates EBITA margin has led to some incremental cost in operating profit on a similar basis.
We The group has a strong record in protecting EBITA margin.
choose to report EBITA in our results in and developing profitability to raise the order to accord with the manner in which performance of local businesses, as seen Chief Financial Officers review 19 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Chief Financial Officers review continued Exceptional items The effective tax rate of 32.5% 2007: Adjusted EPS and Dividend per share Items that are material either by size or 34.5% before amortisation of intangible US cents incidence are classified as exceptional assets other than software and exceptional items.
Further details on the treatment items and the adjustment to interest noted 150 EPS of these items can be found in note 4 above, is below that of the prior year, to the financial statements.
principally reflecting a more favourable 120 geographic mix of profits across the group, Net exceptional charges of US$112 million local statutory rate reductions and ongoing 90 before tax were reported during the year initiatives to manage our effective tax rate.
Of these, US$78 million relate to final restructuring costs Currency 60 incurred in Latin America 2007: US$69 The South African rand has declined against million, partially offset by a net profit of the US dollar during the year and ended 30 US$17 million on the disposal of soft drinks the financial year at R8.15 to the US dollar, businesses in Costa Rica and Colombia.
while the weighted average rand dollar 05 06 07 08 Miller has also recorded costs of US$51 rate weakened by 1% to R7.13 compared Source: SABMiller plc 2008 million in relation to retention accruals with R7.06 in the prior year.
The Colombian pending the completion of the proposed peso COP strengthened by almost 17% MillerCoors joint venture and certain against the US dollar compared to the prior integration costs.
In 2007, Europe reported year end, and ended the year at COP1,822 a net exceptional cost of US$24 million.
to the US dollar, while the weighted average This comprised a profit on the disposal COP dollar rate improved by 15% to of land in Naples of US$14 million less COP1,997 from COP2,340.
integration costs of US$7 million principally Profit and earnings incurred in Slovakia, and an adjustment to Adjusted profit before tax of US$3,639 goodwill at Birra Peroni.
As required under million increased by 15% over the prior year, IFRS, to the extent that a business is able reflecting performance improvements across to utilise, after an acquisition, previously the businesses and translation of results unrecognised deferred tax assets, an into US dollars.
On a statutory basis, profit adjustment to goodwill is required with a before tax of US$3,264 million was up compensating adjustment to tax.
During 16%, including the impact of exceptional 2007 we recorded such an adjustment items and the mark to market movements for US$31 million in respect of Birra Peroni in finance costs as noted above.
and this had been included within exceptional items.
The group presents adjusted basic earnings per share to exclude the impact of Finance costs and tax amortisation of intangible assets excluding Net finance costs increased to US$456 software and other non-recurring items, million, a 7% increase on the prior years which include post-tax exceptional items, US$428 million.
Finance costs in the in order to present a more meaningful current year include a net benefit from comparison for the years shown in the the mark-to-market adjustments of various consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted derivatives amounting to US$35 million earnings increased by 20% to US$2,147 2007: nil which are of a capital nature and million and the weighted average number for which the group has been unable to of basic shares in issue for the year obtain hedge accounting.
This benefit has was 1,500 million, up from last years been excluded from the determination of 1,496 million.
Adjusted net finance costs, which exclude this benefit, Adjusted earnings per share increased by were US$491 million, up 15%, reflecting 19%, the fifth year in the last six years with an increase in net debt following the double digit growth.
The groups adjusted significant capital expenditure programme earnings per share also showed doublecurrently being undertaken by the group digit increases when measured in South and the recent Grolsch acquisition.
Interest African rand and sterling.
A reconciliation cover, based on pre-exceptional profit of basic earnings per share to adjusted before interest and tax and excluding the earnings per share is shown in note 8 to impact of the mark to market movements the financial statements and, on a statutory noted above, has increased to 7.9 times basis, basic earnings per share were from 7.8 times in the prior year.
20 Chief Financial Officers review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 16% US $2,034m increase in dividends invested in capital expenditure for the year Dividends of further breweries.
CR Snow completed Net cash from operations The board has proposed a final dividend the disposal of a non-core water business.
US$m of 42 US cents to make a total of 58 US Cash flow and investment highlights cents per share for the year an increase 5,000 The group has a good record of of 16% on the prior year.
This represents generating cash, as shown in the adjacent a dividend cover of 2.5 times based on 4,000 chart.
Increases in cash generation reflect adjusted earnings per share, as described growth in profitability before interest and above 2007: 2.4 times.
The groups tax payments and investment activities.
3,000 guideline is to achieve dividend cover of between 2.0 and 2.5 times adjusted 2,000 earnings.
The relationship between the growth in dividends and adjusted earnings 1,000 21% per share is demonstrated in the chart 05 06 07 08 shown opposite.
Details of payment cash generation measured by dates and related matters are disclosed EBITDA: revenue Source: SABMiller plc 2008 in the directors report.
Acquisitions and disposals Net cash inflow from operating activities In December 2007, SABMiller plc before working capital movements and Molson Coors Brewing Company EBITDA rose 12% to US$4,518 million announced that they had signed a definitive from last years US$4,031 million.
The transaction agreement to combine the groups cash flow generation was again US and Puerto Rico operations of their strong as demonstrated by the ratio of respective subsidiaries, Miller and Coors, EBITDA to revenue both metrics excluding in a joint venture to create a stronger, results of associates at 21% 2007: 22%.
brand-led US brewer in the increasingly The group maintained its net liability competitive US marketplace.
We hope position in working capital but there has to close the transaction, which is subject been a cash outflow from rising working to US anti-trust clearance, in mid-2008.
capital of US$242 million across the group mainly as a result of outflows in In January 2008 the group completed the Latin America and Europe with higher acquisition of 99.96% of Browar Belgia Sp.
receivables from the Easter period the z o. o, the fourth largest brewer in Poland.
As a result cash In February 2008 the group completed generated from operations increased the acquisition of Royal Grolsch N. V. in by only 6% over the prior year to reach the Netherlands and by 31 March 2008 US$4,276 million.
The group has continued to invest in In addition, our joint venture with Cocathe business, and capital expenditure for Cola Amatil Limited, Pacific Beverages the year has grown to some US$1,978 Pty Limited acquired Bluetongue Brewery million 2007: US$1,191 million including Pty Limited Bluetongue, the Australian additional production capacity, new premium brewer.
containers and distribution to enable In May 2008, SABMiller announced it the business to take advantage of the had agreed to acquire a 99.84% interest growth in its markets.
Capital expenditure in the Ukrainian brewer CJSC Sarmat.
The as reflected in US dollars has also been transaction is subject to approval by the increased by the strengthening of certain Ukrainian competition authorities and other currencies in key markets against the US customary pre-closing conditions.
Capital expenditure including the capitalisation of intangible software costs is During the year the group completed US$2,034 million 2007: US$1,244 million.
the disposals of its soft drinks business in Costa Rica and its juice business in Tax paid has risen by 21% to US$969 Colombia.
The group has also purchased million from US$801 million, in excess of further minority shareholdings in our profit before tax growth due to timing operating company in Panama.
Our associate in China, CR Snow, has continued to consolidate its position as the countrys largest brewer with the purchase Chief Financial Officers review 21 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Chief Financial Officers review continued Financial structure and liquidity gross debt net of cash and cash Funding structure The group finances its operations through equivalents has increased to US$9,060 2008 2007 $m $m cash generated by the business and a million from US$6,877 million at 31 March mixture of short and medium-term bank 2007 reflecting payment for the acquisition Overdraft 485 187 credit facilities, bank loans, corporate of Royal Grolsch N. V. US$1,190 million Borrowings 9,160 7,029 bonds and commercial paper.
In this and the assumption of its borrowings Derivatives 75 127 way, the group avoids over-reliance on US$162 million and the groups increased Finance leases 13 15 any particular liquidity source.
The group capital expenditure programme and the seeks to mitigate the effect of structural translation impact resulting from a weaker Gross debt 9,733 7,358 currency exposures by borrowing, where dollar against most of our trading currencies.
Cash and cash equivalents 673 481 cost effective, in the same currency as An analysis of net debt is provided in the functional currency of its main units.
The groups gearing presented Net debt 9,060 6,877 The group borrows principally in US as a ratio of debt equity has increased to dollars, South African rands, euros, 49.7% from 45.8% at 31 March 2007.
Maturity of borrowings: Polish zlotys and Colombian pesos at In July 2007, the groups South African Within one year 2,062 1,711 both fixed and floating rates of interest.
holding company for its South African Between one to two years 380 414 The group also enters into derivative operations raised R1,600 million Between two and five years 3,932 1,847 transactions to manage the currency, approximately US$230 million in 5-year commodities and interest rate risk arising notes.
The notes, issued under a Domestic Over five years 3,359 3,386 from its operations and financing activities.
Medium Term Note programme, are Source: SABMiller plc 2008 It is group policy that no trading in financial guaranteed by SABMiller plc and are instruments is undertaken.
listed on BESA, the South African Bond Exchange.
The net proceeds have been The groups policy is to borrow directly used to repay part of the existing loan or synthetically in floating rates, reflecting facilities of The South African Breweries Ltd. the fact that floating rates are generally lower than fixed rates in the medium term.
The average loan maturity in respect of the However, in order to mitigate against the fixed rate debt portfolio is 3.9 years 2007: impact of an upward change in interest 4.7 years.
The weighted average interest rates, the extent to which group debt may rate for the total gross debt portfolio at be in floating rates is restricted to the lower 31 March 2008 was 7.3% 2007: 7.6% of a 75% of consolidated net debt and b reflecting the currency profile of the debt that amount of net borrowings in floating and movements in rates in the year.
rates that would, with a 1% increase in The group uses cash in hand, cash from interest rates, increase finance costs by an operations and short-term borrowings to amount equal to but not more than 1.2% manage its liquidity.
This policy is not applied for the group had cash and cash equivalent borrowings arising from recent acquisition investments of US$673 million 2007: activity and inflation linked debt.
Exposure to movements in interest rates Our strong financial structure gives us in group borrowings is managed through adequate resources to facilitate ongoing interest rate swaps and forward rate business along with medium-term flexibility agreements.
As at 31 March 2008, 30% to invest in appropriate growth opportunities of the borrowings were at fixed rates, and manage the balance sheet.
As a result taking into account interest rate swaps of the Grolsch acquisition, the group has and forward rate agreements 2007: 34%.
reduced committed undrawn borrowing A 1% move in interest rates would result in facilities from US$3,426 million at 31 March a change to finance costs equivalent to a 2007 to US$1,222 million at 31 March 0.65% 2007: 0.65% impact on EBITDA 2008.
Subsequent to the year end, in order excluding exceptional items.
to provide supplementary headroom, the Gross debt at 31 March 2008, comprising group entered into an additional US$1,000 borrowings together with the fair value million committed facility maturing June of derivative assets or liabilities held to 2009, and the refinancing of the US$600 manage interest rate and foreign currency million Miller bonds, maturing August 2008, risk of borrowings, has increased to has been secured with additional three year US$9,733 million from US$7,358 million committed bank facilities.
Net debt comprising 22 Chief Financial Officers review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our strong financial structure gives us adequate resources to facilitate ongoing business along with medium-term flexibility to invest in appropriate growth opportunities and manage the balance sheet.
Balance sheet profile In addition, note 1 details the areas As outlined above, the group has continued where a high degree of judgement has to enter new markets to strengthen its been applied in the selection of a policy, positions through additional acquisitions an assumption or estimates used.
These transactions have These relate to the assumptions used altered the balance sheet profile of the in impairment tests of carrying values for group and details are given in note 28 to goodwill and intangible assets: estimates the financial statements.
of useful economic lives and residual values for intangible assets, property, plant and Total assets increased to US$35,813 equipment: assumptions required for million from the prior years US$28,736 the calculation of post-retirement benefit million.
There was also an increase of obligations: and judgements in relation to US$104 million in equity interests provision for taxes where the tax treatment attributable to minorities.
cannot be fully determined until a formal Goodwill increased by US$2,350 million, resolution has been reached with the reflecting acquisitions, primarily in relation relevant tax authority.
to Royal Grolsch N. V. and as a result of The groups operating results on a foreign exchange movements on goodwill segmental basis are set out in the denominated in currencies other than the segmental analysis of operations, and US dollar US$1,406 million.
the disclosures are in accordance with Intangible assets increased by the basis on which the businesses are US$482 million primarily reflecting managed and according to the differing foreign exchange movements on assets risk and reward profiles.
denominated in currencies other than In the determination and disclosure the US dollar.
A preliminary purchase of reported sales volumes, the group price allocation for Royal Grolsch was aggregates the volumes of all consolidated undertaken in March 2008 following its subsidiaries and its equity-accounted acquisition in February 2008 and this did associates, other than associates where not include the recognition of all potential primary responsibility for day-to-day intangible assets.
This exercise will be management rests with others such as completed in the next financial year and Castel and Distell.
In these latter cases, will probably involve the recognition of the financial results of operations are equity new intangible assets.
accounted in terms of IFRS but volumes Shareholder value are excluded.
Although contract brewing The value that a company returns to volumes are excluded from total volumes, its owners is best measured by total turnover from contract brewing is included shareholder return TSR a combination within group turnover.
of share price appreciation and dividends Translation differences on non-dollar returned over the medium to long term.
assets and liabilities are recognised in Recent measures of shareholder return the statement of recognised income and have been affected by the volatility of expense.
It is not the groups policy to equity indices.
Nevertheless, since hedge foreign currency earnings and their SABMiller moved its primary listing to the translation is made at weighted by monthly London Stock Exchange in March 1999, revenue average rates.
the FTSE 100 has produced a TSR of 23% to March 2008 to 31 March 2007: 31%, while the group has delivered a TSR of Malcolm Wyman 220% in sterling terms over the same Chief Financial Officer period to 31 March 2007: 217%.
Accounting policies and definitions The principal accounting policies used by the group are shown as note 1 to the financial statements.
Note 1 also includes recent accounting developments, none of which is expected to have a material impact on the group.
Chief Financial Officers review 23 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
