Statement of proved and probable reserves working interest basis Directors report The Groups proven and probable commercial reserves at 31 December 2008 were as follows: The Directors submit their report together with the audited Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Thailand Indonesia Total Total Statements of Salamander Energy PLC for the year and period ended 31 December 2008 respectively.
Oil Gas Oil Gas Oil Gas MMbo BCF MMbo BCF MMbo BCF MMboe Salamander Energy PLC is the holding company of the Group and all its issued ordinary shares were admitted At 1 January 2008 0.6 99.0 11.2 63.3 11.8 162.3 38.8 to listing on the main market of the London Stock Exchange on 5 December 2006.
Acquisitions 9.0 4.3 49.3 13.3 49.3 21.5 Revisions 7.3 1.5 11.7 8.8 11.7 10.8 Principal activities Production 0.6 2.9 1.2 6.9 1.8 9.8 3.4 The principal activities of the Group which are intended to continue into the future are as an independent oil At 31 December 2008 16.3 96.1 15.8 117.4 32.1 213.5 67.7 and gas exploration, development and production company focused on building a portfolio of assets in Asia.
The Group operates through a number of subsidiary and other undertakings, including Joint Venture Entities, Proved and probable commercial reserves are based on the Groups reserves reports produced by the Groups which are set out in note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
independent engineer, RPS Energy, as supplemented by the Group with additional and more recent information.
The Groups head office is in London with regional offices in Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, Lao PDR The Group provides for amortisation on its oil and gas properties on a net entitlements basis, which reflects and Vietnam.
the share of future production estimated to be attributable to the Group under the terms of the PSCs related to each field.
Total proved and probable entitlement reserves were 50.1 MMboe at 31 December 2008 2007: Enhanced business review 25.4 MMboe.
The Company is required by the Section 417 Companies Act 2006 to include a review of its business The 2008 reserves replacement ratio was 950% 2007: negative 25%.
The information that fulfils the requirement is contained in the following sections of the annual report and should be treated as forming part of this report by reference: Chairmans and Chief Executives Review on pages 2 to 3 Operational Review on pages 6 to 12 Financial Review on pages 14 to 17 CSR on pages 20 to 21 Directors Report on pages 25 to 28 Principal Risks and uncertainties described on pages 18 to 19 Directors The Directors who served in office during the financial year were as follows: Charles Jamieson James Menzies Mike Buck Nick Cooper Andrew Cochran resigned on 31 December 2008 Struan Robertson John Crowle Robert Cathery Michael Pavia James Coleman appointed on 8 May 2008 Mike Sibson appointed on 16 October 2008 Results and dividends The Consolidated Financial Statements for the year-ended 31 December 2008 are as set out on pages 50 to 71.
The Groups loss after tax for the year was $66.4 million 2007: post-tax profit $4.6 million.
The Company has declared no dividend for the year-ended 31 December 2008 2007: nil.
It is not the Directors current intention that the Company will pay a dividend for the foreseeable future.
24 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 25 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 Directors report continued Directors interests Significant shareholders The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and Directors remuneration are as set out in the At 20 March 2008, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the significant remuneration report on pages 34 to 39. interests in the voting rights of the Companys issued ordinary shares as notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules were as follows: Capital structure and takeovers directive Voting rights attaching to Percentage of total issued ordinary shares voting rights Nature of holding Details of the authorised and issued share capital together with details of movements in share capital during 3i Quoted Private Equity 23,092,997 15.12 Direct Indirect the year are included in note 24 to the financial statements.
The company has one class of ordinary shares.
FinVentures UK 19,870,897 13.01 Direct Artemis Investment Management Ltd 16,906,469 11.07 Direct Article 55 of the Companys Articles restricts the percentage of Salamander shares that may be held by Floriline SA 7,600,331 4.97 Direct Indirect Canadian residents to below 10 per cent so as to permit the Company to rely on exemptions from certain Fidelity Investments 6,617,407 4.33 Indirect obligations which the Company may be subject to under Canadian Securities Law.
Article 55 of the Companys Legal & General 6,245,853 4.09 Direct Articles confers upon the Board the power to require Canadian citizens beneficially owning Salamander shares Encap Investments LP 5,930,187 3.88 Direct to transfer their Salamander Shares when the threshold of 10 per cent Canadian Salamander Shareholders is approached.
In the event that such Canadian Salamander Shareholders are required to transfer their Salamander Shares under Article 55, the relevant Salamander Shares will be sold in the market at the best price Employees reasonably obtainable in the market and the net proceeds if any will be remitted to the relevant Canadian The Company has a policy of providing employees with information about the Company and regular meetings Salamander Shareholder.
This compulsory transfer power is generally available to the Board to exercise from between management and employees are held to exchange information and ideas.
time to time, and the Board is free to exercise this power in its absolute discretion.
The directors are no aware of any agreements between holders of the companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 2008 saw an increase in employee levels in line with the growth in operated activity.
At year end Salamander securities or on voting rights.
employed 129 people compared with 38 employees at the end of 2007.
Details of employee share schemes are disclosed on pages 34 to 39 of the remuneration report and in note 25 The Group has a diverse workforce comprised of a mixture of local employees and ex-patriots.
It is an equal to the financial statements.
opportunities employer and gives every consideration to applications for employment by disabled persons where the requirements of the job may be adequately filled by a disabled person.
Where existing employees No person has any special rights of control over the companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
become disabled, it is the Companys policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the company is governed by its Articles of similar terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion wherever appropriate.
Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
Pursuant to an understanding The Company requires all employees to conform to the policies outlined in the Business Code of Conduct.
between the Company and 3i QPE PLC, for as long as 3i QPE PLC holds not less than 10 per cent of the Company issued share capital, 3i QPE PLC will have the right to appoint, remove and re-appoint one Annual general meeting non-executive director of the Company, subject to confirmation of its nomination by the Nomination Committee.
In the event the Nomination Committee objects to its nomination then 3i QPE PLC shall be entitled The Companys third Annual General Meeting as a listed public company will be held at the Andaz Hotel, to select further nominees until approval is received from the Nomination Committee.
Mike Sibson has been Liverpool Street, London EC2M 7QN at 2pm on Tuesday, 30 June 2009.
The notice of meeting and an nominated and approved by the Nomination Committee in respect of this right.
The Companys Articles explanatory circular to shareholders setting out the AGM business accompanies this Annual Report.
of Association give power to the Board to appoint directors but require the directors to submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their election and thereafter re-election by shareholders Principal risks and uncertainties at least every three years.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the group Powers relating to the issuing and buy back of shares are also included in the Articles and the authority to issue faces which are set-out in the financial review on pages 18 to 19. shares is renewed by shareholders each year at the Annual General Meeting.
The powers of directors are described in the Board Terms of Reference, copies of which are available on request, and the Corporate Payment policy Governance Statement on page 29 to 33.
The Groups policy in respect of its vendors is to agree and establish terms of payment when contracting for the In relation to agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company, details goods or services and to abide by those payment terms.
The Company is the holding Company of the Group of the BNPP led loan facility are set out in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
There are, in addition, and has no trade creditors.
a number of other agreements so affected, such as commercial contracts, property lease arrangements and employee share plans, none of which are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the Charitable and political donations business of the group as a whole.
During the year the Group made no political donations 2007: nil.
Charitable donations made by the Group amounted to $41,000 2007:$14,000.
26 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 27 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 Directors report continued Corporate governance statement Auditors Salamander strives to apply best industry practice in all of its activities.
The Board, Management and Staff of Salamander are committed to applying the highest standards of business ethics, corporate governance As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors and health, safety and environmental control.
To this end, the Group has put in place policies and procedures are unaware.
In addition, each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director within which it conducts its activities along with working practices and a business culture to ensure openness in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors and full accountability.
are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Compliance with the financial reporting councils combined code on corporate governance Deloitte LLP were first appointed as Auditors to the Company in September 2005 and have expressed their This report describes how the Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined willingness to continue as Auditors.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Groups Auditors will be Code on Corporate Governance the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council.
It also discloses the proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
extent to which the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
Going concern The Board considers it has complied with the Code in all aspects throughout the financial year.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance Board of directors and position are set out in the enhanced Business Review as detailed on pages 28.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages During 2008, following the appointment of James Coleman and Michael Sibson, the Board comprised of eleven 14 to 19 and note19 to the financial statements.
In addition, note 22 to the financial statements includes the Directors including the Non-executive Chairman, four Executive Directors, five independent Non-executive Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: Directors and one non-Independent Non-executive Director.
Mike Sibson is not considered to be independent details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The since he is appointed pursuant to an understanding between the Company and 3i QPE PLC that for as long as Directors believe that the groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in 3i QPE PLC holds not less than 10 per cent of the Company issued share capital, 3i QPE PLC will have the right trading performance, show the Group is adequately financed and is able to operate within the level of its to appoint, remove and re-appoint one non-executive director of the Company, subject to confirmation of its current facility.
nomination by the Nomination Committee.
Andrew Cochran resigned on 31 December 2008.
All of the Executive Directors have extensive upstream oil and gas experience.
The majority of the Non-executive In 2008, the Group completed a $200 million equity placing and issue.
In addition, as highlighted in Directors have held senior appointments in oil and gas companies and, together, the Non-executive Directors note 19 to the financial statements, the Group meets its investments required to realise its development bring a broad range of business and commercial experience to the Board.
The biographies of the Board projects and committed exploration and appraisal programme through a $200 million reserves based lending members are set out on pages 22 to 23. facility which is due for renewal in 2015.
The current economic conditions create uncertainty, particularly over the oil price, which affects revenue from the Groups production and the availability under the reserves based The role of the Board is clearly defined.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery lending facility, the basis of which is discussed in note 19 of the financial statements.
The Group has undertaken of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Board directs a 2009 hedging program to manage this risk.
and monitors the Groups affairs within a framework of controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed effectively.
It sets the Groups strategic aims, ensuring that the necessary resources are in place to achieve those The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in economic aims, and reviews management and financial performance.
The Board also has responsibility for setting the assumptions such as the oil price, show that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its current Groups core values and standards of business conduct and for ensuring that these, together with the Groups reserves based lending facility.
obligations to its stakeholders, are widely understood throughout the Group.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have There is a clear separation in the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairmans key adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue responsibilities are the effective running of the Board, ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
part in the development and determination of the Groups strategy, and acting as guardian of the Boards decision-making process.
The key responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer are managing the Groups Subsequent events business, proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation Subsequent events are as set out in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
with the Board and, as leader of the executive team, implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for maintaining regular dialogue with Approved by the Board of Directors on 24 March 2009 major shareholders as part of the Companys overall investor relations programme.
Douglas Barrie The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group Company Secretary faces.
Additionally, the Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its 24 March 2009 effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
28 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 29 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 Corporate governance statement continued The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control which has been in place Directors have access to a regular supply of financial, operational and strategic information, as well as the throughout 2008 and to the date of this report and which is in accordance with the revised guidance on internal Company Secretary, to assist them in the discharge of their duties.
Such information is provided as part of the control published in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
The Boards monitoring covers control matters, normal management reporting cycle undertaken by senior management.
Board papers are generally circulated including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on seven days in advance of Board meetings.
In addition, each formal Board meeting includes a review of the reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed history, performance and future potential of an individual asset or business unit designed to ensure that all and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for material assets are considered on a cyclical basis and to enable Board members to familiarise themselves with more extensive monitoring.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
the key assets and operations of the Group.
The Board formally reviews the Groups risk register twice a year A summary of the key risks facing the Group and mitigating actions is described in the Financial Review.
with the constant monitoring of events by the Executive Directors.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised All Directors and Board Committees have access to independent professional advice, at the Companys of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of expense, as and when required.
necessary actions has not been considered applicable.
The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive provides an induction process Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, they may serve one or for each new director tailored to their individual knowledge and experience.
more three year terms subject to satisfactory performance.
The letters of appointment of each Non-executive The Group maintains Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
Director are available for inspection.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is Struan Robertson.
In this role he is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with A formal schedule of matters reserved for Board approval is in place.
The matters reserved include: the Groups the Chief Executive or Chairman.
overall strategy, approval of annual and interim results, material acquisitions and disposals, material contracts and major capital expenditure projects and budgets.
Subject to those reserved matters, the Board delegates All Directors appointed by the Board are required by the Companys Articles of Association to be re-elected authority for the management of the business primarily to the Chief Executive and a senior executive by shareholders at the next AGM after their appointment.
Subsequently, Directors are subject to re-election by committee.
Certain other matters are delegated to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, shareholders at least every three years.
Prior to such re-elections, the Chairman will review each Directors each of which is described in more detail below.
performance to ensure they continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and on an ad hoc basis as required.
The attendance record of interests of directors where the Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect.
Shareholders approved each Director is shown below.
amendments to the Companys Articles of Association at the 2008 Annual General Meeting which included Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee provisions giving the Board authority to authorise matters which may result in the Directors breaching their duty to avoid a conflict of interest.
Directors of the Company who have an interest in matters under discussion at Charles Jamieson 10 N A N A 2 Board meeting must declare that interest and abstain from voting.
Only directors who have no interest in the James Menzies 11 N A N A N A matter being considered are able to approve a conflict of interest and, in taking the decision the directors must Mike Buck 11 N A N A N A act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the companys success.
The directors Nick Cooper 11 N A N A N A are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
During the year Andrew Cochran 10 N A N A N A procedures, based upon the GC100 guidance, were put in place to review any conflicts of interest.
The Board Struan Robertson 10 33 2 considers that these procedures are operating effectively.
Michael Pavia 11 4 N A N A John Crowle 10 43 N A Board performance Robert Cathery 9 N A 32 1 James Coleman 6 N A N A N A Annual performance appraisal of the Board, its Committees, individual Directors and the Chairman is carried 2 Mike Sibson 3 N A N A N A out, with the evaluation process involving Directors input to a detailed questionnaire followed by individual Number of meetings 11 43 2 interviews and feedback with the Chairman.
The results of the survey, together with any recommendations for 1 Since date of appointment on 8 May 2008 improving effectiveness, are presented by the Chairman to the whole Board for discussion.
The Non-executive 2 Since date of appointment on 16 October 2008 Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, meet without the Chairman to evaluate his performance in leading the Board and chairing meetings to conduct the Boards business.
In addition to the formal meetings of the Board, the Chairman and Chief Executive maintain frequent contact with the other Directors to discuss any issues of concern they may have relating to the Group or as regards their In addition to their attendance at Board and, as appropriate, Committee meetings, the Chairman and the area of responsibility and to keep them fully briefed on ongoing matters relating to the Groups operations.
Non-executive Directors will also meet formally without executive management present to examine and review the Board performance of the executive management, both individually and as a team: this review process is in part dealt with by the Board Committees referred to below.
Separately, the Chairman and Chief Executive hold informal meetings with the Non-executive Directors to discuss issues affecting the Group such as target objectives and remuneration matters.
30 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 31 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 Corporate governance statement continued Audit committee Remuneration committee The members of the Audit Committee are Michael Pavia Chairman, Struan Robertson and John Crowle.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are currently Robert Cathery Chairman, John Crowle and Other Board members may also be invited to attend committee meetings.
Meetings are held at least three times a year.
The Chief Financial Officer is invited to attend meetings The primary duty of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and agree with the Board the framework where appropriate and the Groups Auditors are regularly invited to attend meetings, including once at the or broad policy for the remuneration of the Groups Chief Executive, Chairman, the executive directors, the planning stage before the audit and once during the year-end audit and half-year review at the reporting stage.
Company Secretary and such other members of the executive management as it is designated to consider.
At least once a year the Audit Committee will also meet the Groups external auditors without Management The remuneration of Non-executive Directors is a matter for the Chairman and the executive members of the being present.
No Director may be involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration.
The work of the Audit Committee in respect of the financial year has included: The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are included on the Companys website, Consideration of matters relating to the appointment of the Groups Auditors.
com Reviewing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Groups Auditors.
Reviewing the integrity of the Groups annual and half-year reports, preliminary results announcements Nomination committee and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance.
The members of the Nomination Committee are Struan Robertson Chairman, Charles Jamieson and Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups integration of the acquired GFI operations.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and compliance procedures.
Reviewing the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible The Nomination Committees terms of reference, which are included on the Companys website, wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
com, are to review regularly the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board compared to its current position and In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of financial reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Nominations Committee also has reviewed accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public financial considers future considerations of the composition of the Board, taking into account the challenges information and has examined documentation relating to the annual report and preliminary announcement.
and opportunities facing the Group, and what skills and expertise are needed on the Board.
The clarity of disclosures included in the financial statements was reviewed by the Audit Committee, as was the basis for significant estimates and judgements.
In assessing the accounting treatment of major transactions Succession plans for key management roles, including the Executive Directors, are reviewed on an open to different approaches, the Committee considered written reports by management and the external ongoing basis.
The Committees recommendations are submitted to the Board for approval.
Shareholder relations The Committee has also considered whether it is appropriate for the Group to establish an internal audit function.
The Committee took account of the fact that the Company is at an early stage of development with Communication with shareholders is given high priority and there is regular dialogue with institutional a high degree of central control and concluded that presently there was no need for a dedicated internal investors, as well as general presentations to analysts at the time of the release of the annual and half year audit resource.
The Committee will review its decision at least annually as the size and complexity of the results.
The Board receives regular investor relations reports covering key investor meetings and activities, Group increases.
as well as shareholder and investor feedback.
The Group publishes its periodic results and other stock market announcements on the Investor Relations section of the Companys website www.
com The Committee also reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, particularly in and regular news updates in relation to the Group, including the status of exploration and development view of the relatively high level of their non-audit fees, accepting that their independence had been maintained programmes, are also included on the website.
Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to throughout the audit process for the financial year.
The Committee considers that, at this early stage in the receive these news updates by e-mail by registering online on the website.
Groups development, it is more efficient to use a single audit firm to also provide certain non-audit services for transactions and tax matters.
However, to regulate the position, the Committee has established a policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
In compiling that policy, which sets out the external auditors permitted and prohibited non-audit services and a fee threshold requiring prior approval by the Audit Committee for any new engagement, reference was made to Ethical Standard 5 of the Auditing Practices Board.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are included on the Companys website, www.
com 32 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 33 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 Remuneration report Remuneration committee Executive directors remuneration The members of the Remuneration Committee are currently Robert Cathery Chairman, Struan Robertson The Groups remuneration policy is to provide remuneration packages which ensure that directors and and John Crowle.
The Committees primary duty is to determine and agree with the Board the framework senior managers are fairly and responsibly rewarded for their contributions.
The aim is to provide remuneration or broad policy for the remuneration of the Groups Chief Executive, the Chairman, the Executive Directors, packages which are sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the quality required the Company Secretary and such other members of the executive management as it is designated to to achieve the Groups objectives and thereby enhance shareholder value.
The Committee takes account of the consider.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is a matter for the Chairman and the executive level of remuneration paid to Executive Directors and senior managers of comparable public companies and members of the Board.
It is the intention that this policy will continue to apply for 2009 and subsequent years subject to ongoing review as appropriate.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: Assess and set compensation levels for Executive Directors and senior managers.
The main details of the Executive Directors Service Agreements relating to base salary, annual bonus, share Review Executive Directors and senior managers share and other incentive plans prior to award.
plan awards, pensions and other benefits for 2008 are as set-out below: Review compensation levels for Executives and senior managers at least annually.
a Service agreements Make recommendations to the Board on matters relating to the remuneration and terms of employment of The Service Agreements for the Executive Directors are for no fixed term and may in normal circumstances be the Directors of the Company and on proposals for granting of share awards pursuant to any share awards terminated by either party on giving six months notice.
The Company reserves the right and discretion to pay scheme in operation from time to time.
the Executive Director in lieu of notice.
If the Company terminates the employment of an Executive Director by The Chief Executive is invited to attend meetings of the Committee but does not take part in the decision exercising its right to pay in lieu of notice, the Company is required to make a payment equal to the aggregate making of the Committee.
of basic salary and the cost to the Company of providing other contractual benefits which excludes bonus for the unexpired portion of the duration of any entitlement to notice.
The Committee has access to external consultancy services on remuneration and sector issues.
New Bridge Street Consultants were employed to assist, as required, only with matters relating to the Companys If, within 12 months of a change of control, the Company terminates the employment of an Executive Performance Share Plan.
Director in breach of the terms of his Service Agreement in circumstances where the Company is not entitled to terminate the Executive Directors employment, the Executive Director will be entitled to payment of a fixed The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Companys website, sum equal to six months base salary not including accrued bonus.
In return for the payment of such a fixed www.
sum, the Executive Director agrees to waive, release and discharge any entitlement to further or additional compensation of any kind whatsoever.
Historical comparator performance chart Date of contract Notice period The Companys IPO and listing on the London Stock Exchange took place on 5 December 2006.
The chart James Menzies 29 11 06 Six months below shows the Companys share price performance during 2008 compared with the performance in the same Mike Buck 29 11 06 Six months period of the FTSE All Share Oil & Gas Producers Index and the FTSE250 Index, which the Committee considers Nick Cooper 29 11 06 Six months are the closest comparable indices.
Andrew Cochran 29 11 06 Six months 60.0% b Salary 40.0% The annual base salaries of the Executive Directors for the year to 31 December 2008 were as follows: 20.0% James Menzies, Chief Executive Officer 315,000 0.0% Mike Buck, Chief Operating Officer 231,000 Nick Cooper, Chief Financial Officer 262,500 -20.0% Andrew Cochran, VP, Business Development 231,000 -40.0% The salary of each Executive Director is subject to regular review by the Remuneration Committee and such a -60.0% review took place in November 2008.
Salaries were not raised in 2008.
-80.0% It is expected that approximately 33% of Executive Directors remuneration will be fixed with the remaining performance related.
c Bonus Each of the Executive Directors is eligible for a discretionary annual bonus up to a maximum of 100% of their SMDR base salary.
The bonus may only be payable to the extent that individual and corporate performance targets set FTSE oil and gas production by the Remuneration Committee are achieved in the relevant year.
FTSE 250 1 This chart looks at the value of the Company during 2008 of 100 invested in the Companys issued ordinary share capital compared with the values of 100 invested in the FTSE All Share Oil & Gas Producers Index and the FTSE250.
It is assumed that any dividends are re-invested.
34 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 2008 January February March April May June July August September October November December 35 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008
