Financial review Group performance Taxation Group revenue increased by 21% to 8,235m.
This substantial increase was The tax charge of 136m included an underlying charge of 154m, an driven mainly by the continued growth at Primark and price rises across effective tax rate of 24.4% on the adjusted profit before tax.
This was our other businesses to recover the major increases in commodity costs.
slightly lower than last years 25.0% as a result of the mix of profits in Volume growth and the benefit of acquisitions and the translation effect different tax jurisdictions.
of the weakening of sterling also contributed.
At constant currency, and The net tax credit of 23m on the exceptional items described above has excluding the benefit of acquisitions, revenue increased by 13%.
also been treated as exceptional in the income statement together with Operating profit, adjusted to exclude exceptional items, the amortisation a tax charge of 17m to reflect the increase in the groups deferred tax of non-operating intangibles and profits on the sale of property, plant and liability following a change of tax law in the UK Finance Act 2008 which equipment, increased by 7% to 664m.
This was achieved in the face of will phase out Industrial Buildings Allowances.
The impact of the changes in the EU sugar regime The overall tax charge for the year benefited from a 21m 2007 30m was 56m and higher commodity prices added some 390m to our cost credit for tax relief on the amortisation of non-operating intangible assets base.
At constant currency, and excluding the benefit of acquisitions and and goodwill arising from asset acquisitions.
A tax charge of 9m was EU sugar regime changes, adjusted profit increased by 12%.
incurred on the profits arising on the sale of businesses and fixed assets.
The disposal of properties, plant and equipment resulted in a profit of Earnings and dividends 10m.
A net profit of 5m, including goodwill written off of 21m, arose Earnings attributable to equity shareholders of 357m were 12m lower on the sale of businesses including the yeast business in Germany, which than last year and the weighted average number of shares in issue remained was sold as a condition of acquiring the German yeast business of Gilde at 790 million.
Earnings per ordinary share fell by 3% from 46.7p to 45.2p.
Bakery Ingredients, our UK-based emulsifier business and a small animal A more consistent measure of performance is provided by the adjusted feeds business in Northern Ireland.
earnings per share which excludes exceptional items, profits on the sale Finance expense less finance income of 53m compares with a charge of of businesses and property, plant and equipment and the amortisation of 35m last year.
This year-on-year increase resulted from the continued non-operating intangibles net of any tax benefit.
Adjusted earnings per significant level of capital investment to develop opportunities in our share increased by 4% from 52.9p to 54.9p.
existing businesses, many of which are of a long-term nature, the The interim dividend was increased by 4% to 6.75p and a final dividend has acquisition of new businesses and the impact of much higher commodity been proposed at 13.5p which represents an overall increase of 4% for the prices on working capital.
Other financial income of 21m was primarily year.
In accordance with IFRS, no accrual has been made in these accounts net pensions financing income, being the expected return on assets in the for the proposed dividend which is expected to cost 107m and will be groups pension schemes less the charge on pension scheme liabilities.
The dividend is covered 2.7 times on an adjusted basis.
Profit before tax increased from 508m to 527m.
This years result Balance sheet includes an exceptional charge of 46m arising from major restructuring Non-current assets increased by 652m to 5,371m including 3,110m initiatives.
The permanent renunciation of sugar quota for the UK and of property, plant and equipment.
The increase was driven by acquisitions Poland agreed with the European Commission was 206,000 tonnes.
which added 209m and capital expenditure of 502m.
Working capital Compensation receivable for this renunciation, net of the write-off of increased by 340m primarily due to considerably higher inventory values the unamortised cost of quota purchased in 2006 and provision for the as a result of the substantial increases in commodity costs.
Net borrowings associated factory closure costs, resulted in a gain of 25m.
We have also at the year end were 480m higher than last year at 791m.
provided for the proposed rationalisation of our Australian meat business A currency gain of 302m arose on the translation into sterling of the following the acquisition of KR Castlemaine at the end of March.
Adjusted to exclude these exceptional items, the amortisation of non-operating groups foreign currency denominated net assets.
This resulted from the fact that sterling was weaker against all major currencies at the end of this intangibles and profits and losses on the sale of businesses and fixed assets, profit before tax increased 3% from 613m to 632m.
year than at the end of the previous year.
The groups net assets increased by 380m to 4,844m.
16 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our business in action Financial statements We continue to invest strongly in the future growth of the group with a net 710m spent on property, plant and equipment, intangibles and acquisitions during the year.
Return on capital employed for the group fell from 18.8% to 16.6%.
This 2011, has been provided by members of our existing banking group resulting is largely a consequence of the substantial level of investment made this in headroom on total committed facilities of 539m in addition to available year in expenditure, on a number of long-term capital projects which have cash resources.
The group also had access, at the year end, to 584m of yet to yield a return but also the lower profitability of the European sugar uncommitted credit lines under which 246m was drawn.
Return on capital employed is defined as operating profit Pensions before exceptional items and the amortisation of non-operating intangibles Pensions are accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 employee benefits.
expressed as a percentage of average capital employed for the year.
The total pension expense for the year was 62m compared with 71m Cash flow last year.
Net cash flow from operating activities was 553m compared with On an IAS 19 basis, the net surplus employee benefit assets less liabilities 696m last year.
This reduction mainly reflects an adverse working capital in the groups defined benefit pension schemes reduced from 276m last movement year-on-year of 165m moving from an inflow of 55m last year to 61m this year mainly as a result of an increase in scheme liabilities year to an outflow of 110m this year, the major driver being the increase as a consequence of higher forecast inflation, and an adjustment to the in commodity prices.
mortality assumptions to reflect experience to date and further We continue to invest strongly in the future growth of the group with improvements in life expectancy of scheme members.
a net 710m spent on property, plant and equipment, intangibles and Following the merger of the British Sugar and Associated British Foods acquisitions during the year.
70m was spent on intangible assets of pension schemes in April 2006, the Company agreed with the Pension which 49m related to the purchase of sugar quota negotiated in 2006.
Trustees to make two payments of 14.5m to eliminate the funding deficit, Capital expenditure amounted to 502m of which 152m was spent on at that date, in the British Sugar section of the newly merged scheme.
the acquisition of new stores and the refitting of existing Primark stores.
The second payment was made in October 2007.
Total contributions to Elsewhere, expenditure was incurred in developing our sugar interests defined benefit plans in the year amounted to 54m 2007 61m.
in China and southern Africa, and building or upgrading manufacturing facilities across the group including capacity expansion at the enzymes For defined contribution schemes the charge for the year is equal to the contributions made which amounted to 26m 2007 24m.
plant in Finland and yeast and yeast extract production in China.
Financial reporting standards and accounting policies 224m was spent on acquisitions including beet sugar factories in north east China, the European assets of Gilde Bakery Ingredients, the KR Castlemaine IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures, has been adopted this year.
No other changes to financial reporting standards have a material impact meat business in Australia and a number of small businesses to complement our Agriculture operations.
59m was realised on business disposals, on the group accounts.
primarily the German yeast business, resulting in a net cash outflow on Post balance sheet events acquisitions and disposals of 165m.
On 28 October 2008 we announced the creation of Stratas Foods, a joint Financing venture with Archer Daniels Midland Company ADM for the manufacture, marketing and distribution of packaged oil products in the US and Canada.
Cash and cash equivalents totalled 348m at the year end and were managed during the year by a central treasury department, operating ABF and ADM will each hold a 50% share in the joint venture, which will be headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee.
under strictly controlled guidelines, which also arranges term bank finance for acquisitions and to meet short-term working capital requirements, ABF will contribute US$38m of assets from the ACH oils business, primarily particularly for the sugar beet and wheat harvests.
in the form of trademarks, whilst ADM will contribute packaging equipment at four of its facilities in the US.
The business contributed by ABF generated At the year end the group had total committed banking facilities amounting to 1,107m of which 888m was drawn down.
715m of these facilities operating profit of US$20m in the year ended 15 September 2007. expire in October 2011 with the remainder maturing in 2013 and 2015.
In anticipation of further investment and to accommodate the seasonal build john Bason of working capital at the half year, further committed facilities were secured Finance director shortly after the year end.
A 320m syndicated loan, expiring in October Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17
