26 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Financial review Changes in Group composition Cash generation We continued to improve the portfolio and business mix through a Headline operating cash-flow was 273m, representing 72% of headline number of acquisitions and disposals during the year.
This compares to operating cash of 259m in 2007 and Sartorius Bearing Technology, a leading provider of high performance cash generation of 75%.
The cash generation outcome this year reflects rotating equipment for the oil and gas industry, was acquired for 13m.
investment in capital projects and increased working capital to support In November, Smiths sold its Marine Systems business for 44m, after business growth in the new year.
In December, Smiths acquired the On a statutory basis, net cash inflow from continuing operations was majority ownership of the John Crane business in Japan for a 198m 2007: 205m.
consideration of 5m, increasing its ownership share from 49% to 70%.
In February, the Heating Element division of Fast Heat was acquired for Cash expenditure on exceptional items was 26m, compared with an 9m: it manufactures a wide range of specialty heating elements for 8m inflow in the previous year.
The Group made special pension HVAC, industrial and medical applications.
In April, John Crane acquired contributions of 34m 2007: 56m.
Free cash-flow from continuing Indufil BV for 71m, a Dutch-based specialist in filters for the operations after interest and tax but before acquisitions and dividends petrochemical and process industries.
In May, Smiths Interconnect was 91m.
acquired Allrizon Tongguang, a communications equipment firm based Dividends paid in the year on ordinary shares amounted to 131m, in Shanghai which designs and manufactures radio frequency filters compared with 182m in 2007. and products for the wireless telecommunications market.
The acquisition of Fiber Composite Company Inc. Fiberod, a Texas-based Interest and other financing costs specialist provider of lifting equipment for the oil and gas industry, was For continuing operations, interest payable on debt, less interest on cash completed in May.
In July, Smiths Interconnect acquired Triasx Pty Ltd, deposits, was 41m, compared with 36m in 2007.
Net interest costs a firm based in Brisbane that designs and manufactures complex radio were 9.3 times covered by headline operating profits.
frequency filter products for the wireless communications market.
The Group accounts for pensions using IAS19.
As required by this Earnings per share standard, a finance credit is recognised reflecting the expected return on Basic headline earnings per share from continuing activities were 74.5p pension scheme assets and a finance charge is recognised reflecting 2007: 47.0p a rise of 59%.
the unwinding of the discount on the future pension liability.
The net financing income for continuing operations was 42m in 2008, compared On a statutory basis, the basic earnings per share from continuing with 34m in 2007.
As a result of the reduction in pension surplus, the activities were 63.0p 2007: 36.9p.
amount in the coming year is likely to be approximately 35m lower.
These comparisons are distorted by the effect of the share consolidation Net debt in June 2007 following the disposal of the Aerospace business.
The Net debt at year end was 771m, up from 590m at the start.
average number of shares in issue during that year was a reflection of the capital structure appropriate to both the continuing and the Research and development discontinued business.
Investment in research and development R&D drives future performance and is a measure of the Groups commitment to the future Exceptional and other items relating to continuing activities organic growth of the business.
excluded from headline profits These items amounted to 59m, compared to 88m in 2007.
They Smiths invested a total of 86m in R&D on continuing operations, comprised: equivalent to 4% of sales.
Of that total, 13m was funded by customers.
The comparative figures for 2007 were 79m and 8m.
Under IFRS, 4m in respect of restructuring corporate and divisional headquarters: certain of these development costs are capitalised.
The gross this cost is the initial part of a programme expected to cost capitalisation is shown as an intangible asset.
Where customers approximately 48m: contribute to the costs of development, the contribution is included as 9m for integration costs associated with the Medex acquisition deferred income and disclosed within trade and other payables.
2007: 9m : 54m 2007: 101m in connection with John Crane, Inc. asbestos litigation, including a 40m provision for adverse judgments see litigation paragraph on page 29 : Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations of 19m 2007: 15m.
The amortisation relates principally to technology and customer relationships: and Profit on disposal of businesses of 27m 2007: loss of 5m.
Exceptional items in 2007 included insurance commutation proceeds 43m : profit on sales of TI Automotive shares 24m and other costs of 26m.
Financing losses amounted to 2m 2007: gain of 1m.
These represent the results of derivatives and other financing instruments which are not hedge accounted under IFRS.
Of this sum, nil 2007: 1.5m was charged to operating profit.
27 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Accounting policies Retirement benefits The accounts in this report are prepared under International Financial As required by IFRS the balance sheet reflects the net surplus or deficit Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU.
in retirement benefit plans, taking assets at their market values at The accounting policies used in preparing these accounts are set out 31 July 2008 and evaluating liabilities at year-end AA corporate bond on pages 63 to 68. interest rates.
Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates The year-end retirement benefit position was: Applying accounting policies requires the use of certain judgements, 2008 2007 assumptions and estimates.
The most important of these are set out on page 63.
Funded plans: UK plans funding status 106% 113% The uncertainty affecting the estimation of provisions has increased US plans funding status 89% 92% following the commutation of certain insurance policies in respect of Other plans funding status 81% 83% product liability.
See legal issues section page 29 for details.
Taxation 2008 2007 The tax charge for the year represented an effective rate for continuing m m operations of 24.0% on the headline profit before taxation, compared to 25.1% in 2007.
The rate reduced due to taking advantage of global tax Surplus deficit : incentives, the tax-efficient use of capital and active tax compliance Funded plans 102 297 management.
On a statutory basis, the tax charge on continuing Unfunded plans 113 114 activities was 75m.
Total surplus liability 11 183 The fundamental tenets of the Smiths approach to taxation are to enhance the Companys competitive position on a global basis, while Company contributions to the funded pension plans were 56m 2007: engaging with tax authorities around the world on a basis of full 103m including discontinued operations.
In 2008, special contributions disclosure, full co-operation and full legal compliance.
The Board were made totalling 17m, including 4m in respect of the Aerospace considers and approves the management of the Companys tax affairs disposal.
In 2007, special payments of 56m were made including 21m in the context of the Companys commercial objectives.
in respect of the Aerospace disposal.
During the year, the trustees of the TI Group Pension Scheme invested 250m in annuities from Legal Accordingly, Smiths seeks to build open relationships with tax authorities & General which are matched with specific liabilities of the Scheme to bring about timely agreement of tax affairs and to remove uncertainty thereby mitigating the longevity risk in respect of specific pensioners.
Full details of the retirement benefits are shown in note 10.
In summary, the Companys taxation strategy is to mitigate the burden of taxation in a responsible manner for competitive advantage, and, in Exchange rates this way, to enhance long-term shareholder value.
The results of overseas operations are translated into sterling at average exchange rates.
The net assets are translated at year-end rates.
The Cost of capital and return on shareholders funds principal exchange rates, expressed in terms of the value of sterling, are Smiths uses its weighted average cost of capital as one measure to shown in the following table.
appraise both internally-generated investment opportunities and acquisitions.
During 2007, the Companys weighted average cost of 2008 2007 capital WACC decreased from 9% to 8% as a result of the lower cost of Average rates: equity.
US Dollar 2.00 1.95 Dollar weakened 2.5% The after-tax headline return on shareholders funds for continuing Euro 1.35 1.48 Euro strengthened 8.8% operations, including goodwill set-off against reserves, was 16.7% 2007: Year-end rates: 14.9%.
US Dollar 1.98 2.04 Dollar strengthened 2.9% Euro 1.27 1.49 Euro strengthened 14.7% Dividend policy An interim dividend of 10.5p per share was paid on 25 April 2008.
A final dividend of 23.5p per share is proposed.
The Board intends to grow dividends consistent with increasing cover to around 2.5 times in the medium term.
Dividend cover relative to headline earnings for the year ending 31 July 2008 was 2.2 times.
28 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Financial review continued Goodwill and intangibles 4.
To provide reasonable protection from foreign Goodwill on acquisitions has been capitalised since 1998.
2004 it was amortised over a maximum 20-year period.
Under IFRS Smiths has adopted hedge accounting for the majority of the Groups goodwill is no longer amortised but instead is subject to annual reviews business at its larger sites, thereby mitigating the impact of transactional to test for impairment.
exposures in the income statement.
Material cross-border sales or purchase contracts in foreign currencies are hedged at their inception The goodwill balance was tested for impairment in 2008 and 2007. by appropriate derivative financial instruments, principally forward Treasury foreign exchange contracts and swaps, with the Groups core banks as Smiths decentralises treasury management over its financial risks to counterparties.
Whilst the trends of foreign currency movements cannot its subsidiary businesses, within a strong control environment.
The be eliminated, this hedging programme reduces volatility, protecting Board has approved a Treasury Policy, which governs the financial risk cash-flow and margins.
profile, and Treasury permits appropriate delegated authorities across Smiths protects its reserves from foreign currency fluctuations by the subsidiary companies.
The Company uses financial instruments to ensuring that at least 75% of the total net overseas operational assets raise money for its operations and to manage the related financial risks.
are offset either by borrowings in the respective currency or by currency Smiths neither speculates nor trades in derivative financial instruments swaps.
This excludes goodwill which is only partly hedged.
Overseas and all financial instruments are properly recognised on the balance earnings are translated at average currency rates for the year, which sheet.
A treasury report is presented annually to the Audit Committee to smoothes the effect of currency volatility.
Therefore, treasury management in Smiths ensures a robust and The objectives of the treasury function are to: prudent financial profile while driving value for shareholders, with the 1.
To deliver the liquidity requirements of the businesses support of world-class banks.
Financial controls The Group aims to minimise the level of surplus cash but, where While the Groups decentralised organisation delegates day-to-day surpluses arise, tight controls apply to ensure that they are securely control to local management, Smiths has comprehensive control placed with highly-rated counterparties and are available for systems in place with regular reporting to the Board.
The Group has redeployment at short notice.
The Company is required under IFRS to continuous formalised business risk management processes operating show gross borrowings and cash under its cash pooling arrangements, at each business unit.
despite these balances being netted for interest purposes, which exaggerates the Companys surplus cash balance.
Liquidity is provided The internal audit department reviews all units over a rolling three-year to the Group by a committed revolving credit facility to 2012 which at cycle, and its findings are reported to the Audit Committee.
Local working capital needs and capital acquisitions are reviewed within 12 months of acquisition, to verify expenditure requirements are typically funded by local bank facilities.
To manage the central funding demands and provide a low cost Further information regarding the Groups procedures to maintain strict of debt.
controls over all aspects of risk, including financial risk, are set out in the The Companys funding requirements are largely driven by acquisition Corporate governance report on pages 43 to 46. activity and met by centrally arranged debt finance.
Smiths has net debt as at 31 July 2008 of 771m 2007: 590m with average maturity of 4 years 2007: 5 years and at an average effective interest rate after interest and currency swaps of 5.1% 2007: 5.8%.
Through the use of interest rate swaps, Smiths maintains a broadly even mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
Credit ratings have been held at BBB Baa2 stable with Standard & Poors and Moodys respectively.
Accordingly, this approach aims to reduce the cost of capital by optimising financial liabilities 3.
To develop and maintain strong and stable banking relationships and services.
Smiths has a core group of 11 leading global banks and financial institutions that competitively tender for treasury business.
Credit exposures to any one bank are carefully controlled.
