 13 6 08 10:32 Page 20 Letter from the Chairman David Wallis, BSc Econ Non-Executive Chairman Dear Shareholder 2008 2007 % Change Revenues 465.5m 335.5m 38.7% The 2007 08 financial year has been seminal in the development of EBITDA 131.6m 100.3m 31.2% your Company.
Significant underlying forward momentum has been Profit before tax 48.1m 40.5m 18.8% delivered in all the key financial measures by which we assess the Group operating margin 13.7% 14.9% 1.2 ppts progress of the business.
Basic earnings per share 47.89p 58.74p 18.5 % Earnings per share 73.19p 65.00p 12.6% We have achieved increased scale through both strong organic Return on capital operating 15.2% 16.9% 1.7 ppts growth and acquisition, and good progress has been made in the development of our infrastructure, particularly in the areas of IT Total equity 240.1m 171.1m 40.3% capability and the training and development of our team at all levels.
Pre-amortisation and exceptional integration costs Our Performance I would like to extend the thanks of both the Board and shareholders I have summarised our financial performance below.
There has been to all members of the Speedy team, now over 5,000 strong, for their strong growth in revenues, underlying earnings before interest, tax, outstanding efforts and achievements in what has been a very depreciation, integration costs and amortisation, and pre-tax profits, demanding year.
while as anticipated, the Hewden Tools acquisition outlined below had a dilutive effect on operating margin and earnings per share, Our Strategy albeit this will be temporary as significant synergy benefits are Our commercial strategy remains one of growth.
We aim to be already beginning to flow.
As a result of this strong financial number one or two in the market segments in which we operate, performance, your Board is proposing a final dividend of 13.4 pence serving primarily the larger construction and industrial companies per share making a total for the year of 19.8 pence per share, an and their supply chain.
These companies require tools and increase of 16.5% over 2007, ahead of the growth in earnings on equipment for longer periods of time and have more complex needs.
the increased share capital, following the Placing in June 2007.
Our financial strategy is to maintain debt and shareholders funds broadly in line with one another, whilst ensuring that interest payments are well covered by operating profit.
This enables us to continue to invest in new equipment, totalling 104m in the last financial year, and to maintain the youngest fleet in the hire industry, with an average age of 2.4 years.
In executing our overall strategy, we have made three significant acquisitions in the course of the year.
In August 2007 we completed the acquisition of Hewden Tools at a cost of 115m and Waterford Hire Services at a maximum cost of 6.5m.
In January 2008 we announced the acquisition of Amec Logistics and Support Services for 12.5m.
20 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:32 Page 21 The acquisition of Hewden Tools has all but completed the national Outlook footprint for tool hire on mainland Britain, giving us a total of 357 tool The consensus of forecasts for economic growth in the UK over the hire depots.
The strategic logic of this transformational deal is to next year or two remains marginally positive and prospects for the consolidate your Company as the clear UK market leader.
The majority of our customers remain encouraging.
Two-thirds of our integration of this business is now finalised.
Depots, vans and revenues derive from construction and related activities.
The equipment were rebranded and a single product catalogue contraction in housebuilding which constitutes less than 5% of our introduced in January 2008.
In addition, the new IT system was revenues, and in speculative commercial development, is expected to rolled out throughout Speedy Tools and the former Hewden depots be more than counterbalanced by growth in infrastructure spending by the end of April 2008.
The exceptional costs associated with the on energy, utilities, road and rail, hospitals, schools, social housing and integration of Hewden have remained within budget and we are very the Olympics.
The other third of our revenue comes from nonconfident that the synergies predicted at the time of acquisition will construction activities in the industrial sector, which is becoming all be delivered in the short term and sustained over the coming increasingly important to us.
Our share of these markets is expected to years.
This outcome is a result of meticulous planning and execution, grow strongly.
Our national capability is essential in being able to excellent communications and the tremendous teamwork displayed service both national contractors and large industrial groups.
by those people joining us from Hewden.
Financially, our debt levels remain comfortable, being well supported Waterford Hire, albeit on a different scale, is important in building our by strong cash generation and with over four years to run on our brand and business in the Republic of Ireland.
Together with additional 325m bank facility, we have ample headroom to finance the current greenfield openings, this will offer a springboard for future development needs of the business.
there, as well as providing valuable lessons in running a business with a different geography, currency, culture and customer base.
We are confident of delivering further growth over the next financial year in line with our expectations.
Our key customers, the UKs largest The acquisition of Amec Logistics and Support Services enabled us to construction and industrial groups, with whom we continue to develop move into new industrial and infrastructure areas with the provision of even stronger relationships as we take responsibility for their tool, a four year exclusive supply agreement and into a wider range of equipment and service needs, continue to report full order books.
equipment for the Amec Group on Preferred Supplier basis.
This business is a single point of supply for tools, lifting equipment, Further out is more difficult to predict, but we monitor lead indicators accommodation units and survey equipment for Amec and other very carefully and the flexibility of our business model gives us some significant customers.
This is a further example of similar such deals protection against any further adverse developments in the global concluded over the last few years which together provide two economic situation.
We have ensured that we have flexibility with significant positives.
Firstly, we have secured contracted revenues in regards to forward capital commitments by structuring our supply excess of 250m over the next five years with key customers.
chain so that the cycle for ordering tools and equipment from our Secondly, we have found that actual revenues generated from these suppliers is extremely short.
In the event of a downturn in our end accounts almost always exceed contracted revenues, as customers markets, we will slow investment and thereby generate more cash.
come to rely on the benefits of Speedys expertise and tailored service.
Whatever the economic circumstances, there are always opportunities We announced on 27 May 2008 that Speedy has strengthened its to exploit and Speedy Hire has both the culture and now the scale to relationship with Carillion plc by entering into a new five year take advantage of these.
Your Company is in great shape and well Strategic Partnering Agreement, which reinforces Speedys position placed to come through the period ahead, even stronger.
as Carillions preferred supplier of its full range of products and services.
As part of the Agreement, Speedy has acquired the If you have any comments on any aspect of this letter or indeed, accommodation business of Carillion Asset Management Limited.
any part of the Annual Report, I would be delighted to hear from you, either by writing to me at Chase House, Haydock, or by email at The achievement of scale, through organic growth and acquisitions, a david.
uk national footprint and the ability to service completely new markets now enables us to advance Speedy Hires business model.
The theme Yours sincerely, of this years Annual Report is extending a trusted brand and that is exactly how we are evolving our strategy.
We will continue to supply all David Wallis the basics of straightforward hire, but build on this foundation with Chairman added value services.
We are already starting to see longer term 27 May 2008 arrangements for hire, technical advice, training, particularly on Health and Safety issues and fuel management, as we endeavour to become an indispensible part of our customers needs.
Another key opportunity for growth is the continued move towards outsourcing by construction and industrial groups which moves the responsibility for ownership, maintenance, testing, and delivery to businesses such as Speedy.
In addition, the legislative environment continues to drive demand for product expertise, technical advice, training and environmental responsibility.
We see these as great opportunities to become not just a hirer, but a broader service provider to our customers.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5  13 6 08 10:32 Page 22 Operating and financial review 1 Introduction and our Business 22 The Equipment Hire division consists of five businesses, supplying specialist services in the hire of Lifting, Power, Pumps, Space portable accommodation and Survey equipment.
These are 2 Summary financial performance 23 provided nationally and are operated through 131 sites strategically based throughout the UK and Ireland.
3 Shares, earnings and dividend 23 By forging long-term strategic partnerships with major contractors 4 Operational highlights 24 both nationally and regionally, industrial users and their supply chain, Speedy has been able to develop its network, product range 5 Tool Hire division 24 and investment to support the changing needs of its customers.
6 Equipment Hire division 25 1 Market research has identified that our customers, both nationally and locally, recognise Speedy for availability of quality products, a 7 Capital structure and treasury 25 comprehensive depot network and a broad product range.
These are seen as key benefits.
They also consider us professional, 8 Our market 26 trustworthy and flexible in our approach.
Their overall perception is that we provided the best value-for-money offering.
Our high level of customer service is now bringing opportunities in more value-added 9 New markets 26 services such as testing, servicing and inspection.
10 Market outlook 26 We also work closely with our suppliers and leverage our scale to find ways to develop products that are more efficient, compliant and 11 Our strategy 27 productive for our customers.
12 Our values 28 Although we service many of the UKs largest construction and industrial clients, we have a highly diverse customer base, with no 13 Doing it right 28 single customer accounting for more than 4% of our revenues.
14 Governance and risk management 28 In September 2007 the Groups hire operations in both the North and South of Ireland were merged to establish Speedy Ireland and, 15 Our people 28 with the appointment of a Managing Director, this became our first overseas business.
Speedy Ireland is focused on providing a full range of specialised hire services from one operating Company.
The 16 Health and safety 29 strategic plan is to build a national network that will enable the business to support the major Irish and UK construction companies 17 Environment 29 that will be involved in the regeneration of Northern Ireland and the delivery of the Irish governments National Development Plan.
18 Our communities 29 This Operating and Financial Review describes the activities of 19 Focus for the future 29 Speedy Hire for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Introduction and our Business Structure of businesses Speedy Hire Plc is a business to business Company: it is the UKs Speedy Speedy Speedy Speedy Speedy no.
1 provider of tool and equipment hire and a member of the FTSE Northern Southern Western Scotland Ireland 250 index.
It provides a broad range of products for hire, together 117depots 114 depots 61 depots 62 depots 03 depot with associated services, to the wider construction market, specialist industries, their supply chains and the public sector.
Tool Hire Division Speedy Hire operates a flexible, delivery-based business model and Speedy is structured into two divisions, Tool Hire and Equipment Hire, trading Speedy Hire Direct Speedy Training Support Services from a network of 488 outlets throughout the UK and the Republic of Ireland: Equipment Division The Tool Hire division is made up of five regionally based businesses that offer a comprehensive and modern fleet of small Speedy Speedy Speedy Speedy Speedy Speedy tools for hire including drills, breakers, woodworking tools, Engineering Survey Power Pumps Space Lifting Services heaters, dryers, temporary lighting, small generators, welders, and 19 depots 19 depots 05 depots 22 depots 57 depots 9 depots plumbing equipment, as well as access, landscaping and light plant products.
This division operates from 357 sites.
1 Source: B2B International Intrepid 22 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:32 Page 23 2.
Shares, earnings and dividend Speedy Hire reported record growth in revenues and profits across Earnings per share, adjusted for amortisation of intangibles and its two divisions in the year, driven by significant acquisition activity exceptional integration costs, increased by 12.6% to 73.19 pence and organic growth.
The Group continued to consolidate its long- 2007: 65.0p.
A final dividend of 13.4 pence per share is being term relationships with strategic accounts, increase its market share proposed, giving a total of 19.8 pence per share for the year 2007: and reap the benefit from earlier acquisitions and start-up 17.0p.
This is a 16.5% increase that leaves the dividend 3.2 times operations.
covered, in line with our stated policy to have a progressive but controlled approach to dividends thereby allowing reinvestment into Over 130m was invested in three acquisitions in the period: the business to help fund growth.
Hewden Tools in August 2007 115m, Amec Logistics and Support Services Amec LSS in February 2008 12.5m and Despite a year of record trading performance, uncertainty in the Waterford Hire in the Republic of Ireland in July 2007 5.0m.
equity markets resulted in a fall in the value of Speedy shares SDY.
L relative to their peer group and the FTSE 250 index in the year.
These acquisitions and their rapid integration into the Speedy Shares on 31 March 2008 had fallen 35% compared with the same network consolidated Speedys leadership position in the UK hire time a year ago.
The tables below show the share price performance market.
The acquisition of Hewden Tools, in particular, has during the fiscal year, over a five-year period and compared against strengthened the Groups UK tool hire network through the the FTSE 250 index.
3 players in the tool hire sector.
One year share price record compared to FTSE 250 This transformational deal significantly enhanced Speedys product Price in pence Speedy Hire share price for the past year Price in pence availability and service offering in tool hire.
It also increased its 1400 geographic coverage and enlarged its customer base to over 100,000 customers.
For more information please refer to the 1200 Hewden Tools integration case study on page 24 of this OFR.
1000 The integration of Hewden Tools was successfully completed in the 800 year and we are confident that we will deliver the planned 20m p. a.
The acquisition did, as expected, temporarily dilute our margins and return on capital in the 2007 08 year, as the business 400 was trading at break-even on acquisition.
200 The Amec LSS and Waterford transactions, whilst smaller in scale, 0 were also important.
The Amec LSS transaction secured revenues Mar Jun Sept Dec Mar with three specific clients, expanded operations in industrial markets 2007 2007 2007 2007 2008 and strengthened our relationship with the Amec Group.
The Waterford transaction was our first acquisition in the Republic of Speedy Ireland and provides a stronger platform from which to support the FTSE250 Irish governments National Development Plan.
Five year share price record compared to FTSE 250 These are the key financial highlights for the year to 31 March 2008: Price in pence Five year record Price in pence Revenues increased by 38.7% to a record 465.5m 2007: 1400 335.5m.
Return on Capital Operating was 15.2% 2007:16.9%.
400 Pre-amortisation and exceptional integration costs.
200 0 Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Speedy FTSE250 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5  13 6 08 10:32 Page 24 Operating and financial review On-site operations continued to be an effective way of tying in to 4.
Operational highlights major projects and leveraging Group-wide products.
We established These are the key operational performance highlights of 2007 08: new on-site operations at sites related to the London Olympics 2012, the White City development and in support of Ministry of Our strong and robust growth outperformed the growth of the UK Defence projects.
hire market which expanded by 4.4% source: AMA Research.
Acquisition of Hewden Tools, which broadly completes our UK The main strategic priorities for the Tool Hire division in 2008 09 are tool hire network.
as follows: Full integration of Hewden Tools two months ahead of schedule.
Growth in our national account customer base, from both To deliver the targeted synergies from the Hewden Tools industrial and non-industrial customers.
A further three major contracts were secured through the To increase margins at Hewden operations in line with those of acquisition of Amec LSS.
Expanded presence in industrial markets, e. g. petrochemical, To deliver the benefits of cross-selling to our extended customer pharmaceutical, nuclear and rail.
Good progress on the roll-out of the our single IT platform which To drive like-for-like revenue growth across the network.
is scheduled for completion in the first half of 2009.
To position the focus of our sales teams towards customers and Extended network in the Republic of Ireland, acquiring Waterford markets and away from products and territories.
Hire Services and appointing a new Managing Director.
To build on the success of the Safety from Ground Up initiative.
Added to our award-winning Safety from the Ground Up campaign with dust inhalation, manual handling and environmental and modules.
Case Study 1: Our People Plan has improved our employee retention levels and Acquisition of Hewden Tool Hire led to new investments in training and development.
Tool Hire division 115m acquisition of Hewden Tools completed August The Tool Hire division increased revenues by 46.9% in 2007 08 and 2007. reported record profits.
The addition of 188 depots from the Hewden 188 depots, 1,100 people, 80m revenue.
Tools acquisition drove revenue growth, and was augmented by Why did we buy it?
robust organic growth in each of the Tool Hire regions.
This organic A transformational deal, combining the UKs number 1 growth accounted for the majority of the profit growth, since and number 3 businesses in the tool hire segment.
Hewden Tools, as anticipated, provided only a marginal contribution.
An excellent strategic fit, virtually completing Speedys national tool hire network overnight.
Hewden had depots The rapid integration of the Hewden depots has consolidated our in 32 of the 40 locations earmarked by Speedy for leadership of the market.
We are confident that synergies of 20m greenfield openings in the next 3 years.
The enlarged p. a. will be achieved as we continue to leverage operational network means over 95% of the UKs population is within efficiency across the enlarged business.
The costs associated with one hours travel.
the integration were 10m and these have been fully expensed in Increased customer base now 100,000 account this period.
customers providing significant cross-selling opportunities for other Speedy products and services.
Up to the time of the Hewden Tools acquisition in August 2007, likeProvides greater penetration into industrial, local authority for-like revenue growth for the Tool Hire division was 11.4% and and utilities customers.
strong momentum was maintained throughout the financial year.
As Significant synergy benefits 20m per annum by the end reported in our Interim Report 2007, we are unable to report like-forof the second full year.
like revenue growth in the Tool Hire division until we are past the first anniversary of ownership.
Current Status Integration completed by February 2008 ahead of plan, We continued to build upon our fledgling non-hire activities in areas including rebranding, roll-out of Speedy IT systems, such as training and reported strong growth in safety-related alignment of customer pricing and discounts.
consumable sales, through better category and supplier Costs to deliver integration in line with 10m stated at the management.
At the same time, we have increased our Centres of time of the transaction.
Excellence to offer products focused on access, light plant, fencing Even more confident of delivering target synergies of and safety decking.
20m synergy run rate entering 2008 09 already at 12.1m.
We built on the success of our award-winning Safety from the Ground Up campaign to assist customers in implementing health and safety best practices with their directly employed and subcontracted workforce at site level.
The positive response to this initiative has encouraged us to expand cover to include dust inhalation and manual handling.
24 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:32 Page 25 business and, whilst in their infancy, they are showing early signs of 6.
Equipment Hire division securing the business a stronger presence in industrial markets.
The Equipment Hire division in 2007 08 reported strong revenue growth of 30.4%, driven by a robust performance from all its The Equipment division has also established on-site facilities in the businesses: Lifting, Power, Pumps, Space and Survey.
These supply both the client direct and their facilities also completed the integration of the businesses it acquired in the management contractors.
previous year, Lifting Gear Hire and LCH Generators.
The division will continue to drive efforts to increase Group-wide During the year the division continued to align itself with its largest activities in new markets.
The main strategic priorities for the customers and established positions in new industrial markets, Equipment division in 2008 09 are as follows: including nuclear, petrochemical and rail.
It also accelerated the development of its engineering services through the acquisition of To continue to leverage our presence in non-construction Amec LSS and expanded its offering in temporary accommodation activities.
through the establishment of a dedicated business unit for the To extend our product range further to ensure the widest core provision of modular systems.
To increase our site presence with full on-site facilities.
Case Study 2: To continue to roll out a single IT platform.
Acquisition of Amec LSS To leverage our procurement processes to the benefit of our customers.
To enhance our operational delivery model to extract maximum synergies and deliver optimum operational effectiveness.
12.5m acquisition of Amec Logisitics and Support To evaluate opportunities to support our customers in overseas Services, 10 depots, 250 people in January 2008. markets.
Strengthens Speedys relationship with Amec by including a 4 year exclusive supply arrangement with Amecs 7.
Capital structure and treasury Industrial division and preferred supplier agreements with other divisions within the wider Amec Group.
Speedy remains a strongly cash generative Company.
Our cash flow, expressed as a ratio of EBITDA to revenues, remains strong at Why did we buy it?
28.3% 2007: 29.9% and operating cash flow rose 20.9% in the The transaction is an evaluation of Speedys strategy of year to 102.3m 2007: 84.6m.
Additionally, Operating Return on developing long-term partnerships with large customers in Capital, a key indicator of financial performance, has, despite the construction and industrial markets.
temporary dilutive effect of the Hewden Tools acquisition, remained The Amec supply arrangements allow Speedy to strong at 15.2% 2007: 16.9%, significantly ahead of our average penetrate further opportunities in industrial, petrochemical cost of capital.
and utilities sectors in addition to opening up completely new opportunities in the rail sector.
The deal includes an Speedys long-term funding is provided through a combination extended framework agreement with Network Rail to of shareholders funds and bank debt.
At 31 March 2008, provide its entire specialist rail requirements nationally.
shareholders funds totalled 240.1m and net debt outstanding was Employees transferred to Speedy from Amec bringing 255.6m.
The level of gearing therefore was a comfortable 106.5% new skills and capabilities to Speedy, including dedicated 102.9%.
service engineers for rail, quantity surveyors and civil engineers.
While remaining vigilant to changes in interest rates and wider Current Status market conditions, the Board believes that Speedy remains a conservatively funded business with the net debt to EBITDA ratio The integration of Amec LSS is progressing well and in line and interest cover at a comfortable 1.9 times and 4.0 times, with plan.
The business will be fully integrated by the respectively.
The Board considers that a prudent balance between 2008 09 half year.
debt and equity helps secure the availability of future finance In addition to the exclusive supply arrangements with necessary to ensure that the business can maintain its growth Amecs Industrial division, the transaction is already momentum.
opening up significant opportunities to support Amecs nuclear business.
During the year we continued to fund growth in Group turnover and increase our market share.
Our gross investment in capital expenditure reached 104.1m 2007: 93.4m, with further investment expenditure of 137.4m for acquisitions.
In Speedy Power, the generator and compressors offerings were aligned more closely to their respective markets through dedicated Record levels of investment led to growth in net debt of 79.4m by sales teams.
This has enhanced specialisation in these areas and the year end 2007 outstandings: 176.2m.
To support this brought the businesses earlier involvement into key projects.
The expansion, a new 325m five-year bank facility was put in place with compressor business, in particular, has developed new relationships a Group of seven relationship banks.
This facility replaced the in specialist industrial markets, such as aeronautical, automotive and Groups previous bank facility and provides committed funding to telecoms.
Sufficient headroom exists within the facility to finance the current needs of the business.
At the same time, after careful trials, the division extended the provision of additional services such as inspection, testing and training that were acquired with the Lifting Gear Hire acquisition.
These services are now more widely available from the Lifting Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5  13 6 08 10:32 Page 26 Operating and financial review To maintain a suitable balance between debt and equity, during the Speedy has built a trusted brand in this market and has a sustained course of the financial year Speedy Hire increased its shareholders record of profitable growth because of its commitment to providing a funds through the placing of 4.36m new shares, equivalent to 9.4% full range of high quality products and services to major national of the shares in issue at the time.
The funds raised through the new contractors in the UK construction market and, increasingly, in shares issued were 51.7m, net of expenses.
specialist non-construction sectors and the Republic of Ireland.
At Speedy our policy is to hedge some of the risk of interest rate At the same time, legislation aimed at encouraging safer working movements.
We aim to have between 40% and 70% of our debt practices continues to emerge.
In response, Speedy devised its covered by interest rate risk management instruments.
At year end, award-winning Safety from the Ground Up campaign from which to we had a number of instruments covering 152m of our debt, with communicate new products and services and advise on compliance maturity dates of between July 2008 and February 2011. and best practice.
This has attracted customers to our growing portfolio of initiatives.
Speedy-O-Meter Investment: The Speedy O-meter More recently, legislation has begun to address the environmental Debt impact of building activities, representing a new opportunity for increasing Speedy to drive growth by servicing customers needs in this area.
Gearing Cash stable neutral 39% Current We have sought to benefit from these market dynamics by growth Gearing falling Market share implementing a growth strategy that differentiates us from our increasing competitors, especially the localised hire operators that are increasingly unable to support the demands of the major contractors Cash and industrial customers for consistency and compliance on a Debt generative increasing national basis and across a broad product range.
New markets Revenue New business lines have created important revenue streams outside growth the construction sector, most notably from customers in industrial markets such as the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, steel, nuclear Strategy: Investing for profitable growth and rail sectors.
With the continued drive towards outsourcing, we are realising further opportunities in other non-construction areas The Speedy business model contains the flexibility to lower Group such as local authorities and government departments.
debt through reduced investment levels if growth rates slow.
Supporting the turnover growth and higher market share enjoyed in Our ability to identify new products has seen us establish dedicated the 2008 financial year translated into higher net debt.
A lower level businesses for our offerings in Lifting, Power, Space and Survey and of turnover growth does not require the same level of investment, enabled us to expand into overseas markets, such as the Republic with consequent benefits to net debt and gearing.
Closer alignment with our customers has allowed us to develop additional services, such as testing, maintenance and asset As part of this process, our capital expenditure is subject to very management, thereby creating important new growth platforms for short forward order requirements and any decision to trim the future.
investment can consequently have a rapid impact on free cash flow generation.
This, together with our highly flexible operating model, Our acquisition of Amec LSS in February has enabled us to access ensures that we are comfortable with our ability to respond quickly in new customer businesses in the nuclear and railway industries and the event of any downturn.
has accelerated the establishment of a new hire and service business dedicated to the engineering sector.
Our market thus positioned the business in a more service-based relationship with the Amec Group.
The UK hire market is valued at around 4.5bn.
Driven by growth in outsourcing and regulatory pressures, the market is growing at 2 approximately 4.4% CAGR to exceed 5bn by 2010, giving Speedy 10.
Market outlook a market share of roughly 10%.
We are mindful of the current uncertainties surrounding UK economic growth, although in our own markets we are not currently The UK hire market is highly fragmented and is served by a range of experiencing any overall downturn.
organisations, the majority of which are either product or region specific in their structure.
The market in Ireland is less researched Whilst housing and commercial office building has contracted and therefore the information available is less comprehensive: significantly, the impact of a reduction in these areas has been offset however, the data available suggests a market value of 325m.
through the continued investment in improving UK infrastructure and those areas covered by regulatory spend, such as electricity, gas Continued growth in the UK hire market is based on the trend and water.
It is increased activity in these areas that has led the towards hire and away from ownership.
Contractors and other majority of our customers to report positive conditions and operators lower their costs by outsourcing their non-core activities prospects.
and increasing their emphasis on Health and Safety, quality assurance and supply chain management.
2 Source: AMA Research 26 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5 15110  13 6 08 10:32 Page 27 The key means by which Speedy seeks to achieve this goal are as Construction outlook: 120bn at current prices Construction Outlook: 120bn at current prices follows: All Work Infrastructure Public Private 15.00% Actual Data Triangulated Construction To retain a high degree of customer intimacy Forecast Products Assoc.
10.00% Why: By understanding our customers and their dynamics we 5.00% have been able to identify new products to meet their needs: new markets where these products are utilised: and expand 0.00% geographically with the support of our customers.
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 -5.00% To operate the most modern and comprehensive fleet in the industry -10.00% Why: The best fleet is less prone to breakdown, compliant with -15.00% current legislation and a younger fleet gives us more flexibility with -20.00% our long-term expenditure requirements.
To have an effective national network offering a full range Source: BERR, Hewes & Assoc.
Experian Business Strategies and Construction Products Assoc.
of products and services The most recent forecasts for construction output predict annual Why: Our national network ensures our customers have better growth slowing to around 1% p. a. in 2008 09, with recovery from access to more products and services wherever they work, 2010 to a more normalised level of c. 2.5% p. a.
This provides a good improving their productivity by reducing their downtime.
opportunity for the business because of: To increase our product and service ranges the continued high levels of activity in the construction market: Why: The continuing breakout of the specialist areas has allowed the increased legislative and regulatory emphasis on safer working us to broaden our offer in those areas where we detect customer practices: opportunities.
It enables our customer to obtain more high-quality the drive towards outsourcing: and services, from fewer suppliers, while increasing cross-selling the increasing emphasis on quality assurance, supply chain and opportunities, operational flexibility and deepening our client environmental standards.
To be a leader in service innovation This outlook provides us with the confidence to invest where we see Why: The ability to influence innovation and change increases the the best growth prospects.
trust of our clients thereby improving our intimacy.
We have continued to drive innovation in our industry and are always In addition, despite our leading market position, our relatively small striving to improve our products and services.
When our share of the market approximately 10% of the overall UK hire customers need a solution we want them to think of us first.
market provides scope for us to continue to expand our position.
To maintain product expertise We believe growth opportunities will also emerge as major Why: To ensure that our customers can have confidence in our contractors continue to drive value through their supply chain by product knowledge and can therefore trust us to source and consolidating their number of suppliers.
As a result of this trend service their hire requirements competitively and professionally Speedy now has: with mission critical equipment.
To invest in marketing an increased amount of secured revenues over the next five years over 250m : Why: We continue to invest in developing our understanding of an increased number of preferred supplier agreements with the the markets we operate in and the trends that we see in those largest UK national contractors and support service Groups 22 of markets from a customer, supplier or legislative perspective.
We the top 25 : and use marketing to position and promote our brand effectively.
By 13 dedicated customer hire desks through our Hire Direct understanding our customers and their markets better we identify operation.
new products and services to add to our offering.
To employ a large direct sales force The flexibility of our business model enables us to respond quickly to Why: We understand the value of having face-to-face contact with opportunities available in the parts of our market where there is our customers, to understand their needs, service them better and currently most potential.
At the present time, this involves supporting provide us with the flexibility to respond to changing demand.
customers construction activities in infrastructure and public services, as well as in non-construction sectors.
To be an industry consolidator Why: We see further consolidation opportunities in select areas in 11.
Our strategy the industry as both likely and desirable, particularly in areas of our Our strategy is growth driven by customer intimacy and operational Equipment business.
This consolidation will have a positive impact flexibility.
on the supply chain, health & safety and quality improvements.
To maintain financial strength We have developed long-term strategic partnerships for hire with the Why: To ensure that Speedy can continue to invest in the major national, regional and specialist contractors and, increasingly, resources necessary to support the ambitions of its with industrial users.
We aim to become a more embedded part of customer base.
their supply chain through the provision of value-added services in training, services, sales and repairs & maintenance.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27 15110 04 06 2008 Proof 5
