82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 32 FI NAN CE DI R ECTORS R EVIEW OF TH E YEAR FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 financial profile with interest cover between four and six I N TR O DU CTIO N times EBITA: his report provides a commentary on how the businessMaintaining long-term dividend cover at between two and a performed during 2008 in comparison to the Groups half and three and a half times earnings.
Tfinancial objectives, which are set out below, together Whilst the above are appropriate long-term objectives, our with details of the financial aspects of the Groups strategy, risk short-term objectives give priority to maximising cash generamanagement procedures and operating policies.
This has involved curtailing business expansion and development and suspending dividend payments in order to reduce net debt more quickly.
FI NAN CIAL OBJECTIVES FI NAN CIAL The Directors of the Group remain R EVIEW committed to the long-term creation of shareholder value, which they To ensure the business is focused believe is achieved through: upon achievement of appropriate Increasing the Groups market targets, a series of key financial share via a combination of likeperformance indicators are monitored for-like sales growth and targeted throughout the business.
These are expansion through acquisitions, shown in the table below.
For 2008, brown field openings and in-store where indicated, these measures are development: stated on an adjusted basis stripping Improving profitability with a out the effects of the exceptional medium term target for profit reorganisation costs and in 2007, growth in percentage terms where indicated, the exceptional exceeding that for sales: deferred tax credit.
Investing in projects and acquisitions where the pre-tax return on Results capital employed exceeds the As a result of the economic downturn weighted average cost of capital the Group has taken steps to reduce Paul Hampden Smith, Finance Director of the Group by a minimum of 4%: its overhead base by challenging all Generating sufficient free cash areas of expenditure.
A combination flow to enable the Group to expand its operations whilst of reducing headcount, virtually stopping business expansion, funding attractive returns to shareholders, reducing its debt eliminating marginal activities and challenging suppliers to be more cost effective has been successful, but it has resulted in and pension deficit: the Group incurring someOperating an efficient balance sheet, by structuring sources significant one-off charges.
In addition, of capital to minimise the Groups weighted average cost of the slowdown in the property market means that there is considcapital consistent with maintaining an investment grade erably less opportunity to sublet the Groups empty trading prop- 2008 2007 2006 2005 Revenue decline growth 0.3 % 11.9% 7.9% 44.4% Like-for-like revenue decline growth 4.5 % 8.1% 1.4% 0.9 % Adjusted operating profit to sales ratio 8.5% 10.0% 9.8% 10.1% Profit before tax decline growth 44.0 % 12.7% 12.2% 0.1% Adjusted profit before tax decline growth 22.5 % 18.7% 6.6% 0.1% Net debt to adjusted EDITDA 2.8x 2.5x 2.4x 2.9x Adjusted interest cover note 10 4.3x 5.4x 4.9x 4.9x Adjusted return on capital note 36 12.9% 15.9% 14.6% 14.8% Adjusted free cash flow note 35 185.3m 157.8m 216.6m 226.1m Adjusted dividend cover note 13 8.5x 3.3x 3.4x 3.4x 32 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 33 FI N ANCE DIRECT ORS REVIEW OF THE YE AR The deficit was increased by a further 19m due to the net effect erties, a situation which may exist for many years.
Accordingly of interest on scheme liabilities and scheme experience gains.
it is likely that the Group will have to pay significant property running costs in respect of these properties for longer than previHowever, the yield on the index of AA corporate bonds with a ously anticipated.
maturity greater than 15 years had risen by 40 basis points by Therefore, to enable readers of the financial statements to 31 December 2008, increasing the liability discount rate to obtain a clear understanding of underlying trading, the Directors 6.20% and so reducing the value of scheme liabilities, and the have shown separately the exceptional level of spend in the deficit, by 44m.
The deficit also fell due to a 30m benefit from group income statement.
The total charge of 56.2m includes a 0.4% lower inflation assumption and also due to 12m of a cost of redundancy and re-organisation 10.5m, onerous company funding in excess of the current pension service cost.
property lease provisions 39.5m and asset write offs 6.2m.
The scheme is now 86% funded 2007: 97% with the net Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and deficit representing approximately 12% 2007: 1% of the amortisation EBITDA note 37 were 330.3m 2007: Companys market capitalisation at 31 December 2008.
The triennial actuarial valuation of the scheme, due as at 30 With turmoil in the financial markets pushing 6 month LIBOR September 2008, is in progress.
The directors are currently rates up as high as 6.40% during the year and causing the discussing the Actuarys initial findings with the Trustees of the margin on the Companys new 1bn facility to be more than scheme.
double that on the previous facility, it is not surprising that total net interest expense, before other finance income of 4.8m Equity 2007: 3.3m and 6.3m of derivative mark to market losses Total equity, at 31 December 2008, was 1,018.2m.
The 2007: 0.3m gains, was 5.4m higher than last year at decrease of 18.7m compared to 31 December 2007 was the 67.5m 2007: 62.1m.
Adjusted interest cover note 10, is result of retained profits for the year being lower than the aggreapproximately 4.3 times 2007: 5.4 times.
gate of actuarial losses in the pension scheme and losses incurred on cash flow hedges as a result of interest rate movements.
Adjusted group profit before tax note 5b was 58.9m or The Groups adjusted return on capital in 2008 note 36 22.5% lower than last year at 202.5m 2007: 261.4m.
was 12.9% 2007: 15.9%, which remains higher than the The adjusted tax charge was 58.6m 28.9% compared with 80.3m before tax in respect of the exceptional items Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The rate is higher than the UK corpoAt the year-end the share price was 340 pence 2007: ration tax rate principally because of non-qualifying property 1,204 pence and the market capitalisation 0.4bn 2007: expenditure and other items, which are not allowable for tax.
1.5bn, representing 0.4 times 2007: 1.4 times shareholdProfit after tax was 101.9m a decrease of 45.0%.
During the year, the daily closing share price ranged profit after tax note 5b was 143.9m, a decrease of 37.2m from 1,191 pence to 223 pence.
Basic earnings per share was 87.1 pence.
Adjusted basic Properties earnings per share note 12b was 17.9% lower at 123.0 pence, At 31 December 2008, the carrying value of the Groups 351 compared with 149.8 pence in 2007. freehold and 57 long leasehold property portfolio, which was last revalued in 1999 on an existing use basis, is 257m.
Cash Flow Despite recording lower adjusted operating profits, good working Goodwill and Other Intangibles capital control has resulted in the Group generating 337.6m of At the year-end, a series of tests were undertaken to determine adjusted cash from operations 2007: 331.9m, after adjustwhether there had been any impairment to the balance sheet ment for week 53 supplier payments of 28m, an increase of carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets.
Adjusted free cash flow, calculated before, expansionary assumptions behind the calculations are as follows: capital expenditure, special pension contributions, exceptionalCash flow forecasts, were derived from the most recent reorganisation costs and dividends was 185.3m note 35, financial budgets and plans for the three years ending 2011, which were approved by the Directors.
17.4% higher than for 2007 after adding back the 53rd week Cash flows for the extra supplier payment run made in 2007. following two years were extrapolated from cash flows for The free cash generated by the Group was used in part to 2011 using similar assumptions to those applied to 2011: fund expansion capital expenditure of 53.5m 2007: 82.2m The weighted average cost of capital WACC of the Group in the existing business, new acquisitions of 22.5m 2007: of 7.5%: 47.2m before loan notes issued of 8m, investments of 0.3mLong-term forecast growth rates of 2.5% in line with the 2007: nil and interests in associates of 20.7m 2007: nil.
average long-term GDP growth trend applied from 2014 onwards.
Pensions In summary, the tests indicated that, despite the weak markets At 31 December 2008, the gross deficit of the pension scheme currently being experienced, the value of discounted future cash was 69.9m 31 December 2007: gross deficit 16.0m.
The flows meant it remained appropriate not to write off any of the net deficit after allowing for deferred tax was 50.4m 2007: goodwill previously acquired by the Group.
Approximately 55% of the carrying value of the Groups As equity markets fell during 2008, asset values reduced goodwill and intangible assets is allocated to the Wickes cashand so by the year-end the scheme deficit increased by 121m.
On the basis of the assumptions stated above, 33 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 34 FI N ANCE DIRECT ORS REVIEW OF THE YE AR Through the Downturn section of the Chief Executives review the calculations show that for there to be no impairment, the of the year, during 2008 additional measures have been taken minimum profit in 2013 would need to be 41m, which compares to 46m for 2008. to safeguard cash and cost reduction programs and working Whilst the Directors consider that their assumptions are realcapital arrangement policies have been put in place which will istic, it is possible an impairment would be identified if any of the continue in 2009.
The Directors consider that the Group has the above key assumptions were changed significantly.
flexibility to react to changing market conditions as a substanAfter additions of 21.7m during the year, the net book value tial proportion of the Groups costs are variable or discretionary of goodwill and other intangibles in the balance sheet is and can be reduced or increased in line with the needs of the 1,513.9m 2007: 1,492.2m.
Actions available to management include further headcount reductions, supply chain improvements and additional working capital savings.
PRI N CIPAL RISKS AN D After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgeUN CER TAI N TIES ment at the time of approving the financial statements, that there Going Concern is a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group A review of the Groups business activities, together with the have adequate resources to continue in operational existence factors likely to affect its future development, performance and for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt position are set out on pages 10 to 21 of the Chief Executives the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are shown in the Financial Risk Management balance sheet, cash flow statement and accompanying notes in Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the the financial statements.
Further information concerning the Group is managed.
In the course of its business, the Group is exposed primarily to liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its exchange risk, credit risk, capital risk and tax risk.
The overall capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its aim of the Groups financial risk management policies is to financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found below.
minimise potential adverse effects on financial performance and The Directors, in their consideration of going concern, have net assets.
The Group manages the principal financial risks reviewed the Groups future cash forecasts and revenue projecwithin policies and operating parameters approved by the Board tions, which they believe are based on prudent market data and of Directors and does not enter into speculative transactions.
past experience and believe, based on those forecasts and Treasury activities, which fall under the day-to-day responprojections, that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statesibility of me as Finance Director, are managed centrally under ments of the Group on the going concern basis.
a framework of policies and procedures approved by and moniManagement is currently of the opinion that the Groups tored by the Board.
The policies in respect of interest and forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible currency hedging, the investment of surplus funds and the changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be quality and acceptability of financial counterparties were able to operate within its current facilities and comply with its reviewed and re-approved by the Board during the year.
In arriving at their conclusion that the Group The treasury department is not a profit centre.
Its objechas adequate financial resources, the Directors were mindful tives are to protect the assets of the Group and to identify and that the Group has a robust policy towards liquidity and cash then manage financial risk.
In applying these policies, the flow management and that it is financed through 1.2bn of facilGroup will utilise derivative instruments, but only for risk ities committed to 2013. management purposes.
A breach of the one or more of the Groups banking The Board receives monthly reports on cash flows, debt covenants could result in the Groups debt becoming immedilevels and covenant compliance with comparisons to budgets ately repayable.
Whilst this circumstance is currently not envisand forecasts.
In addition, all derivative related activity is reported aged, the Group is subject to a number of significant risks and to the Board at the next board meeting.
As described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 43, the Board receives uncertainties, which arise as a result of the current economic regular reports on specific areas of risk.
As part of these risk environment.
These risks are discussed below in the following reviews papers are presented on areas such as budgeting and sections: Liquidity and Net Debt: Interest Rate and Currency Derivatives: Credit Risk: Market Conditions and Competitive planning, debt strategy including derivative policy and banking Pressures: Product Availability and Product Prices and Pensions.
relations and working capital control.
Should a covenant breach become likely, the Group would enter into negotiations with its debt providers which could result Liquidity and Net Debt Note 24 in it accepting higher financing costs or being forced into LIQUIDITY RISK actions, such as raising equity, or a significant sale and leaseThe Groups policy on liquidity risk is to ensure that sufficient back, which ordinarily it would not contemplate.
It is the current cash is available to fund on-going operations.
The Board expectation of the Directors that this would be achievable.
manages exposure to liquidity risk by maintaining adequate facilThe Directors believe that the Group is adequately placed to ities to meet the future needs of the business.
Those needs are manage its business risks successfully despite the current determined by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash uncertain economic outlook and challenging macro economic flows taking into account the maturity of financial assets and conditions.
As noted on pages 12 to 14 of the Managing liabilities included in the balance sheet.
34 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 35 FI N ANCE DIRECT ORS REVIEW OF THE YE AR loan due to be repaid in six 35m tranches each half year, The Groups principal borrowing facilities are provided by a commencing April 2010, with the balance falling due in April group of core relationship banks in the form of a term loan and a revolving credit facility and by US institutions in the form of 2013.
The revolving credit facility is available to the Group until US$ denominated notes.
The quantum of committed borrowing April 2013. facilities available to the Group is reviewed regularly and is Tranches of the syndicated facility can be drawn down for designed to comfortably exceed forecast peak gross debt levels.
weekly, monthly, three monthly and six monthly terms, with the actual duration of draw downs being dependent upon manageLIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT ments interest rate expectaThe Groups treasury team are tions.
For all of 2008, due to responsible for monitoring the the high differential between 6 Groups short and medium Month LIBOR and weekly and term liquidity requirements monthly LIBOR the Group has using a combination of annual drawn funds on a weekly or budgets which have been monthly basis.
analysed on a daily basis using In early 2006 the Group historic trends, quarterly issued $400m fixed rate guartrading and cash flow re-foreanteed unsecured notes the casts and short term forecasts Notes with a broad range of adjusted for actual events as US financial institutions.
They are then debt comprises $200m of charged with drawing down Notes repayable in 2013 and sufficient funds to meet those the remainder in 2016.
At inception, the fixed interest needs whilst minimising rate net proceeds were borrowing costs and reducing swapped into Sterling 6-month the incidences of investing surplus funds.
LIBOR determined variable Medium term borrowing rate debt.
and hedging requirements up to 5 years are determined DEBT from the Groups annual As at 31 December 2008 the budget and three-year plan.
Group had net debt of These, which are prepared to 1,017m 2007: 941m show monthly trading, cash note 33.
However, if the flows and debt requirements for the entire period, are updated 109m movement in debt caused by the falling Sterling US and approved by the Board each year.
dollar exchange rates is eliminated, debt at 31 December would To ensure the Board continues to take pre-emptive action the have been 909m a reduction of 32m over the year.
The Notes Group re-forecasts profits and cash flows on a quarterly basis.
are fully hedged and so by the dates they are redeemable in 2013 or 2016, the exchange effects will have fully reversed.
FACILITIES The peak level of daily borrowings on a cleared basis during Liquidity headroom was increased during 2008 through a refithe year ended 31 December 2008 was 1,112m 2007: nancing of the Groups UK bank debt, which secured a new 1,022m.
The maximum month end cleared borrowings were committed 1bn, 5-year facility in April.
At 31 December 2008 the Group had and plans to continue conserving cash have reduced manageundrawn facilities of 332m 2007: 215m.
ments estimate of the Groups future borrowing requirements.
OPERATING LEASES There are currently 16 banks in the new syndicate, with approxNote 30 gives details about the Groups operating lease commitimately 80% of the facility being advanced by half of them.
ments, most of which relate to properties occupied by the Group Prevailing market conditions at the time of the refinancing resulted in the margin over LIBOR, applied to the Groups for trading purposes.
borrowings by the syndicate banks, more than doubling.
Additionally, the Group had to pay 14.7m in facility arrangement COVENANT COMPLIANCE fees to the banks, which are being amortised through finance The Groups borrowings are subject to covenants set by the charges over the period the facility is available.
Covenant compliance is measured semi-annually Of the 1bn syndicated credit facility, 525m is represented using financial results prepared under IFRS extant at 31 by a fully drawn amortising term loan and the remainder a December 2007. revolving credit facility, which can be drawn down as required.
The key financial covenants are the ratio of net debt to earnIn addition the Group had access to a 50m uncommitted overings before interest tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA draft facility at 31 December 2008, although since the year-end which must be less than 3.5 times, and the ratio of earnings this has been reduced to 40m as it was not being fully utilised.
before interest, tax and amortisation EBITA to net interest which Liquidity headroom is expected to remain high with the term must be above 3.5 times.
At 31 December 2008 the Group 35 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 36 FI N ANCE DIRECT ORS REVIEW OF THE YE AR Credit Risk achieved net debt to EBITDA of 2.8x note 37 and interest cover FINANCING of 4.3x note 10.
In addition to these financial covenants the Groups Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its borrowing agreements include general covenants and potential contracted obligations resulting in loss to the Group.
It arises on events of default.
At the date of this report there had been no financial instruments such as trade receivables, short-term bank breaches of the financial covenants and the Group had complied deposits, banking facilities, interest rate derivatives and foreign in all other respects with the terms of its borrowing agreements.
To reduce the risk of loss arising Interest Rate and Currency Derivatives Note 25 INTEREST RATE RISK One of the principal risks facing the Group is an exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
The Group has borrowed in Sterling at floating rates, whilst its US$ denominated Notes have fixed rates of interest.
The Groups hedging policy is to generate its preferred interest rate profile, and so manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations, through the use of interest rate derivatives.
Currently the policy is to maintain the profile of borrowings in the approximate ratio of 33% to 75% at fixed interest rates and the remainder at variable rates.
The Group has entered into a number of interest rate derivatives designed to protect it from fluctuating interest and exchange rates on its borrowings.
At the year-end, the Group had nine interest rate derivatives fixing interest rates on approximately 70% of the Groups cleared debt.
The maturity of the Groups derivatives is as follows: Maturity Notional Value Vanilla interest rate swaps February 2010 237m Vanilla interest rate swaps February 2013 100m Vanilla interest rate swaps April 2013 100m Cancellable swaps October 2013 100m Cap and collar February 2010 118m CURRENCY RISK from counterparty default, the Group has a policy of dealing with Having taken out 4 cross currency swaps, to protect it from credit-worthy counterparties.
The Group has policies and proceexchange rate fluctuations, in respect of its $400m fixed rate dures to ensure that customers have an appropriate credit guaranteed unsecured notes, the Group is not exposed to signifhistory and that account customers are given credit limits approicant foreign exchange risk.
priate to their circumstances, which are regularly monitored.
Whilst the majority of purchases of goods and services are The Group does not have any significant credit risk expoinvoiced in Sterling, goods acquired from overseas either directly sure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties from manufacturers or through UK based distributors continue having similar characteristics other than banks providing banking facilities, interest rate derivatives and cross currency to increase.
Overseas originated purchases currently approximate to 40% of group purchases and so adverse movements in swaps.
The Group defines counterparties as having similar charSterling, could, to the extent they cannot be passed on to acteristics if they are connected entities.
The credit risk in liquid customers, affect profitability.
funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the The Group settles its currency related trading obligations counterparties used are banks with high credit-ratings assigned using a combination of currency purchased at spot rates and by international credit-rating agencies.
currency bought in advance on forward contracts.
Its policy is to At the year-end, the Group had open currency hedging purchase forward contracts for between 30% and 70% of its contracts with four banks, open interest rate derivative contracts anticipated requirements twelve months forward.
At 31 with 6 banks and had 16 banks within its banking syndicate.
December 2008 the nominal value of currency contracts, most There were 19 companies holding the Groups US$ denominated of which were $US denominated, was $46m and 2m.
At 31 Notes, of which the largest held 21% by value.
The Group has December 2008, based upon forecast currency requirements entered into only one currency hedging contract and no swaps for 2009, a US$10c change in the exchange rate would impact with a counterparty that is not a current member of its banking costs, before any corresponding selling price amendment, by syndicate.
The Groups banking counterparties ratings as of 18th approximately 1m.
February 2009, are shown in the table on the opposite page.
36 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 37 FI N ANCE DIRECT ORS REVIEW OF THE YE AR Banking Counterparty Ratings Rating Number Amount of Notional Value of Notional Value of of Banks UK Bank Facilities Interest Rate Derivatives Cross Currency Swaps No.
mm$m AA to AA- 9 528 337 150 A to A- 8 472 318 250 CUSTOMER CREDIT To minimise compliance risk the Group utilises qualified inWithin the Groups trade businesses, one of the key aspects of house expertise and takes external advice when making judgeservice is the provision of credit to customers, with the Group ments about the amount of tax to be paid and the level of carrying the associated credit risk.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, Future tax charges and payments could be affected by none of which represents more than 0.5% of sales, spread changes in legislation and accounting standards beyond the across diverse industries and geographical areas.
However, the control of the Group.
nature of the industry is such that there is a risk that some of these customers will be unable to pay outstanding balances.
Market Conditions and Competitive Pressures Ongoing evaluation of the financial condition of accounts The Groups products are sold to tradesmen and retail customers receivable and reviews of the total credit exposure to all for a broad range of end uses in the built environment.
The customers is performed monthly, using external credit risk servperformance of the market is affected by general economic condiices where necessary.
Increased credit levels are approved by tions and a number of specific drivers of construction activity, both operational and financial management with personal guarincluding housing transactions, house price inflation, consumer confidence, interest rates and unemployment.
The Board antees being obtained, where appropriate, before credit is conducts an annual review of strategy, which includes an assessadvanced.
Whilst day-to-day credit control is the responsibility of the centrally based teams, the Group also operates an in-house ment of likely competitor activity, market forecasts and possible debt recovery team, headed by a qualified solicitor, that is future trends in products, channels of distribution and customer responsible for recovering debt that remains unpaid.
Significant events including those in the supply chain does not have credit guarantee insurance.
that may affect the Group are monitored by the Executive During the recession of 1990 91, the Group experienced Committee and reported to the Board monthly by the Group CEO.
bad debt levels of up to 1.35% of credit sales.
Over the past 10 Market trends and competitor performance are also tracked on an years, the bad debt charge has averaged below 0.5%, however, ongoing basis and reported to the Board each month.
during the latter part of 2008, the Group experienced an Whilst the Directors have considered reasonable changes in increasing level of bad debts, with the bad debt charge for the market conditions and competitive pressures, in the current year reaching 0.9% of credit sales 2007: 0.4%.
environment a further significant downturn could impact group Debtor days at 31 December 2008 were 59 days 2007: 56 sales and margins to a greater extent than they have currently days.
An increase in one debtor day at 31 December would envisaged in their consideration of future trading for the have reduced cash flow by approximately 5m purposes of the going concern statement above.
Capital Risk Product Availability and Product Prices The Group manages its capital risk by ensuring it has a capital Security of supply of products and product quality are monitored structure appropriate to the ongoing needs of the business that by product category directors in the trade and retail businesses.
ensures it remains within the covenant limits that apply to its Supplier financial strength, product quality and service levels are banking arrangements.
The capital structure of the Group monitored on a continuous basis.
An annual risk assessment consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note with recovery plans is prepared for the major suppliers across the Group.
The Group is not significantly exposed to one supplier 24, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity or product type with no supplier accounting for more than 7% of holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 21 to 23. total goods purchased in 2008.
An established QA process is in The capital structure is formally reviewed by the Board as place throughout the business.
part of its annual strategy review, but it is kept under review by However, the ability to pass on price increases to customers me throughout the year.
As necessary, the Company will rebalis affected by competitor activity and the economic climate.
An ance its capital structure through raising or repaying debt, inability to raise selling prices could reduce margins.
issuing equity or paying dividends.
The market price of products distributed by the Group, particularly commodity products, can vary significantly and Tax Risk affect operating results.
The Groups businesses actively take The Group seeks to efficiently manage its tax affairs whilst at steps to protect themselves from anticipated price rises.
the same time complying with the relevant laws and disclosure Any restrictions on third party credit insurance available to obligations placed upon it.
However, the complexity of tax legissuppliers could result in them reducing their own credit expolation means that there will always be an element of uncertainty sure to the Group.
If this were to occur, it could adversely impact when determining its tax liabilities.
the Groups working capital and therefore its debt levels.
37 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 38 FI N ANCE DIRECT ORS REVIEW OF THE YE AR building legislation impacts its customers, and consequently Acquisitions and Other Expansion the Group, whilst health & safety, employment, environmental Growth by acquisition continues to be an important part of the strategy of the Group.
Significant risk can arise from acquisiand competition laws together with the rules of the Financial tions in terms of the initial valuation, the integration programme Services Authority and the Listing Rules influence its day to and the ongoing management of the acquisition.
internal analysis of the market position of major acquisition The Group has an in-house legal team headed by the Group targets is undertaken and valuations are completed using Company Secretary, health & safety and environmental experts discounted cash flow financial that monitor changes in legislation models.
Independent advisors are that affect the Group and enable it used to comment on the strategic to take timely action to ensure any implications and the assumptions in impacts are reduced.
valuation models for larger acquisitions.
A rolling programme of post Environmental acquisition audits is completed and Failure to operate within the highest reviewed by the Board each year.
environmental standards may reduce the Groups profitability if Human Resources such action causes it to come into The ability to recruit and retain staff conflict with legislative requireat all levels of the Group is an ments.
Furthermore, with heightimportant driver of our overall ened environmental awareness, performance.
Salaries and other companies that fail to meet environbenefits are benchmarked annually mental standards may find their ability to trade or gain access to to ensure that the Group remains capital markets reduced.
A recruitment toolkit is available for both trade and retail The Group has accreditation for outlets.
A wide-range of training its environmental management programmes are in place to system to the ISO 14001 standard.
encourage staff development Further details of the Groups enviand management development ronmental policies and performance programmes are used to assist are given in the Chief Executives those identified for more senior positions.
The Group Human review of the year.
However, to mitigate the potential environResources Director monitors staff turnover by job type and mental risks, the Group undertakes comprehensive reviews reports to the Board annually.
Succession plans are established across all its businesses involving independent external advisers.
for the most senior positions within the Group and these are External verification of environmental performance is undertaken reviewed annually.
and repeated on an annual basis.
Information Technology and Business Continuity Pensions The operations of the Group depend on a wide range of IT The risks in this area relate to the potential for contributions systems to operate efficiently.
An IT strategy committee reviews required to meet the benefits promised in the final salary scheme performance levels of the key systems and prioritises developrising to a level that restricts other corporate activity.
Maintenance is undertaken on an ongoing basis to Trustees and the Group obtain independent actuarial advice and ensure the resilience of group systems and escalation proceformal valuations are carried out at least every three years.
The dures are in place to resolve any performance issues at an early Trustees receive reports on the investment performance quarstage.
Our two new data centres mirror each other with data terly.
The Travis Perkins final salary scheme was closed to all new members in April 2006. processing switched from one to the other on a regular basis.
An The accounting deficit at 31 December 2008 is 70m.
The IT disaster recovery plan exists and is tested regularly together Group currently has arrangements in place to eliminate the with the business continuity plan with arrangements in place for alternative data sites for both trade and retail businesses.
Offdeficit over a period of 8 years.
Any deterioration in the schemes site back-up routines are in place.
funding position could impact the Groups liquidity.
The Group distributes products from five major warehouses in Great Britain.
The loss of any single warehouse through fire or other major incident could have a material effect on the availability of product in the trade and retail outlets.
Each warehouse has fire detection and alarm systems and a business Paul Hampden Smith continuity plan.
Finance Director 18 February 2009 Legislation The Group is affected, both positively and negatively, by the legislative environment within which it operates.
