06 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance Results In 2008 UBM continued to make good operational and strategic progress.
Revenues from continuing operations grew by 10.7% to 887.0m 2007: 801.6m and adjusted operating 4 profit from continuing operations rose by 4.5% to 173.5m 2007: 166.1m.
5 Adjusted profit before tax was 171.5m 2007: 170.0m excluding profits on disposals.
In 2008 continuing operating margins were 19.6% 2007: 20.7%.
5 Diluted earnings per share adjusted rose by 6.7% to 55.8p from 52.3p and by 6.7% to 57.0p from 53.4p on a headline basis.
We ended the year with 260.6m of net debt 2007: net debt 157.5m.
At the end of 2008, the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation was 1.4 times 1.1 times at average exchange rates.
The Board is proposing a second interim dividend of 18.2p, taking the total dividend for 2008 to 23.8p, an increase of 10.0% from 21.6p in 2007.
Marketplace David Levin The common characteristic shared by all of UBMs operations Chief Executive Officer is their focus on facilitating indeed, mediating professional commercial activity.
However, each operation serves different markets, in different geographies and provides a distinct set of products and services that connects buyers and sellers in different ways.
B2B Communities marketplace overview UBMs B2B Communities business focuses on serving professional communities, bringing the worlds buyers and sellers together at events, online, in print and through our business information products and services.
The B2B Communities marketplace is highly fragmented, reflecting the varied types of products and services, and the ranges of business models operating in the market.
B2B media business ranges from direct marketing, to media platforms supported by lead generation, display and classified advertising, to information suppliers directories, databases, through to providers of enterprise workflow solutions.
UBMs B2B Communities business operates in approximately 70 specialist B2B markets, each a distinct community, including technology, built environment, trade and transportation, pharmaceutical ingredients, and fashion and lifestyle markets.
Long term growth forecasts for the B2B industry are positive, primarily driven by new online ventures and integrated marketing opportunities.
Studies suggest that B2B media spending is 6 projected to rise at a compound annual rate of 5.4% from 2008 to 2011, as B2B companies continue their transformation 4 Adjusted continuing Group operating profit is Group operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation of profit in joint ventures and associates.
5 Adjusted profit before tax and earnings per share is before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, deferred tax on intangible assets and net financing costs other than interest, EPS also excludes deferred tax on the amortisation of intangible assets.
Diluted EPS includes the impact of share options see note 10 on page 81.
6 Source: Market Size, Share & Forecast Report, Outsell 2008 Information Industry.
07 from primarily magazine publishing companies to integrated During 2008, UBM continued to work to integrate face-to-face media providers.
However, the economic slowdown in Western media products into web-based virtual events and communities.
economies and continued, indeed accelerating decline in print 2008 saw us launch a number of virtual events, netseminars and advertising is likely to impact short term growth rates across special social networks.
We will be continuing to deepen these many markets for example, UK built environment.
In any event, links and to innovate around virtual events and communities in we would expect that, through the full media and economic the coming years and see a natural fit with our live events model.
cycle, the growth in these markets will be somewhat larger than The continued development in social media has brought about that of overall GDP.
evolutionary changes in the way in which buyers and sellers In 2008, profit from print magazines accounted for 13.8% interact with one another, and is a major driver of change with of UBMs total profit.
As a result of further investment in events, respect to the practice of marketing, advertising and public data-based businesses and online media in 2008, together with relations.
The next phase of the webs development Web 2.0 continued media mix shifts, the proportion of print advertising enables two way dialogue and social interaction on the web, revenue is expected to decline further and we anticipate it will mirroring the nature of the face-to-face event but providing year account for less than 10% of UBMs profit in 2009. round opportunities for interaction.
During 2008, UBM continued UBMs strategy to achieve profitable growth explicitly to invest in developing complementary products that take recognises the macro changes taking place in the marketplace, advantage of the online community environments, successfully especially those driven by the digital revolution.
In particular, hosting a number of conferences, seminars and virtual events.
UBM seeks to take advantage of the fragmentation of broad The social networking site, My GDC, which runs alongside the media markets into many smaller markets that address narrower, Game Developer Conference, was extremely successful, attracting more specialist communities of interest.
UBMs event business has more than doubled in size over Events the past five years, with revenue increasing from 123.2m 7 The global market for trade events is estimated at $100bn, in 2004 to 291.8m in 2008.
UBM operates around 300 live 7 with trade exhibitions estimated at $34bn.
The market is highly events and a small number of conferences in 30 countries around fragmented, with no operator holding more than 3% of the the world, and in many cases are the leaders in their respective market and UBM holding less than one percent.
UBM has established itself as an industry leader in virtual continued growth will be underpinned by the growing importance events, launching 15 such events in 2008, and sees further of exhibitions within marketing budgets and by the continued opportunities to address the smaller events segments through desire for face-to-face interaction between buyers and sellers.
Exhibitions and events markets offer worldwide growth In 2008, revenues from our events grew by 19.2% to opportunities, especially in emerging markets where the event 291.8m 2007: 244.8m, representing 32.9% of total group industry is relatively immature.
Industry forecasts predict that the revenue 2007: 30.5%.
Operating profits grew 22.7% to 82.2m global events industry will grow at a compound average growth 2007: 67.0m, representing 47.3% of total group profit 7 rate CAGR of 5.5% in the medium term.
In the less mature country markets, growth above GDP is forecast over the medium term in the Middle East, China, India Data, services and online and Brazil, with an average CAGR of approximately 14% forecast, Workflow and data-based products Workflow products that rely albeit that growth is constrained by the availability of sustainable on subscription are increasingly embedded in the working lives infrastructure in certain geographies, notably in India.
Over the of professional communities which use them to support decision past four years a strategic focus for UBM has been, and will making and other day-to-day business activities.
Our pulp and paper continue to be, establishing businesses in fast-growing economies.
information business, RISI, provides customers with an embedded In 2008, UBM continued to successfully geo-clone core brands online workflow tool, supplying breaking news, global paper and in emerging economies with the launch of the CPhI, P-MEC board price tracking services and market insight content via a link on and Food Ingredients shows in Brazil and the Interiors show their desktop.
Customers are able to personalise the service to focus in Abu Dhabi.
on subsets of information that are of interest to them.
By the end of Live events are central to the development of community- 2008, over 2,000 individuals at one customer had the online tool on based, participative and interactive engagement between peers their desktop.
Subscription based products provide B2B companies that spans multiple media.
Live media and online media products with a high quality and steady revenue stream, which are generally are natural partners both are innately interactive, communityresilient to economic downturns.
The market for information, in both orientated media.
Networking at scale across the entire value print and digital form, is likely to see continued growth.
Studies chain is a unique experience for both buyer and seller and estimate that, outside of the impact of the current recession, the provides a high return on investment.
business information market will grow at a CAGR of 5.4% between 6 2008 and 2011, reaching a market size of approximately $31.5billion.
7 Source: The Events Industry The opportunity for sustained growth, Desilva and Philips and AMR International Limited, September 2008.
08 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance continued UBMs data, services and online based businesses have grown Nonetheless, while print is going to be of decreasing significance significantly over the past five years, and in 2008, represent to our business, print media will continue to be an important 25.4% of total group revenue, compared to 6.0% in 2004. media form, serving different advertising and marketing During 2008, the performance of UBMs workflow data products objectives.
Audiences continue to request controlled circulation was good, with ABI UK built environment, PIERS import export copies in significant numbers and, because print publications are information and analysis and RISI pulp and paper benefiting distributed and read on a regular basis, they allow B2B companies from increased demand for detailed analysis and information to maintain a high level of visibility and continually connect with on their specific sectors.
Print media remains the preferred medium of Our important medical directories business, which includes interaction between buyers and sellers in certain demographics.
the leading brand Vidal, continued to develop.
While revenues In economies where the broadband infrastructure is less well remain largely based on print, we have continued to invest and developed, particularly in emerging economies such as India, develop the online and integrated data versions of these products.
print media remains an attractive growth market and indeed By the end of 2008, 700 hospitals in France had the Vidal service as the shift happens it may be towards mobile rather than p. c. on their intranets, and 90 had integrated it into their electronic or desk-based alternatives.
In 2008, UBM launched a new division record EHR systems.
We won important tenders with new in India to focus on publishing, on-line and data products, customers to deliver integrated data solutions to hospitals in broadening the B2B media market in India.
In 2008, UBM closed the United Arab Emirates and China.
a number of less profitable print titles, with print magazine revenue declining by 6.8% to 215.6m in 2008 2007: 231.3m, Online As the rapid evolution of the online environment representing 24.3% of total group revenue 2007: 28.9%.
continues, particularly as part of the integrated media solution, Operating profit fell 15.2% to 23.9m 2007: 28.2m, engagement rather than reach is becoming increasingly important representing 13.8% of total group operating profit 2007: 17.0%.
as customers focus on outcome-based marketing.
Demand for lead generation through online opt in products and services and B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting through face-to-face participation has increased and is replacing marketplace overview more traditional banner type advertising.
Advances in technology UBMs B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting segment have also created new forms of engagement between businesses operates in the news and information distribution marketplace, and their audiences, creating new opportunities for B2B media a marketplace adjacent to those of UBMs other businesses.
UBM has continued to develop innovative web-based The continued development of online and multimedia products, for example www.
com, which charts, applications has expanded the different ways in which companies debates and provides leading-edge thinking on the progress of communicate with their targeted audiences.
Business models for our online activities include officers are increasing their focus on engagement through an payment by results on lead generation programmes, sponsorship integrated communications approach, involving text, video, and advertising models.
This means that the news and distribution marketplace is expanding beyond simply delivering In 2008, UBM revenue derived from data, services and online news or marketing messages to the media, and instead is businesses grew 22.2% to 225.3m 2007: 184.4m, representing developing into a multimedia provider that connects companies 25.4% of total group revenues 2007: 23.0%.
Operating profit with their audiences and enabling them to better engage with grew 22.9% to 31.1m compared to prior year 2007: 25.3m, those audiences.
Over the past three years, UBMs B2B representing 17.9% of total group profits 2007: 15.2%.
Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting business has expanded Print Magazines the breadth of its multimedia products, offering clients the ability The rapid evolution of the online environment has continued not only to use video messaging actively in their PR campaigns the structural shift away from printed media towards online but also to use its multimedia products for advertising, marketing, media, face-to-face media and integrated media offerings.
investor relations and internal corporate messaging.
We estimate This shift, along with the global economic downturn and that the combined size of the markets that we currently operate consequent squeeze on print advertising budgets has affected in is around $1.5bn in the US, of which we hold a 14% share.
a number of UBM titles, across a number of verticals.
Industry We expect our share of the market to grow, with continued forecasts predict that the structural decline in printed media growth from our non-wire multimedia offerings.
8 will continue until 2011 and we expect the current rate of decline Regulatory disclosure the information that national and to continue, with profits from print magazine products expected international financial regulators require publicly traded companies to represent less than 10% of total group operating profit by the and financial institutions to distribute quickly and fairly in order end of 2009. to ensure the orderly operation of financial and other markets continues to be an important market for B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting.
During 2008, the US Securities and 8 Source: Market Size, Share & Forecast Report, Outsell 2008 Information Industry.
09 Exchange Commission issued new interpretive guidance on We see the wide range of markets served as offering UBM a circumstances under which companies can use their own websites diversified and strong platform of markets and yet an environment to meet fair disclosure requirements Reg FD.
In simple terms, in which our core skills are readily deployed across and between companies that must comply with US disclosure regulations could markets.
These specialist communities continue to evolve and the potentially satisfy their fair disclosure requirements by uploading ability to address their growing needs offers significant opportunity information, such as earnings releases, to their own corporate to UBM both within each community but also in the transfer of websites, without the need for using newswire services.
However best practice and optimal ideas from one community to another.
this would impose various risks on those companies in the event This core skill is being enhanced with improved internal, community of web failures, asynchronous releases of information and also of based links including an active company-wide Wiki launched in fraudulent hijacking of corporate sites.
All of these are real risks 2008, which now has more than 4,500 active participants.
Consequently recent studies suggest In each of the markets we serve, UBM is focused on addressing that companies will continue to disseminate corporate news via the specialist needs of targeted communities through delivering newswires, preferring the security of an established route to their a variety of services and products.
We believe that through our investors and seeking to achieve a wider and quicker distribution focus on the marketing services needs of the target communities than otherwise possible via passive posting on the web, although and through the development of sector expertise and strong the length of news releases may decline.
databases we will be able to deliver high levels of financial and In 2008, the volume of wire traffic in the US was flat against customer service performance.
The US wire market is served by two major players, of The range of products and services that we provide includes which UBMs B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting business a range of complementary media products and specialist is one, and two smaller players.
As financial markets continue to information services.
globalise, the number of companies needing to fulfil disclosure UBMs strategy to achieve profitable growth explicitly recognises obligations imposed by market regulators is likely to continue the macro changes taking place in the marketplace, especially those to expand.
As a result, the size of the disclosure market appears driven by the digital revolution.
In particular, UBM seeks to take set to grow over the long term.
advantage of the fragmentation of broad media markets into many smaller markets that address narrower, more specialist communities of interest.
Strategy A particular focus for UBM has been the ability to drive its UBM operates in two separate but increasingly related areas live events businesses major events that benefit from scale and B2B Communities and B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting.
We have been working to integrate these UBM has developed through an extensive redeployment of with increasing numbers of virtual events to address the smaller our capital over the past four years.
We have executed a focused and lower cost networking opportunities.
acquisition programme that has seen 61 businesses purchased for Each UBM business aims to drive its profitability by owning a approximately 415m over the past four years.
In parallel, we have portfolio of complementary premium products the must attend engaged in a significant portfolio restructuring that has seen seven event, the must read publication or must use website, the must businesses sold for 780m including free to air television and our have information resource or workflow product within each other B2C interests and over 800m has been returned to community of buyers and sellers we serve.
We look for opportunities shareholders over these years.
to integrate our products and services across these different media.
These transactions coupled with significant developments within Premium media products connect more buyers and sellers than the business have seen a reorientation of UBM towards two defined other products, giving buyers the greatest choice and sellers the best clear business opportunities.
In addition the process has honed the prices.
These media products command a premium for advertising core corporate skills of both acquisition and divestiture space, information and analysis, and for making face-to-face as well of internal organic development.
introductions at events and of course for targeting and advertising.
In that time we have increased our exposure to emerging markets and North America and to live events and data based products and services.
We have reduced our presence in the UK, significantly reduced print as a part of our business mix and reduced our dependency on advertising as a result.
10 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance continued 2008 achievements In 2008 UBM continued to rebalance its 2008 Performance media portfolio, principally through closing non core titles, The following sections set out UBMs essential strategic priorities acquisitions and launching new businesses in higher growth and review UBMs progress in meeting them during 2008: products and geographies.
Strategic priority 1: 2008 2007 Delivering shareholder returns Revenues m % m % Creating long term value and generating returns for shareholders Events 291.8 32.9 244.8 30.5 is the fundamental priority for UBM.
Data, Services and Online 225.3 25.4 184.4 23.0 2008 achievements In 2008 UBM achieved a strong financial Print Magazines 215.6 24.3 231.3 28.9 performance, delivering continued growth in returns to B2B Communities 732.7 82.6 660.5 82.4 shareholders relative to its comparator group of media companies, B2B News Distribution, as listed in the Directors remuneration report.
Monitoring and Targeting 154.3 17.4 141.1 17.6 9 UBM grew its adjusted diluted earnings per share by 6.7% Total 887.0 801.6 9 to 55.8p 2007: 52.3p and adjusted earnings per share by 6.7% to 57.0p 2007: 53.4p.
2008 saw the proportion of both revenue and profits generated In 2008 UBMs total and relative Shareholder Returns from non-print magazine sources continue to expand over the exceeded the median performance among UBMs group of peer prior year.
In the longer term three year time horizon, B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting continued to UBMs Total Shareholder Returns performance for the period diversify its portfolio, reducing dependence on US disclosure and 20062008 ranks fifth against its 20 company worldwide peer expanding the business outside of the US, adding multimedia to group.
As with any ranking of this type, it is consistency which the traditional text based press release.
In 2005, over 75% of the counts, and it is important to note that for the period 20052007 total revenue of the B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting we ranked fourth.
division was derived from the distribution of US text news releases: this is less than 50% of total revenue in 2008.
2009 and beyond Achieving superior Total Shareholder Returns Events continued to generate a relatively larger share of remains the key strategic priority for UBM and the Board revenue, growing to 32.9% of total Group revenue during 2008, continues to use it as one of the key performance indicators driven by the launch of new events and acquisitions and accounting to assess the successful implementation of UBMs strategy.
10 for nearly 50% of the Groups reported profits.
In 2008, UBM This has been the case since its introduction both as a KPI and has successfully developed a number of conferences and virtual as a performance measure for executive compensation in 2005. events, integrating them with the existing product portfolios Strategic priority 2: and addressing the smaller, lower cost networking opportunities.
Ensuring a balanced media portfolio The proportion of revenues derived from data, services and To position UBMs businesses to take advantage of shifting online products including online workflow products and print patterns of market growth, media consumption and advertising data products such as directories, grew to 25.4%, reflecting a full spend, a key strategic priority of the last several years has been year of results of the data-based businesses acquired in 2007 and to rebalance UBMs aggregate media portfolio towards events, acquisitions made during 2008. workflow and data products and towards online media.
The aim The proportion of revenues attributable to advertising-based is to direct UBMs businesses towards markets which offer higher magazines fell from 28.9% in 2007 to 24.3% in 2008, a result of growth potential, more visible revenue streams, more predictable the consolidation and closure of certain titles and continued profitability and which will prove sustainable into the future as migration to online products.
As well as acquiring assets and 2009 and beyond In the course of the last four years, UBM has businesses to accelerate the rebalancing of UBMs media portfolio made significant progress on this strategic objective and, taken towards growth markets, UBM constantly reviews its existing in aggregate, the distribution of UBMs activities across media businesses to assess their strategic fit.
types is now more appropriately balanced.
UBMs strategic objective is to continue to drive profitability and growth by owning a portfolio of complementary premium products within each community of buyers and sellers served.
UBM will continue to seek opportunities to integrate its products and services, addressing the specialist needs of each targeted community.
9 Adjusted earnings per share is before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, deferred tax on intangible assets and net financing costs other than interest.
10 Adjusted continuing Group operating profit is Group operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation of profit in joint ventures and associates.
11 Strategic priority 3: Acquisition summary table: Making acquisitions to take a leading position in markets offering % Country of m 11 Business shareholding Type operation invested growth opportunities UBM has developed industry-leading experience and expertise Vision Events 100 Events US 4.5 in selecting and completing acquisitions efficiently and effectively.
Sleep & Arc 100 Events UK 3.6 UBM is also highly practised in managing the process of financial Mass Events Labs 100 Events US 0.6 and operational integration, post acquisition.
Securex 50 Events South Africa 0.4 To make sure that acquisitions contribute to UBMs continued Exposure Events BSEC 100 Events UK 0.3 profitable growth, UBM maintains strict financial discipline in IDMF 100 Events UK 0.2 assessing potential acquisitions.
UBM targets an 8% post-tax EDA Exhibitions 100 Events UK 0.1 return on capital for acquired businesses or assets in their first full year of ownership.
Global Games Media 100 Events Germany 0.1 UBM carefully monitors the progress of acquisitions in terms Events and Think Services HDI 100 Services US 11.2 of their contribution to UBMs profitability, using pre-tax return on acquisitions as a key performance indicator.
Data and Sanguine Microelectronics 100 Services China 5.5 2008 achievements Acquisitions and disposals are a key means Data and by which UBM has accelerated the rebalancing its business Pyramid 100 Services UK 4.8 portfolio.
In 2008, UBM invested 38.4m in 14 acquisitions, Data and excluding cash acquired and estimated earn outs 2007: 80.7m Next Level 100 Services US 2.5 in 17 acquisitions.
Data and All of the acquisitions made in 2008 were bolt-on acquisitions AeroStrategy 100 Services US 0.5 intended to complement existing market positions and to provide News 12 Xinhua 100 Distribution China 4.1 enhanced growth opportunities for existing UBM businesses.
The acquisitions were principally of event, news distribution We are proud of UBMs record of generating value for and data businesses.
UBM has maintained its strict financial shareholders from acquisitions.
In 2008 pre-tax returns on the discipline in targeting an 8% post-tax return on capital for 49 acquisitions made over the period 2006 to 2008 a key acquired businesses or assets in their first full year of ownership.
performance indicator were 11.5% on a pro forma basis We anticipate that all of the acquisitions made in 2008 will meet 2005 to 2007: 13.1%.
or surpass our target return rate.
2009 and beyond As conditions in credit markets and as some geographies deteriorate further, UBM will be increasingly well placed to make selective acquisitions to accelerate development in higher growth emerging economies and events, data and online media.
Our balance sheet remains strong with low gearing and further debt capacity, with undrawn committed facilities of 74.2m and cash of 172.2m as at 31 December 2008.
11 Amount invested excludes potential earnout and deal costs.
12 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance continued Strategic priority 4: The events business was further enhanced with the newly Driving UBMs profitable growth created conference business, which launched 75 new UBM aims to drive profitable growth by: conferences, generating revenue of 3.9m and a loss of 0.4m in their first year.
These took advantage of our well established Investing in new product development within UBMs businesses.
brands and the goal is to evolve as many of these as possible Investing in UBM businesses to refresh and extend their existing into consistent and profitable annual events.
product portfolios in order to: Within the Data, Services and Online business, significant enter new geographical markets, for example by launching investment was made in upgrading the IT infrastructure, a new edition of an event that has been successful elsewhere facilitating the transformation of certain print data products into in a fast-growing economy: interactive online information resources.
The New Technology create products for adjacent markets, for example, by Platform in UBM Aviation will be launched in 2009, migrating creating a website to target a specialist interest group data revenues from print to online.
within the broader audience of an existing event, online or print property: and Across B2B Communities, development of an integrated, crossmake acquisitions to take a leading position in markets offering media product portfolio continued, with the launch of a number growth opportunities.
of new portal websites, including the launch of sites such as www.
com launched to complement the fashion Reflecting the strategic importance the Board attaches to fairs and www.
cn supporting the Clean China generating profitable growth from internally developed new show.
In addition, a number of webcasts and virtual events products, UBM monitors the revenues and profits earned by were launched across the product portfolio of UBM Technology, organic product launches as a key performance indicator of the growing underlying online revenue by 25% in 2008. success of organic growth initiatives.
Establishing businesses in the fast-growing emerging economies 2008 achievements In 2008, UBM invested in the development of is a key facet of driving profitable growth in the future.
Each of new products, particularly online and event products, across each UBMs operations has been tasked with taking their leading of its businesses.
The majority of UBMs investment is made in brands to these territories.
Key geographical expansion initiatives small scale development projects that progressively evolve and during 2008 have included the following: extend existing products into new markets.
However, notable or illustrative organic product developments were: In 2008, UBMs B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting business outside the US continued to expand.
The India UBM accelerated its investment in creating a digital information operation was successfully launched and the other new business in B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting.
territories, Dubai and Russia gained traction.
Expansion in China Investment in the existing multimedia products continued, continued, acquiring the minority interest in Xinhua PR Newswire adding multimedia to the traditional text based press release and their Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan businesses.
and expanding distribution outside of the traditional print audience.
In 2008, PR Newswire developed an archiving and In 2008, B2B Communities launched a new division in India to hosting solution for clients multimedia assets and a video focus on publishing, online and data products, broadening the annual report: both products will be launched in 2009.
The India business is now one of UBMs fastest-growing revenue contributors, alongside our Investment in launching new events in established markets China business, with underlying revenue growth of 31.6%.
continued, for example, the jewellery exhibitions portfolio was expanded with the launch of the Jewellery, Pearl and Gem fair UBM businesses have been successful in geo-cloning a number in Hyderabad and the Macau Jewellery fair.
In 2008, new editions of the CPhI, P-MEC and Food Ingredients events were launched in Brazil.
In addition, a total of four new events and conferences were launched in the United Arab Emirates in 2008.
13 Within Technology, Think Services further extended its game We have continued to place a high priority on leadership and developer portfolio and franchise with the launch of GDC China management development.
Our flagship UBM Business Leaders and the acquisition of Global Games Media, extending its programme aims to develop high calibre business leaders and presence in the European game developer market.
Think provides a valuable tool in the succession planning process.
Services has also partnered with Reboot Communications to The 2008 Programme brought together 20 senior executive launch a new event, GDC Canada www.
com delegates from across the globe.
These delegates participated in in association with New Media BCs Vancouver Digital Week three modules spanning the year and also led business projects in May 2009. pursuing UBMs agenda of strategic innovation.
Senior executives sponsored the projects and were closely involved throughout 2009 and beyond In 2009 UBM continues to seek to create long the programme, which culminated with project presentations term value by: to the CEOs of the operating companies in January 2009. investing in the development of its businesses by making UBMs individual businesses also run their own leadership bolt-on acquisitions that strengthen existing UBM businesses and management development programmes to help identify, and their market positions: develop and accelerate the careers of our talented people.
During 2008, UBM continued to progress the development building its businesses in fast-growing emerging economies, of a positive culture which is meritocratic, intellectually honest, particularly by exporting UBMs successful media brands: entrepreneurial and innovative, which values respect and integrity, taking advantage of UBMs global B2B media infrastructure and and which is agile and responsive to changes in the marketplace expertise and extend the reach of conferences into the wider and workplace.
The development of a UBM-wide Wiki was a UBM business, maximising on the natural synergies between priority for 2008, enabling all of UBMs employees to connect and virtual and face-to-face events.
The Wiki was trialled during the summer and extended on a voluntary opt-in basis across UBM in investing in products and services which provide better quality September.
To date, over 4,500 of UBMs staff have engaged with earnings with greater visibility and predictability, particularly the Wiki, sharing knowledge and experience across geographies in intellectual property-based data workflow businesses, rather and operating companies on areas ranging from Search Engine than those reliant on advertising-based business models: and Optimisation SEO through to virtual events.
The Wiki is being aggressively managing profit margins, with particular focus used as a powerful tool to enhance productivity for teams, on cost control in the declining markets.
enabling workgroups to plan and execute business projects more effectively and efficiently.
Across UBM, job vacancies are posted Strategic priority 5: on the Wiki, enabling individuals to identify career development People and management opportunities and progress their careers with UBM.
UBM recognises that a key element in creating long term value is Finally, over the course of the year, the Group reorganised its ability to attract, develop and retain the most talented people to remove redundant intermediate corporate overheads while for its businesses at all levels.
UBM is investing in the development focusing on a flatter structure that addresses specific communities of its company culture to support the evolution of a more more directly.
In restructuring the business, decision making entrepreneurial and innovative company.
authority has been devolved to the CEOs of the new businesses, 2008 Achievements Our focus for 2008 was on developing and enhancing customer-centricity and agility, employee engagement weaving strong succession planning processes into the fabric of and business performance.
UBM currently operates with 15 such business management practices.
Using a consistent framework focused businesses.
and approach across the Group, UBMs Divisional leadership 2009 and beyond The priority for 2009 is to develop development teams engaged in a robust process to identify strategic capability plans for those executives identified as having strong potential to shifts, the potential impact of these on the configuration of progress within UBM, and to use the succession plans to drive leadership roles required in each Division, and the implications for decisions on talent deployment within and across divisions.
succession planning and talent development.
The Divisional plans The Group will continue to support the evolution of the UBM Wiki were reviewed by the Main Board in December 2008, and will be to enable individuals to learn, share and collaborate productively reviewed during 2009 by the Divisional Boards and Main Board within and across organisational boundaries.
in order to ensure that they continue to be aligned with the businesss strategic and operational requirements.
We believe these Divisional succession plans will have a positive impact on our ability to identify, and to engage and retain our high potential executive talent.
14 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance continued Key performance indicators Outlook The Board and executives monitor the performance of UBMs B2B Communities Events businesses continuously using a wide range of financial and In 2008 events contributed 32.9% of revenues and 47.3% non-financial indicators.
The key performance indicators by which of UBMs profits.
Forward bookings for our 2009 major events the Board assesses progress against our strategic objectives are which contribute approximately 120m or approximately 40% listed below: of revenue are showing 5% growth over the equivalent point in the previous annual or biennial cycle.
In Asia our key events 2008 2007 13 such as the September edition of the Hong Kong Jewellery Show, Adjusted earnings per share 57.0p 53.4p the All China Leather Exhibition leatherwear, Marintec marine 13 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 55.8p 52.3p technology in Shanghai, Furniture China and Cosmoprof Asia 14 12 month Total Shareholder Return 15.8% -2.0% beauty products are on track to achieve growth in 2009.
15 Cumulative pre-tax return on acquisitions 11.5% 13.1% Our global, multi-event franchises such as Game Developer professional game software developers, CPhI pharmaceutical The table above shows the numerical measures used by the Board ingredients and Food Ingredients are also on track.
to assess and monitor business performance.
These measures Events which serve markets that are being most severely analyse performance against the strategic objective of creating affected by the downturn, such as the UK furniture industry and shareholder value and they also reflect the success of UBMs the US-based semiconductor industry, will shrink in 2009.
We also acquisition strategy in financial terms.
anticipate that cuts in corporate travel budgets will reduce paid The Board does not consider that short term financial attendance at some of our US events in 2009.
However there indicators are the most effective way of monitoring and assessing are other sectors such as IT security Black Hat and global performance against the following strategic priorities: trade logistics Breakbulk where paid attendance is on track to achieve growth.
Paid attendance represents less than 10% ensuring the correct balance of products in UBMs portfolio, of our total events revenue.
Overall we expect the proportion both in terms of quality and visibility of profits, and the mix of UBM profits generated by events 47.3% in 2008 to continue between media: to rise in 2009. growth in new markets and technologies, and in high-growth B2B Communities Data, Services and Online geographical territories: and In 2008 data, services and online products contributed 25.4% people and management.
of revenues and 17.9% of profits.
The Vidal drug information products have largely traded for 2009 and are in line with our In addition to its regular process for project reviews, the Board expectations.
Other products and services such as Semiconductor reviews acquisitions, disposals, new markets, new technologies Insights semiconductor IP business intelligence, PIERS and new territories on a project-by-project basis.
In the Boards import and export information and analysis, RISI paper and view, such an approach is more appropriate than high-level pulp information and analysis, IPED professional development, financial measures and facilitates a more efficient and incisive Next Level IT sales and marketing services and Light Reading decision-making process.
telecoms intelligence are also on track to achieve flat or The Board and executives view UBMs people as key to the modest growth in revenue.
However some products which success of the business and have a strategic objective to recruit serve professional communities which are under the most acute and retain leading talent.
The Board use qualitative measures financial pressure and which are experiencing falling employment and feedback to track progress against these objectives.
Although we have some exposure to this included face-to-face meetings between the Board and senior markets such as printed flight directories, we have chosen not to management teams in a number of our operating businesses operate in the most severely hit markets such as financial services throughout the world, including meetings in Cleveland, Paris and retail.
13 Adjusted earnings per share is before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, deferred tax on intangible assets and net financing costs other than interest.
14 Total shareholder return includes ordinary and special dividends plus movements in the share price.
15 UBM has adopted a financial target that acquisitions should achieve an 8% post-tax return.
This would equate to a pre-tax return of 10% at an assumed effective tax rate of 20%.
The return is calculated by dividing operating profit by the cost of acquisitions for the total of the three prior years.
Current year acquisitions are included on a pro forma basis to ensure the full year is recognised.
15 B2B Communities Print Magazines Our strategy for 2009 and beyond is to maintain a prudent level In 2008 print magazine products contributed 24.3% of revenues of debt.
We will not set specific guidance on our acquisition and 13.8% of profits.
Over the last five years we have actively investment and we have ceased our capital return programme.
managed our print magazine portfolio to adapt to the long While not currently anticipating such activity, the Board reserves term structural shifts in the media environment, reducing its right to make further share repurchases at any time if the proportion of UBMs revenues generated by print products it feels it appropriate to do so.
We believe that there will be from 56.2% in 2004 to 24.3% in 2008.
We expect that current progressively more opportunities to make acquisitions which economic conditions will serve to accelerate these trends such are both complementary to our business and which also meet that the proportion of UBMs profits generated by print magazine our stringent financial hurdles.
products will fall from 13.8% in 2008 to less than 10% by the In 2008 we have increased our dividend by 10%, taking our end of 2009. dividend cover for 2008 to 2.39 times.
B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting Outlook summary In 2008 B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting contributed Our strategic restructuring of UBM over the last four years and 17.4% of revenues and 25.0% of profits.
Over the last six our active management of UBMs cost base has positioned UBM months market share for our US newswire distribution business appropriately for the current challenging environment.
We continue representing 48% of distribution, monitoring and targeting to monitor closely both our businesses performance and the revenue has stabilised.
We have continued to grow our markets in which they operate where there remains considerable non-wire workflow, multimedia and online products such uncertainty.
We remain prepared to address rapidly and as ProfNet, MultiVu and MediaRoom.
We have also expanded effectively any deterioration in performance or market conditions.
our international revenues generated in China, Europe and Demonstrating both the resilience of our business and the Latin America.
We expect these trends to continue in 2009. effectiveness of our management teams, our most recent trading in November, December and January has been satisfactory and Acquisitions, balance sheet and dividends resilient.
We are ready to seize growth opportunities both by In 2007 we set out a strategy for acquisitions and returns to acquisition and through organic investment.
shareholders which could, subject to trading conditions, lead to a level of leverage of approximately 3x EBITDA by the end of 2009.
In the light of the economic downturn over the last 18 months, we have now revised this approach.
In 2008 our total investment in acquisitions was 38.4m, less than a quarter of the acquisition investment we made in 2006.
We reduced our acquisition investment because we believed asset prices were inflated and that they would decline in the latter half of 2008 and into 2009.
We also suspended our programme of share buybacks, recognising the importance of the strength of our balance sheet and UBMs consequent low level of debt.
