24 Operating and Financial Review Financial Review Cash flow 19 Operating cash flow was 173.6m compared to continuing 20 operating profit of 173.5m.
This represents a cash conversion of 100.1 per cent, a further strong performance by the business.
Capital expenditure for the year was 15.0m.
This was higher than depreciation of 12.9m.
This higher level primarily reflects investment in new systems: the largest among them at PR Newswire to consolidate its editorial and sales infrastructure and upgrade customer support IT systems and at UBM Aviation New Technology Platform which will enable migration away from legacy mainframe systems and will support richer functionality for our data systems as well as future office relocation.
We paid 48.1m on acquisitions net of cash acquired and earnout payments in relation to acquisitions made in prior years.
We paid dividends of 54.4m and tax of 18.7m.
We incurred restructuring and business reorganisation spend of 12.5m.
Balance sheet Our balance sheet remains strong.
UBM had net debt at 31 December 2008 of 260.6m.
We invested 38.4m Nigel Wilson excluding estimated earn outs and deal costs in 14 acquisitions.
Chief Financial Officer & We have not repurchased any shares in 2008, preferring instead Deputy Chief Executive Officer to assess the opportunities to create value for shareholders from acquisitions and from investing in emerging economies.
Our tax creditor is 237.2m and has increased from 227.6m as at 31 December 2007, representing our prudent assessment of the potential liability for prior years across different geographies.
We have necessarily made judgements as to the outcome of matters not yet concluded.
This creditor has been consistently classified as short term in line with our accounting convention.
As previously disclosed, UBM is in dispute with HMRC with regards to a technical matter arising in relation to the sale of our Regional Newspapers business in 1998.
The tax in dispute is estimated at 80m.
The decision in the Court of Appeal went against UBM and UBM subsequently sought leave to appeal to the House of Lords, which was denied.
UBM is currently discussing the basis of the calculation of the capital gain with HMRC.
Whilst it is likely that this will not be resolved until 2010, it is possible that the matter could be settled during the current year.
Excluding potential payments in respect of the Regional Newspapers dispute discussed above, we do not expect the tax cash outflow in respect of this creditor in 2009 to exceed 10m.
The outlay in 2008 against the tax creditor was 2.6m.
19 Adjusted to exclude non-operating movements in working capital, such as expenditure against reorganisation and restructuring provisions.
20 Before amortisation of intangible assets on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates.
25 Acquisition performance Restructuring and business reorganisation costs Cumulative 21 Invested Pre-Tax Return In April 2008, UBM announced that it was undertaking a m % reorganisation of the corporate structure of the Group which 2006 163.0 11.3 would create a new holding company which is UK-listed, incorporated in Jersey and with its tax residence in the 2007 93.7 13.1 22 Republic of Ireland.
The scheme was approved by shareholders 2008 51.7 11.5 on 2 June 2008 and was formally implemented on 1 July 2008.
2008 acquisitions contributed operating profit of 5.1m since The exceptional charge of 4.2m, included within restructuring acquisition and achieved a pre-tax return of 13.8% on a pro and business reorganisation costs, represents the professional forma basis.
fees and other related costs arising in connection with this change of domicile.
Underlying performance In November 2008, the CPhI India and P-MEC India events were cancelled as a result of the terrorist attacks in In 2008, we achieved underlying revenue growth of 1.4% Mumbai.
The irrecoverable costs incurred by CMP Asia and 2007: 5.0%.
B2B Communities achieved underlying revenue CMP Information, which total 1.6m, have been recorded growth of 2% and B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting as an exceptional item, classified within other exceptional items.
experienced a 1% decline, reflecting the disruption of the During the year, UBM reorganised its core operations, bureaux consolidation and the demands of training new staff, replacing the historic divisional structure with a much flatter, which resulted in a loss of customers and of market share in market-focused organisation.
In February, UBM Technology the first half of 2008. formerly CMP Technology was reorganised into four separate The B2B Communities underlying revenue growth was made up market-focused businesses, followed by CMP Information into of the following elements five businesses in June and Commonwealth Business Media into two businesses in December.
UBM also implemented a number Growth in events 8.9% of restructuring and reorganisation projects across the Group.
Growth in Data, Services and Online 3.9% The objectives of these projects are to achieve greater alignment Reduction in Print Magazines 8.4% of product portfolios and organisational structure to the changing The performance of each product group is discussed further in the needs of customers, to better position the businesses to take UBM Segmental Performance on page 16 to 23. advantage of higher growth areas and to improve profitability.
This involved the closure and merger of a number of print titles and a headcount reduction of over 500 people.
Effective rate of taxation The exceptional charge of 33.3m in respect of reorganisation UBMs effective rate of taxation for the year was 15.9% 2007: 17.0%.
and restructuring costs includes 16.8m relating to redundancy costs and 5.1m relating to restructuring and business reorganisation.
Of the amount charged, 8.4m has been incurred in 2008 and the balance is expected to be incurred in 2009.
The charge also includes 11.4m of vacant property and other property costs which will be incurred over the remainder of the lease terms.
21 UBM has adopted a financial target that acquisitions should achieve an 8% post-tax return.
This would equate to a pre-tax return of 10% at an assumed effective tax rate of 20%.
The return is calculated by dividing attributable operating profit by the cost of acquisitions for the total of the three prior years.
22 Results of 2008 acquisitions have been included on a pro forma basis to reflect full year impact, amounts invested include the current estimate of all future deferred consideration, but exclude deal costs.
26 Operating and Financial Review Financial Review continued At the end of 2007, UBM had net debt of 157.5m.
During 2008, Impairment UBM paid 48.1m on acquisitions net of cash acquired and We have reviewed the carrying value of our intangible assets earnout payments in relation to acquisitions made in prior years, including goodwill in light of current trading conditions and together with 54.4m of capital returns to shareholders expectations and consider that no provision for impairment is and a foreign exchange movement of 87.7m.
Combined, this required as at 31 December 2008. moved UBM to a net debt position of 260.6m, as disclosed in Note 21.
UBM enters into derivative transactions, principally interest Pensions rate swaps, in order to manage the interest rate risk arising from UBM operates a number of defined benefit and defined UBMs operations and its sources of finance.
UBM also enters contribution schemes, based primarily in the UK, but with some into forward currency contracts to manage the short term based overseas.
The most recent actuarial funding valuations for currency risks of its operations.
It is UBMs policy that no trading the majority of the UK scheme liabilities were carried out in 2008, in derivatives shall be undertaken.
and updated to 31 December 2008 using the projected unit credit Financial instruments give rise to foreign currency, interest method.
For US schemes, annual funding valuations are performed rate, credit, and liquidity risk.
Information on how these risks arise and therefore the results are based on the 1 January 2008 valuation.
is set out below, as are the objectives, policies and processes used At 31 December 2008, the aggregate surplus under IAS 19 to measure and manage each risk.
was 14.6m, a decrease of 7.5m compared to the surplus Foreign currency risk of 22.1m at the previous year end, reflecting a decrease UBM has significant operations outside the UK and uses a in asset returns, partially offset by an increase to the discount combination of borrowings in the same functional currency as rate and decrease in the inflation rate.
For UK schemes, the the foreign operation into which it invests and forward currency death rates used are 130% of the 2000 series standard tables.
contracts to mitigate the effect of its currency exposures.
At the These tables allow for life expectancy to improve over time end of 2008, from an accounting perspective, UBM had hedged due to improvements in medical treatments and other lifestyle approximately 66% of US dollar assets and 25% of Euro assets factors such that younger members who have not yet reached in this way.
pensionable age are expected to live longer than current pension In general, UBM does not hedge the profits of its overseas members.
For current pensioner members, the tables assume operations as they are accounting rather than cash exposures.
that they had a life expectancy at age 65 of 19.0 years for males However, in January 2009, in light of increased volatility and and 21.4 years for females.
For younger members who have economic uncertainty, UBM entered into forward currency not yet reached pensionable age, the tables assume they will contracts to sell $120m of US dollars and H50m of euro in have a life expectancy when they reach age 65 of 20.6 years exchange for sterling over the course of 2009.
All of the dollar for males and 22.9 years for females.
The average rate of contracts will mature by the end of December 2009 as will improvement underlying the standard tables is approximately H40m of the Euro contracts.
The balance of H10m will mature an increase of 0.7 years life expectancy in every 10 years.
For the valuation of US scheme liabilities, RP 2000 tables Due to the nature of UBMs business, the overseas operating are used.
The life expectancy for a 65-year-old male is 18.8 years units have only limited transactional currency exposures.
Where and a 65-year-old female is 20.8 years.
these exposures exist, UBMs treasury policy requires that all The IAS 19 interest credit was 4.4m, being the excess of its operating units request currency contracts to eliminate the expected asset growth during 2008 over the interest on the currency exposures on any individual transactions in excess of scheme liabilities.
50,000 for which payment is anticipated more than one month after entering into a firm commitment for a sale or purchase.
Funding and financial risk management Forward currency contracts must be in the same currency as UBMs central treasury is principally concerned with managing the hedged item, and it is UBMs policy to negotiate the terms internal and external funding requirements, the monitoring of of the hedge derivatives to match the terms of the hedged item working capital and the management of key financial market risks to maximise hedge effectiveness.
UBMs exposure to foreign and their impact on UBMs financial assets and liabilities, profits currency risk is shown by way of sensitivity to changes in and cash flow.
The Head of Treasury is accountable to the Chief exchange rates in the foreign currency risk table in Note 21.
Financial Officer and the Board.
Interest rate risk UBM finances its activities with a combination of funding UBMs policy is to manage its cost of borrowing using a mix of from capital markets, bank loans, cash and short-term deposits, fixed and variable rate debt.
UBM enters into interest rate swaps as disclosed in Notes 19 and 20.
UBM mainly borrows and invests agreed with other parties to generate the desired interest profile, centrally on behalf of its subsidiaries with the aim of maximising in which UBM agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the liquidity, security, flexibility and price competitiveness.
UBM has difference between fixed rate and variable interest amounts established strong relationships with a number of banks and calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional principal.
financial institutions to facilitate future funding requirements.
27 At the year end, 53% 2007: 47% of UBMs borrowings Capital management were at fixed rates, after taking account the impact of interest UBM maintains an investment grade credit rating and rate swaps.
UBMs exposure to interest rate risk is shown by way conservative capital ratios in order to support its businesses of sensitivity to changes in interest rates in the interest rate risk and maximise shareholder value.
In November 2007, UBM set out a strategy for acquisitions and returns to shareholders which could, subject to trading Credit risk conditions, lead to a level of leverage of approximately 3x EBITDA The risk of financial loss due to the failure of a counter party to by the end of 2009.
We believe that as the credit crunch continues, honour its obligations arises principally in relation to investment and particularly later in 2009, there will be increasing opportunities of surplus cash and derivative contracts it enters into.
UBM policy for UBM to acquire attractive businesses and secure good returns for restricts the counterparties with whom funds can be invested and its shareholders.
Our financial return on acquisitions have been well derivative contracts can be entered into, with the objective of above our cost of capital.
Accordingly we have suspended the preserving UBMs capital.
At the end of 2008, investment of process of capital return that we announced in 2007 and will focus surplus funds and derivative contracts were held with major on delivering value from the market opportunities around us.
banks of high quality credit standing.
At the end of 2008, the net debt to earnings before interest, Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables taxation, depreciation and amortisation was 1.4 as shown below.
are limited due to UBMs customer base being large and unrelated.
UBM monitors capital using a leverage ratio of net debt to Liquidity risk earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation UBM aims to mitigate liquidity risk by borrowing and investing with a policy of keeping the ratio below three to one.
centrally on behalf of its subsidiaries with the aim of maximising 2008 2007 m m security, flexibility and price competitiveness.
Investment, both in organic growth and in acquisitions, is carefully controlled Financial liabilities 432.8 252.5 with authorisation limits operating up to UBM Board level Financial assets 172.2 95.0 and cash payback periods applied as part of the investment Net debt 260.6 157.5 appraisal process.
Adjusted earnings before interest, taxation, In its funding strategy, UBMs objective is to maintain a 23 depreciation and amortisation 186.4 176.3 balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through Leverage ratio 1.4 0.9 the use of capital markets, bank loans and overdrafts.
To facilitate Leverage ratio at average rates 1.1 0.8 access to these sources of funds UBM seeks to maintain a 23 Adjusted earning before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation is adjusted operating long-term investment grade credit rating with both Moodys profit as adjusted for depreciation and amortisation of website development costs Baa2 and Standard and Poors BBB-.
Excess cash used in managing liquidity is only invested in In assessing the leverage ratios of net debt to adjusted earnings financial instruments that are not exposed to significant risk of before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation, both changes in market value, and are therefore placed on interestMoodys and Standard and Poors take account of a number of bearing deposit with maturities fixed at no more than one year other factors, including future operating lease obligations and or in AAA rated money market funds.
UBM maintains a 325m multi-currency revolving credit facility from key relationship banks.
The facility allows UBM to Interest draw and repay up to 325m provided all conditions precedent Net interest paid was 4.2m compared to net interest received are met.
At 31 December 2008, all conditions precedent were of 1.2m in the prior year as UBMs net debt position increased met and UBM had drawn 283.3m from the facility leaving during the year as a result of acquisitions.
represents interest payments on UBMs bonds and bank loans UBM has other committed bank facilities totalling 177.8m reduced by receipts due on our cash holdings.
of which 145.3m was drawn at 31 December 2008.
Further detail on these facilities, including maturity profile, can be found in Notes 20 and 21.
Going concern During 2008, UBM increased the amount of financing Having reviewed UBMs liquid resources, funding requirements available by arranging two new committed facilities totalling and financial risk management as set out above, borrowing 105m.
UBM raised 75m through the issue of 20 year floating facilities see Notes 20 and 21 and cash flow forecast, the rate reset bonds and a further 30m revolving loan facility.
directors believe that UBM has adequate resources to continue The bonds bear interest at six month LIBOR plus 0.68% until as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
Thereafter, if the bonds are not put by the holder, the interest rate will be 4.70% plus a credit spread which will be reset every three years.
