Business and Finance Review Resources, Skills and Capabilities The Company recognises that in order to achieve its growth and development ambitions it must hire, develop, retain and motivate the best quality people across its business.
Venture continues to be successful in attracting staff with the requisite skill sets that can add value and contribute to the business immediately, as well as developing its own expertise.
Staff numbers as at the year end had grown by 12 to 154 2007: 142.
Getting the right people and then rewarding them appropriately is key to encouraging and achieving great performance.
Our commitment is to treat all of our people fairly, responsibly, with dignity, respecting their individual differences and helping them achieve their full potential.
Venture is not only a highly technical organisation, but also operates in a distinctive, enterprising environment.
We encourage our people to be innovative and entrepreneurial, using excellent decision making skills and the ability to communicate with all.
We work with a flat organisational structure allowing the organisation to make timely decisions, which enables our people to be able to work with a great deal of autonomy Our people ensure that Venture and take responsibility at every level.
Venture has high expectations of its employees but gives them the support they need to meet the challenges continues to achieve exceptional it sets.
Our leadership programme, which was run for the first time during 2008, has raised the bar by increasing standards of performance and results through hard work, developing better working relationships.
determination and innovation: We continue to run a successful targeted graduate recruitment programme.
Our focus is on leading universities with a reputation in through effective communication geology, geophysics and reservoir engineering, and we will recruit at MSc level.
As a leading independent in the E&P sector, we are able to with one another, contractors and offer our graduate recruits a broad exposure to a range of disciplines joint venture partners: and through that may not always be available from some of our peer group.
action, by getting things done Managing external relationships with our long term suppliers and contractors is a core capability of Venture.
Building relationships based quickly and efficiently.
on partnership and delivering results using both internal and external resources have proved a powerful combination over the last few years, and we continue to invest in strengthening this important attribute through training.
We value these three elements and strive to ensure that they get the time and dedication they require.
Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 Business and Finance Review Business and Finance Review Continued Continued 2009 Outlook Corporate Development After a relatively quiet 2007 in terms of completed deals, 2008 marked 2008 Acquisitions a return to the historic trend of serial acquisitions that is a hallmark of 2008s new business activity saw a mixture of expansion into new areas Ventures acquire and exploit model.
For most of the year, prices for any producing assets that came to market remained extremely high.
and an increase to interests in existing fields.
In January, we acquired our first licence in the East Irish Sea through the agreement of a majority In contrast, prices for undeveloped discoveries remained relatively attractive for those with the expertise and resources to move such assets farm-in to the Marram gas discovery.
Later, in October we added to this interest, taking our earned equity in the field to 70% upon completion toward production.
This allowed us to maintain our selective approach to acquisition and yielded a number of purchases of discovered but of drilling an appraisal well.
A rig has been secured for Marram with an expected spud date in mid-to-late 2009.
This rig will also drill the undeveloped assets.
However, 2008 was a year of change and the sharp fall in the oil price from around the middle of the year started Whitbeck exploration well in which we have a 70% interest earned by carrying a disproportionate cost of the well.
to have an impact in the pricing of producing assets for sale toward the end of 2008.
The marked drop in oil prices may make 2009 a year Other deals were completed to increase Ventures equity in the already in which more packages of on stream oil assets come to the market.
producing Chiswick field, the Bligh undeveloped gas condensate To the extent these also come with remaining development potential, discovery and the Morpheus and Carna gas exploration prospects.
where a skilled development operator can add value, Venture intends All of these investments give shareholders greater exposure to the to be an active acquirer of such assets, be they sold on their own or attractive risked returns seen throughout our 2009 10 drilling programme.
as part of corporate packages.
Between March and July we also expanded our SNS gas footprint to 25th Licensing Round include undeveloped assets in the northern part of the Dutch sector, As heralded in last years Annual Report, we were very active in the latest with the acquisition of interests in the F3-FA, A15a and B17a discoveries.
UK offshore licensing round as a result of our increased scale and the The development of F3-FA has already been sanctioned and the two work done in partnership with MPX Oil and Gas and Volantis Exploration discoveries in the A and B quadrants are under review.
Our application was highly successful and we obtained interests in 15 new blocks containing four undeveloped discoveries with seven In April, we made what was, perhaps, the most significant acquisition additional applications pending further environmental review.
We already of the year, a package of interests close to the CMS area to the north have four wells in our drilling programme to exploit these new licences of the UK gas basin.
We acquired interests in six discoveries including and we are confident that the appraisal and exploration activity we carry the potentially large Cygnus field and whilst this will involve a significant out will yield new fields that we can rapidly move into development.
number of wells to develop its full potential, the first of two appraisal wells In 2008, we demonstrated our ability to quickly capitalise on licence to assess the full potential of the field was spudded in December 2008. awards, with the successful start-up of the Stamford field just 22 months A follow-up deal was announced in October to take our non-operated after the licence was awarded.
During the year Venture announced 13 deals in total which, together, Strategy added additional unrisked base case recoverable resources in existing Ventures strategy was specifically developed to exploit the discoveries of 43.5 MMboe.
Although only 19.5 MMboe of these were characteristics of maturing oil and gas basins, such as the North Sea, formally booked as proven and probable reserves at the year end, the that are in the second half of their productive lives.
As such, it focuses on remaining resources acquired during 2008 lie within existing discoveries.
extracting significant remaining value from assets that larger companies This means that they have high potential to be re-categorised as either have chosen to divert their own capital away from.
proven or probable reserves once appraisal and development drilling has taken place.
In this connection and as a signal of the intent behind Competition for capital from newer exploration-led provinces in which 2008s active acquisition programme, the majority of the acquired opportunity sizes are generally larger than mature basins often means resources already have 2009 activity underway or planned.
that larger companies choose to apply their resources to material high risk, high impact prospects in other parts of the world and away from In addition to the already discovered resources, 2008 deal activity added mature basins such as the North Sea.
This creates the opportunity for an additional 38 MMboe of target prospective resources in the Carna, focused companies like Venture and applying our strategy to the UK and Whitbeck and Morpheus area exploration acreage.
All of these have Dutch sectors of the North Sea has proven highly successful.
We believe wells planned in either 2009 or 2010. market conditions in the North Sea are now very attractive for a mature basin specialist with the scale and critical mass to prosper in a tightening market for capital and services.
1bn Venture has invested over 1 billion in the North Sea 26 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
