OUR GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the Information on the business environment in which the Group 26 September 2008.
Total dividends of 1.96p per ordinary share Legal matters audited accounts of the Group and of the Company, Cookson operates, including the factors that are likely to impact the future were declared in respect of 2007.
The aforementioned numbers All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Group plc, for the year ended 31 December 2008. prospects of the Group, are included in the Chief Executives having been restated following the rights issue which completed Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure in place for The Chief Executives Review, the Operating Review, the Review and the Operating Review.
The principal risks and on 4 March 2009.
See note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent Financial Review, the Directors Remuneration Report, and the uncertainties that the Group faces throughout its global Statements.
legal advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Corporate Governance, the Corporate Social Responsibility and operations are included in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Board of Directors sections of the Annual Report are each financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position Accountability and audit Directors indemnities incorporated by reference into, and form part of, this Directors and debt facilities are described in the Financial Review.
In addition, A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by To the extent permitted by section 236 of the Companies Act Report.
notes 4 and 37 to the consolidated financial statements set out the Auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on 2006, the Directors have been granted Qualifying Third Party The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its pages 52 and 53, respectively.
The Directors fulfil the Indemnity Provisions by the Company and the directors of the statements with respect to the operations, performance and capital: financial risks: financial instruments and hedging responsibilities set out in their statement within the context of an Groups UK Pension Plan trustee board have been granted financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements activities: and its exposures to credit, market both currency and overall control environment of central strategic direction and Qualifying Pension Scheme Indemnity Provisions by Cookson involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can interest rate-related and liquidity risk.
Further details of the decentralised operating responsibility.
Pension Plans Trustees Ltd. cause results and developments to differ materially from those Groups cash balances and borrowings are included in notes 20 anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor Directors conflicts of interest and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual The Group has two committed debt facilities, approximately As at the date of this report, so far as each Director of the Following approval at the 2008 AGM, the Companys Articles of Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update 680 million of syndicated bank facilities and approximately Company is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Association were amended with effect from 1 October 2008, to these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report 250 million of US Private Placement loan notes.
These facilities, the Companys Auditor is unaware and each Director hereby take account of certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 should be construed as a profit forecast.
which together total approximately 930 million, have no confirms that he has taken all the steps that he ought to have relating to directors conflicts of interest which came into effect significant debt maturities in 2009, with the principal maturities taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant on that date.
These provisions permit the Board to consider and, Principal activities due in 2011 and 2012.
These debt facilities contain a number of audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is if thought fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an Cookson Group plc is a leading materials science company which financial covenants with which the Group is required to comply.
In aware of that information.
interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests provides materials, processes and services to customers March 2009, the Group completed a rights issue which raised of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Groups operations are formed into three divisions proceeds net of expenses of 241 million which were used to Auditor established a formal system for Directors to declare Situational Ceramics, Electronics and Precious Metals.
Trading under the repay gross borrowings.
The rights issue significantly strengthens Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor Conflicts so that they can be considered for authorisation by the Vesuvius and Foseco brand names, Cooksons Ceramics division is the Group's financial position.
of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine its remaining members of the Board.
In deciding whether to the world leader in the supply of advanced consumable products The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group remuneration are to be proposed at the AGM.
authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are and systems to the global steel and foundry industries and a for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of approval required to act in the way they consider would be most likely to leading supplier of specialist ceramic products to the glass and of the 2008 financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an Remuneration matters promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits solar industries.
It is also a regional leader in the US, UK and assessment of current end-market conditions, their impact on the The Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 45 to 51. or conditions when giving authorisation or subsequently if they Australia in the supply and installation of monolithic refractory Group's future trading performance and the actions taken by Neither of the executive Directors contracts contains any change think this is appropriate.
The Group Secretary minutes the linings.
The Electronics division is a leading supplier of advanced management in response to the difficult market conditions.
consideration of any conflict and records the details of any surface treatment and plating chemicals and assembly materials forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group will be able authorisations granted.
to the electronics, automotive and construction markets.
It to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show Remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive Directors comprises two product lines: Assembly Materials and Chemistry.
continued compliance with the financial covenants.
In addition, The Board considers the remuneration policy for the nonEmployment policies The Precious Metals division is a leading supplier of fabricated management has considered various mitigating actions that executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors fees have not been A fundamental concept embodied in the Companys Code of precious metals primarily gold, silver and platinum to the could be taken in the event that end-market conditions are worse increased during the year and remain at 40,000 per annum.
A Conduct is that Cooksons goals can only be met through the jewellery industry in the US, the UK, France and Spain.
Products than their current assessment.
Such measures include further supplementary fee is payable to the Chairman of the Audit efforts of its employees.
Cookson recognises that job satisfaction include alloy materials, semi-finished jewellery components and reductions in costs, further reductions in capital expenditure and Committee of 15,000 per annum and the Chairman of the requires working environments that motivate employees to be finished jewellery.
further reductions in those items of working capital within Remuneration Committee receives a supplementary fee of productive and innovative and provide opportunities for management's control.
A supplementary fee of 5,000 per annum employee training and development to maximise personal Business review On the basis of the exercise as described above and the is also payable to the Senior Independent Director.
No changes potential and develop careers within the Group.
As required by the Companies Act 2006, the Company must available committed debt facilities, the Directors have a were made in 2008 to the supplementary fees payable.
Cookson is managed on a decentralised basis and within each provide a fair review of the development and performance of the reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have The Group Chairmans remuneration, which is subject to division it is the responsibility of the relevant divisional Chief Group during 2008, its financial position at the end of the year adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the periodic review, is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Executive to adopt employment policies and practices that best and likely future developments in the Groups business, together forseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going There was no change to the Group Chairmans remuneration, suit the size, style and geographical location of their operations.
with information on environmental matters and employees and a concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group during the year.
Neither the Group Chairman, who is not an This allows the Groups operations to respond competitively to description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the and the Company.
executive Director, nor the other non-executive Directors are changes in the marketplace and to develop and retain a strong Group.
The information which satisfies these requirements is to members of the Groups pension plans, nor do they participate in sense of identity whilst benefiting from being a part of a major be found in the Chief Executives Review on pages 10 and 11: the Dividends the Groups incentive schemes.
Cookson values the involvement of its Operating Review on pages 12 to 21: the Financial Review on The Board has recently reviewed Cooksons near-term dividend employees and keeps them informed on matters affecting them pages 22 to 27: the Corporate Responsibility and Health, Safety policy in response to the ongoing global financial crisis and Directors as employees and factors relevant to Group performance.
and Environmental Statements on pages 28 and 29: the Key challenging trading conditions.
As a consequence no final dividend Messrs Beeston, Butterworth, Hewitt, Perry, Oosterveld, Salmon It is established policy throughout Cookson that decisions on Performance Indicators on page 7: and the Corporate Governance for the 2008 financial year will be recommended to shareholders and Sussens all served as Directors of the Company during the recruitment, career development, training, promotion and other Report on pages 32 to 39. and dividend payments will be suspended until such time as the year.
Biographical information for the Directors of the Company, employment-related issues are made solely on the grounds of Groups end-markets have recovered sufficiently.
The cash cost of who served during the year, is given on page 31.
Messrs Beeston, individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
These Going concern dividend payments in 2008 was 31 million.
A decision to resume Butterworth and Hewitt will retire at the AGM and will offer principles are operated on a non-discriminatory basis.
Cookson The financial statements of the Company and the Group, dividend payments will be made once a clear recovery can be seen themselves for re-election.
Further information on the service gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment respectively, have been prepared on a going concern basis as in our end-markets and trading performance, and in the context of agreements of the executive Directors, including Mr Butterworth, from disabled persons.
Should an employee become disabled the Directors consider that the Company and the Group the Groups cash requirements at that time.
The non-executive Directors, including during their employment with Cookson, every effort is made to have adequate resources to continue in operation for the An interim dividend of 0.88p 2007: 0.64p per ordinary share Messrs Beeston and Hewitt, do not have such agreements.
enable them to continue their service with the Group.
was paid on 13 October 2008 to shareholders on the register at Cookson Group plc 40 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 41 Annual Report 2008 OUR GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Pensions suppliers are made in accordance with these terms, provided that approval of HM Revenue & Customs and or the Companys Auditor.
shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor will In each country in which the Group operates, the pension the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
Since the year end, no ordinary shares have been issued as a remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the arrangements in place are considered to be consistent with good In the accounts of the Company as at 31 December 2008, the result of exercises of options granted under the Companys share transferee is entered in the Register of members.
All instruments employment practice in that particular area.
Independent number of days purchases outstanding was 21 2007: 9 days.
Resolutions giving the Directors the authority to of transfer which are registered may be retained by the Company.
advisers are used to ensure that the plans are operated in allot further shares and make allotments of shares to persons Provided that the Directors may dispense with the execution of accordance with local legislation and the rules of each plan.
Significant agreements other than existing shareholders in certain circumstances will the instrument of transfer by the transferee in any case in which Group policy prohibits direct investment of pension fund assets in The terms of the Groups committed bank facility and US again be proposed at the AGM.
they think fit in their discretion to do so.
All transfers of shares its own businesses.
Outside the UK, the US, Germany, the Private Placement loan notes contain provisions entitling the which are in uncertificated form may be effected by means of the Netherlands and Belgium, the majority of pension plans in the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event Additional information for shareholders CREST system.
Group are of a defined contribution nature.
of a change of control on takeover of the Company.
A number of Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of The Groups UK defined benefit plan and main US defined other arrangements to which the Company and its subsidiaries are current Articles and applicable English law concerning companies transfer relating to shares in certificated form unless it is in respect benefit plans are closed to new entrants and the Groups largest party, such as other debt arrangements and share incentive plans, the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together of only one class of share and is lodged duly stamped if required US defined benefit pension plans have ceased providing future may alter or terminate on a change of control in the event of a the Companies Acts.
This is a summary only and the relevant at the place where the Companys Register is located accompanied benefit accrual, with members instead being provided with takeover.
In the context of the Group as a whole, these other provisions of the Articles or the Companies Acts should be by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the benefit through a defined contribution plan.
Benefit accrual arrangements are not considered to be significant.
consulted if further information is required.
Certain amendments Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the under the Groups UK defined benefit pension plan continues for will be proposed to the Articles at the Companys Annual General transferor to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer those employees who joined prior to the closure of the plan to Events after the balance sheet date Meeting to be held on 14 May 2009, to be effective 1 October 2009, is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of new entrants.
Defined contribution plans exist for new employees Under the terms of a fully underwritten rights issue, ordinary as explained in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
A copy that person so to do.
In the case of a transfer by a recognised in the UK and the US.
shareholders of the Company on the register at the close of of the Companys current Articles, marked up to show the clearing house, or by a nominee of a recognised clearing house or For the Groups UK defined benefit and defined contribution business on 13 February 2009 were offered, 2,551,293,144 new proposed amendments, will be available for inspection from 8 of a recognised investment exchange, the lodgement of share plans a trustee board exists comprising employees, former ordinary shares on the basis of twelve new ordinary shares for each April 2009 until the close of the AGM, during business hours at the certificates will only be necessary if and to the extent that employees and an independent trustee.
The board currently existing ordinary share held.
These shares were fully subscribed, Companys registered office and at the offices of Linklaters LLP, certificates have been issued in respect of the shares in question.
comprises six trustee directors, of whom two are memberresulting in total proceeds on issue of 241m, net of expenses.
the Companys solicitors, at One Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ, The Directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, nominated.
Following the merger of the Foseco Pension Fund into England.
They will also be available for inspection at the place of in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, the Cookson Group Pension Plan on 1 January 2009, steps are Share capital meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully-paid being taken to appoint a third member-nominated trustee As at the date of this report, the Company has an issued share shares provided that such discretion may not be exercised in director from the membership of the former Foseco Fund.
The capital of 2,763,900,906 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, being Authority for purchase of own shares such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from administration of each plan is outsourced.
the total number of Cookson Group plc shares with voting rights.
Subject to the provisions of Company law and any other taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Directors may also The Company is mindful of its obligations under the Pensions The Company currently has only one class of shares.
applicable regulations, the Company may purchase its own refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether Act 2004 and of the need to comply with the guidance issued by Following the increase in the Companys issued share capital shares.
Although it may not purchase or enter into a contract to fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the the Pensions Regulator.
Regular dialogue is maintained between as a result of the rights issue, the Directors consider it desirable purchase any convertible shares, unless the terms of issue of Directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares the Company and the Trustee board of the UK plans to ensure to consolidate the ordinary shares of the Company.
A resolution such convertible shares include provisions permitting the they shall within two months after the date on which the letter of that both Company and Trustee are apprised of the same is therefore being proposed at the forthcoming AGM to allow the Company to purchase its own equity shares or providing for allotment or instrument of transfer was lodged with the Company financial and other information about the Group and the plans Companys ordinary shares to be consolidated on the basis of adjustment to the conversion terms upon such a purchase: or the or the operator instruction was received by Cookson in the case which is pertinent to each being able to contribute to the 1 new share for each 10 existing shares.
It is anticipated that this purchase, or the contract, has first been approved by an ordinary of shares held in uncertificated form send to the allottee or effective functioning of the plans.
The Company currently has in will reduce the volatility in the share price.
At the current level resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of such transferee notice of the refusal.
place a schedule of contributions, agreed with the Trustee board, small absolute movements in the share price represent large convertible shares.
A shareholder does not generally need to obtain the approval which aims to reduce to zero the deficit existing on the UK percentage movements resulting in considerable volatility.
In At the 2008 AGM, shareholders gave the Company renewed of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the defined benefit plan as at 31 December 2006 by July 2015.
The addition, the Directors believe that the bid-offer spread on shares authority to make market purchases of up to a maximum of 10% Company, for a transfer to take place.
adequacy of this schedule of contributions will be monitored over prices at low absolute levels can be disproportionate to the share at that time of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
As at The Articles contain certain restrictions on the number of US time, so as to assess the need for it to be modified in the light of price to the detriment of shareholders.
the date of this report, the Company has made no such purchases persons who hold shares in the Company so as to enable the changes in the deficit position.
Details of movements in the Companys issued share capital under this authority.
The Directors believe it advisable to seek Company to suspend its obligations under the US Securities All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for the during 2008 are given in note 13 to the Company financial renewal of this authority at each AGM.
Exchange Act of 1934 and to prevent any such obligations from exclusive benefit of plan participants and their beneficiaries.
The Companys Articles specify that, subject to the arising again in the near future.
An independent financial institution acts as the Trustee.
The trust The Company operates a number of share-based share authorisation of an appropriate resolution passed by a general assets are protected by law and by Federal Government incentive plans further details about these are given in the meeting of the Company, Directors can allot relevant securities Voting rights Regulation and are subject to annual audit by an independent Directors Remuneration Report.
For the majority of these plans under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, up to the aggregate Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or accountant, the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of the Company can satisfy entitlements either by the acquisition of nominal amount specified by that Act.
In addition, the Articles restrictions attached to any class of shares, at a shareholders Labor.
existing shares or by the issue of new shares.
Existing shares are state that the Directors can seek the authority of shareholders in meeting, every shareholder who is present in person and every duly Further details of pension arrangements are given in note 38 held in an employee share ownership trust ESOP.
The trustees general meeting to allot equity securities for cash without first appointed proxy shall have one vote on a show of hands, and on a on pages 94 to 102. of the ESOP purchase shares in the open market as required, to being required to offer such shares to existing ordinary poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall enable the Company to meet liabilities for the provision of shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings in have one vote for every ordinary share of which he or she is the Donations existing shares to satisfy awards that vest.
The trustees do not connection with a rights issue and in other circumstances up to holder.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior Donations in the UK for charitable purposes totalled nil 2007: register votes in respect of these shares.
an aggregate nominal amount as specified in Section 89 1 of the holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be 0.1m : and such donations throughout the Group totalled nil The Directors are considering what adjustments, if any, it Companies Act 1985. accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and 2007: 0.1m.
In accordance with Company policy, no political would be appropriate to make to outstanding share-based for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which donations were made in either 2008 or 2007. incentives as a result of the rights issue, including to the number Transfer of shares the names stand in the share register.
A shareholder entitled to of shares granted under options and awards and to the exercise All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be attend and vote at a shareholders meeting is entitled to appoint a Creditor payment policy price, if any, of those options and awards, and any relevant effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend Each operating company in the Group is responsible for agreeing performance conditions.
Any such adjustments shall be made in any other form acceptable to the Directors and may be under and speak and vote in his or her place.
A shareholder may appoint the terms and conditions under which business transactions with accordance with the rules of the relevant plan and, where required hand only.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting provided their suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that payments to by relevant plan rules, adjustments shall be made with the prior behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully-paid that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a Cookson Group plc 42 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 43 Annual Report 2008 OUR GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Voting rights continued Amendment of Articles of Association The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for benefits and medical insurance.
These benefits are similar to different share or shares held by the shareholder.
Proxies need The Company may make amendments to the Articles of the setting the appropriate remuneration for the Group Chairman, the those provided to other Company executives in the UK.
not be shareholders the Company.
For the purposes of Company by way of special resolution in accordance with the executive Directors and the Group Secretary, and recommending determining which persons are entitled to attend or vote at a Companies Acts.
and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior Variable remuneration meeting and how many votes such person may cast, the Company management, being the first layer of management below Board The remuneration programme is structured such that variable, may specify in the notice of the meeting a time, not more than 48 Interests in the Companys shares level.
A copy of the Committees Terms of Reference is available on performance-related remuneration potentially represents more hours before the time fixed for the meeting, by which a person As at the date of this report, the Company has been notified in the Companys website, www.
than half of total remuneration.
must be entered on the Share Register in order to have the right accordance with DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The current members of the Committee are all the nonto attend or vote at the meeting.
of the following interests in its issued ordinary shares: executive Directors, namely Jeff Hewitt, Jan Oosterveld, Barry Annual incentive Perry and John Sussens, who also chairs the Committee.
All the In line with the Groups other senior executives, the executive % Restrictions on shares members of the Committee are deemed to be independent.
The Directors are eligible to receive an annual incentive calculated as The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of dividends Group Secretary acts as Committee Secretary.
The Chairman, a percentage of base salary and based on achievement against Standard Life Investments Ltd 14.34% or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are invited to attend specified financial targets.
Each year the Committee establishes Aviva plc 12.36% a person with 0.25 percent interest or more if such person has Committee meetings as appropriate.
the financial performance criteria for the forthcoming year.
These Lloyds Banking Group plc 8.20% been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company In formulating its policies and deciding individual remuneration criteria are set by reference to the Groups financial budget and Fidelity Investments Ltd 4.20% with information concerning interest in those shares required to levels, the Committee was advised during the year by the Chief prior year actual financial results.
The Committee considers that Legal & General Group plc 3.90% be provided under the Companies Acts.
Executive, the Group Secretary and by the external advisers Kepler attainment of these targets is important in the context of Aegon UK 3.37% Associates KA and Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, and the achievement of the Groups longer-term, strategic goals.
Variation of rights law firm Clifford Chance LLP CC.
KA and HNBS were appointed The annual incentive has a threshold level of performance Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the directly by the Committee and CC was appointed by the Company below which no award is paid, a target level at which executive class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders ordinary shares of the Company, all of which are beneficial, as on the Committees behalf.
HNBS and CC also provide other limited Directors are entitled to a payment equal to 50% of their base of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares disclosed in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing advice to the Company, in their specialist areas of share award salary and a maximum performance level at which a maximum of that class, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a Authority are as set out on page 49 and details of the Directors valuation and share schemes respectively.
award worth 100% of base salary is earned.
separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every long-term incentive awards are set out on pages 50 and 51.
For the financial year 2008, the executive Directors annual such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons Remuneration policy for executive Directors incentive was based on Group headline earnings performance, holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value By Order of the Board The Committee has established employment and remuneration the calculation of which is shown in note 18 to the consolidated of the issued shares of the class.
The rights conferred upon the practices for the Companys executive Directors aimed at fostering financial statements.
For 2008, performance was slightly over the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided a high performance culture.
In formulating remuneration policy, the threshold level and so annual bonuses equivalent to 15% of base in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by Committee has regard to the international scale and nature of the salary will be paid to the executive Directors for 2008.
These are the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Groups operations and takes into consideration guidelines issued reported in the Directors remuneration table on page 49. by its leading shareholders and bodies such as the Institutional The Remuneration Committee has determined that for 2009 Restrictions on voting Shareholders Committee, the Association of British Insurers ABI the executive Directors annual incentive will again be based on Richard M H Malthouse No shareholder shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, and the National Association of Pension Funds.
The remuneration Group headline earnings.
Group Secretary be entitled in respect of any share held by him or her to vote packages of the executive Directors are benchmarked against their 9 March 2009 either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to peers and have been designed to ensure that a substantial LTIP and other share incentive plans exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to proportion of remuneration is linked to performance.
The LTIP was introduced in 2004 and is the only long-term shareholders meetings if any call or other sum presently payable The Committee considers the efficacy of the Groups executive incentive plan under which awards are made to the executive by him or her to the Company in respect of that share remains remuneration policy each year and commissions more formal Directors.
It rewards executives for delivering superior Total unpaid.
In addition, if any member, or any other person appearing reviews as it considers appropriate.
The last such comprehensive Shareholder Return TSR, defined as the increase in the value to be interested in shares held by such member, has been duly review was undertaken in 2006, when KA were asked to review the of a share, including re-invested dividends, and from 2007 served with a notice to provide the Company with information Groups executive remuneration policy to ensure that it continued onwards headline earnings per share EPS growth, and as such under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed to to provide a strong alignment with the delivery of value to is intended to align executive remuneration with shareholders do so within 14 days, then unless the Directors otherwise shareholders and reflected market best practice.
determine the member shall not for so long as the default demonstrated that the overall remuneration package was The LTIP has two elements: firstly, executive Directors are continues be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by competitive in terms of both structure and quantum.
However, the eligible to receive a conditional annual allocation of shares worth proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right review concluded that certain changes should be made to the up to 100% of base salary Performance Shares : secondly, conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings.
Further information on these executive Directors can elect to invest all or part of their annual changes, which were made in 2007, is given below.
incentive in ordinary shares of the Company Investment Shares Appointment and replacement of Directors in return for which they receive a conditional allocation of shares The Company shall have no less than five and no more than Annual salary and benefits in kind worth up to 2.25 times the pre-tax equivalent of the annual fifteen Directors.
The Company may by ordinary resolution from Base salary is set by reference to market rates in the relevant incentive so invested Matching Share Award.
time to time vary the minimum number and or maximum number country for jobs of similar complexity and responsibility.
The The LTIP was amended with shareholder approval on of Directors.
At each AGM all those Directors who were elected or Chairmans fee and the salaries of the Chief Executive and Group 17 February 2009 so that shares purchased by executives under last re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar Finance Director are benchmarked against salaries within two a rights issue can be designated as Investment Shares and qualify year before the current year shall retire from office by rotation.
FTSE 250 comparator groups, the first focusing on sector for a Matching Share Award.
The value of the Matching Share A retiring Director shall be eligible for re-election.
The Board may comparators and the second on companies of similar size.
The Award relating to shares purchased under a rights issue will, as appoint any person to be a Director so long as the total number salaries of the executive Directors are normally reviewed on with any other Matching Share Award, be increased as if the of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in these 1 January each year.
In response to market conditions the executive executive had invested a pre-tax amount in shares under the Articles.
Any such Director shall only hold office until the next Directors approved 2009 salary increases of 4% have been rights issue.
The executive Directors will be required to retain all AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
deferred until 1 July 2009, in line with an extensive Group salary of the Cookson ordinary shares that they held at the time of the freeze for the first half of 2009. rights issue for a period of 36 months after the rights issue in Benefits in kind receivable by the executive Directors order for a Matching Share Award based on shares purchased in principally comprise company car allowances, life assurance the rights issue to be able to vest.
Cookson Group plc 44 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 45 Annual Report 2008 OUR GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP and other share incentive plans continued The Groups headline EPS will be calculated on a consistent basis and the Committee will have discretion to adjust for exceptional Subject to the overall limit explained below, shares purchased by executives using any annual incentive can continue to count as items as it deems appropriate.
Growth in headline EPS will be annualised percentage growth over the performance period comparing Investment Shares and qualify for a Matching Share Award in addition to any shares purchased in a rights issue which are designated headline EPS for the base year, the calendar year prior to the award date, with the final year, the calendar year three years after the as Investment Shares.
The Committee has specified that the total annual maximum value of Investment Shares however sourced that base year, expressed as compound annual growth, above the compound annual growth in RPI.
can qualify for a Matching Share Award for the awards to be made in 2009 will be subject to an overall limit of 100 per cent.
of an Prior to the vesting of any award, the Committee has also stipulated that, as an additional hurdle, it needs to be satisfied that executives salary.
vesting has been justified by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
In addition to the overall limit, the Committee has decided that only 63% of shares taken up under the recent rights issue can be Allocations were made under the LTIP to the executive Directors in March 2008, as shown on page 50.
Messrs Butterworth and designated as Investment Shares under the LTIP in recognition of the significantly discounted price of the shares issued in the rights issue.
Salmon purchased Investment Shares under the Matching Share element of the LTIP in 2008.
For awards made after 7 March 2007 the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to award participants the dividends that In addition to the executive Directors, senior divisional and corporate executives are allocated Performance Shares under the LTIP would have been paid on the number of shares that vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the and members of the Groups Executive Committee and senior corporate executives are also given the opportunity to participate in the award date and the date of vesting.
Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards can vest after three years, with the proportion of shares vesting being based on In prior years, the Group operated a number of other executive and all-employee share plans under which certain awards and the Companys performance against specified performance conditions.
For awards made in 2006, vesting was dependent upon the options are outstanding, although neither of the current executive Directors holds options or awards under these plans.
Under the Groups three-year TSR performance relative to that of the companies of its comparator group, the FTSE 250 excluding Investment executive share option schemes the Company granted share options, with an option exercise price fixed by reference to the market Trusts, as detailed below: price prevailing at the time of grant, the exercise of which were subject to an EPS performance condition.
The last executive share option grant was made in 2003 and the Company does not intend to make any further grants under the schemes.
The Company TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Matching Shares Vesting Ratio operated two all-employee share plans, the UK and International Sharesave Plans which were closed to new participants in 2004. excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares Further details of the awards and options outstanding under these share plans are given in note 39 to the consolidated financial Below Median 0% 0 statements.
Median 25% 0.5:1 In 2007, the Company implemented a Deferred Bonus Plan in place of the LTIP for certain corporate managers.
Under this plan, Upper Quintile top 20% 100% 2.25:1 executives receive an allocation of deferred shares to the value of a percentage of their annual bonus.
These shares, which will be sourced from existing shares, will vest after three years, although an executives allocation may lapse if he or she ceases employment Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 25% and 100% Pro rata between 0.5:1 and 2.25:1 in certain circumstances before the end of the three-year period.
The executive Directors do not participate in this plan.
The Directors are considering what adjustments, if any, it would be appropriate to make to oustanding share-based incentives as a result The performance period applicable to these awards ended on 31 December 2008.
The Companys TSR performance during this three-year of the rights issue, including to the number of shares granted under outstanding options or awards, to any associated exercise price and to performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the Companys performance was below the calculation of any applicable performance conditions.
Any such adjustments shall be made in accordance with the rules of the relevant median.
Accordingly the 2006 LTIP awards will lapse on the vesting date of 6 April 2009. plan and where required by plan rules, adjustments shall be made with the prior approval of HMRC, and or the Companys Auditor.
In 2007, the Remuneration Committee broadened the performance condition by including headline EPS growth.
For awards made Under the rules of the LTIP and executive share option schemes, the Company has the discretion to satisfy the majority of awards in 2007 and for subsequent awards, vesting of 50% of shares awarded will be based on the TSR performance measure described above either by the transfer of existing shares or by the allotment of newly-issued shares.
The decision on how to satisfy awards is taken by and 50% on headline EPS the calculation of which is shown in note 18 to the consolidated financial statements growth over a threethe Board, which considers the most prudent and appropriate sourcing arrangement for the Company.
The two measures will operate independently.
Option exercises under the UK and International Sharesave plans are satisfied by the allotment of newly-issued shares.
Any awards Vesting of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards under the 2007, 2008 and 2009 LTIP awards will be based on TSR that vest under the Deferred Bonus Plan will be met from the transfer of existing shares.
performance in accordance with the following schedule: As at 31 December 2008, 372,008 shares were held in the Companys employee share ownership trust ESOP.
During the recent rights issue the Trustees of the ESOP sold sufficient of the rights in the market to fund the take-up of the balance of the rights.
As at TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Matching Shares Vesting Ratio excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares 9 March 2009, the ESOP therefore holds 2,472,683 shares.
The Trustees of the ESOP purchase shares in the open market as required, to meet liabilities for the provision of existing shares to satisfy options and awards that vest.
Below Median 0% 0 The rules of each of Cooksons share-based incentive schemes, including the LTIP, and the pre-existing share option and Sharesave Median 12.5% 0.25:1 Plans, contain limitations on the total number of options over new shares that can be awarded in accordance with the ABI guidelines.
Upper Quintile top 20% 50% 1.125:1 In the last 10 years less than 1% of the Companys current issued share capital has been allotted to settle obligations arising from the Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25:1 and 1.125:1 exercise of executive share incentives.
Details of the awards outstanding under the Companys share plans as at 31 December 2008 and the associated exercise prices are given in note 39.2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Vesting of Performance Shares and Matching Share Awards under the 2007, 2008 and 2009 LTIP awards will be based on headline EPS growth, as compared with the compound annual growth in the Retail Prices Index RPI, in accordance with the following schedule: Performance graph Matching Shares Vesting Ratio The graph below compares Cooksons TSR over the last five years with the return on the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
Annual Compound Headline EPS Growth above RPI Performance Shares Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares This index has been chosen as the comparator index to reflect the size, international scope and diversity of the Groups businesses and is Below 3% 0% 0 the comparator group against which Cooksons performance is measured for the TSR performance condition of the LTIP.
3% 12.5% 0.25:1 At or above 10% 50% 1.125:1 250 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2008 of Between 3% and 10% Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25:1 and 1.125:1 100 invested in Cookson Group plc on 31 December 2003 compared with the value of 100 invested in the 200 FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
The Matching Share Awards will only vest if the Investment Shares originally purchased have been retained.
other points plotted are the values at intervening The Committee obtains independent external advice to assess whether the Company has met the TSR performance condition at financial year-ends.
150 the end of the relevant performance period and to confirm that the companies which make up the index and the measurement of the FTSE 250 Index excluding Companys performance are both in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
Measurement of the Groups TSR takes place over a Investment Trusts 100 performance period commencing on the first day of Cooksons financial year in which the award is granted.
Thus, for grants made in 2008, the performance period commenced on 1 January 2008 and will end three years later, i. e. 31 December 2010.
TSR is measured as the percentage increase in a return index net of tax between the beginning and end of the performance period.
The return index 50 at the beginning of the performance period is the average of the return index on each weekday in the three-month period prior to the Cookson Group plc start of the performance period.
The same three-month averaging method is used to ascertain the return index at the end of the 0 performance period.
The companies are then ranked, in descending order, according to their TSR.
If Cookson is ranked at or above 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 median against the comparator group then some proportion of the awards is eligible to vest.
Cookson Group plc 46 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 47 Annual Report 2008 Value OUR GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Shareholding guidelines Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee encourages executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to at The following table details the remuneration payable to each Director in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008, together with least one times salary.
To this end, executive Directors will normally only be able to sell a maximum of up to 50% measured as the value comparative totals in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007. after tax of any Performance Shares or Matching Share Awards vesting under the LTIP, until this criterion has been met.
Base salary and Annual 2008 2007 Directors service contracts non-executive Benefits Incentive Total Total 1 2 Directors fees in kind bonuses remuneration remuneration Both of the executive Directors have contractual notice periods from the Company of 12 months.
Neither of the executive Directors contracts contains any change of control provisions and they both contain a duty to mitigate should the Director find an alternative paid Chairman non-executive occupation in any period during which the Company must otherwise pay compensation on early termination.
The following paragraphs summarise the main conditions of the contracts of the Directors.
Robert Beeston 164,000 338 164,338 164,000 Executive Directors Executive Directors Mike Butterworth 313,500 16,388 47,025 376,913 589,997 Both of the current executive Directors have UK service contracts which have 12 months unexpired terms and provide for 12 months notice Nick Salmon 516,600 31,986 77,490 626,076 1,024,725 being given.
Mr Salmons contract was dated 14 June 2004 and Mr Butterworths 25 May 2005.
Each contract provides for compensation 3 to be paid on early termination by the Company based on one times salary, pension allowance and benefits payable half in a lump sum Non-executive Directors and the balance in six separate monthly instalments commencing six months after leaving, mitigated by any salary earned from any new Jeff Hewitt 55,000 55,000 55,000 paid occupation.
Jan Oosterveld 40,000 56 40,056 40,000 Barry Perry 40,000 40,000 40,000 Non-executive Directors John Sussens 55,000 55,000 55,000 In accordance with the Code, each non-executive Director is appointed for an initial fixed term of three years subject to their election at the Companys first AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter, subject to approval of the Board and their re-election at the appropriate Total Directors remuneration 1,184,100 48,768 124,515 1,357,383 1,968,722 AGM, they are appointed for a further three-year term.
Date of Date of AGM at which Unexpired Notes appointment retirement term expires notice period 1.
Benefits in kind comprise mainly the assessed benefits arising from the contractual payments of medical insurance, life assurance and company car allowances.
The Annual Incentive bonuses awarded to Messrs Butterworth and Salmon for 2008 were based on the Groups achievement of an Jeff Hewitt 01 06 05 2012 Not required above-Threshold level of performance in respect of Group Headline Earnings for 2008.
Details of the annual fees payable to non-executive Directors can be found on page 41.
In addition to the above, ex gratia pensions of 11,375 2007: 10,926 were paid to former Directors in 2008.
The information in the above table is audited by the Companys Auditor.
The Group Chairman, Mr Beeston, was appointed on 1 April 2003 for a fixed period which was due to expire at the conclusion of the AGM Directors interests in 2008.
This was extended in 2007 and is now due to expire at the conclusion of the AGM in 2011.
He is entitled to 12 months notice from The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2008 and 9 March the Company.
Any compensation for loss of office would be based upon his annual fee.
The remaining non-executive Directors are not 2009 were as shown below: entitled to receive compensation for loss of office at any time.
Post-rights issue All Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
9 Mar 31 Dec 31 Dec 1 The Board sets the remuneration of the non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and 2009 2008 2007 Ordinary 10p shares No.
the practice of other companies.
The non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions on their own remuneration.
The Chairmans remuneration is set by the Remuneration Committee.
Robert Beeston 2,275,000 175,000 70,000 Nick Salmon 3,129,477 240,729 93,777 External appointments Mike Butterworth 1,183,637 91,049 36,722 Executive Directors are permitted to hold positions as non-executive directors of other companies provided that these do not lead to Jeff Hewitt 142,753 10,981 5,750 conflicts of interest.
The Board sanctions each such request on a case-by-case basis.
Fees received are retained by the executive Director Jan Oosterveld 105,846 8,142 4,019 concerned.
In 2008, Mr Salmon received fees of 55,000 for his role as non-executive director of United Utilities Group plc.
Barry Perry 33,800 2,600 2,600 No Directors had any material interest in a contract of significance other than service agreements with the Company or any John Sussens 260,000 20,000 2,500 subsidiary company during the year.
Pension arrangements Notes Messrs Butterworth and Salmon are not entitled to participate in any of the Groups pension arrangements.
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 9 March 2009 all the Directors took up their rights under the rights issue.
contracts they received pension allowances of 25% and 30% respectively of their base salaries in 2008 to enable them to make their own 2.
Full details of Directors shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open pension provision.
Mr Butterworths pension allowance in 2008 amounted to 78,375 2007: 71,250, whilst Mr Salmons pension to inspection at the Companys registered office during business hours.
This information is audited by the Companys Auditor.
None of the Directors, nor their spouses nor minor children, held non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company during the year.
Cookson Group plc 48 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 49 Annual Report 2008 OUR GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP allocations Notes Details of the executive Directors allocations of shares under the LTIP are shown in the table below: 1.
In 2008 Messrs Butterworth and Salmon received potential maximum allocations of Performance Shares worth one times their respective base salaries.
Under the Matching Share award element of the LTIP they used their 2007 Annual Incentive payments to purchase 28,293 shares and 43,958 shares respectively, and received maximum allocations of Matching Share Awards based on these Total share Performance Matching Total share allocations Shares Shares Shares allocations Market amounts which had a maximum potential value on the date of award equivalent to circa two times their respective base salaries.
The outstanding allocated allocated vested outstanding price of allocations were made to Messrs Butterworth and Salmon on 31 March 2008 and the allocations were calculated based upon the as at 31 during during during as at shares on Dec 2007 the year the year the year 31 Dec 2008 day before Performance Vesting closing mid-market price of Cooksons shares on the day before the awards were made.
Cooksons mid-market closing price on the 1 1 Director, grant date and type of award No.
award p period date 31 March 2008 was 664p.
The April 2005 market prices shown for shares on the day before the awards were made have been multiplied by 10 to reflect the Executive Directors impact of the share consolidation on 26 May 2005 on the Companys share price.
On this date every 10 ordinary 1p shares held by Mike Butterworth shareholders were exchanged for 1 new 10p ordinary share.
The mid-market closing price of Cooksons shares ranged between 74.75p and 776p during 2008 and on 31 December 2008 was 126.75p.
The performance criteria which apply to the vesting of share allocations under the LTIP are summarised on pages 46 and 47.
The performance period for the LTIP awards made in 2005 ended on 31 December 2007.
The Companys TSR performance during Performance Shares 46,543 46,543 553.25 01 01 06-31 12 08 06 04 09 the 3-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the Companys performance was above the upper quintile.
The Remuneration Committee was satisfied that the vesting of these awards was justified by the Matching Shares 46,600 46,600 553.25 01 01 06-31 12 08 06 04 09 underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
Accordingly the 2005 LTIP awards vested fully on the 03 04 07 third anniversaries of their award dates.
Mr Salmons awards vested on 4 April 2008.
The mid-market closing price of Cooksons Performance Shares 45,746 45,746 623.00 01 01 07-31 12 09 03 04 10 shares was 679p on this date: the value of shares transferred to Mr Salmon was therefore 1,185,310.
Mr Butterworths award vested Matching Shares 61,212 61,212 623.00 01 01 07-31 12 09 03 04 10 on 5 August 2008 being the first dealing day following the end of the formal close period for the Groups half yearly results.
The 31 03 08 mid-market closing price of Cooksons shares was 621p on this date: the value of shares transferred to Mr Butterworth was therefore Performance Shares 48,755 48,755 643.00 01 01 08-31 12 10 31 03 11 252,350.
The total aggregate value of shares transferred to Messrs Butterworth and Salmon as a result of LTIP awards vesting in Matching Shares 99,727 99,727 643.00 01 01 08-31 12 10 31 03 11 2008 was therefore 1,437,660.
Messrs Butterworth and Salmon both sold sufficient shares on vesting to meet their associated tax liabilities.
The performance period for the LTIP awards made in 2006 ended on 31 December 2008.
The Companys TSR performance during the Nick Salmon 3-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the Companys performance was 04 04 05 below median.
Accordingly the 2006 LTIP awards will not vest on 6 April 2009 and the awards will lapse.
The Remuneration Committee is considering what adjustments, if any, it would be appropriate to make to the number of shares Performance Shares 116,603 116,603 397.50 01 01 05-31 12 07 04 04 08 allocated under the outstanding LTIP awards and the calculation of the associated performance conditions following the recent rights Matching Shares 57,964 57,964 397.50 01 01 05-31 12 07 04 04 08 issue.
Any such adjustments would be made in accordance with the plan rules.
Pending this review, none of the information given in 06 04 06 the table or associated notes has been adjusted for the effect of the rights issue.
The information in the table is audited by the Companys Auditor.
