Babcock International Group PLC 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Introduction The 2007 08 financial year has been another year of strong growth for Babcock.
Group revenue has increased by 57% to 1,555.9 million 2007: 988.3 million and underlying operating profit by 77% to 121.1 million 2007: 68.3 million.
This continues our track record of delivering long-term sustainable growth for our shareholders.
The successful acquisition of DML ensured that we reinforced our position as the leading provider of support for the Royal Navy and the sole supplier of support and upkeep to the nuclear submarine eet.
We also remain the major provider of ret for the surface eet and hold two of the three management contracts for naval bases.
The acquisition of INS, which we have combined with the nuclear capabilities of both Alstec and our Marine division, creates a business with a strong position in the nuclear generation and nuclear decommissioning markets.
We expect significant growth in each of these markets in the next decade.
The recent acquisition of Strachan & Henshaw will further strengthen our position in the nuclear market and will also provide opportunities to extend our reach in submarine support to overseas markets.
In addition to the growth through acquisition we have achieved strong We are continuing our track organic growth of 16% in revenue and 20% in operating profit through extending the scope of existing contracts and the record of delivering long-term winning of new contracts.
Each of our divisions is well regarded in its respective growth for our shareholders.
market and each continues to see further growth opportunities.
The order book has remained broadly stable at 3 billion since September, despite delays in contract awards stemming from the late agreement of Ministry of Defence budgets.
We expect this situation to improve over the next six months.
In particular we anticipate the new aircraft carrier orders and financial close on the Royal School of Military Engineering, together worth some 2 billion.
Our bidding pipeline remains healthy with the number of opportunities available to the Group increasing.
We will continue our drive to ensure that in each of our market sectors Babcock occupies a leading position.
Much operational effort this year has been directed at further improving our already good record in health and safety.
We now gure amongst the industry leadership but further progress will be sought in the next year.
Babcock International Group PLC 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review continued 2001 We will continue to build on this Business prole solid foundation.
We will focus on the Acquisition of Hunting Defence identication and successful participation Since 2001 Babcock has transformed Babcock Defence Services in markets with strategic infrastructures from an engineering conglomerate into that require major investment a support services company, establishing 2002 programmes.
We will add value from itself as a leading provider in each of Awarded WSMI contract for HMNB our expertise and understanding its chosen markets and building a Clyde Faslane of the technical challenges, appreciation reputation as a supplier that can be of market dynamics and our ability to trusted to deliver.
Acquisition of SGI Babcock work in partnership with our customers.
Infrastructure Services The Group is divided into six reporting divisions all of which have similarities Awarded SLAM Single Living in their business proles.
Across our Our objectives Accommodation contract divisions we have retained and built on In order to achieve our strategic Babcock re-categorised as a support service our heritage of engineering expertise objectives we have identied the business on the London Stock Exchange to provide complex engineering and following areas that are essential programme management support for to achieving this goal.
Awarded RAF Valley Hawk support contract All of our businesses operate in markets Top three market position with good long-term prospects.
We focus Completed divestment of the materials We expect our businesses to be one on markets with major infrastructure or handling business of the top three in their sector.
If they assets which need significant long-term are not they will have clear plans of investment programmes for their support, 2004 how they will achieve this objective maintenance and upgrade.
Acquisition of Peterhouse Group Our customers are government Awarded Southwest Regional Prime contract departments or owners of government Preferred customers assets and private companies that have We seek to work with customers who 2005 inherited or acquired public sector own large operationally critical assets.
Awarded East Regional Prime contract These customers tend to be large only company to be involved in two We pride ourselves on our ability to public, regulated private sector and of the five regional prime contracts work in partnership with our customers blue-chip companies.
and on our reputation as a partner who Contract at HMNB Clyde extended early is trusted to deliver.
due to performance Customer focused We seek to work collaboratively in Win high output system 3 track partnership with our customers to Our strategy renewal contract underpin the long-term nature of Our overarching business objective our customer relationships.
2006 is to deliver sustainable value for our shareholders, customers and wider Acquisition of Alstec Highly technical projects stakeholders and achieve sustainable Acquisition of ABB Powerlines Our skills are engineering based growth in operating profit.
and we focus on projects containing Win National Grid Alliance opportunity Since 2001 our strategy has been to a high technical content consistent transform Babcock into a support services with our capabilities.
2007 business operating across a range of challenging and technically demanding, Awarded second phase of SLAM programme Long-term contracts higher value environments where we can Acquisition of Devonport Management Ltd We hold and enter into long-term maximise our strong project management commercial arrangements which skills and engineering expertise.
Appointed alliance partner to EDF Energy sensibly balance risk and reward.
Networks in the East, South East and London At the centre of this transition have been a series of targeted acquisitions which Selected as one of four main contractors Safety conscious have given the Group scale when entering to Network Rail for track renewal We expect all our divisions to new markets or have strengthened our Preferred bidder for London Borough demonstrate a sector-leading safety existing market positions.
of Hackney Building Schools for the future performance.
We believe all our employees and others working on 2008 or visiting our operations should be able to return home safe and well Awarded long-term support contract at the end of the working day.
for British Energys AGR power stations Completed acquisition of International Respect for the environment Nuclear Solutions operating business All our divisions operate with respect Acquisition of Strachan & Henshaw for the environment.
Babcock International Group PLC 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The key KPIs for our divisions featured Measuring our performance over the following pages are: Since 2001 we have consistently achieved growth in revenue and profits and our objective is to continue to deliver sustainable growth for our shareholders.
Operating return on revenue ORR Last year we published a number of Group and divisional level financial and nonOperating return on revenue is financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs to ensure continuous improvement across dened as operating profit before our business and to enable investors and other stakeholders to measure our progress.
amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items expressed as Group KPIs are clearly set out and dened throughout the Operating and financial a percentage of revenue.
review and are discussed in detail in the Financial review on pages 31 to 33.
Revenue growth Segmental analysis Revenue growth is dened as the Revenue Operating profit Return on revenue percentage increase in the Companys 2008 2007 Growth 2008 2007 Growth 2008 2007 Division m m % m m % % % continuing revenue when compared to that of the previous year.
Reconciliation to statutory operating profit Operating return Revenue Operating profit on revenue Growth Operating Revenue profit 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2008 m m m m % % %% Total statutory 1,555.9 988.3 110.2 62.8 7.1 6.4 57 75 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 10.9 6.1 Exceptional items 0.6 Total underlying 1,555.9 988.3 121.1 68.3 7.8 6.9 57 77 Trusted to deliver: Sizewell Suffolk, England Since 1988 BNS Nuclear Services has had continuous involvement at Sizewell B, British Energys only Pressurised Water Reactor.
Today, we provide year round maintenance support and specialist engineering services for refuelling outages.
Babcock International Group PLC 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review continued Market overview Operational review Marine Babcock Marine is the UKs leading The division has had a very successful Archie Bethel naval support business and in our year financially, although a number Chief Executive Babcock Marine first year of operation we achieved of one-off factors have contributed or improved on all of our key financial to the strong increase in operating and operational targets.
These include margin pick-up at the end of the first Our ownership of Rosyth and Devonport term of the HM Naval Base Clyde dockyards and our contracts to manage contract and a satisfactory conclusion the Devonport and Clyde Naval Bases to contract negotiations within the provide us with the ideal opportunity yacht business.
to bring together three of the four UK waterfront naval support facilities under We have made good progress since the a single operating structure.
This will acquisition of Devonport Management allow us to optimise the use of facilities Limited DML, realising the 4 million and infrastructure and reduce the overall targeted synergies.
Negotiations on the through-life support costs of maintaining Terms of Business Agreement for future and operating both the submarine and naval support continue to progress surface ship fleets.
constructively although we do not expect these to be concluded until the second Increasingly, Babcock Marines naval half of the calendar year.
support activities are based on partnering and alliance contracts in which we share The business and its management team the benefits of efficiency improvements have been structured around the four key and cost savings that are delivered to the areas of Submarines, Surface Ships, Naval Ministry of Defence.
Bases and Equipment Support where Babcock Marine plays a unique role in In support of the broad Maritime Change supporting the Royal Navy and the MoD.
Programme that flowed from the Defence Industrial Strategy we are supporting a number of important strategic initiatives Submarines geared at embedding partnership models Babcock Marine teams have continued at the heart of the relationship between to provide support to operational the MoD and its key industrial suppliers in submarines as they carry out their the maritime sector.
This year has been dominated by two major projects, HMS Victorious and HMS Triumph.
Both projects are progressing well towards completion in 2008 and return to active service.
At Devonport, major work was completed on HMS Trafalgar and HMS Turbulent, whilst at Faslane we completed a major maintenance period on HMS Torbay.
Marine Marine Revenue growth % Operating return on revenue % 2008 2008 191 2007 10.8 10.3 2005 8.0 2006 6.9 2007 2006 6 12 Babcock International Group PLC 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 We are developing and extending the We remain confident that the MoD will Equipment support support infrastructure required for the proceed to contract with the CVF Future In addition to our waterfront and upkeep Royal Navys submarine fleet.
The two new support activities we successfully provided the year a 150 million design and aircraft carriers are being built through a wide range of technical, operational and build contract was placed by the MoD an Alliance involving the MoD, Babcock, logistical support to all three of the Armed to provide a defuelling capability at Thales and the BAE Systems and VT Group Services.
Our Land Systems business was Devonport.
When completed in 2012, joint venture.
These vessels, the largest awarded a contract to build 179 specialist the new facilities will allow us to complete ever built for the Royal Navy, will be utility vehicles for use by the Army in end of life defuelling operations for assembled at Rosyth where we are Afghanistan and in January 2008 we current and future in-service submarines already undertaking a significant element were awarded preferred bidder status to leading to eventual disposal solutions.
of the vessels detailed design.
Although deliver Ground Support Equipment spares At Faslane, we supported the we await the final contract for the to the Royal Air Force.
Our successful development of facilities, including a manufacturing and assembly phase of Supply Chain Services business achieved new jetty, in preparation for the first this project, the civil engineering contract significant growth in the year and is of the Astute Class submarines coming for the modifications to the dock area the largest provider of piece-part spares into service over the next year or so.
at Rosyth was signed in February and to the MoD.
witnessed by the Secretary of State for Defence.
The cost of these works, Surface ships Outlook which are essential for the assembly of This has been a successful year with the new carriers, is being paid by the We believe the strength of our contract wins secured for the major MoD.
relationships with the MoD and the Royal maintenance packages on the Type Navy places us in a strong position going 23 Frigate HMS Sutherland and for HMS During the year we continued to grow forward.
We have a steady stream of Ocean, the Royal Navys largest ship.
our commercial business in a number warship and submarine refit projects Work has also been secured on a range of areas.
In our Design & Technology as well as in-service maintenance work.
of other Royal Navy vessels for our business we saw strong growth in our We remain confident that the contract facilities at Rosyth and Devonport further commercial marine design activities.
for the two new aircraft carriers will be underlining our position as the leading We secured a number of important placed and we look forward to playing a support provider to the Royal Navy orders for the detailed design of specialist major role in their assembly and delivery.
This included work on what will be the worlds largest vessel, the Pieter Schelte, and for the concept and basic design to convert two of the largest vessels currently in-service to floating storage and offload vessels.
The strength of our relationship with key customers and the volume of repeat business testifies to the technical expertise we can provide and the approach adopted by our people.
Babcock International Group PLC 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review continued Market overview The delivery of training and support Defence services is expected to be worth The implementation of the Defence 1.3 billion over the 30 year project.
Mike Fellowes left Industrial Strategy has significantly Managing Director Babcock Infrastructure Services changed the marketplace for the The Regional Prime contracts continue Nigel Russel right Managing Director Babcock Defence Services Defence Services business as Integrated to perform well and our reputation Operational Support IOS contracts for delivery has secured a number replace fragmented work packages.
of additional projects and contracts.
For these contracts, the OEMs act as The Bristol and Bath Total Facilities Integrator with the Ministry of Defence Management contract became to provide long-term operational support operational in December 2007 and paving the way for multi-platform we are now providing services to over opportunities rather than single 11,000 MoD employees across seven platform multi-activity contracts.
For the Infrastructure business, pressures The Hackney Building Schools for the on MoD budgets have increased the Future BSF project is expected to achieve divisions focus on demonstrating value financial close in May June 2008 with for money and seeking innovative, construction work starting immediately.
The joint venture mouchelbabcock In Education, the Government remains education has targeted future bid committed to the Building Schools opportunities from BSF Wave 4 funding for the Future programme.
where its project management and integrator business model fits with the Operational review aspirations of the awarding authority.
The division has performed well during Babcocks airport operations are dominated the year continuing to deliver strong by support contracts for Heathrow although organic growth.
Return on revenue has successful upgrade projects have been improved, benefiting from end of contract completed on the Gatwick North transfer outcomes.
We have been awarded three facility, Stansted hold baggage screening long-term IOS contracts for the support and Heathrow T4 improvements.
of Hawk Mk1 with BAE Systems, the Adour Our design teams have also had an early engine with Rolls-Royce and Hercules involvement in the design approach to with Marshalls Aerospace.
the new Heathrow East Terminal.
These contracts have proved to be very successful and are being held up as Outlook market best practice in terms of service Our successful entry into IOS contracting delivery.
We have also been selected by places us in a strong position in this BAE as preferred support provider for the market and complements our capabilities new Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer which in the more traditional multi-activity will provide excellent skill development contracts.
We are currently in the midopportunities for our workforce at RAF term of our two Regional Prime Contracts Valley.
The multi-activity contracts continue and we expect to see further extensions to deliver good returns and achieve high to these contracts over the coming year.
For our baggage handling business there We are working towards the financial are a number of opportunities resulting close of the Royal School of Military from forthcoming airport improvement Engineering PPP which is expected in programmes and we hope to be able to the summer of 2008. build on our strong relationship with BAA to work more closely with them in future.
Defence Defence Revenue growth % Operating return on revenue % 2007 2008 35 9.1 2007 8.2 2006 7.6 2005 6.6 2008 22 2006 19 Babcock International Group PLC 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Market overview Track Renewals Rail Babcock Rail was selected as one The 2 billion per annum market of the four main contractors to deliver Andy Pearson is dominated by Network Rail who, Chief Executive Babcock Rail track renewals for Network Rail in as the main infrastructure owner, the UK making us the largest track is our major customer.
renewals contractor in the country.
A significant change in the structure This announcement was made in of the Network Rail supply chain was September after a six month process.
implemented in the second half of the Additional work worth around 30 million year with the number of track renewal per annum has been won in Scotland framework suppliers reduced from six to and the North West of England.
Otherwise, the market performed Around 300 employees transferred generally in line with expectations with to Babcock under TUPE regulations an industry-wide focus on improving as a result of this process.
The high output track renewals operations delivered in partnership Operational review with Swietelsky of Austria continue After a disappointing performance in to make good progress.
the first half a significant restructuring A further extension to the National of the business was implemented Plant contract valued at 2.5 million and actions were taken to address has been awarded to the business for management weaknesses.
The business the Automated Finishing Machines which is now structured around three key are the most productive advanced track national business units Track Renewals, finishing systems available on the market Projects and Signalling and Control and have been working well on track Systems.
As a result of this, the business renewals and maintenance works across returned to profit in the second half and the country.
delivered a small profit for the full year with a more robust and stable platform from which to move forward.
Rail Rail Revenue growth % Operating return on revenue % 2007 2005 5 5.0 2007 2006 4.1 4.0 2006 3 2008 2008 0.2 0 Babcock International Group PLC 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review continued Projects Outlook Nuclear The business successfully commissioned the Network Rail has announced Investment Stirling Alloa Kincardine rail reinstatement Martin Austick plans for an additional 2.5 billion over Managing Director BNS Nuclear Services which is due to open in May 2008. the next two years along with an Worth around 30 million in revenue to anticipated project spend in the region Babcock Rail this is the largest transport of 8.7 billion over the five year period investment project in Scotlands rail from April 2009.
This represents a near infrastructure in recent years.
doubling of project-related spend by Recent significant project wins include Network Rail.
Transport Scotland has capacity improvement works on the announced an ambitious investment Settle to Carlisle line 15 million, programme for the next ten years, a multi-disciplinary contract to reinstate including Glasgow Airport Rail Link, Olive Mount Chord to provide a freight which is currently being evaluated under link between the Port of Liverpool and the the Strategic Transport Project Review West Coast Main Line 3 million and a process with results due in summer 2008. contract to design, install and commission Against this buoyant backdrop, we are the replacement of 33kV switchgear in confident that our health and safety substations from South West London to record and our reputation for delivery Ramsgate 4 million.
on budget and on time, places us in a good position for the future.
Signalling and Control Systems The two signalling framework contracts are progressing well after a slow start, with a steady schedule of work now coming through and a robust forward order book.
A significant project was successfully completed at Ellesmere Port in the last week of the year.
The installation of Customer Information Systems at stations throughout Scotland and other national telecoms projects for Network Rail are being successfully delivered through telecoms framework contracts.
Growth is anticipated in both these areas and a further opportunity to become framework provider for level crossings is being pursued in partnership with GE Transportation Systems.
Babcock International Group PLC 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Market overview Operational review Outlook In the Power Generation sector, British We have successfully maintained our role Budgetary constraints at the Nuclear Energy continued a steady programme as a strategic supplier to British Energy, Decommissioning Agency NDA will of spending on plant improvements, leading key projects associated with the continue to drive a focus on expenditure addressing key technical issues on inspection and monitoring of the reactor at Sellafield and Dounreay in the neartheir Advanced Gas Reactor AGR fleet.
cores and the development of equipment term.
We expect activity at Aldermaston There have been uncertainties in the for recovering neutron scatter plugs.
to continue at a high level as the pace nuclear decommissioning marketplace We have provided continuing support for of decommissioning, refurbishment and where funding difficulties have resulted in the refurbishment and upgrade of fuel building of new facilities continues to the cancellation or delay of a number of routes and reactor projection equipment.
Ongoing support for the existing projects for operational Magnox stations generation of UK reactors will also During the year we signed a 70 million and have delayed projects at Dounreay.
continue to provide strong demand contract with British Energy to secure for key available skills whilst preparations At AWE, we are experiencing a growing ongoing nuclear services support for for a new reactor build programme market and strong demand for our their seven AGR power stations through will challenge the availability of resource.
capability dealing with legacy wastes to 2012.
This agreement has the option and decommissioning tasks along to extend for the lifetime of the stations.
We are now in a position to meet with developing and improving the requirements of all the major In the decommissioning area we existing facilities.
UK civil nuclear customers and will successfully concluded a major upgrade be well positioned to respond to During the year there has been further of the Chapel Cross and Calder Hall fuel the increasing market prospects in the consolidation of the supply chain and routes to support the defuelling of the decommissioning, power generation some customers are seeking longer term reactors.
At Dounreay, the completion and new build market areas.
framework agreements to secure resources of the new facilities for removing going forward.
the remaining fuel from the fast reactor was a significant step in the The creation of BNS Nuclear Services, site decommissioning programme.
bringing together the Alstec and INS Support to the prototype fast reactor businesses along with the expertise from decommissioning activities continued.
the Babcock Marine division gives us a significant market presence and a strong At AWE Aldermaston we built on our capability.
The acquisition of Strachan strong track record and increased & Henshaw in April 2008 will further our involvement with the award strengthen the division as the demand for of the XTF framework and the A25 high quality nuclear engineering support decommissioning contract.
The demand for high quality nuclear engineering support continues to grow and has underpinned the opening of new offices at Aldermaston and Warrington.
Babcock International Group PLC 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review continued Market overview Specialist Transmission design activities Networks were at an all time high through the year.
We are currently experiencing a global A sustained recruitment campaign which Bob Whiley surge in demand for power infrastructure Managing Director Babcock Networks successfully doubled design capacity construction.
This has resulted in a sector during the year continues.
In addition, skills shortage and has stretched the to alleviate the skilled resource problems industry supply chain.
being experienced across our sector, The mobile networks sector has stabilised we have opened a design office in and seen some recovery.
Growth is Bulgaria which functions as an integrated anticipated in the 3G networks through extension to the design office in the UK.
2008 and a number of mobile network Within the Broadcast sector, significant operators are now looking to combine work is now underway as part of their networks.
In the broadcast sector, the Digital Switchover Programme.
significant work is underway as part of the The division is playing a major role in UK Digital Switchover Programme which the upgrade of broadcast structures and will continue through to the planned antenna systems throughout the UK.
During the year we secured our first contract in the Fixed Line Communications Operational review Networks Sector to install and commission The two major Transmission alliance Huawei equipment in BT Exchanges.
contracts have both had a successful BTs 21CN next generation advanced first year.
Whilst the switch from contract communication network project tendering to alliancing has reduced the has been delayed, but this is due divisions operating return on revenue, to commence during 2008 09 and the change has contributed to the will provide significant opportunities.
increase in revenue and provides greater long-term visibility.
Electricity Alliance Outlook West EAW, our Alliance with National Grid, Amec and Mott MacDonald has The markets in which we operate delivered a year-on-year increase in remain attractive and we believe volume with a significant improvement there will be a number of significant in safety performance and has now opportunities coming up during the started year two of the five year next year as a result of continuing programme of works covering Wales infrastructure upgrades.
The strong and the Western side of England.
positions we hold and the long-term relationships we have developed with Our Alliance with EDF Energy Networks our key customers have underpinned covering East Anglia, London and our performance this year just ended South East England has also had a very and make us confident of further successful first year delivering multiple progress in the coming year.
refurbishment projects on the 132kV transmission network.
Year two works are now under way with a further increase in volume anticipated.
Networks Networks Revenue growth % Operating return on revenue % 2008 2007 9.1 32 2006 8.6 2006 28 2008 7.3 2005 6.4 2007 3 Babcock International Group PLC 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Market overview The planned construction of new Engineering and Plant power stations will offer further new The South African economy has remained opportunities for the Engineering business Roger OCallaghan relatively strong throughout the year.
Chief Executive Babcock Africa which will provide support during the Infrastructure spending and global design and build process.
commodity prices continued to drive increased demand across our business and we have been well positioned to Powerlines take advantage of these conditions On the back of increased demand for to generate record results.
For our electricity transmission, Powerlines has equipment business, trade into other had a good year, winning and completing African countries, including Zambia and projects in South Africa, Namibia and the Democratic Republic of Congo, has Botswana keeping the tower and fittings been strong, buoyed by healthy primary factories near capacity.
The business markets in minerals and metals.
is now in its second year of ownership and as well as achieving significant organic growth has achieved notable Operational review improvements in health and safety and Equipment production efficiencies.
The increasing The Equipment business supplying demand for electricity led to our decision Volvo construction equipment delivered during the year to extend our business a record year with sales of over 1,000 into portable generators and our factory machines, 25% higher than last year.
now produces a wide range of products.
Our parts and service business grew by over 35% and we expect this part of Outlook the business to grow considerably as the machine park increases in size and age.
The South African business has had an Our apprentice training scheme continues exceptionally strong year and we expect to deliver skilled mechanics into our this to continue.
The current demand for workforce and by the end of this financial electricity and the ten year electricity grid year we expect to have 80 apprentices expansion plan along with the continuing in training.
demand for infrastructure improvement and the strong mining and mineral industry across southern Africa create Generation a very secure marketplace for us in the The need for increased and stable coming year.
infrastructure in southern Africa, particularly for electricity, has led to increased revenues for our power generation business.
The business provides support, maintenance, engineering and construction activities mainly for Eskom, the South African utility company.
This year has seen strong growth benefiting from the return to service contract for the Grootvlei Power Station as well as support to Eskom for the general outage and maintenance requirements on in-service stations.
Engineering and Plant Engineering and Plant Revenue growth % Operating return on revenue % 2008 2007 2008 31 8.0 7.9 2006 28 2006 6.7 2005 2007 4.3 15 Babcock Rail is using pioneering technologies and equipment to provide increased capacity on the 72 mile Settle to Carlisle railway line a showcase of engineering and transport history.
Trusted to deliver: Ribblehead Cumbria, England Babcock International Group PLC 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review continued Ethical conduct and whistle blowing Corporate and The Board insists that Babcocks business Social Responsibility CSR is carried out to the highest standards of honesty and integrity.
We have a strict We take our duty to behave as ethical policy with guidance on business a responsible company seriously.
dealings which we believe complies with We believe that responsible behaviour international standards.
Employees are makes good business sense and that expected to avoid conflicts of interests, we will only achieve long-term financial to act lawfully and ethically and report growth if we look beyond short-term any non-compliance issues of which they financial returns.
We seek to operate in a safe, ethical To facilitate this, we have an and responsible manner taking into independently managed and operated consideration the needs and ambitions mechanism to enable employees to of all our stakeholders our shareholders, report non-compliances with our codes our employees and those who work with of practice in a manner where the issue us, our customers and the communities can remain isolated from the employees in which we operate whilst making our direct reporting lines.
Every employee long-term business a success.
has been provided with details of how In this section we look at certain areas to contact the Company Compliance that are key to achieving our aims but we Reporting Line and any reported issues refer you to other sections in this report are relayed to Group Executives within which we believe also demonstrate our 24 hours.
approach to doing business page 8 Business profile, Our strategy and Our Health and safety objectives, pages 26 and 27 Principal risks.
We have always regarded the health and safety of our employees and those Corporate Governance working alongside them as paramount: The Board of Babcock International Group this is a key priority at all levels of the PLC is committed to achieving the highest business.
The Board reviews health and standards of corporate governance.
safety performance formally twice a year The Corporate Governance Report is and sees monthly divisional reports on set out on pages 41 to 44 of this report.
health, safety and environmental matters.
Health and safety performance is reviewed at every Executive Committee meeting and is considered when making any bonus payments.
Number of incidents Incident rate Total reported lost time accidents prior years restated for acquisitions per 100,000 hours worked per 100,000 hours worked prior years restated for acquisitions prior years restated for acquisitions Over-three- 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 day-injuries 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 1.2 0.8 Fatalities 0122 0 Major 1.0 injuries Major injuries dangerous 0.6 0.8 dangerous occurrences 41 44 40 43 46 occurrences 0.6  248 178 155 152 89 0.4 Other lost time 0.4 accidents 136 75 98 124 256 0.2 0.2 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Babcock International Group PLC 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our Corporate Safety Steering Group Employees Apprentices We have 234 apprentices CSSG has been given responsibility by in training within our UK operations.
We believe we have one of the best the Board for the strategic overview of We offer accredited apprenticeships in workforces in our sector which allows health and safety matters.
In addition, eleven different trades and are recruiting us to deliver the best service for our the CSSG considers environmental around another 100 apprentices to start customers.
We want our employees to matters.
The CSSG meets four times a in 2008.
In South Africa we currently enjoy long, successful and rewarding year and is chaired by the Group Chief have 45 apprentices in training and hope careers with us.
Other members of the Group to increase this to 80 by the year end.
are the Chairman of the Safety Leadership We firmly believe that having a diverse Team, the Group Risk and Insurance workforce and an inclusive culture is Graduates Over the past two years Manager and the manager or director good for our business and should be we have taken on 120 graduate trainees responsible for health and safety from encouraged.
We are committed to not and are expanding our programmes each division.
discriminating against employees on to take on 93 graduates in 2008. grounds of their race, religious belief, We provide formal training and We strive to do more than merely gender, marital status, sexual orientation development programmes so all comply with the letter of health and or other considerations that do not affect graduates achieve accredited status safety legislation.
Despite our already their ability to carry out their duties.
impressive track record, the Group Chief Executive and the Executive Committee It is our policy that people with disabilities Management development Babcock have formed a Safety Leadership Team should have fair consideration for all Academy is run in conjunction with to champion and promote the vision vacancies and should be supported and the University of Strathclyde Business of an accident-free Babcock, supporting encouraged in their application and to School to enhance the leadership, and encouraging behavioural and achieve progress once employed.
We will strategic planning and commercial cultural initiatives and ideas, dedicated make reasonable adjustments wherever skills of our managers and senior to achieving this.
We had a target of practicable to accommodate their needs.
Since 2005, 80 directors reducing major and  Our divisions are committed to local and 250 senior managers have been in the workplace by 50% and to improve employment and we seek to recruit from through the programme.
reporting of other minor injuries by the communities in which we operate March 2008.
In the final analysis a wherever possible.
reduction of 45% was achieved within the 12 month period.
Along with many other companies in our sector, we are concerned about the Case study: increasing shortage of skilled employees Sword of Honour at all levels.
Development of our people, Babcock Marine wins Sword of Honour.
Babcock present and future, is a critical part of our Marines operation in Rosyth was awarded the British business activity.
Safety Councils Sword of Honour for 2007, the fourth time that Rosyth has been awarded the Sword of Honour in five years.
Setting high standards Babcock Rail has reduced reportable workplace injuries by 63% during the year.
By March 2008, the division had the best safety performance for a multi-disciplinary contractor working for Network Rail.
The Road to Zero Harm Training instructors from Babcock Networks took a specially adapted Working at Heights five day training course out to the Powerlines operation in South Africa.
Practical training and sharing experiences helped to improve local practices and standards and demonstrated a commitment to an incident and accident free future.
The best training Babcock Marines Tom Rowse was selected as one of the two best apprentices in the marine industry for 2007 and was presented with a Queens Bronze Medal by the Worshipful Company of Shipwrights.
Tom is now an engineering designer and is being sponsored by the Company to work towards an HNC.
He hopes to follow this with a degree course.
Babcock International Group PLC 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review continued Communication Customers and customer relations All our businesses have developed We communicate with our employees supply chain management arrangements We seek long-term relationships with in a variety of ways.
We produce to ensure we deal fairly and openly our customers, many of whom deliver The Big Picture several times a year with suppliers and that they meet vital public services.
We are committed which is aimed at keeping employees specific requirements including: to working with our customers to provide informed of developments in other requisite insurance levels, fair employment a more effective and efficient service divisions as well as Group strategy policies, a demonstrably improving to the mutual long-term benefit of both and financial performance.
health and safety record and a good those customers and our investors.
track record of sustainability and In the UK we have a Group-wide We commission regular reviews of environmental management.
Employee Forum with the twin aims our customer relationships to assess of consulting and informing on all We undertake a range of developmental where they are working well and to major developments and issues within activities with our key supply chain look for where they might be improved.
Elected representatives also partners to help them raise their standards Our aim is to build an enduring reputation bring issues forward to be discussed.
and the skills and health and safety of as an organisation which delivers what their employees.
it promises on time and on budget and Case study: is easy and pleasurable to do business Roadshows are a hit!
Nearly 600 employees responded to Babcock with.
We aim to foster and maintain Communities Infrastructure Services 2007 employee staff a culture within our businesses that We operate throughout the UK and satisfaction survey.
This provided valuable feedback seeks not merely to meet their basic and a number of issues have been addressed.
In many places we are contractual obligations, but always to One was a request for more face-to-face meetings a major employer and contributor to with the Directors and so a series of business exceed our customers expectations.
We take our social briefings took place at nine locations.
The briefings responsibility seriously and we seek to with an open forum for questions and discussion proved very popular and it is hoped they will Procurement be a good neighbour.
We encourage become an annual event.
our businesses and employees to take a We work with a large number of public proactive role in their local communities.
sector clients and we endeavour to ensure public money is spent wisely Some examples of the range of our and efficiently.
involvement are given below and in the case studies throughout this section.
Our customers are rightly taking a greater interest in the supply chains of their contractors.
It is a key issue in the maintenance of our reputation that good and reputable supply chain management is achieved by our divisions.
Developing leaders As well as providing our graduates and apprentices with the specific training required for the chosen careers we seek to develop their broader leadership skills.
We have encouraged a number of our young people to attend RYLA Rotary Youth Leadership Awards courses which are designed to encourage positive leadership and teamwork, improve communication skills and build self-confidence.
Engineering the future Working together As part of National Science and Engineering Week, Babcock Infrastructure Services joined Business BNS Nuclear Services provided talks on engineering in the Community to develop their Community to local schools.
Subjects are diverse as A day in Involvement Policy which gives employees time the life of an engineer and Jets and tanks and an off work to volunteer for company led projects.
explosive career in engineering provides a huge With our customer, Defence Estates, we will success and gave the younger generation a realistic create and maintain a safe play area and garden idea of modern engineering.
for local children with special needs, from this derelict site in Plymouth.
Babcock International Group PLC 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 At Devonport the Community Relations Environment Case study: Group promotes involvement with a Getting back to work We aim to achieve the highest standards For the past three years Babcock Networks has range of community projects.
Employees in environmental management and participated in a young offenders programme with are particularly encouraged to become National Grid and other contractors in the sector.
seek accreditation to relevant standards involved with educational projects Through professional vocational training and exposure where appropriate.
and around 50 employees are currently to the working environment the programme seeks to help young offenders return to the workplace.
active as Governors at local schools.
As a support services provider, many of The Employee Lottery and other social our operations are carried out on our Case study: activities generate funds which are used customers sites where they are directly Student Sponsorship In South Africa we continue to support the Student to sponsor local community projects and responsible for environmental matters.
Sponsorship Programme and during the year have provide sports equipment for schools.
Some customers ask us to take on sponsored a further four students through their high Babcock organises and sponsors the environmental management, though they school education.
In addition to financial sponsorship Plymouth Half Marathon, last year 4,500 set the standards, budgets and timescales the business will mentor the students through their education.
runners took part raising 150,000 for for us.
At HM Naval Base Clyde, for good causes.
The event will take place example, we have secured the prestigious again on 24 May 2008 when they hope ISO14001 accreditation for the Ministry Across Babcock Marine we have a to exceed last years results.
of Defence the first MoD organisation number of community involvement to be so accredited.
At HMNB Clyde the Community We support a number of other charitable organisation for the Defence Estates Investment Group supports the local causes and during the year we donated East Prime contract has also received community in a number of ways.
In addition we are a corporate this accreditation.
We are actively seeking During the year, 25 financial awards sponsor of the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen similar accreditations for other areas were made to support different projects: and Families Association SSAFA.
of delivery to our customers.
Where through the Business Awareness accreditation has not yet been achieved programme employees visited local we seek to operate at best practice levels.
schools and colleges to help young people gain a better understanding We are working closely with our largest of how businesses operate and our customer, the Ministry of Defence, on a apprentices are encouraged to get new sustainable procurement initiative, involved at an organisational level aimed at making a significant contribution with a number of community events, to the Ministrys targets to reduce CO 2 for example, providing marshalling emissions, lower water consumption, support to local fun runs.
increase the levels of recycling and improve biodiversity across their estate.
For those operations where we do have Preserving and protecting at Marchwood management control and discretion, we At Marchwood, upgrading overhead power do not believe we make any significant lines has involved work with Natural England, emissions of greenhouse gases that could environmental agencies and an ecologist to otherwise be reduced or avoided.
We do, protect sites of special scientific Interest between the towers.
Woodland flora and fauna was however, keep this under review.
preserved and water courses protected so the local salmon population was not harmed.
Environment % KPI: Although our ability to implement good environmental 100 stewardship practices is on occasion set for us by customer requirements our target is to grow the percentage of revenues in each business segment 75 from contracts which are ISO14001 accredited.
Best practice refers to activities where nonISO14001 compliant measures are being applied.
50 Back to nature Babcock Marine donated the materials and some 25 of the labour required to build a footbridge at Luss near Loch Lomond.
The project was a local 0 initiative to create a network of paths in an area of natural meadow and woodland cut off for ISO14001 13 years after the original bridge, built in 1875, Best was washed away.
practice Marine Defence Rail Nuclear Networks Engineering and plant Babcock International Group PLC 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review continued Reliance on a small number All proposed bids are subject to Principal risks of large customers and contracts continuous monitoring and review by the Group Executive management In the course of our day-to-day operations It is the nature of our businesses that and Group Business Development to we face a number of risks and uncertainties.
they are reliant on large contracts ensure that resources are appropriately The Board considers the matters placed by a limited number of major focused and the chances of winning described in this section to be those customers such as The Ministry of bids on profitable terms enhanced.
that could adversely affect the business, Defence, Network Rail, National Grid, The final submission of any significant results of operations, revenue, profits, BAA, British Energy and Eskom.
The extent bid or re-bid requires formal approval cash flow, assets and the delivery of to which such customers are affected from one or more Executive Directors.
Given the size, by budgetary, regulatory or political complexity and spread of our businesses constraints can have a significant effect and the continually changing on the size, scope, timing and duration Contractual performance environment in which the Group of the contracts that they can place, The continuing financial success of the operates, this cannot be an exhaustive which in turn can have a significant Group depends on our ability to meet list of such risks.
Systems and procedures effect on the Groups businesses.
or exceed the requirements of our are in place across the Group to identify, Such customers have substantial customers.
Failure to do so could result in assess and mitigate major business risks.
bargaining power and contracts with the loss of existing contracts and damage The management of risk is an integral them can often be terminated on the chances of securing further business.
part of our operational review process short notice at any time.
The loss We carefully select our commercial and is supplemented at Group level by of a contract or the wider business partners and sub-contractors to ensure independent challenge and review by relationship with such a customer they have the necessary reputation and the Group Risk Manager and the Audit for any reason would be significant.
are capable of meeting or exceeding our and Risk Committee.
Further details on We endeavour to mitigate this risk customers requirements and standards.
our internal control processes are set by establishing long-term partnering Each division has procedures in place out on pages 43 and 44. arrangements with all of our customers to monitor the ongoing performance in which risk and reward are fairly of each contract and these are discussed Health, safety and environmental issues balanced and the financial effects of at operational reviews with the Group success and failure are shared.
The financial The working environments in which the way both parties stand to maximise performance of all significant contracts Group operates are often complex and in the benefits of co-operation over the is reviewed quarterly by Group Finance.
some instances are inherently dangerous.
Our record in these areas can have a significant impact on our reputation as Political and regulatory environment a business and affect our ability to win Bid process and bid success Our largest customer is the Ministry of and retain contracts and to attract and As a support services company, Defence.
We also have other significant retain staff.
The health and safety of the Groups ability to deliver growth customers at local government level and our employees and the impact of our and create value for shareholders in the private sector who are strongly operations is of primary importance to relies to a major extent on its success influenced by political and or regulatory us in their own right and we describe our in winning bids either alone or in considerations beyond our control that committed approach to these matters consortium or joint venture with others affect their budgets, processes, priorities on page 22.
We want everyone who for new contracts or retaining existing and scope for placing work.
These works at or visits our sites to go home contracts on terms that are commercially considerations can therefore directly at the end of the day safe and well.
acceptable in the face of strong affect the Groups businesses.
We seek competition from other suppliers.
to maintain regular dialogue with our customers and others to ensure that we Bid processes can be very long understand and monitor the potential and are frequently subject to delays effect of these influences on both our beyond our control.
They demand customers and our own business.
a significant investment in terms of costs and manpower.
Tender processes can be abandoned by customers or their scope significantly reduced during the process.
Costs on bids that are unsuccessful or that are withdrawn or significantly reduced in scope by the customer are abortive and are not necessarily recoverable.
Babcock International Group PLC 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 People To mitigate risks in these areas, Contingent liabilities the Group has detailed disaster recovery Our principal resource is our workforce: Babcock has a long and diverse operational plans in place across all of its sites.
it is key to the current and future history and has also developed through We have also established a Group data performance of our business.
We operate a number of acquisitions and disposals.
centre which has high resilience levels in many highly technical and complex This inevitably exposes us to the risk of built into it as well as a physically separate environments and are particularly legacy liabilities.
These are monitored disaster recovery location and which will dependent on the availability of qualified and managed by the Group with external increasingly form the hub of all shared and experienced engineers and project professional advice as appropriate.
The marketplace The Board makes its assessment of for such staff is highly competitive and the risk of contingent liabilities on the their non-availability in sufficient numbers Pensions basis of the best information including can place constraints on the Groups appropriate professional advice available As a Group we have a significant business activity.
We seek to recruit at the time.
Should that information exposure to the risks associated with and retain such employees by making change or prove to be incorrect, it is defined benefit schemes.
At the moment, the Group an attractive place to work, possible that the Group could have those schemes are overall in surplus.
offering competitive remuneration and an unexpected material liability.
If any were to go into significant appropriate training and development deficit for example by reason of poor opportunities.
The Group also has investment performance or changes to Financial reporting, an active graduate recruitment and mortality or other valuation assumptions accounting controls and treasury development programme.
this could lead to an additional funding Material mis-statement of financial demand on the Group.
With a view to results through fraud or error could Acquisitions and disposals reducing such risks, we seek to maintain arise if the financial and operational constructive and open relationships with The Group has developed and will control structures were inadequate.
the scheme trustees and to encourage continue to develop to a significant The Group has established robust them to follow appropriate investment extent as the result of strategic business structures to mitigate this risk through polices given the profile of their members.
Acquisitions a comprehensive financial policy and We also maintain a suitable ongoing always entail risk, for example, that the accounting standards manual including funding rate and have conducted various post-acquisition performance does not authority and approval mandates.
initiatives with a view to reducing future justify the price paid, synergies are less All commercial and contractual activities funding risk.
than expected or integration into existing are governed by the Group commercial businesses more difficult than planned or An annual review of the pension schemes Policy and Procedures manual which sets that unknown or unforeseen liabilities are is conducted by the Board and the out the Groups acceptable contractual acquired.
Our acquisition process seeks schemes form part of Board discussions terms and conditions.
These policies and to reduce these risks by carrying out at other times during the year with input procedures are backed up by a system appropriate due diligence so far as we are from professional advisors as appropriate.
of regular contract reviews conducted able within the context of the bid process Further discussion of the position and by Group Finance and a regime of internal and by seeking, where commercially effect of the defined benefit pension audit, conducted by Ernst and Young available, contractual protections against schemes on the Groups financial which reports to the Audit and Risk such risks.
However no due diligence statements is included in the Financial Committee.
The statement on Corporate process or contract can offer complete Review on page 32.
Governance, pages 41 to 43, contains or permanent assurance against such further explanation on internal controls.
In evaluating bids a detailed Ethical and reputational risk A discussion of the Groups approach valuation process is carried out based on to the management of treasury risk is information available and our knowledge We pride ourselves on our trusted to set out at page 32. of the marketplace.
That process also deliver reputation and insist on the entails consideration of the integration highest standards of honesty, integrity issues that will follow acquisition.
All and performance in all aspects of our acquisition processes are overseen by business.
We are acutely aware that any the Board and no acquisition may be damage to this reputation could severely completed without the formal approval impact on our ability to win bids and of the Board.
complete contracts and this underlying reputational risk is a feature of many of the other risks described in this section.
Information technology We have an ethical policy in place that Our business involves high intensity use defines the level of behaviour we expect.
of complex software for the management We have established a whistle blower of engineering, commercial and financial hot line so all employees across the Group data.
The Group and its customers are can anonymously express any concerns dependent on the resilience of the they have about the way the business applications software, the data processing is being operated.
We maintain regular facilities and the network infrastructure dialogue with customers, and from linking the sites where we operate.
time to time carry out formal customer A serious failure in these areas would surveys, to ensure that we can identify have a significant adverse affect on any potential threats to our customer our business.
relationships and act on them.
Trusted to deliver: Pretoria South Africa Extra high voltage powerlines built and erected by Babcock Africa form part of Eskoms national grid carrying power from power stations in Mpumalanga to Johannesburg and Pretoria.
Babcock International Group PLC 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review continued Another year of record results with strong organic growth and the benefits of strategic acquisitions.
Babcock International Group PLC 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Of the two major acquisitions, DML The Group benefits from tax rates in Financial review contributed 387.3 million to Group overseas jurisdictions that are lower revenue and 38.1 million to operating than the standard rate of UK corporation profit, whilst INS generated 17.5 million tax.
The Groups effective tax rate on Financial summary in revenue with associated operating underlying profit before tax was 19% 2007 08 was another successful financial profit of 0.9 million.
Excluding all 2007: 20% or 22% excluding a prior year year with operating return on revenue acquisitions, Group revenue increased gain of 1.0 million.
The effective rate is at 7.8% showing a considerable increase by 16% to 1,148 million and underlying calculated as the total charge to income year-on-year 2007: 6.9%.
The Groups operating profit increased by 20% to tax as a percentage of the Groups profit return on invested capital at 11.3% 82.3 million.
before tax, before exceptional items and 2007: 17.8% remains substantially amortisation.
Based on the profile of The Groups operating return on revenue in excess of the Groups weighted earnings within the Group, we expect increased to 7.8% 2007: 6.9% benefiting average cost of capital despite only a this rate to be sustainable at least for the from an exceptionally strong margin part year contribution from Devonport 2008 09 financial year.
As a result of the performance in Marine and further Management Limited DML.
Taking into uncertainty created by draft government progress in Defence.
A number of one-off account the equity cash placing of legislation on the taxation of corporate factors contributed to the performance 19 million shares for the purchase profits, it is possible that the rate could of the Marine division including margin of DML, basic earnings per share rise to 23% thereafter.
pick-up in the HM Naval Base Clyde increased by 43%.
Net debt increased Faslane contract as it reached the end Profit for the year from continuing to 322.2 million but gearing and debt of its first five year term and a satisfactory operations at 77.3 million was up and interest multiples remained at conclusion to contract negotiations 55% on last year 49.9 million with comfortable levels.
within the DML yacht business.
Similarly a corresponding uplift in basic earnings in Defence, underlying margins improved per share to 33.40p 2007: 23.35p.
Group income statement and were augmented by end-of-contract Fully diluted earnings per share were outturns.
The poor performance in Rail, 32.77p, up 45% from 22.66p on last year.
The Groups results for the financial which ended the year at a breakeven Following a further year of strong growth year were significantly enhanced by the position following first half operating in earnings, the Board has recommended acquisition of DML, which was completed losses of 2.7 million, had an adverse a total dividend for the year of 11.50p in June 2007.
During the course of the impact on the Group operating return per share, an increase of 43% on year the Group also completed the on revenue.
In the second half of the 2006 07, which is covered 2.9 times acquisition of INS.
Including these financial year, Rail showed clear signs by underlying earnings.
acquisitions, Group revenue increased of recovery as a result of decisive by 57% to 1,556 million 2007: management action.
988 million with significant growth recorded in all divisions except Rail.
Following the significant increase in bank Underlying operating profit increased debt used to fund the acquisitions of by 77% to 121.1 million 2007: DML and INS, net finance costs increased 68.3 million.
The Group experienced to 25.6 million, including amortisation strong growth in operating profit across of bank facility costs, from 6.2 million all of its businesses with the exception last year.
Upward movements in bank of Rail, driven by strong markets and interest rates also adversely affected a number of notable contract wins.
the unhedged portion of the Groups borrowings.
Nonetheless net finance costs remained comfortably covered by earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA at 5.5 times 2007: 12.1 times.
After net finance costs, profit before tax increased 53% to 95.5 million 2007: 62.5 million.
Revenue growth % Operating return on revenue ORR % Return on invested capital ROIC % KPI: KPI: KPI: Revenue growth is defined as the increase in the Operating return on revenue ORR is defined as Return on invested capital ROIC is defined as companys continuing revenue when compared operating profit before amortisation of acquired net income divided by total capital equity plus to that of the previous year.
Note: 2005 includes intangibles and exceptional items expressed as net debt.
the effect of the acquisition of Peterhouse Group a percentage of revenue.
2005 2008 2007 68 7.8 2006 17.8 2007 16.7 2005 2008 6.9 15.4 57 2006 2005 6.0 5.7 2008 11.3 2007 2006 18 15 Babcock International Group PLC 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review continued Liquidity Historically the Group has financed its Pensions operations and transactions through During the year the Group made The acquisition of DML included a combination of retained earnings, acquisitions for net cash consideration the assets and liabilities of its defined new equity and bank borrowings.
This comprised DML, benefit pension scheme, with an overall the Groups policy to ensure that it has which was acquired in June 2007 for accounting surplus at the date of sufficient financial resources to support a net cash consideration plus costs acquisition of 16.6 million.
As at the business and to leave a comfortable of 356.7 million, and INS where the 31 March 2008, the total of assets and margin between those facilities and likely balance of the business not acquired liabilities within Group defined benefit peak borrowings during the year.
in 2006 07 was purchased for net cash pension schemes including those of consideration of 15.1 million and a Interest rate risk is managed by the use DML, were 2.0 billion and 1.8 billion payment to minority shareholders of of a mixture of fixed and floating rate respectively 2007: 1.2 billion and 12.5 million.
In conjunction with the debt and interest rate swaps and collars, 1.15 billion.
The overall accounting purchase of DML, the Group made an which are regularly reviewed to ensure surplus at 31 March 2008 was equity cash placing of 89.1 million net an appropriate mix is maintained.
of costs and raised a new committed The Groups main exposures to foreign The assumptions used in valuing the five year revolving bank borrowing currency movements remain its schemes are set out in the accounts.
At 31 March businesses in South Africa, where Valuations are sensitive to all of these 2008, the Groups net debt position exposure to both translation and assumptions but the judgements was 322.2 million 31 March 2007: transaction rate movements exists.
necessary in arriving at the discount rate 73.7 million.
The Groups policy is not to cover the to be applied in calculating fund liabilities The Group gearing ratio was 89% and exposure arising on translation of the make it particularly sensitive.
The Group net debt to EBITDA was 2.3 times 2007: South African business into the Groups has historically based the rate on a 1.0 times, comfortably within both base currency, Sterling, by way of recognised corporate bond index.
derivatives but to use, where possible, We have applied the same principle at local borrowings to fund its operations.
31 March 2008 and in common with All material exposure arising from trading other defined benefit pension schemes Treasury policies in currencies other than the business in the corporate sector, the effect of The Groups treasury policies, which base currency is covered by the use higher yields resulting from current credit have been approved by the Board, of forward currency cover contracts.
markets has reduced the net present cover all significant areas of treasury Treasury transactions are carried out with value of pension liabilities relative to last activity including foreign exchange, prime-rated counterparties including any year.
Similarly, difficult credit markets interest rates, liquidity and credit risk.
investment of cash or cash equivalents.
have also had the effect of reducing asset It is the responsibility of the Treasury values in the schemes.
These variations The Groups income is derived mainly Committee, comprising the Groups from period-to-period are a consequence from government or government-backed Chief Executive, Finance Director and of the application of mark-to-market institutions or blue-chip corporates.
Financial Controller, to ensure that valuation on long-term assets and Where this is not the case, credit checks these policies are adhered to.
liabilities and can affect both the balance are performed and where necessary, sheet and profit and loss account security is requested.
As such customer significantly in any given period.
credit risk is considered to be low.
Additional information on the Groups management of financial risk is provided in note 2 of the Notes to the Group financial statements.
Net debt EBITDA x Gearing ratio % EBITDA interest cover x KPI: KPI: KPI: Net debt EBITDA is calculated as net debt divided Gearing ratio measures the extent to which a Interest cover is a measure of the adequacy of the by earnings before interest, tax, depreciation company is funded by debt.
Calculated as net debt companys profits relative to interest payments on and amortisation.
Profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, divided by net interest payable.
2008 2008 2007 2.3 89 12.1 2006 10.7 2005 8.5 2005 56 2005 1.2 2008 2007 2007 5.5 1.0 36 2006 2006 0.7 22 Babcock International Group PLC 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Pension schemes valuations are also Excluding the effects of fixed and working sensitive to assumptions made as to the capital, the principal factors affecting cash likely longevity profile of the schemes flow in the year related in the main to the members.
We have carried out a full and acquisition of DML and INS.
In total, spend detailed review of each schemes specific on acquisitions was 372.3 million and longevity experience and have adopted the purchase of minority interests in INS assumptions which we believe to be was 12.5 million.
Net finance cash costs appropriate based on this review.
were appreciably higher during 2007 08 However, pressure from regulatory bodies at 20.3 million 2007: 5.5 million as is leading to calls for increased caution a result of the acquisition activity during when making assumptions and a resultant the period.
increase in the valuation of liabilities.
As a Tax and dividend payments in the consequence the Group will be exploring year totalled 29.8 million 2007: a number of options to offset this trend.
In 2007 08 the amounts charged or credited to the income statement in Outlook respect of pensions were as follows: 2008 2007 The markets in which we operate remain m m attractive with good long-term growth Service cost 26.8 15.0 prospects.
We have established leading positions in all our markets and developed Expected return on strong relationships with our customers.
plan assets 115.1 68.5 Our long-term financial performance is Interest on obligations 92.1 51.6 underpinned by the strength of our current order book, major contracts to be 23.0 16.9 awarded in the near future, opportunities Net charge credit being created by recent acquisitions and before exceptionals 3.8 1.9 a healthy bid pipeline.
The outlook for the Group remains Group cash flow positive and the Board is confident that further progress will be made this year.
In the year to 31 March 2008 the Group generated cash from operations of Peter Rogers Group Chief Executive 119.2 million 2007: 60.2 million representing 108% of operating profit 2007: 96%.
We believe consistent cash generation over time is a true indicator of the underlying health of a business and tight control over fixed and working capital is a key feature of the Group.
Bill Tame Our medium-term cash conversion rate Group Finance Director cash from operations as a percentage of operating profit target is 80%: we have consistently exceeded this target over the past five years.
Operating cash flow OCF Order book bn conversion rate % KPI: Operating cash flow OCF conversion rate is defined as cash generated by operations as a percentage of operating profit post exceptionals.
2005 2008 2006 126 3.0 119 2008 108 2007 2007 2006 2.4 96 2.3 2005 1.2 Trusted to deliver: Winter Hill Bolton, Lancashire The Winter Hill transmitter mast is one of the most important in the UK, transmitting to around seven million people.
Babcock Networks are designing and installing high powered digital antennae for commercial and public service broadcast.
