Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 28 The Quintain team has exercised skill and judgement Operating and over the past year, resulting once again in a top quartile performance against the Investment Property Databank financial review IPD Index.
The strength of our business model is being Chief Executives proved in the current bear market.
Our outperformance statement of 500 basis points relative to the IPD benchmark clearly demonstrates the synergistic, robust and defensive nature of our model and our ability to consistently deliver good results relative to the market.
Our primary purpose is to optimise returns for shareholders in the medium and long term, evidenced by Our outperformance of 500 basis our position in the top decile of the IPD index over three and five year periods, and in the top percentile over ten points relative to the IPD benchmark and fifteen years.
As designed, the Groups growing success clearly demonstrates the synergistic, in fund management is proving a major contributor to outperformance in difficult markets.
High barriers to robust and defensive nature of entry, strong cashflow, long leases, RPI linkage, first class partners and a deep knowledge of the operational our model.
side of our tenants business: all augur well for this divisions ongoing growth and success.
We now have almost 1bn of funds under management and in the next few years we will continue to grow this side of our business as swiftly as circumstances permit.
The concept is to balance strong and rising cashflow from fund management, which has both opportunistic and defensive qualities, with building and running towns as businesses, exemplified in Greenwich and Wembley.
Turning to these major schemes, the success of The O2, the 136,000 sq ft let to Transport for London and occupier interest from telecoms, media, internet, public sector and banking organisations underpin Greenwich Peninsulas future as a dynamic new leisure, retail and Adrian Wyatt commercial centre for London.
Chief Executive At Wembley City, the decision of the London Borough of Brent to locate their new Civic Centre in the heart of this scheme signifies that the regeneration is well underway, a fact that will be further emphasised when the first residents move in to W01 this autumn.
