BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BP board performance report year depending on the exigencies of the business as they arise.
During BP board performance report the year the board was involved in the following activities: Letter from the chairman Strategy and Risk I am once again pleased to introduce our board performance report.
The The board undertook extensive discussions on strategic options for the report reviews the work of the board and its committees as my tenure as group, including the future business and competitive environment, chairman moves to a close.
Over the past 12 years, both the calibre of technology developments, pricing and demand models and portfolio individuals who have served on the board and our system of governance options.
The identification and management of group risks were reviewed has stood us in good stead.
The strong set of principles on which we by the board, together with how these risks and their mitigation were base our governance framework, which include clarity of roles, separation embedded in the groups annual plan.
of powers, independence and appropriate skills, remain valid today.
I have been encouraged from discussions with shareholders over Review of capital expenditure and post investment review time that our approach to governance and the dialogue which we While the audit committee reviewed project delivery performance, the continue to have with them is welcomed.
This is important to us and no board undertook an annual review of the groups project sanctioning more so than during the testing times in which we operate.
process and delegation of authority.
The process and criteria for each Recent events and the current economic climate have inevitably stage of a project was discussed, together with examples of projects triggered further debate about governance.
The with different lead times and complexities.
framework of governance does need to be kept under review and, where necessary, challenged by investors, regulators and companies Business review themselves to ensure that the system is delivering.
Business reviews were held with both segments Exploration and Under such a review I believe that BPs governance approach can Production and Refining and Marketing and the finance and information show its strength.
It requires active engagement on behalf of the technology and services IT&S functions.
I do not believe that our comply or explain system is broken and it is important for us that the principles-based Global economic environment and energy markets system continues.
The board actively monitored developments in the global energy markets and economic environment.
Issues considered included Peter Sutherland the supply demand balance, the relationship between oil prices, Chairman energy consumption and GDP growth and turbulence in the 24 February 2009 financial markets.
Board governance principles Other areas The board governance principles principles are designed to enable the Other areas discussed by the board included interactions with BPs board and the executive management to operate within a clear partners in TNK-BP, the results of a group-wide employee satisfaction framework.
The principles describe the role of the board, its processes, survey and the findings of a report on BPs reputation in the UK and US.
its relationship with executive management and the main tasks and The board also received a presentation from the independent expert requirements of the board committees.
The principles are available at appointed to provide an objective assessment of BPs progress in www.
implementing the recommendations of the BP US Refineries In carrying out its work, the board focuses on key tasks, which Independent Safety Review Panel the Panel.
include the active review of the long-term strategy and the annual plan, The board is supported in its tasks by the company secretary, monitoring the decisions and actions of the group chief executive, the who reports to the chairman and has no executive functions.
His performance of BP, the succession of executive management and the remuneration is determined by the remuneration committee.
The principles outline how the board delegates its authority for Board meetings and attendance executive management of the company to the group chief executive, The board met nine times during 2008, of which one meeting was a subject to monitoring by the board and a clearly defined set of limitations.
two-day strategy session and another meeting was a one-day strategy These executive limitations require that any executive action taken in the session.
course of business takes specific issues into consideration, including health, safety and the environment, any reputational impact on BP, risk Board meetings Board meetings eligible to attend attended and the framework for internal control.
P D Sutherland 9 9 Operating the principles Sir Ian Prosser 9 9 The group chief executive through the annual plan describes to the board A Burgmans 9 9 how the strategy is to be delivered, together with an assessment of the C B Carroll 9 9 groups risks.
During the year, the board monitors progress and keeps the Sir William Castell 9 9 strategy under review.
G David 7 7 The group chief executive is obliged to review and discuss with E B Davis, Jr 9 8 the board all strategic projects or developments and all material matters D J Flint 9 7 currently or prospectively affecting the company and its performance.
Dr D S Julius 9 9 The principles are kept under review by the board to ensure they Sir Tom McKillop 9 9 remain relevant and up to date.
Dr W E Massey 4 4 Dr D C Allen 3 3 Board activities in 2008 I C Conn 9 9 As outlined above, the board focuses on key areas in carrying out Dr B E Grote 9 9 its work.
Forward agendas are set to determine a high level work Dr A B Hayward 9 9 programme for the board based on its core tasks including dealing with A G Inglis 9 9 strategy and monitoring but additional items are added throughout the 69 Board performance and biographies BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BP board performance report The chairman and senior independent director fraudulently or dishonestly.
Following recent changes to company law, The principles require that neither the chairman nor deputy chairman be the company is also permitted to advance costs to directors for their employed as an executive of the group.
During 2008, these posts were defence in investigations or legal actions.
held by Peter Sutherland and Sir Ian Prosser respectively.
The chairman provides leadership of the board, acts as facilitator Director elections for meetings and ensures that the governance framework of the board is New board directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first maintained and operated.
The chairman also leads board performance AGM following their appointment.
All existing directors stand for appraisals.
He represents the views of the board to shareholders on key re-election each year a practice the company has followed since 2004. issues, in particular those relating to governance and succession planning All directors proposed to shareholders for election are accompanied by a and informs the board of shareholder views.
biography and a description of the skills and experience that the company Between board meetings, the chairman has responsibility for feels are relevant.
ensuring the integrity and effectiveness of the relationship with executive Voting levels at the 2008 AGM demonstrated continued support management.
This requires his interaction with the group chief executive, for all board directors.
as well as his contact with other board members, senior management and stakeholders.
Board independence The deputy chairman acts for the chairman in his absence or at his Non-executive directors are required by the principles to be independent request.
The deputy chairman also serves as the boards senior in character and free from any business or other relationship that could independent director and is available to shareholders where there are materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The board has issues that cannot be addressed through normal channels.
determined that the non-executive directors who served during 2008 The chairman and all the non-executive directors meet periodically fulfilled this requirement and were independent.
without the presence of executive management as the chairmans BP believes that tenure of board members should be determined committee.
The performance of the chairman is evaluated each year, with on the basis of contribution and continued evidence of the exercise of the evaluation discussion taking place when the chairman is not present.
As all directors are proposed for annual The principles require that the board develop and maintain a plan for the re-election by shareholders, the board considers that arbitrary term limits succession of both the chairman and deputy chairman.
on a directors service are not appropriate.
Sir Ian Prosser joined the board in 1997.
It is the view of the board Board composition that he remains firmly independent.
His experience and long-term The principles require that over half the board, excluding the chairman, perspective on BPs business have provided and continue to provide a comprise independent non-executive directors and that the number of valuable contribution to the board and the audit committee, which he directors to not normally exceed 16.
The board is composed of the chairs.
As deputy chairman and senior independent director, Sir Ian is chairman, nine non-executive and four executive directors.
leading the boards search for the successor to the current chairman.
He The board considers that it is of an appropriate size to govern BP, has been asked by the board to remain in post until April 2010 in order with its directors possessing the relevant backgrounds and mix of that he may conclude both the chairmans succession process and the experience, knowledge and skills to maximize its effectiveness.
identification and appointment by the new chairman of a senior independent director.
Board renewal and skills Mr Davis joined the board on the completion of the Amoco The board remains actively engaged in orderly succession planning for merger in December 1998.
The board believes Mr Davis continues to both executive and non-executive directors and is assisted in this task by demonstrate his independence.
He is an active participant at the board the nomination committee.
The committee keeps under review the and sits on the audit and remuneration committees, and the high level of composition, skills and diversity of the board to ensure that it remains his independence is demonstrated by his engagement in these forums.
appropriate to the tasks and work it undertakes.
The nomination The board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to committee believes a breadth of skills is required for the board to meet the independence of those directors who serve together as directors the demands of a business with global operations.
These skills include on the boards of outside entities or who have other appointments in deep operational, engineering, safety and financial expertise, experience outside entities.
of leading industrial, capital intensive or long lead time businesses and From 1 October 2008, there has been a requirement that insight into key emerging markets and technology development.
directors must avoid a situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the The board: terms of appointment companys interests.
Directors of public companies may authorize The chairman and non-executive directors of BP serve on the basis of conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys letters of appointment.
Executive directors of BP have service contracts articles of association permit and shareholders have approved with the company.
Details of all payments to directors are described in appropriate amendments.
Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by directors The service contracts of executive directors are expressed to of any such conflicts and also for the consideration and authorization of expire at a normal retirement age of 60 subject to age discrimination, these conflicts by the board.
These procedures allow for the imposition of while non-executive directors ordinarily retire at the AGM following their limits or conditions by the board when authorizing any conflict, if they 70th birthday.
These procedures were duly followed to approve In accordance with BPs Articles of Association, directors are appropriate conflicts immediately prior to the enactment of the conflict granted an indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities incurred provisions in October 2008, and are now included as a regular standing as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
In respect of item for consideration by the board at its meetings.
those liabilities for which directors may not be indemnified, the company maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout 2008.
During the year, a review of the terms and nature of the policy was undertaken and has been renewed for 2009.
Although their defence costs may be met, neither the companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proved to have acted 70 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BP board performance report Serving as a director Engagement with shareholders Induction The board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and The induction of new board members is the responsibility of the activities of the BP group and engages in regular dialogue to chairman, who is assisted by the company secretary in this task.
All new understand their views and preferences.
However, the board also directors receive a full induction programme, including a core element recognizes that, in conducting its business, BP should be responsive covering the principles and the legal and regulatory duties of directors.
Non-executive directors receive further induction content devised During the year, the chairman and deputy chairman met with according to their own interests and needs, together with the institutional shareholders to discuss issues relating to the board, requirements of the committees on which they will serve.
This would governance, strategy and performance.
The remuneration committee include meetings and briefings on the operations and activities of the chairman met with larger shareholders to discuss executive director group, the strategy and the annual plan and the companys financial remuneration.
The induction programme is targeted for completion within The group chief executive, other executive directors and senior the first nine to 12 months of non-executive directors taking office, while management, company secretarys office, investor relations and other the executive director programme is arranged in the course of their teams within BP also engage with a range of shareholders on wider business activities.
issues relating to the group, including in particular its safety, operational and financial performance.
Presentations given by the group to the Training and site visits investment community are available to download from the Investors Directors and committee members receive briefings on BPs business, section of BPs website, as are speeches on topics of broad interest to its markets, operating environment and other key issues during their shareholders made by the group chief executive and other senior tenure as directors to ensure they have the necessary skill and members of the management team.
knowledge to perform their duties effectively.
Board members are also kept updated on legal and regulatory developments that may impact their AGM duties and obligations as directors of a listed company.
BPs AGM enables shareholders to ask questions and hear the resulting In the past two years, the board and its committees have sought discussion about the companys performance and the directors greater opportunity to meet at BPs operating sites.
This has enabled stewardship of the company.
Votes on all matters except procedural board members to see a selection of BPs businesses e. g. the Texas City issues are taken by a poll at the AGM, meaning that every vote cast refinery, gas production in Colorado, exploration and production activities whether by proxy or in person at the meeting is counted.
in Azerbaijan and the alternative energy solar facility in Maryland.
These The chairman, board committee chairmen and other directors site visits have given directors the opportunity to meet both operational were present during the 2008 AGM and met shareholders on an staff and government and community leaders in the parts of the world informal basis after the main business of the meeting.
In 2008, voting where BP operates.
All non-executive directors are required to participate levels at the AGM increased to 64%, compared with 61% in 2007. in at least one site visit per year.
Last year was also the first time that the AGM was webcast.
This will be repeated for the companys forthcoming meeting.
The webcast, Outside appointments speeches and presentations given at the AGM are available to BP recognizes that executive directors may be invited to become nondownload from the BP website after the event, together with the executive directors of other companies and that such appointments can outcome of voting on the resolutions.
broaden their knowledge and experience, to the benefit of the individual and the group.
Executive directors are permitted to take up one external Board committees board appointment, subject to the agreement of the chairman and The principles allocate the tasks of monitoring executive actions and reported to the BP board.
Fees received for these external appointments assessing performance to certain board committees.
These tasks may be retained by the executive director and are reported in the prescribe the authority and role of the board committees.
Reports for each of the main board committees follow.
In Non-executive directors may serve on a number of outside common with the board, each committee has access to independent boards, provided they continue to demonstrate the requisite advice and counsel as required and each is supported by the company commitment to discharge their duties to BP effectively.
The nomination secretarys office, which is independent of the executive management of committee keeps under review the nature of directors other interests to the group.
The main tasks and requirements of each of the boards ensure that the efficacy of the board is not compromised and may make committees are set out in the principles, available at recommendations to the board if it concludes that a directors other www.
commitments are inconsistent with those required by BP.
Audit committee report Board evaluation Membership The principles stipulate that the performance and effectiveness of the The audit committee comprises four independent non-executive directors board, including the work of its committees, should be evaluated who have been selected to provide a wide range of financial, international annually.
In 2008, this evaluation was undertaken internally with the use and commercial expertise appropriate to fulfil the committees duties.
The questionnaire focused on areas including the During the year, Sir Ian Prosser chairman, Douglas Flint and Erroll conduct of meetings, activities of the board versus committees, Davis, Jr were members of the audit committee.
Sir William Castell monitoring and information and board support and built on the review of retired from the committee in April 2008 and George David joined in May board operations and governance that had taken place in 2007.
The secretary to the committee is David Pearl, deputy company outcome of the evaluation was a requirement for a more systematic secretary of BP.
approach to ensure that the skills of the directors met the changing The board considers that Douglas Flint possesses the financial demands of the business and the environment in which it operates.
and audit committee experience, as defined by the Combined Code guidance and the SEC, and has nominated him as the audit committees financial expert.
71 Board performance and biographies BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BP board performance report Attendance Financial reporting The audit committee met 13 times during 2008.
During the year, the committee reviewed all financial reports, including the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual Report on Form 20-F, before Audit Audit recommending their publication to the board.
committee committee meetings eligible meetings Monitoring risk in the business to attend attended In 2008, the audit committee reviewed reports on risks, controls and Sir Ian Prosser chairman 13 13 assurance for the BP business segments Exploration and Production, E B Davis, Jr 13 10 Refining and Marketing, together with alternative energy, information D J Flint 13 13 technology and services, the proposed reorganization of the group G David 6 6 finance function and BPs trading function.
The committee also reviewed Sir William Castell former member 7 7 BPs long-term contractual commitments and the provisions made for environmental remediation and decommissioning.
In addition to the above members, the committee invites the lead partner of the external auditors Ernst & Young, the group chief financial officer, Internal controls the general auditor head of internal audit, the chief accounting officer A joint meeting with the safety, ethics and environment assurance and the deputy chief financial officer to attend each meeting.
Other committee was held to review the general auditors report on internal senior management attend on request to enable the committee to controls and risk management.
A further joint meeting was held in early discharge its duties.
The committee also holds private sessions during 2009 to assist the board in its assessment of the effectiveness of internal the year without the presence of executive management.
controls and risk management in 2008.
The committee discussed key regulatory issues during the year as Role and authority of the audit committee part of its standing agenda items, including the quarterly internal audit The audit committee assists the board in carrying out its responsibilities findings report and a review of the companys evaluation of its internal in relation to financial risk, internal controls, financial and regulatory controls systems as part of the requirement of Section 404 of the reporting requirements and the broader observance of the executive Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The effectiveness of BPs enterprise level controls limitations relating to financial matters.
was examined through the annual assessment undertaken by the internal The main tasks and requirements for the audit committee are audit function.
set out in the principles.
The audit committee believes that these meet each of the tasks and activities outlined by the Combined Code as falling External auditors within the remit of an audit committee.
The lead audit partner from Ernst & Young attends all meetings of the audit committee at the request of the committee chairman.
Other Information external audit staff are invited to attend meetings where their The committee receives information and reports from internal and expertise is relevant to the agenda item, for example during business external sources, including a wide cross-section of BPs business and or technical reviews.
financial control management, with the attendance of additional Ernst & The committee held two private meetings during the year with Young staff if appropriate to a particular business or functional review.
the external auditors without the presence of BP management, in order The audit committee is able to access independent advice and to discuss issues or concerns from either the committee or the auditors.
counsel when needed, on an unrestricted basis.
Further support is Performance of the external auditors is evaluated by the audit provided to the committee by the company secretarys office and during committee each year, with particular scrutiny of their independence, 2008 external specialist legal and regulatory advice was provided by objectivity and viability.
Independence is maintained through the limiting Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.
of non-audit services to tax and audit-related work that fall within defined The wider board is kept informed of the activities of the categories.
This work is pre-approved by the audit committee and all committee, and any issues that have arisen, through the regular update non-audit services are monitored quarterly.
given by the audit committee chair after each meeting.
Fees paid to the external auditors for the year see Financial statements Note 18 on page 134 were $67 million, of which 14% was Training and induction for non-audit work.
The fees and services provided by Ernst & Young for BP provides an induction programme for new committee members and both audit and non-audit work have decreased in comparison to the ongoing training to assist them in carrying out their duties.
Elements of previous year due to improved audit efficiency, ongoing systems the induction programme include familiarization with the tasks and improvements and BPs new business structure.
requirements of the audit committee, an overview of the key financial During the year, a new lead partner from Ernst & Young replaced and operational aspects of the businesses and an introduction to the the existing partner who had completed five years service on the BP groups system of internal control.
During the year, George David audit in early 2008.
Under BP policy and pursuant to external regulation, participated in the audit committee induction, including private sessions a new lead audit partner is appointed every five years and other senior with the lead external audit partner and the general auditor.
audit staff are rotated every seven years.
No partners or senior staff In 2008, the training programme for the audit committee included from Ernst & Young who are connected with the BP audit may transfer briefings on developments in financial reporting and financial standards, a to the group.
site visit to BPs UK trading operations and an externally facilitated The audit committee has considered both the proposed fee session on tax risk management.
structure and the audit engagement terms for 2009 and has recommended to the board that the reappointment of the external Committee activities in 2008 auditors be proposed to shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
The chart at the end of this section shows how the audit committee allocated its agenda time in 2008.
72 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BP board performance report Internal audit Members of the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee The general auditor attends each committee meeting at the invitation of SEEAC during 2008 were Antony Burgmans, Sir William Castell and the audit committee chairman.
With the retirement of the general auditor Sir Tom McKillop.
Dr Massey retired as chairman of SEEAC in April 2008 in early 2008, a new general auditor was appointed following an and Sir William Castell became the committee chairman from that date.
Cynthia Carroll joined the committee in June 2008.
Support was provided During the year, the audit committee evaluated the performance by the committee secretary, David Pearl deputy company secretary.
of the internal audit function and agreed to the proposed programme of work for the year being satisfied that it appropriately responded to the Attendance key risks facing the company and that the function had adequate staff SEEAC met eight times during 2008. and resources to complete its work.
SEEAC meetings SEEAC meetings In 2008, the committee met once with the general auditor in a eligible to attend attended private session without the presence of executive management.
In Sir William Castell chairman 8 8 addition, the general auditor met with the chairman of the committee A Burgmans 8 8 from time to time between meetings.
C B Carroll 3 2 Sir Tom McKillop 8 8 Fraud and employee concerns on financial matters Dr W E Massey former member 4 4 The audit committee received an annual certification report from the group compliance and ethics function, together with quarterly reports In addition to the above members, each SEEAC meeting is attended by that highlighted financial issues raised through OpenTalk, the group-wide the lead partner of the external auditors Ernst & Young and the BP employee concerns programme.
general auditor head of internal audit on the invitation of the committee The committee further received quarterly updates from internal chairman.
The group chief executive also attends committee meetings as audit on instances of actual or potential fraud.
the executive liaison with SEEAC: Dr Hayward attended all eight meetings of the committee in 2008.
The committee holds private Audit committee activities sessions without executive management in attendance at the end of Approximate allocation of agenda time in 2008 each meeting.
4% 34% Role and authority of the committee The main tasks and requirements for SEEAC are set out in the principles and include among others: Monitoring and obtaining assurance on behalf of the board that the management or mitigation of significant BP risks of a non-financial nature is appropriately addressed by the group chief executive.
Reviewing material to be placed before shareholders that addresses environmental, safety and ethical performance and make recommendations to the board about their adoption and publication.
26% Reviewing reports on the groups compliance with its code of conduct and on the employee concerns programme OpenTalk as it 36% relates to non-financial issues.
Information The committee receives information and reports from the safety and operations function, internal and external sources, including internal audit Financial reporting and the group compliance and ethics function.
Staff from Ernst & Young Monitoring business risk attend if appropriate to a particular business or activity review.
Internal controls and audit Other agenda items Excludes time spent on site visits Like BPs other board committees, SEEAC can access independent advice and counsel if it requires, on an unrestricted basis.
The wider board is kept informed of the activities of the committee and Committee performance evaluation any issues that have arisen through the regular update given by the The committee conducts a yearly evaluation of its performance through SEEAC chair after each meeting.
The results are collated and reported by the committee secretary.
Actions taken in 2008 as a result of Training and induction the end 2007 evaluation included participation in an externally facilitated Members of the committee receive ongoing training to assist them in training session and improved tracking of outstanding issues.
In addition, carrying out their duties and an induction programme was provided for the committee considers performance during its private sessions Mrs Carroll on joining the committee.
To develop a deeper understanding of BPs business and The 2008 evaluation was conducted through individual interviews operations, Sir William Castell undertook a number of private briefings and the outcomes discussed by the committee in January 2009.
The and several site visits on becoming SEEAC chairman.
These visits forward agenda for the year ahead was set following this review, and included the Texas City refinery, where progress in implementing the consideration was given to building on the training provided to members recommendations of the Panel was observed and to the North Sea ETAP through site visits.
platforms where safety, operational and environmental management on The audit committee plans to meet 13 times during 2009. an offshore production facility were reviewed.
Safety, ethics and environment assurance committee report Committee activities in 2008 Membership The chart at the end of this section shows how SEEAC allocated its The committee consists solely of independent non-executive directors agenda time in 2008. who have been selected to provide a wide range of operational and international expertise appropriate to fulfil the committees duties.
73 Board performance and biographies BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BP board performance report Safety and operations Performance evaluation and forward agenda The group operations risk committee GORC was formed at the end of The committee undertakes an annual review of its performance and 2006 and is an executive level committee, chaired by the group chief process.
In 2008, the review involved interviews with each committee executive.
The GORC made regular reports to SEEAC during the year, member, with the results discussed at the committees November including progress on the group-wide implementation of the operating meeting.
Conclusions from the evaluation included noting the helpful management system OMS and BPs six-point plan, the development insight gained from site visits and the value to the committee of the and utilization of the process safety index and statistics relating to the knowledge and expertise of the independent expert in respect of groups safety and operational performance.
safety in the US refineries.
The committee also reviewed its forward L Duane Wilson was appointed by the board in 2007 as an agenda for 2009. independent expert to provide an objective assessment of BPs progress SEEAC plans to meet seven times during 2009. in implementing the Panel recommendations, aimed at improving Remuneration committee report process safety performance at BPs five US refineries.
Mr Wilson, who Membership was a member of the Panel, reports to the chairman of SEEAC and is The committee consists solely of non-executive directors who are independently funded through the company secretarys office.
considered by the board to be independent.
Mr Wilson attended six meetings of the committee during 2008 Members of the remuneration committee during the year were and a private meeting with the committee during the year without the Dr DeAnne Julius chairman, Erroll Davis, Jr, Sir Tom McKillop and presence of executive management.
Topics discussed included a Sir Ian Prosser.
The chairman of the board also attends meetings of presentation on his detailed work plan and progress updates.
2008, Mr Wilson published his first annual report where he assessed BPs progress against the 10 Panel recommendations.
The report noted Attendance that while significant progress had been made, areas for improvement The committee met six times during 2008. still remained.
Further information on the report is available on BPs website.
Remuneration committee Remuneration committee meetings eligible to attend meetings attended Regional reviews and site visits Dr D S Julius chairman 6 6 During the year, the committee reviewed reports on Alaska, the BTC E B Davis, Jr 6 5 pipeline, shipping and TNK-BP.
The committee visited BPs refinery Sir Tom McKillop 6 6 operations in Rotterdam, and coal bed methane operations in Durango, Sir Ian Prosser 6 6 Colorado.
In addition, some members visited the BP solar manufacturing P D Sutherland 6 6 facilities in Maryland and the groups operations in Azerbaijan.
Role and authority of the committee Other topics The committee determines, on behalf of the board, the terms of Other topics reviewed by the committee during the year included engagement and remuneration of the group chief executive, the chairman business continuity and crisis management, environmental requirements and executive directors and reports on those to shareholders.
The for new projects, results from a survey on safety culture in BPs US committee is independently advised.
refineries and a report from the US ombudsman on concerns raised by Further details on the committees role, authority and activities employees in Alaska.
The committee also received and discussed during the year are set out in the directors remuneration report, which quarterly reports from the general auditor and the group compliance and is the subject of a vote by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
The remuneration committee plans to meet five times in 2009.
Chairmans committee report SEEAC 2008 Activities Membership Approximate allocation of agenda time The committee consists of the chairman and all non-executive directors.
51% Attendance The committee met four times during 2008.
13% Chairmans committee meetings Chairmans committee eligible to attend meetings attended P D Sutherland chairman 4 4 Sir Ian Prosser 4 4 A Burgmans 4 4 C B Carroll 4 3 Sir William Castell 4 4 G David 2 2 20% E B Davis, Jr 4 4 D J Flint 4 4 Dr D S Julius 4 4 Sir Tom McKillop 4 4 16% Dr W E Massey former member 2 2 Safety and operations Regional and functional reports Internal audit and compliance and ethics Excludes time spent on site visits Other topics 74 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BP board performance report Role and authority of the committee For this purpose, Sir Ian Prosser, as Senior Independent Director, has The main tasks and requirements for the committee are set out in the chaired the committee.
The committee has been assisted in this principles and are: task by Dr Anna Mann of MWM Consulting LLP.
The committee has Evaluating the performance and effectiveness of the group adopted a robust process.
Key strategic issues facing BP for the coming chief executive: years were identified through discussions with individual board Reviewing the structure and effectiveness of the business members.
From these discussions a role description was developed.
organization of BP: This formed the basis of a worldwide search from which in excess of Reviewing the systems for senior executive development 30 candidates emerged.
This broad group has been refined and the and determining the succession plan for the group chief executive, process is continuing.
The board has been regularly briefed on the executive directors and other senior members of executive work of the committee.
management: As part of the chairman selection process, potential candidates for Determining any other matter that is appropriate to be considered by non-executive directors roles have been revealed.
The committee will all of the non-executive directors: continue actively to keep the skills of the board under review and pursue Opining on any matter referred to it by the chairman of any its refreshment.
committee comprised solely of non-executive directors.
Combined Code compliance Committee activities BP complied throughout 2008 with the provisions of the Combined Code The chairmans committee considered aspects of a number of strategic Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, except in the issues including the relationship with the companys partners in TNK-BP.
following aspects: The committee has reviewed with Dr Hayward the shortand long-term A.
4.4 Letters of appointment do not set out fixed time commitments challenges facing the group.
Dr Hayward has kept the committee briefed since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject to on the implementation of the forward agenda and its implications for the change according to the exigencies of the business.
All directors evolution of the executive team and succession within the leadership are expected to demonstrate their commitment to the work of cadre.
The committee has also reviewed the steps taken by Dr Hayward the board on an ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the nomination to refine the corporate culture and the values within BP.
There have been committee in recommending candidates for annual re-election.
active discussions around the tone from the top.
2.2 The remuneration of the chairman is reviewed by the The committee has reviewed the performance of the chairman remuneration committee, which makes a recommendation to andDrHayward.
the board as a whole for final approval, within the limits set by The chairmans committee plans to meet four times in 2009. shareholders.
This approach represents a change in policy from previous years where the chairmans remuneration was set by the Nomination committee report board without specific reference to the remuneration committee.
Membership The committees members nominally consist of the chairman and the Internal control review chairs of SEEAC, audit and remuneration committees.
In discharging its responsibility for the companys system of internal Members of the nomination committee during the year were control the board, through its governance principles, requires the group Peter Sutherland chairman, Dr DeAnne Julius, Sir Ian Prosser and chief executive to operate with a comprehensive system of controls and Dr Walter Massey.
Dr Massey remained a member of the nomination internal audit to identify and manage the risks that are material to BP.
committee during the year after his retirement from the board to assist in The governance principles were reviewed and confirmed by the board the search for a successor to BPs chairman.
Sir William Castell has now this year and are consistent with the requirements of the Combined joined the committee.
The board has established a process by which the effectiveness Attendance of this system of internal control is reviewed as required by provision The committee met six times during 2008.
This process enabled the board and its committees to consider the system of internal control being operated for Nomination committee meetings Nomination committee managing significant risks, including social, environmental, safety and eligible to attend meetings attended ethical risks, throughout the year.
The process did not extend to joint P D Sutherland chairman 6 6 ventures or associates.
Dr D S Julius 6 6 As part of this process, the board and the audit and safety, ethics Dr W E Massey 6 6 and environment assurance committees requested, received and Sir Ian Prosser 6 6 reviewed reports from executive management, including management of the business segments and functions, at their regular meetings.
Role and authority of the committee In considering the system, the board noted that such a system is The main tasks and requirements for the committee are set out in the designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve principles and are: business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, Identifying, evaluating and recommending candidates for assurance against material misstatement or loss.
appointment or reappointment as directors.
During the year, the board through its committees regularly Identifying, evaluating and recommending candidates for reviewed with the general auditor and executive management processes appointment as company secretary.
whereby risks are identified, evaluated and managed.
These processes Keeping under review the mix of knowledge, skills and experience of were in place for the year under review, remain current at the date of this the board to ensure the orderly succession of directors.
report and accord with the guidance on the Combined Code provided by Reviewing the outside directorship commitments of the nonthe Financial Reporting Council.
In November, the board considered the executive directors.
groups significant risks within the context of the annual plan presented Committee activities by the group chief executive.
During 2008 the primary work of the committee has been the continuation of the process to select a successor to Mr Sutherland who is to stand down as chairman.
75 Board performance and biographies BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BP board performance report A joint meeting of the audit and safety, ethics and environment providers such as the group compliance and ethics officer and the assurance committees in January 2009 reviewed reports from the external auditor on a regular basis to monitor the management of general auditor as part of the boards annual review of the system of risks.
Significant incidents that occurred and managements response internal control.
The reports described the significant risks identified to them were considered by the appropriate committee and reported across the group within the categories of strategic, operational and to the board.
compliance and control and considered the control environment that In the boards view, the information it received was sufficient to responds to such risks.
The reports also highlighted the results of audit enable it to review the effectiveness of the companys system of internal work conducted during the year and the remedial actions taken by control in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for executive management in response to significant failings and Directors in the Combined Code Turnbull.
The board is satisfied that, where significant failings or During the year, these committees engaged with executive weaknesses in internal controls were identified during the year, management, the general auditor and other monitoring and assurance appropriate remedial actions were taken or are being taken.
c On appointment at 11 February 2008. d Held as ADSs, except for 94 shares held as ordinary shares.
e Includes 34,962 shares held as ADSs.
f Includes 25,368 shares held as ADSs.
The above figures indicate and include all the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of each director of the company in shares of the company or calculated equivalents that have been disclosed to the company under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Companies Acts 1985 or 2006 as the case may be as at the applicable dates.
The above figures do not include share options granted or interests in performance shares that have yet to vest.
Details of these are set out in full in the directors remuneration report on pages 83 and 84.
Executive directors are also deemed to have an interest in such shares of the company held from time to time by the BP Employee Share Ownership Plan No.
2 to facilitate the operation of the companys option schemes.
No director has any interest in the preference shares or debentures of the company or in the shares or loan stock of any subsidiary company.
