Operating and Financial Review This Operating and Financial Review OFR has been prepared as a loyalty bonus on many Vantage accounts.
The Hargreaves to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Lansdown business model allows us to offer highly competitive current position and future potential of the Group.
It should not prices to our clients and achieve strong profitability.
be relied on by any other party for any other purpose.
This OFR contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and We aim to create shareholder value by being the leading provider uncertainties.
The Groups actual results may differ materially of investment management products and services to private from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements as a investors in the UK.
Our strategy is focused on growing the value result of various economic factors or the business risks, some of of assets we have under administration or management and which are set out in this document.
consequently increasing our revenues, maintaining tight cost control and improving our profit margin.
In particular, we will Certain figures contained in this OFR, including financial focus on: information, have been subject to rounding adjustments.
Accordingly, in certain instances the sum of the numbers in a Administration column or a row in tables contained in this document may notproviding high quality information and services to our clients conform exactly to the total figure given for that column or row.
continuous improvements to our platform and infrastructure giving clients the confidence and support to transact business This OFR has been prepared with consideration to the ASBs online 2006 Reporting Statement on OFRs.
motivating and retaining our talented employees maintaining our client-focused and entrepreneurial culture Long term strategy and key objectivescost control and operational efficiency relocation of our staff into a single location Hargreaves Lansdown is a leading provider of investment management products and services to private investors in the UK.
Marketing Our flagship service, Vantage, is a direct-to-private investor fundmaintaining our dialogue with clients supermarket and wrap platform.
Vantage offers clients theexpanding our investor database administrative convenience of being able to hold and manage theirimproving our range of services investments, including unit trusts, OEICs, equities, bonds, remaining flexible, responsive and opportunistic investment trusts and cash, irrespective of the tax vehicle, in onemaintaining and improving our profile place with consolidated valuation reports, a single dealing serviceimproving our data capture and data mining and instant online access.
Competition and markets In addition to offering externally managed investment products, we manage funds through our own range of multi-manager funds The markets in which Hargreaves Lansdown operates are highly and PMS, our discretionary portfolio management service.
We compete with other businesses providing also provide independent financial advisory and Stockbroking investment products and services direct to the private investor.
services to private investors and advisory services to companies in These include IFAs, execution-only brokers, banks, building respect of group pension schemes.
societies, life assurers and those fund supermarkets and wrap platforms which are available direct to the private investor.
We In providing this breadth of services direct to the private investor, believe that Vantage is the largest fund supermarket and wrap we offer a compelling proposition for clients.
platform for the private investor in the UK.
Fund supermarkets and wrap platforms typically focus on servicing Our target market is the UK mass affluent population looking to the IFA community and are remunerated for acting as invest their savings and we are encouraged by the scope for administrator.
The IFA using the platform is remunerated for growth in this market.
We provide our fund supermarket and wrap platform direct to the private investor, thereby performing the role, and capturing the economics, of both the platform provider and distributor.
We believe that this business model, together with our significant purchasing power, enables us to retain a greater share of the annual management charge, also known as renewal commission, from fund providers than we would through acting solely as a fund distributor or a fund platform provider.
We strengthen our ability to win and retain clients by discounting initial charges and passing on a portion of the annual management charge to clients Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 7 Operating and Financial Review - continued Key Performance Indicators We use a range of indicators across each of the divisions in order to assess performance.
However, we consider the following indicators to be key when looking at the overall performance of the Group.
2008 2007 Increase 1 Underlying diluted earnings per share 9.0p 6.4p 41% 2 Underlying % operating profit margin 48% 41% 7pts Total Assets Under Administration 11.1bn 10.2bn 9% 3 FTSE All Share Index 2855.69 3404.14 -16% 4 Percentage of recurring revenue 72% 65% 7pts 5 Percentage of assets earning recurring revenue 88% 86% 2pts 6 Number of Vantage clients 245k 218k 12% Notes: quality service, information and pricing, whilst also attracting new 1.
Based upon earnings before exceptional administrative expenses clients through our various marketing initiatives.
In 2008, the total and investment gains, and the weighted average fully diluted value of assets increased by 9% from 10.2 billion to 11.1 billion, share capital driven by growth of 10% in Vantage AUA which grew from 9.1 2.
Operating profit before exceptional administrative expenses billion to 10.0 billion.
Analysis of our assets under administration divided by revenue suggests that the FTSE All-Share is the most appropriate benchmark 3.
The closing values as at 30 June 2008 and 29 June 2007, to use for the market and so any change in this index can form a sourced from ProQuote.
useful comparison against the growth in AUA.
Total value of renewal commission, management fees and June 2008 this index fell by 16%.
This decline was more than offset interest earned on client money, as a percentage of total revenue.
by net new business to give the 9% growth.
Percentage of assets either held in an account which generates a fixed management fee or held in an account which generates The importance of AUA is that they produce a recurring revenue management fees, renewal commission or interest proportionate stream made up of renewal commission, management fees and to the value of assets held.
The percentage of revenue attributable to these quality 6.
Unique number of clients holding at least one Vantage account earnings increased from 65% in 2007 to 72% in 2008.
However, ISA, SIPP or Fund and Share Account with a value greater not all of our AUA generate recurring revenue.
For example, there than 100 at the year end.
are no annual charges levied on equities held in the Vantage Fund and Share Account.
For these assets the Group receives dealing We consider a fully diluted EPS figure, which excludes the impact of commission based upon the levels of trading activity.
So when exceptional items and investment gains, to be the most appropriate looking at the growth in AUA, its relevant to consider another measure of performance.
This increased by 41% in the year from 6.4 indicator, the proportion of AUA which generate recurring revenue.
This can largely be attributed to the substantial volume of Hargreaves The underlying operating profit margin is Lansdown shares in the Fund and Share account which, like all another key financial indicator, increasing equities in this account, do not generate any recurring revenue.
price of these shares decreased during the year alongside the generally tough conditions for financial stocks.
The table shows how the margin has grown significantly year-on-year since 2004.
The The indicators mentioned above provide a useful measure of how Groups revenue, predominantly derived successful the Group has been in gathering assets under from asset values, has been able to grow administration.
However, it does not give any indication of whether quicker than costs.
The efficiency of the this success is predominantly due to effective cross selling to existing Vantage platform is central to the scalability clients and their increasing wealth or whether the Group is of the business model.
successfully adding to its client bank.
This is essential in order to replace natural client losses and expand the business.
The number of Underlying profit margin A key indicator of success for the Group is the active Vantage clients acts as an indicator of how successful the extent to which it has increased its total assets under administration Group has been in this respect.
In 2008, the number has increased AUA during the period.
This involves encouraging existing clients by 12%, driven in particular by new ISA and SIPP accounts opened to entrust us with more of their savings through the provision of throughout the year.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 8 2004 23.2% 2005 26.0% 2006 33.0% 2007 41.2% 2008 48.0% Operating and Financial Review - continued At 30 June At 30 June 2008 2007 Review of results billion billion Assets Under Administration AUA - Vantage 10.0 9.1 - Other 0.2 0.2 AUA Total 10.2 9.3 Assets Under Administration and Management AUM - Portfolio Management Service PMS 0.9 0.8 - Multi-manager funds excluding PMS 0.4 0.5 AUM Total 1.4 1.3 Less: Multi-manager funds included in both AUA and AUM 0.4 0.5 Total Assets Under Administration 11.1 10.2 The value of total assets under administration grew by 9% during compared to 0.8 billion of market growth in 2007.
Contributing the period, from 10.2 billion to 11.1 billion.
This is largely to this market decline and following less favourable market made up of 10.0 billion 2007: 9.1 billion of assets held within conditions for financial stocks during the year, the price of the Vantage service, with the remainder being assets held within Hargreaves Lansdown shares ended the year 29% lower, with a the Portfolio Management Service and other nominee portfolios.
value of 0.6 billion on the platform compared to an opening We estimate that the 0.9 billion 2007: 3.7 billion increase in value of 0.8 billion.
The value of assets managed by Hargreaves Vantage assets from 9.1 billion to 10.0 billion can be attributed Lansdown through its own range of multi-manager funds and to 2.3 billion of net new business 2007: 2.1 billion of net new PMS increased by 8% 2007: 86%, to 1.4 billion, compared to business plus an estimated 0.8 billion of Hargreaves Lansdown 1.3 billion as at 30 June 2007.
Of these assets under plc shares, other positive growth factors with a value of 0.1bn, management, 0.4 billion were held within Vantage as at 30 June such as retained investment income and 1.5 billion of market 2008, compared with 0.5 billion as at 30 June 2007. decline net of interest credited to clients on cash balances 2008 2007 million million Revenue 120.3 98.8 Underlying administrative expenses 62.6 58.1 Operating profit before exceptional administrative expenses 57.7 40.7 Exceptional administrative expenses see below - 29.6 Operating profit 57.7 11.0 Non operating income - investment revenue and other gains 3.2 13.4 Profit before taxation 60.9 24.4 Taxation 18.5 7.4 Profit after taxation 42.4 17.0 Revenue increased by 21.5 million or 22%, to 120.3 million in during the year, from 3404.14 to 2855.69.
In the previous year, the year ended 30 June 2008, compared to 98.8 million for the this index had risen by 15%.
This was driven by an increase in revenue of 25.9 million across the Vantage, Discretionary and The Groups underlying operating profit operating profit before Advisory divisions resulting from increased assets under exceptional items increased by 42% to 57.8 million in 2008 administration and management and a full years revenue on assets compared to 40.7 million for 2007.
The increase resulted from secured in the previous year.
The 9% 2007: 67% growth in asset revenue growth, driven by higher asset values, which did not values was attributable to strong new business volumes, offset by necessitate an equivalent rise in costs.
The Groups operating significant market decline.
The FTSE All Share index fell by 16% margin increased from 41% to 48%.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 9 Operating and Financial Review - continued The Group did not incur any exceptional administration expenses The Vantage division increased its revenues by 20.1 million, from during the year.
There were 29.6 million of exceptional expenses 52.1 million to 72.2 million.
This resulted from growth in assets incurred in the year ended 30 June 2007.
These predominantly under administration from 9.1 billion to 10.0 billion.
The revenue represented the amount by which remuneration paid to certain growth also reflects the impact of a full years income on assets directors of the Company and its subsidiaries exceeded the acquired during the previous year.
The Vantage service allows clients amounts which might be payable in future years following the to hold assets in tax efficient wrappers such as an ISA or SIPP, or agreement of a new remuneration policy in March 2007.
The alternatively in a Fund and Share Account.
The highest growth in remainder related to costs incurred in relation to the flotation of asset values was evident in the SIPP, with an increase of 64% from the Group on the London Stock Exchange.
The Fund and Share Account experienced strong net inflows which were largely offset by market decline.
The There were 3.2 million of investment revenue and other gains less favourable market conditions this year also explain why the during the year compared to 13.4 million in the year ended 30 value of ISA assets remained unchanged at 5.0 billion at the year June 2007.
The higher value in the prior year was predominantly end, despite a good performance in attracting new assets this year.
due to the disposal of a number of fixed asset investments during the year which resulted in net gains of 11.9 million.
This drop in The Advisory business increased its revenues by 2.9 million, from investment gains was partly offset by an increase in investment 11.9 million to 14.8 million.
In addition to initial and renewal revenues, arising from interest on the Groups cash balances which commission earned on the distribution of third party investments, were maintained at higher levels than the previous year.
this division earns initial charges and annual management fees on assets introduced into the Groups Portfolio Management Service The Groups reported profit before tax increased to 60.9 million, PMS.
The value of assets managed in PMS increased by 18% compared to 24.4 million in the previous year.
The effective tax from 784 million to 929 million.
This growth can be attributed rate for the Group this year was just above 30% which has resulted to high inflows, facilitated by an expanded team of advisors, offset in a reported profit after tax for the year of 42.4 million, by market decline.
As at 30 June 2008, 63% of PMS assets were compared to 17.0 million for the previous year.
invested in Hargreaves Lansdown multi-manager funds.
The performance of both the multi-manager funds and PMS has been Revenue disappointing over the year ended 30 June 2008.
This has been The Group is currently organised into five core operating predominantly due to a structural bias to equity and fixed interest divisions, based around products and services.
The directors do markets but also a focus on identifying stock picking specialists not believe that it is appropriate to apply segmental reporting to that often have an overweight exposure to small and mid-sized these divisions for the reasons set out in note 5 to the financial companies.
However, the Groups investment strategy has proved statements.
However, the following analysis of revenue has been beneficial in the longer term with three of the Groups four fund provided as additional information to shareholders to assess the of funds placed in the top half of their peer groups since launch.
position and potential of the Group.
The sole distribution of PMS is through the Groups team of advisors.
The number of advisors increased from 73 at the start of Year Ended Year Ended the year to 86 by 30 June 2008, including 11 advisors allocated to 30 June 30 June the divisions telephone advice service.
Revenue by division 2008 2007 million million The value of Hargreaves Lansdowns multi-manager funds Vantage 72.2 52.1 remained flat at 1 billion between 30 June 2007 and 30 June 2008.
As at 30 June 2008, 57% of these were held within PMS, Advisory 14.8 11.9 41% were held within Vantage and the remainder were held Discretionary 10.3 7.4 directly.
The Discretionary division earns renewal commission on 3rd Party 16.3 19.8 underlying investments held in PMS, including the value of PMS investments in the Groups multi-manager funds.
The multiStockbroking 4.9 5.8 manager funds charge 1% annually on the value of funds under Central services 1.8 1.7 management, which is recognised in the Discretionary division net Central 120.3 98.8 Stockbroking Services of the renewal commission paid to PMS and Vantage.
4% 1% Discretionary 9% Hargreaves Lansdowns Third Party business comprises those investment products which are sold by the Group but not held in Vantage or other Group nominee accounts.
These include 3rd Party corporate pensions, personal pensions, annuities, third party 14% Vantage investment products and venture capital trusts.
The divisions 60% handling Third Party business saw a decline in revenues overall by 18%, from 19.8 million to 16.3 million.
Of the 3.5 million Advisory decline, 3.0 million can be attributed to a drop in corporate 12% pension revenue resulting from a decline in the number of new Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 10 Operating and Financial Review - continued GPP schemes written on an initial commission basis.
Instead, the investments onto the Vantage platform.
The rate of the decline division has shifted its focus and marketing efforts to raise will depend to some extent upon market performance, hence the awareness of the Hargreaves Lansdown Group SIPP.
The revenue significant drop of 1.0 million this year in line with whats model is different for the Group SIPP in that there is no initial happened in the market.
Finally, the drop in revenue for corporate commission, with Hargreaves Lansdown earning renewal pensions and investments was offset by an increase in revenue of commission, management fees and interest on the assets invested 0.6 million in the personal life and pensions division.
This in the scheme each year.
This is very much in line with the increase was driven by strong sales in annuities, which can be Groups focus on maximising quality recurring revenues.
attributed to improved rates, successful marketing and ease of However, there are up front set-up and sales costs involved with a execution through our website.
However, the increased revenue Group SIPP and so the schemes need to be up and running for from annuities was offset to some extent by a decline in term some time before they become profitable.
A number of Group assurance, which the division stopped marketing towards the end SIPPs were written during the year, including one for Stagecoach.
of 2007, following the abolition of pension term assurance.
This scheme attracted extensive comment in the industry press because of its pioneering combination of a share account, ISA and The Stockbroking division experienced a decline in revenue of SIPP to all Stagecoach employees, not just executives or senior 16%, from 5.8 million to 4.9 million.
This can primarily be managers.
Over time, the management expects a transition in attributed to a higher proportion of equity trades shifting over to corporate pensions from its traditional initial commission model to Vantage and a higher proportion of trades being placed online, a Group SIPP fund based income model.
The decline in Third attracting a lower commission rate.
On 1st January 2008 an Party business was further exacerbated by an expected decline in additional dealing charge was added to certificated trades and in the revenue from Third Party investments.
This revenue stream is advance of this, clients were encouraged to transfer their shares expected to decline as more clients choose to transfer their into the Vantage nominee service.
Year Ended Year Ended Underlying administrative expenses 30 June 2008 30 June 2007 million million Staff costs 36.5 34.5 Commission payable 10.2 9.3 Marketing costs 6.2 5.8 Depreciation, amortisation and financial costs 1.4 0.8 Other costs 8.3 7.7 62.6 58.1 Underlying administrative expenses increased by 8%, from 58.1 also include an element of media advertising, postage, stationery million to 62.6 million.
The Groups largest cost remains staff and the cost of corresponding with clients.
The increase can be costs, which represents 58% of administrative expenses 2007: attributed to higher correspondence costs in line with growth and 59%.
These costs increased by 6% in line with a 6% increase in greater advertising activity this year, including the insertion of average staff numbers.
promotional literature in national newspapers.
These costs have been partially offset by an increasing proportion of marketing now Commission payable increased from 9.3 million to 10.2 taking place online.
The majority of this represents a share of Vantage renewal commission revenue which is rebated back to As the majority of the Groups platform development is clients as a cash loyalty bonus except with respect to those funds undertaken in-house, the capital expenditure of the business held in the SIPP.
The increase can be attributed to a higher remains fairly low.
The charge for depreciation, amortisation and value of assets under administration in Vantage throughout the financial costs for the year was not significant at 1.4 million, period.
The increase in renewal was 15%, offset by a decline in increasing from 0.8 million in 2007.
Some of the increase can be other commission payable driven by the termination of a contract attributed to the reversal of a 0.2 million provision in 2007 to provide dealing services for a third party in November 2006. which was no longer required.
The remainder is predominantly an increase in depreciation although bank charges, associated with The Group increased its marketing spend by 7%, from 5.8 processing card payments and foreign currency transactions, had million to 6.2 million.
This includes the costs of sending also increased during the year.
information to existing and potential clients, including the Groups flagship publication, the Investment Times.
These costs Other administrative costs and overheads include items such as Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 11 Operating and Financial Review - continued building and utility costs, dealing costs, irrecoverable VAT, 7.809 pence per ordinary share.
compliance costs, insurance, professional services, computer maintenance and external administration charges.
These were An arrangement exists under which the Hargreaves Lansdown controlled during the period, increasing by just 8% from 7.7 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT has agreed to waive all million to 8.3 million.
The most significant increases were an dividends.
increase in compliance costs resulting from the greater size and listed status of the Group and higher IT support costs.
Cash flow and capital expenditure Non operating income Capital expenditure remained relatively low, decreasing from 1.5 million to 1.1 million, the majority of which related to IT Investment revenues increased from 1.4 million to 3.1 million, software and hardware.
as a result of higher cash balances, higher interest rates and the positive impact of our treasury management team throughout the The Group was highly cash generative during the year with the year.
There was only one minor investment disposal gain of 0.1 only significant outgoing from underlying profits being the million during the year.
In 2007 the Group disposed of the payment of a dividend.
The Groups own cash balances increased majority of its fixed asset investments, including its holdings in from 32.9 million to 64.5 million during the year.
The value of EMX Company Limited and the London Stock Exchange plc.
cash held within the EBT has dropped from 12.4 million as at 30 This resulted in net gains in of 11.9 million.
June 2007 to 10.9 million at 30 June 2008 following the purchase of additional Hargreaves Lansdown shares during the Taxation year.
Taxation increased from 7.4 million to 18.5 million.
The higher Net assets, capital requirement and treasury policy charge can be attributed to an increase in pre-tax profits, whilst the effective tax rate has remained at around 30%.
Group net assets increased from 44.5 million to 70.3 million.
The Group has four subsidiary companies which are authorised Minority interest and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
These firms maintain capital resources at a level which satisfies both their Library Information Services Limited LIS is a subsidiary within regulatory capital requirements as well as their working capital the Group trading as FundsLibrary, an online fund data requirements.
As at 30 June 2008, the aggregated regulatory repository specifically designed to meet the needs of professional capital requirement across the four regulated subsidiary companies data users.
On 30 November 2007, the Company awarded shares was approximately 7 million 2007: 9 million compared to in LIS, representing 15% of the share capital, to Stuart Louden a capital resources of approximately 32 million 2007: 27 director of the subsidiary.
The Company owns the remaining million, which resulted in a surplus of approximately 25 million 85%.
The transaction resulted in a gain of 53,000.
Earnings per share EPS The Group has no borrowings and deposits its liquid funds with selected financial institutions which maintain a long term credit The basic diluted EPS increased from 3.6 pence to 9.0 pence.
In 2008, the Groups funds were held However the directors consider the most relevant EPS calculation with no fewer than three of these institutions and up to as many as to be the underlying diluted earnings per share.
The Board reviews its usage of banks on a regular basis with as the earnings for the year, adjusted to exclude the net effect of the primary objective of ensuring the security of its assets and the exceptional administration expenses and investment gains, divided secondary objective of maximising its return on them.
The Group by the total weighted average fully diluted number of shares, actively maintains cash balances on short term deposit to ensure including those held by the Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
that it has sufficient available funds for operations.
This policy is Underlying diluted EPS increased by 41%, from 6.4 pence to 9.0 designed to ensure that the Group takes no material credit risk.
As at 30 June 2008, the EBT held sufficient shares to The Group is not exposed to significant foreign exchange satisfy all outstanding share options granted under the Employee translation or transaction risk.
Future outlook Dividend In their joint statement, the Chairman and Chief Executive The directors are now recommending a final ordinary dividend of outlined some opportunities facing the business at the moment, 2.42 pence per ordinary share and a special dividend of 2.324 such as the eligibility of protected rights monies into our SIPP, the pence per ordinary share, payable on 30 September 2008 to all prospect of investors becoming more cost-sensitive and looking to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 reorganise their portfolios by transferring into Vantage and an September.
When added to the interim dividend of 3.065 pence increase in demand for our advisory services, as investors seek per share, this brings the total dividends in respect of the year to guidance through the current market uncertainty.
We believe that Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 12 Operating and Financial Review - continued investors will continue to transfer their assets to us in order to people reaching retirement age and a greater awareness of the benefit from the services and information we provide, together benefits of shopping around.
Our online annuity quote service is with the transparency, choice and control available through our receiving a growing number of requests and continues to handle platform.
Although we expect market conditions to remain them efficiently.
challenging over the next twelve months, we will focus on exploiting these opportunities with the aim of continuing to grow As always, our ability to gather assets and attract clients will the business.
depend on the severity and duration of market fluctuations.
However, we remain confident in the quality of our offering and Our annuity business, whilst a relatively small part of revenue, believe that whatever the future holds, we can emerge with an continues to grow as a result of improved rates, a high number of improved presence in the marketplace.
Risks and uncertainties year, such as market volatility and a consequent drop in the performance of our in-house managed funds.
The mitigating factors There are a number of potential risks to the Group which could we also highlighted such as a high percentage of assets in tax hinder the successful implementation of our strategy and have a wrappers and a cash option on our platform have taken effect and material impact on our long term performance.
These arise from limited the negative impact on our performance this year.
However, internal or external events, acts or omissions which could potentially should this volatility continue for a longer period of time, there is an pose a threat to the future success and survival of the Group.
The increased risk that investors will lose confidence and that the value of Board and senior management of Hargreaves Lansdown are assets being withdrawn from our platform will rise.
proactive in identifying, assessing and managing risk.
Our IT platform and infrastructure have performed well throughout The risk profile of the business has not changed significantly this the year and we have continued to invest and implement changes year.
The difficulties seen in the banking sector this year have led us with a strong focus on mitigating the risks we face in this crucial to explicitly include the risk of bank default, alongside the more area.
general risk of reliance on third parties.
Client money is spread across multiple banks with a long-term credit rating of AAor better.
Our The risk factors mentioned below do not purport to be exhaustive as treasury policy is regularly reviewed and discussed by management.
there may be additional risks that the Group has not yet identified or has deemed to be immaterial that could have a material adverse A few of the risks included in last years report have materialised this effect on the business.
Industry Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Focus on recurring revenue streams over the more volatile transaction-based Fluctuations in capital markets may adversely alternative.
affect trading activity and or the value of theHigh proportion of assets under Fluctuations in the capital Groups assets under administration or administration in tax wrappers so clients markets management, from which we derive less likely to withdraw funds and lose tax revenues.
Cash option enables clients to shelter from market volatility.
Strong market position with pricing power.
Full control over scalable and flexible platform.
The Group operates in a highly competitive Experienced management team with a environment with developing demographic Changing markets and strong track record of innovation and trends and our continued profitability increased competition responsiveness to the market.
depends on our ability to respond to these Organisational structure and culture pressures and trends.
Client focused with a loyal customer base.
Younger clients attracted by SIPP offering.
The Groups technology could become Track record of successful development.
obsolete if we are unable to develop and High awareness and sponsorship of the Evolving technology enhance our systems to accommodate importance of technology at Board level.
changing preferences, new products and the Substantial development team in place.
emergence of new industry standards.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 13 Operating and Financial Review - continued Risk Type Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Business model and culture already geared The Group may be materially adversely affected towards FSA principle of treating clients fairly.
as a result of new or revised legislation or Regulatory riskFinancial strength of the organisation regulations or by changes in the interpretation provides comfort should the capital resource or enforcement of existing laws and regulations.
The government is more likely to Changes made to tax legislation could reduce encourage savings in order to plan for an Changes in taxation law the attractiveness of some of the Groups ageing population, which is currently investment products such as ISAs and SIPPs.
Clients educated to improve awareness of potential boiler room and other online There is a risk of reputational damage scams.
Damage to the Groups through the actions of unassociated third Hargreaves Lansdown security procedures reputation parties such as the set-up of a copycat website are well communicated to clients so they to fraudulently obtain funds from our clients.
are more likely to question anything out of the ordinary.
Operational Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Serious or prolonged breaches, errors orHigh level of resilience built into daily breakdowns in the Groups software or operations.
Errors, breakdowns or security information technology systems couldIT performance, scalability and security breaches in respect of the negatively impact customer confidence.
It could are deemed top priorities by the Board.
Groups software or also materially breach contracts we have withLarge, experienced in-house team of IT information technology our customers and data protection laws, which professionals and established name systems could render us liable to disciplinary action by suppliers.
governmental and regulatory authorities, as wellInternal procedures marked against as to claims by our clients.
Critical applications and infrastructure In addition to the failure of IT systems, there mirrored across primary and secondary is a risk of disruption to the business as a Business continuity sites.
result of power failure, fire, flood, acts of Business Continuity Plan produced in line terrorism, re-location problems and the like.
There is a risk of reputational damage High level of internal controls including including as a result of employee misconduct, Damage to the Groups checks on new staff.
failure to manage inside information or reputationWell trained staff.
conflicts of interest, fraud or improper Strong compliance culture.
Lock up on shares held of up to four years on directors and senior management.
SAYE schemes in operation to incentivise The loss of, or inability to recruit, key staff and encourage retention.
personnel could have a material adverse effect Key personnel risk Success of the Group should attract high on the Groups business, results of operations calibre candidates.
Succession planning encouraged throughout Group via management and staff objectives.
The Groups business entails the risk of liability related to litigation from clients or third parties and actions taken by regulatory agencies.
There can be no assurance that a claim or claims willHigh levels of PI cover.
Litigation or claims made be covered by insurance or, if covered, will notComprehensive internal review procedures against the Group exceed the limits of available insurance for marketing literature.
coverage, or that any insurer will remain solvent and will meet its obligations to provide the Group with coverage.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 14 Operating and Financial Review - continued Operational Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Any regulatory breach or service failure on theDue diligence forms part of the selection part of an outsourced service provider could process for key suppliers.
Reliance on third parties expose the Group to the risk of regulatoryOngoing review by our internal audit sanctions and reputational damage.
team of key business partners.
Very experienced management team, with a highly successful track record to date.
There is a risk that the management will Management have demonstrated an Strategic risk pursue inappropriate strategies or implement excellent understanding of the market and the Groups strategy ineffectively.
continue to monitor this effectively through regular dialogue with clients.
Only manage Funds of Funds, divested equity management to focus on core strength.
If the investment performance of the Fund analysis focuses on stock selection Hargreaves Lansdown multi-manager funds skills of manager rather than basic were to be poor relative to the market or in performance analysis.
absolute terms, the Group would be Multi-manager funds well diversified at the vulnerable to redemption cancellation of Performance of in-house underlying fund level as well as by number units by investors in those collective managed funds of funds.
investment funds and a consequential Well established and proven investment reduction in revenues received from such process.
Our Funds of Funds give investors exposure to a broad range of underlying investments.
They are therefore less vulnerable to sector specific poor performance than specialised or focused funds.
Financial Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Highly cash generative business.
The risk that the Group is unable to meetLow working capital requirement.
liabilities as they become due because of anGroup maintains a substantial surplus above Liquidity risk inability to liquidate assets or obtain regulatory and working capital requirements.
Treasury management policy provides for the availability of liquid funds at short notice.
Only use banks with strong credit rating where we do no believe the government Given the current economic climate and in would allow them to fail.
Bank default particular the unprecedented problems faced Deposits spread across multiple banks.
by banks, there is a risk that a bank could fail.
Regular review and challenge of treasury policy by management.
Operations IT This year has seen a substantial number of improvements to our We continue to run the vast majority of our administration and systems product range and our underlying infrastructure.
We added a development in-house rather than outsourcing to third parties.
In number of new services to our website including a fully online SIPP particular, we maintain full control of the Vantage platform which is facility, electronic contract notes, improved research and charting, fundamental in the administration of both Vantage and the Portfolio better navigation and the ability to register non-Vantage Management Service.
The notable exception is the administration of investments.
The development of our website is a key part of our our multi-manager funds which is currently outsourced.
We believe strategy and we continue to see the benefits of higher volumes of that having control of our own platform gives us the ability to control business being transacted online.
service levels and react quickly to changing markets and the needs of our clients.
Those areas of our business which are outsourced are kept The other focus of our IT work has been further improving the under close review to ensure they continue to meet our standards.
performance and resilience of our systems.
A number of long-term Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 15 Operating and Financial Review - continued strategies have been agreed and the implementation of these is now the environmental impact of our business is aligned with our underway.
In particular, we are focusing on the re-location of the objectives of protecting client data, reducing costs, and improving business planned for December 2009 and the opportunities that efficiency.
It is our aim to deal with clients and other businesses such a move affords in terms of re-structuring our network.
electronically wherever possible and we have invested heavily in providing a user friendly, comprehensive website and automated Regulation links to banks and fund providers.
We have recently introduced the In their joint report, the Chairman and Chief Executive highlighted facility for clients to opt out of receiving paper valuations and a number of changes to the regulatory landscape.
We are confident contract notes.
Instead these documents are now available in that our current business model is well positioned for these changes electronic format through our secure website.
Our investment in this and do not expect any significant increase to our regulatory capital area will continue and the benefits will grow as more people and requirements, against which we already maintain a healthy surplus.
businesses choose to transact business and receive information online.
Resources Our employees are vital to the Groups continuing success and we Business travel is another area which impacts both our costs and the continue to focus on motivating and retaining our talented staff.
We do not provide company cars as standard to the end of the year we implemented a Group SIPP using the services managers or to our network of advisors.
These are spread of our own Corporate Solutions division.
This gives staff additional throughout the UK which minimises travel time.
We have also flexibility and control over their pension and fulfils a wish of many of launched a telephone advice service to handle those cases where a them to be able to hold Hargreaves Lansdown shares within their face-to-face meeting is unnecessary.
We appreciate that there is more we could do to reduce the impact More staff became shareholders during the year through a maturing of our business on the environment and we aim to improve on the SAYE scheme.
It is our intention to issue new options under this positive steps we have already taken and ensure that social, scheme in the year ended 30 June 2009.
Our Employee Benefit environmental and ethical considerations are taken into account in Trust EBT is well funded and holds sufficient shares to satisfy all our future decision making.
When we move to our newly built outstanding options.
Further shares were purchased by the EBT premises in 2009 we will introduce chilled beam air conditioning, during the year to be used for the future incentivisation of staff.
With which is up to 60% more energy efficient and intend to utilise the Companys shares now trading on the main market of the technology to manage lighting in a manner which minimises London Stock Exchange, employees are able to quantify the value of wastage.
Our IT strategy going forwards will incorporate the need to their equity interests and this has increased the motivational impact minimise power consumption: we have already implemented some of these schemes.
The Board believes that the use of share schemes positive changes such as a move from CRT to flat screen monitors.
in the future will continue to incentivise staff and help align their interests with those of other shareholders.
Many employees also We also intend to assist clients who wish to invest in a socially receive an annual bonus related to the overall profitability of the responsible manner and this year launched an Ethical Investment Group.
This included the publication of a guide to ethical and environmental investing called The World of Socially Responsible In addition to remunerating staff well, we aim to retain and attract Investing and a dedicated section of our website with a tool which staff through the provision of training, career progression, good enables clients to search for funds which meet their ethical criteria.
The continued growth and success of the organisation continues to create opportunities for staff.
Critical accounting policies We believe that moving all our staff from our current five locations The accounting policies adopted by Hargreaves Lansdown have into a single building will improve communication even further and been consistently applied throughout the years and are set out in ensure that we maintain the dynamic culture that has been crucial to note 2 to the financial statements.
The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with these Corporate social responsibility policies has required management to make a number of estimates, The Board considers that the environmental risk from direct actions assumptions and judgements.
Further details on key sources of taken by the Group is minimal.
However, we appreciate that judgements and estimation uncertainty are provided in note 3 to the alongside providing our clients with the best service and producing financial statements.
profits for our shareholders, we can also take sensible steps to reduce the impact of our business on the environment.
We continue to Martin Mulligan shred and recycle confidential waste and have arrangements for the Group Finance Director collection of recyclable waste such as printer toner cartridges, 24 September 2008 cardboard, newspapers and out-of-date literature.
We also continue to recycle redundant IT equipment through specialist third parties.
In many respects, our objective of reducing waste and minimising Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 16
