HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review Principal activities Strategic direction Challenges and uncertainties Principal activities HSBC is, therefore, continuing to invest primarily in the faster growing markets and, in the HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial more developed markets, by focusing on businesses services organisations in the world, with a market which have international connectivity.
Central to capitalisation of US$114 billion at 31 December these reshaping activities is a policy of maintaining 2008.
HSBCs capital strength and strong liquidity position.
Through its subsidiaries and associates, HSBC provides a comprehensive range of banking and The Group has identified three main business related financial services.
Headquartered in London, models for its customer groups and global businesses HSBC operates through long-established businesses that embody HSBCs areas of natural advantage: and has an international network of some 10,000 businesses with international customers for properties in 86 countries and territories in five whom developing markets connectivity is geographical regions: Europe: Hong Kong: Rest of crucial Global Banking and Markets, Private Asia-Pacific, including the Middle East and Africa: Banking, the large business segment of North America and Latin America.
Within these Commercial Banking and the mass affluent regions, a comprehensive range of financial services segment of Personal Financial Services: is offered to personal, commercial, corporate, institutional, investment and private banking clients.
businesses with local customers where Services are delivered primarily by domestic banks, efficiency can be enhanced through global scale typically with large retail deposit bases, and the small business segment of Commercial consumer finance operations.
Taken together, the Banking and the mass market segment of five largest customers of HSBC do not account for Personal Financial Services: and more than one per cent of HSBCs income.
products where global scale is possible through There were no significant acquisitions during building efficiency, expertise and brand global the year for details of acquisitions see page 418. product platforms such as global transaction HSBC disposed of its seven French regional banks banking.
for US$3.2 billion in July 2008 see page 418.
The means of executing the strategy, and further utilising the linkages within the Group, are clear: Strategic direction the HSBC brand and global networks will be HSBCs strategic direction reflects its position as leveraged to reach new customers and offer The worlds local bank, combining the largest further services to existing clients: global emerging markets banking business and a uniquely cosmopolitan customer base with an efficiency will be enhanced by taking full extensive international network and substantial advantage of local, regional and global financial strength.
economies of scale, in particular by adopting a common systems architecture wherever The Groups strategy is aligned with key trends possible: and which are shaping the global economy.
In particular, HSBC recognises that, over the long term, objectives and incentives will be aligned to developing markets are growing faster than the motivate and reward staff for being fully mature economies, world trade is expanding at a engaged in delivering the strategy.
greater rate than gross domestic product and life expectancy is lengthening virtually everywhere.
Challenges and uncertainties Against this backdrop, HSBCs strategy is focused Current economic and market conditions on delivering superior growth and earnings over time may adversely affect HSBCs results by building on the Groups heritage and skills.
Its origins in trade in Asia have had a considerable The global economy has entered the most severe influence over the development of the Group and, as downturn for 80 years, with the financial services a consequence, HSBC has an established and industry facing extraordinary turbulence.
A shortage longstanding presence in many countries.
The of liquidity, lack of funding, pressure on capital and combination of local knowledge and international extreme price volatility across a wide range of asset breadth is supported by a substantial financial classes are putting financial institutions under capability founded on balance sheet strength, largely considerable pressure.
This is leading governments attributable to the scale of the Groups retail deposit and central banks to undertake unprecedented bases.
intervention designed to stabilise the global and 12
