Regional review The growth of 16 per cent by the Global Drive Brands, improved pricing and a better product mix, resulted in a strong growth in profit from operations.
This excellent result was further improved with the 2 acquisitions and the benefit of favourable exchange rate movements.
Nicandro Durante Chief Operating Officer and Director, America-Pacific The reported Group revenue Kent volume grew by 18 per cent with Pall Mall increased volumes by 22 per cent was 21 per cent higher at excellent growth in Russia, Romania, with the geographic roll-out to more 12,122 million as a result Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Chile and from markets, such as Pakistan, Malawi, of improved pricing, a better new markets like Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia Mexico and Belarus, and the continued product mix, the acquisitions and Serbia, while it also benefited from growth in Turkey, Romania, Uzbekistan, of Tekel and Skandinavisk a brand migration in South Africa.
Hungary, the Netherlands and Malaysia.
Tobakskompagni ST made at the Volumes were lower in Japan, although This was partly offset by lower volumes in half year and favourable exchange market share increased.
Poland, Russia, Spain, Greece and Italy.
At constant rates Dunhill rose by 7 per cent, with growth In the fourth quarter, revenue grew of exchange, revenue would have in South Korea, Taiwan, Australia, South by 26 per cent to 3,418 million increased by 11 per cent.
Africa, Russia, Romania, France, Italy and profit from operations, excluding The reported Group profit from and Saudi Arabia, while volumes were adjusting items, was up 37 per cent to operations was 23 per cent higher maintained in Malaysia, leading to an 962 million, mainly as a result of the at 3,572 million, up 24 per cent increase in market share.
inclusion of ST and Tekel in 2008, as if adjusting items are excluded.
All well as the benefits from exchange rate Lucky Strike volumes were up 9 per cent regions contributed to this strong movements.
This information is shown with good growth in Spain, Italy, France, result at current rates of exchange.
on the Quarterly analysis of profits.
Chile, Brazil and Argentina, partly offset Profit from operations, excluding by declines in Japan and Germany as a adjusting items, would have been result of lower industry volumes.
14 per cent higher at constant rates of exchange, with all regions up.
Group volumes from subsidiaries Percentage of Group profit per region were 715 billion, up 4 per cent, a combination of organic volume growth of 1 per cent and the benefit of additional volumes from the 2 acquisitions made 13% 32% earlier this year.
America-Pacific Europe The 4 Global Drive Brands continued their strong performance and achieved overall volume 14% 21% growth of 16 per cent.
Around Africa and Asia-Pacific a quarter of the growth was Middle East contributed by brand migrations.
20% Latin America British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 36 Business review
