Operating Review Business Review 2.3bn 896m Financial Review Investment Shareholder portfolio funds favourable rates, which generated ICG performed strongly in the past year, particularly in the 399m.
These facilities, together with the second half as credit conditions became more favourable for bank revolver of.
bn renegotiated in mezzanine investments.
December 2006 and 4 3m of private placements, brought our overall debt Core income was up 22 per cent to average size of 2 m. Our largest facilities to 2.4bn at 3 March 2008.
At 36m due to strong growth in net mezzanine loan accounts for three per that date the average maturity of our interest and fee income.
Despite a lower cent of the overall investment portfolio.
existing facilities was 5.8 years, well in level of capital gain realisations, profit excess of the average expected life of before tax reached 230m, up two per Equity investments were 438m at our loan portfolio.
cent from last years record level.
This 3 March 2008 or 8 per cent of the includes an increase in fair value of the overall portfolio 2007: 5 per cent.
This The cost of our new 500m banking financial instruments we hold for included 34m invested in the equity facility is higher than our existing lines: hedging purposes which is not tranche of ICG managed CDOs one per however, we believe that this will be more included in core income of 36m cent of the overall investment portfolio.
than offset by the higher pricing compared to a negative impact of 8m Our equity portfolio comprises 94 obtained on new investments.
investments with an average size of 5m.
Our largest equity investment in a Gearing at 3 March 2008 was 48 per portfolio company accounts for only Balance sheet cent on a net debt to shareholder funds one per cent of our overall investment Investment portfolio basis.
We use a conservative gearing portfolio.
At the end of the year our investment policy, determining our overall gearing portfolio totalled 2,306m, an increase of by assessing the appropriate leverage Capital position 32 per cent 556m from the prior year on our underlying portfolio composition.
In the second half of the year, we, 750m.
New investments for the year Permanent capital and long dated secured additional capital to continue amounted to 940m.
After repayments of debt funding underpins our long term growing our business and to take 609m, net new investments were 33 m. approach to investing.
advantage of the more favourable The strong appreciation of the Euro in investment climate.
In February 2008, relation to Sterling lifted the portfolio by With net debt of.
4bn at 3 March 2008, the Rights Issue raised 75m of new 244m.
The balance of 9m is due to the we had investment capacity of bn shareholder funds which, together with impact of impairments, rolled up interest through our balance sheet at the year the 2m of retained earnings for the and transfers to short term assets.
3bn through our Mezzanine financial year, brought total shareholder Funds.
As shown on Chart 5, the Euro is the dominant currency in our portfolio.
In January we achieved a BBB public In addition, we have successfully 68 per cent of our assets are Euro rating from Fitch Ratings, which increases increased our investment capacity via denominated, reflecting the strength of our financing options when the public the debt markets.
In March, we secured our franchise in continental Europe.
We will continue to a new three year, 500m banking facility, review our funding to enable the arranged by Lloyds TSB and the Royal Our investment portfolio includes continued growth of our business.
mezzanine investments of, 868m, accounting for 8 per cent of the portfolio This was in addition to the balance sheet see Chart 6.
This loan portfolio is well securitisation, completed in July 2007 at diversified with 89 investments of an : : Chart 15 Composition of portfolio Chart 16 Portfolio composition by asset type by currency 3% 1% 3% 10% 18% 15% N Euro N Pounds sterling 68% 81% N US dollar N Loan investments N Other European currencies N Equity investments N Asia Pacic currencies N Equity in ICG CDOs Source: ICG Source: ICG Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 Source: APER Operating Review Financial Review continued Fee income continued to expand our network of Income statement Fee income comprises fees generated offices and hire investment professionals Core income from arranging and underwriting to support our growth plans.
This Core income is the underlying profit mezzanine investments and those includes our first North American office, derived from our Mezzanine Investment generated by managing our Mezzanine in New York, opened in the first half of and fund management activities.
Fee income grew by this financial year.
consists broadly of net interest income 7 per cent to 57m, driven by strong and fund management fees, less related increases in funds under management We have also started an investment operating expenses, and is therefore in our Mezzanine and CFM activities see programme to build a scalable driven by pricing and the growth in our Chart 8.
This recurring income stream infrastructure platform, including a firm investment portfolio and third party has been growing as a proportion of wide information management system assets under management.
which will enable us to provide include the impact of capital gains on outstanding support to our investment investments, provisions for impairments, Fee income derived from our Mezzanine teams.
Our finance, tax, investor and other cyclical elements.
In the 2 Funds was up 58 per cent to 3 m, on relations, fund administration, human months to 3 March 2008, core income the back of a 3 per cent growth in Funds resources and loan administration teams increased by 22 per cent to 36m 2007: under management helped by the have all been strengthened in the past 2m due to strong growth in net appreciation of the Euro.
In the medium term this interest and fee income see Chart 7.
European Mezzanine Fund, which closed will result in improved efficiency across in March 2007 at 2.
Net interest income leverage, contributed a full year of Net interest income increased by 7 per management fees to profit for this As a result, headcount increased by 32 to cent to 62m due to growth in our financial year for the first time.
Fee 34 in the year contributing to the 3 per investment portfolio.
Our average income also included 8m in carried cent increase to 43m in salaries and portfolio based on month end values interest from our Mezzanine Fund 2000. benefits.
This figure includes one off was, 878m, up from, 6 0m in the short term joining incentives.
As a result interest and Fee income derived from Credit Fund expenses were up 38 per cent to 20m dividend income was up 20 per cent to Management was up 22 per cent to due to the costs of setting up and 237m.
Credit Funds under management running the new offices and professional 36m positive adjustment to the fair increased 20 per cent to 5.4bn up from fees on deals that we chose not to value of financial instruments held for 4.5bn at the end of last year largely due pursue, reflecting our disciplined credit hedging purposes, was up 28 per cent to Eurocredit VIII, which closed in approach.
The LIBOR and EURIBOR rates December 2007. were both around one per cent higher Accrued Medium Term Incentive Scheme on average compared with the previous Arrangement and underwriting fees were costs on rolled up interest are included in financial year.
This resulted in a higher 7m for the year 2007: 6m.
Rolled up interest accrues growth rate for interest expense on loans, loan stock and preference compared to interest income, given the Expenses shares, and is not paid until the loan is lower spreads we pay on our liabilities Operating expenses before the cost of repaid.
These incentive expenses accrue compared to those which we receive on the Medium Term Incentive Scheme when returns on rolled up interest exceed our assets.
increased from 47m to 63m, as we a contractual hurdle rate, giving rise to Chart 18: Fund management fee : Chart 17 Core income growth income growth m m 35 150 30 120 25 90 20 15 60 10 30 5 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Source: ICG Source: ICG CFM Mezzanine Funds 24 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating Review bonuses for our investment executives.
Net provisions relating to investments in Earnings and dividends per share Medium term incentive costs on rolled up portfolio companies were in line with last Earnings per share for the year were interest were 20m, up from 3m last years level of 35m and provided for 2 3.4p, up 0 per cent on last years year, reflecting the successful growth of potential losses on six investments.
Gross earnings per share of 94.0p adjusted our portfolio.
These bonuses are only provisions were 50m for the year up from for the Rights Issue.
The Board has paid out when rolled up interest, as well 38m in the previous year.
as the principal, have been repaid.
This would result in a full year dividend of We have also taken a provision of m 65.0p per share, up 8 per cent on last Gains on investments against the value of the equity invested years dividend of 55.0p adjusted for the Gross gains on investments of 35m in ICG managed CDOs.
We use market Rights Issue.
were below the record level of 97m assumptions provided by third parties to achieved last year, as the credit crunch determine the likely cash flows to be Financial outlook brought to an end the high level of exits received from these assets.
Market Capital gains are expected to decrease experienced in the previous two years.
As assumptions, principally default and due to lower realisations in the current a result, the portion of the Medium Term return assumptions, have been revised financial year.
In addition, we expect Incentive Scheme costs generated by across the asset class following the provisions to be higher given the capital gains on investments was also changes in the credit climate and the economic outlook.
However, ICG is lower, at 32m compared to 42m in the economic outlook, resulting in a lower experienced at managing its portfolio prior year.
valuation of our equity in CDOs.
At 3 through difficult markets, with an March 2008 the post provision value of excellent track record on defaults and Impairments the equity in the CDOs carried on the recoveries.
ICG provides against any investment, balance sheet was 34m, accounting for including rolled up interest, where, in our one per cent of the overall portfolio.
We expect net interest income to judgement, there is evidence of an increase further due to the growth in our impairment event that has had an Profit before tax investment portfolio.
Fee income will also impact on the estimated future cash Profit before tax for the 2 months to 3 continue to increase as we close the new flows.
This evidence depends upon the March 2008 was 230m, an increase of Asia Pacific and Minority Partners funds, specific investment, its country, sector two per cent over the prior year.
This although their contribution this year will and other factors.
ICG has a successful benefited from a 36m positive be limited due to offsetting fundraising track record of early intervention and adjustment of the fair value of the costs.
The rate of growth in our cost base subsequent recovery from impaired financial instruments we hold for hedging should decline as the major investments assets.
purposes versus an 8m negative in our network and infrastructure are well adjustment last year.
Profit after tax of under way.
Overall these factors should Whilst none of our investments defaulted 55m was up eight per cent, due to the positively impact growth in core income.
during the year, we have provided 6 m reduction in our effective tax rate from against possible future losses.
Recoveries 36 per cent to 33 per cent and the two We believe that ICG will be successful in amounted to 5m in the 2 months to per cent increase in profit before tax.
this cycle, as it has in previous cycles, 3 March 2008 2007: 3m, illustrating and we remain confident of achieving our successful history of recovering our objective to double in size every impaired assets.
This led to 46m of net five years.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25
