Group Finance Directors review Our growth in operating profit reflects Our cash position remains good at the year continuing progress in growing the end with Group cash and cash equivalents business and cutting costs.
This of 699 million and net cash of 243 million.
performance is supported by a good This is after spending 190 million repurchasing cash position giving us the flexibility our convertible bonds and paying 138 million we need to invest in our businesses.
in dividends to our shareholders.
The strategy of Europe, Asia & US to focus on We have completed our latest actuarial serving larger customers with higher margin valuation of the main UK defined benefit IP services, while actively removing lower margin scheme as at 31 March 2007.
We have applied customers, is the main reason for the fall in the most up to date longevity assumptions, Group revenue to 3,152 million.
In the second and following a contribution of 19 million, the half of 2007 08, Europe, Asia & US was back scheme is fully funded on an ongoing basis.
in revenue growth as strength in our strategic We are proposing a final dividend of 5.00 product sets offset declines in legacy services.
pence per share, which together with the Gross margin has increased to 1,609 million, interim dividend of 2.50 pence per share predominantly driven by mobile and broadband represents a 28% increase on the 2006 07 growth in International.
As a percentage of full year dividend, following on from a 30% revenue, gross margin has improved by three increase over the previous year.
The dividend percentage points to 51%, with Europe, was covered by earnings per share before Asia & US the main driver.
exceptionals which are up from 4.00 pence to 7.
The success of our cost cutting efforts can be seen in the 9% or 102 million reduction in Tony Rice the Groups operating costs before exceptional Group Finance Director and items, a major achievement.
Joint Group Managing Director, Central This year, EBITDA has increased by over 100 million to 605 million, mainly reflecting further progress in the turnaround of Europe, Asia & US and the portfolio effect of International where strong performances in Panama and Macau offset weakness in Jamaica.
Group operating profit has more than doubled to 247 million.
Our performance over the last 12 months shows were doing what we set out to do.
