36 BUSINESS REVIEW | FINANCIAL AND TREASURY REVIEW FINANCIAL THE PURPOSE OF THIS REVIEW IS AND TO OUTLINE KEY ASPECTS OF THE TREASURY GROUPS PERFORMANCE OVER REVIEW THE LAST YEAR AND OF ITS FINANCIAL POSITION.
KEY FIGURES ACCOUNTS underlying revenue growth, excluding Last year the vast majority of our the impact of acquisitions and disposals, Revenue shareholders opted out of receiving growth was also 3%.
communications in hard copy form.
Therefore, our main communication this Now that nearly half of our revenue is 3% year is through an online web 2.0 Annual generated from outside the Groups print Report.
We are still required to produce newspaper titles, we have changed the Operating pro t a printed version.
The main change this order of our segments to show our year is from the adoption of IFRS 7 business to business divisions before -2% Financial Instruments: Disclosures, those in consumer media.
The analysis of which has increased the length of the revenue by activity, illustrated in Graph 1, Earnings per share report to 164 pages.
We have also shows that the percentage of revenue produced a separate Annual Review from consumer media has fallen to 63% again, incorporating a summary set of from 73% in 2004.
Graph 2 shows the -3% financial statements as an alternative geographic split of revenue.
This shows for those shareholders who have chosen that 70% of revenue by source was to receive it.
generated by UK businesses, compared with 79% in 2004, but we estimate that This Financial and Treasury Review approximately 45% of overall Group focuses on the adjusted results to give income is derived from revenue invoiced a more comparable indication of the in US dollars.
A discussion of other OPERATING PROFIT items included in the statutory results The Groups operating pro t amounted is given after the divisional performance to 317 million, a decrease of 2% on the review.
The adjusted results are equivalent gure for last year.
This gure summarised below: is stated before charging 32 million as exceptional operating costs.
This charge comprised reorganisation, restructuring 2008 2007 Adjusted results m m Change and closure costs within Associated, Northcliffe and DMG World Media.
Revenue 2,312 2,235 3% Operating pro t 317 322 -2% The charge for amortisation of intangible Income from assets rose by 8 million to 90 million.
joint ventures The Group also made an impairment and associates 6 charge of 168 million, principally relating Net finance to more recently acquired regional media costs 55 41 -36% assets and to a number of consumer and Discontinued gift shows.
The charge also included a activities 1 write down of 14 million of the Groups Pro t before tax 262 288 -9% original investment in GLM, arising purely Tax charge 63 76 17% from the Groups IFRS transition election Minority interest 18 20 9% on 4th October, 2004 and matched by an equal and opposite credit to reserves.
Group pro t 181 192 -6% Adjusted The analysis of operating pro t by activity earnings Adjusted operating pro t before is shown in Graph 3.
This shows that the per share 47.9p 49.3p -3% exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of tangible assets.
percentage of pro t from business to business has risen from 33% in 2004 to REVENUE Underlying revenue or pro t is revenue or pro t on a like-for-like 60% this year.
The Groups revenue in the year of basis, adjusted for acquisitions and 2,312 million was 3% higher than the disposals made in the current and prior year and at constant exchange All of the Groups B2B divisions increased previous year.
their pro ts, by 24 million in total, growth from all of our divisions, other Percentages are calculated on actual despite economic conditions affecting than Northcliffe.
We estimate that numbers to one decimal place.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW | FINANCIAL AND TREASURY REVIE TITLE W C O on Ft P inA uG eE d 37 DMG Informations property businesses NET FINANCING COSTS Revenue invoiced in US dollars and DMG World Medias remaining 2008 2007 Movement consumer exhibitions.
The largest m m % 45% increase was at DMG World Media, Net interest of overall Group income is due to the full acquisition of GLM, but payable and derived from revenue invoiced on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for similar charges 75 70 -9% in US dollars.
acquisitions and disposals made in the Swap premia Business to business pro t year, its operating pro t rose by 8%.
The income 20 27 -26% events experienced by financial markets Dividend and institutions in September had no income 2 60% material impact on the years results.
The Total 55 41 -36% The percentage of pro t from average sterling: US dollar exchange rate B2B has risen from 33% in 2004 was unchanged over the year at US$1.97.
As the table shows, net interest payable and similar charges excluding swap In total, pro ts from the Groups premia but including deemed finance consumer businesses fell by 29 million.
charges and interest receivable rose by Associateds pro ts were lower, due to 5 million to 75 million due to higher the additional costs of full colour average net debt.
Income from tax printing, as a result of the new Didcot equalisation swap premia fell by 7 plant coming on stream, and promotional million due to market movements.
investment in the property and motors digital companies.
Northcliffe was badly Dividend income fell by 1.2 million due affected by the exceptionally challenging mainly to a reduced dividend from GCap advertising markets in 2008 as the Media plc which was sold in June.
impact of the credit crunch spread across the wider economy.
DMG Radio OTHER INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS Australia moved back into pro t. An exceptional gain of 10 million arose within income from associates on the Unallocated central costs were sale of the main business of Centurion substantially unchanged.
The Group overheads were offset by a lower recorded other gains and losses of nancing component as a result of the 28 million, compared to 36 million surplus on the Groups fide ned bene t last year.
This comprised mainly net pension schemes at the start of the year.
exceptional pro ts of 24 million on the sale of businesses and gains of 14 JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES million on the sale of surplus properties The Groups share of the results of and investments, offset by impairments its joint ventures and associates fell by of investments of 10 million.
5.6 million to 0.4 million re ecting the reclassi cation of GLM as a The Group recorded 68 million of subsidiary.
The main item is now DMG foreign exchange losses on hedges Radio Australias joint ventures which of intra-group nancing.
This foreign increased their contribution, but this exchange loss is excluded from adjusted was offset by our share of the losses of pro t because an equal and opposite India Today, a start-up venture.
credit is excluded from the adjusted tax charge.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX The statutory result was a loss before tax for the year of 68 million, after charging 68 million of foreign exchange losses on tax equalisation hedging transactions, which cause an equal and www.
com 2008 38 TITLE BUSIN O EF S P S R AG EE VIEW| FINANCIAL AND TREASURY REVIEW Continued Financial and Treasury Review continued GRAPH 1 REVENUE BY ACTIVITY % TO VIEW THE FINANCIAL AND TREASURY REVIEW ONLINE GO TO: WWW.
COM 2008 BUSINESS INFORMATION EXHIBITIONS LOCAL MEDIA BUSINESSREVIEW FINANCIAL EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL NATIONAL MEDIA RADIO ANDTREASURYREVIEW INVESTOR 50 40 30 20 10 0 04 05 06 07 08 GRAPH 2 REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA % NORTH AMERICA UK REST OF THE WORLD REST OF EUROPE 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 04 05 06 07 08 GRAPH 3 OPERATING PROFIT BY ACTIVITY % BUSINESS INFORMATION EXHIBITIONS LOCAL MEDIA RADIO EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL NATIONAL MEDIA INVESTOR UNALLOCATED CENTRAL COSTS 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 -5 -10 04 05 06 07 08 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW | FINANCIAL AND TREASURY REVIE TITLE W C O on Ft P inA uG eE d 39 opposite reduction in the tax charge, Graph 4 summarises the Groups GRAPH 4 CASH FLOWS amortisation and impairment charges sources of free cash ows and use of totalling 264 million and net those funds during the year.
The net DISPOSALS 141M DIVIDENDS -67M exceptional gains of 1 million.
cash in ow from operations, joint OPERATING INTEREST AND ACTIVITIES 371M DIVIDENDS -74M ventures and investment was 371 DEBT TAXATION -13M TAXATION million.
In general, the Groups pro ts REVALUATION -30M ACQUISITIONS -184M After allowing for the effect of are converted rapidly into cash and cash OWN SHARE CAPITAL exceptional and other items that are generation was strong across the Group, PURCHASES -88M EXPENDITURE -83M FX SETTLEMENTS -37M not expected to recur, the underlying with 100% of pro ts converted into cash.
600 The fall re ects tax reductions from The main acquisitions were GLM for 77 500 tax-ef cient nancing and increased tax million and the purchase of 27 million deductible amortisation in the US that of Euromoney shares, increasing the 400 are expected to recur.
Over the next few Groups stake to 66%.
The main 300 years the adjusted rate is expected to disposals were the Groups investment in remain at around this rate, but GCap Media plc, Hobsons European 200 eventually increase to around 30%.
graduate businesses, our North America 100 Home Interest shows and Dolphin There was a net exceptional tax credit Software.
The Group spent 88 million 0 Inflows 512m Outflows 576m of 148 million, being the write back on acquiring its own A Ordinary shares.
of prior year provisions, together with the 68 million tax credit on exchange The Groups interest cover, calculated differences on intra-group nancings.
as the ratio of adjusted pro ts before GRAPH 5 interest, depreciation and amortisation RATIO OF EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAX PROFIT AFTER TAX EBITDA to net interest payable, was 5.2 DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION TO NET INTEREST PAYABLE Adjusted pro t after tax and minority times this year, down from 5.8 in 2007 interests amounted to 181 million.
excluding swap premia, below the 7.0 The statutory after-tax result was Nil, Groups current target of six times.
The 6.0 re ecting the bene t of the exceptional Groups ratio of year end net debt to 5.0 tax credits.
EBITDA was 2.7 times, just above the 4.0 Groups target of 2.5 times.
The Groups 3.0 PENSIONS Standard & Poors credit rating remains 2.0 The Groups fide ned bene t pension at BBB.
1.0 schemes have moved from a surplus of 0 81 million last year end to a fide cit of Most of the Groups debt remains in 04 05 06 07 08 41 million at 28th September 2008 long-term bonds, the earliest of which calculated in accordance with IAS 19. is not repayable until 2013.
At the year This change is primarily due to a fall in end, the Group had 839 million of the market value of the schemes bonds due for repayment in 2013, 2018, GRAPH 6 assets, partly offset by a reduction in MATURITY PROFILE OF GROUP NET DEBT M 2021 and 2027.
It also had 70 million of the value attributed to its liabilities committed banking facilities available to 1,200 because of higher bond yields.
it until late summer 2009, 180 million 1,000 until September 2011 and 240 million CASH FLOW AND NET DEBT 800 until September 2013.
Consequently, the Net debt increased during the year Group has suf cient committed debt 600 from 951 million to 1,015 million, facilities to meet its foreseeable 400 an increase of 64 million.
It had surplus committed generated free cash ow of 164 million 200 facilities of 247 million at the year end.
which was used to pay dividends 0 and make share repurchases and 08 11 14 17 20 23 26 27 acquisitions, partly offset by disposals of investments and businesses.
com 2008 40 BUSINESS REVIEW| FINANCIAL AND TREASURY REVIEW Continued Financial and Treasury Review continued TREASURY POLICIES mainly of committed bank facilities and The following paragraphs are a bonds.
The bank facilities provide the summary of the treasury policies of the Group with exibility for operational Group and, where appropriate, of the requirements and acquisitions.
DMGT aims to have suf cient Overdraft facilities are also utilised.
liquidity to meet both operational and The bonds currently in issue consist of capital cash ows and to impose the four sterling Eurobonds.
Maturities of minimum cash constraints on the debt are maximised and spread in order management and operation of the to avoid the requirement for signi cant Group.
Financial instruments, including repayments at any point in time, as derivatives, are used by the Group in shown in Graph 6.
In September, the order to manage the principal financial Group renewed 420 million of bank risks that arise in the course of facilities with maturities of three to five business.
These risks are liquidity or years with no change in basic financial funding risk, foreign exchange risk, covenants.
Surplus funds are generally interest rate risk and counterparty risk.
used to pay down bank debt.
If The instruments are used within the temporary surpluses arise, they are parameters set by the Finance generally deposited in money market Committee of the Board, and are not accounts with banks that provide traded for a pro t. The Groups priority bilateral credit lines.
is to address the economic impact of financial risks using the most ef cient Covenants on debt instruments are or appropriate approach.
This may kept to a minimum, even if this results result in IFRS accounting volatility.
in marginally higher interest costs.
External finance is unsecured and is OVERVIEW usually an obligation of the Company The Group has adequate committed or its immediate subsidiary, rather debt finance to meet current trading than of trading subsidiaries.
Foreign exchange risk on operating management maximum transactions is not a large issue for the exibility to run the business without Group as the majority of its businesses the distraction of meeting short-term operate in the country in which they are nancing requirements.
In principle, the underlying currency of net debt after taking B FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK account of derivatives is managed in proportion to the EBITDA in each i Transaction Risk currency.
Over 40% of the Groups Most of the Groups businesses do not pro ts are earned from revenue billed transact cross-border: hence multiin US dollars.
The Groups foreign currency transaction risk is not assets are only partially hedged by its substantial.
The main exception is foreign currency debt and economically Euromoney which has net receipts in its earnings are most exposed to US dollars and net payments in sterling movements in value of the US dollar.
Euromoney has The Group aims to have 70% to 80% of a series of US dollar forward sale its debt at xed interest rates to reduce contracts in place up to three years the impact of interest rate uctuations.
forward to meet its sterling outgoings.
Other than in Euromoney there were A LIQUIDITY RISK no signi cant foreign currency forward It is the Groups policy to have suf cient contracts in existence that hedge surplus borrowing headroom such that revenues or costs.
Major items of its development is not constrained.
The capital expenditure in foreign currency Group is funded by a mixture of equity, are xed using forward currency debt and retained pro ts.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW | FINANCIAL AND TREASURY REVIEW Continued 41 Tax on non-trading exchange rate exposure.
This may result in not consistently, but will fide ne the movements is hedged, using cross obtaining IFRS hedge accounting.
medium-term target level of net debt.
currency swaps and forward currency Covenants on the Groups recently contracts.
The Groups internal C INTEREST RATE RISK renewed bank facilities are Net Debt: nancing structures give rise to foreign The Group aims to have approximately EBITDA of no more than 4:1 and exchange gain or losses which are 70% of forecast net debt to 80% of EBITDA: interest of no less than 3:1. either taxable or tax deductible.
Where target net debt as xed interest rate appropriate, the Group enters into liabilities.
It aims to achieve this ratio GOING CONCERN market derivatives to hedge this over the medium term and it is applied The Directors have continued to adopt exposure in economic terms through to each of the Groups main currencies.
the going concern basis for the Tax Equalisation Swaps TES.
However, The predictability of interest costs is preparation of the accounts.
This has IAS 39 prohibits TES from being shown deemed to be more important than the been done since, after considering net in the tax line and as a result possible opportunity cost foregone of relevant information, they have a increased volatility is introduced in the achieving lower interest rates.
reasonable expectation that the income statement.
This years pro t Borrowings are made in either xed or Company and the Group have adequate before taxation has been reduced by oating rates.
Interest rate swaps, resources to continue in operational 68 million 2007 10 million in relation cross currency swaps, and options are existence for the foreseeable future.
to these structures and tax payable has used to help attain the Groups target been reduced by a similar amount.
Both level of xed interest rate debt.
The Peter Williams have been removed in arriving at maturity dates are spread in order to Finance Director adjusted pro ts.
avoid interest rate basis risk and also to negate short-term changes in interest ii Translation Exposure rates.
At the year end, xed interest Borrowings are principally incurred in rate debt represented approximately sterling, with lesser amounts in US 80% of total net debt including options dollars and other currencies.
Generally, which are not treated as effective the proportion of foreign currency debt hedges under IFRS.
after allowing for any hedging instrument to total net debt is D COUNTERPARTY RISK managed to be approximately equal to Counterparties and their credit ratings the proportion of foreign EBITDA, are regularly reviewed by Group compared to total Group EBITDA.
The Group has counterparty is expected to continue.
A substantial limits for banks with long term credit proportion of non-sterling debt ratings of AA or better, and a lower liabilities are created through the use limit for single A rated banks.
Typically of foreign exchange derivatives which this is banks that extend credit facilities are treated as net investment hedges.
The Group does not The consequence of this policy is that expect any counterparties to be unable the Groups signi cant foreign earnings to meet their obligations.
are not hedged back to sterling.
E DEBT LEVELS iii Economic Exposure The Group currently aims to manage its A substantial proportion of the Groups nances such that the ratio of net debt value relates to foreign subsidiaries, in to EBITDA does not normally exceed the US in particular.
The foreign 2.5:1 and the ratio of EBITDA to net currency debt described above is only a interest costs is above 6:1.
It is believed partial hedge of this economic that this achieves close to the optimum exposure.
level of gearing for the Group, but leaves it with suf cient headroom iv Netting should it desire to increase its debt The Group may offset currency risks on levels without reducing the Groups trading, capital expenditure, tax and quoted debt below investment grade.
As borrowings and only hedge the net such the ratios will not be met www.
