Business review Financial Review Revenues Ukraine.
Rail tariffs increased by 76% Highlights The Groups revenue for 2008 increased during 2008 in local currency terms and by US$418.7 million to US$1,116.9 million, by 16% in US dollar terms.
reflecting growth of 60.0% compared with Revenue up by 60.0% 2007.
This strong performance was due to General and Administration costs include to US$1,116.9 million increased production of 65% pellets up one off charges as a result of the IPO in 241kt and better average pellet prices 2007 and reorganisation costs incurred EBITDA up by 104.8% which rose by 72.3% to US$124.6 per in the later part of 2008.
Excluding these to US$503.9 million tonne on a DAF FOB basis compared with one off items, these costs now reflect 1 US$72.3 per tonne in 2007.
Sales demand the new sustainable level post the Initial Underlying earnings up by reduced in the fourth quarter of 2008 and Public Offering.
129.0% to US$347.4 million sales volumes for the year were 8,711kt December C1 cash costs 2007: 9,261kt.
The proportion of sales of Other income and expenses our higher priced 65% Fe pellets increased Additional provisions for uncollectable of production US$34.7 t to 44.6% for 2008 from 40.7% in 2007. debts or slow moving receivables have 18.0% below 2008 average been made at the end of 2008, principally of US$42.3 t Costs and margins from customers in the CIS resulting from Free cash flow of US$300.3 C1 cost per tonne of pellets produced the downturn in the steel market increasing is the principal measure of operating costs in this area.
million performance of the business.
C1 cost is US$87.8 million of cash defined as the cash production cost from Currency translation available at year end own ore divided by the total volume of The functional currency of FPM is the production.
The majority of our C1 costs Ukrainian hryvnia.
It is required that the Dividend of 3.3 US cents are incurred in Ukrainian hryvnia.
C1 costs gains and losses on foreign currency per share are expressed in dollars using the weighted denominated operating assets that result average exchange rate which applied in from exchange rate movements are the year.
In 2008 we achieved an average recorded as a separate item in the profit C1 cash cost of production from own and loss account.
As a result of the ore of US$42.34 per tonne compared with weakening hryvnia FPM made gains US$31.79 per tonne in 2007. of US$29.3 million on foreign currency denominated net assets.
During 2008, C1 costs increased for the first 10 months of the year, principally as FPM has incurred foreign currency a result of domestic inflation, rising oil denominated financial liabilities to finance costs and increasing commodity prices, its expansion.
The assets acquired are particularly steel which is used in grinding valued in local currency at historical costs media.
In the later part of the year, costs and have not been revalued as a result of fell significantly as lower oil and commodity the weakening currency.
The associated prices fed through from our suppliers from revaluation of financial liabilities at the September onwards.
year end resulted in pre-tax losses of US$72.8 million.
The Ukrainian hryvnia depreciated during 2008 from 5.05 to the US dollar at the Write offs and impairment losses beginning of 2008 to 7.70 at the year end.
Investments by the Group in ATOL, an The majority of this decrease occurred oil and gas exploration company, and in November and December 2008.
As Stahanov, a rail car manufacturer have a result our C1 costs of production fell been reflected in the books at current significantly in December to US$34.7 per market value at 31 December 2008.
Due tonne from the peak of US$51.0 per tonne to the low level of the markets generally reached in October 2008. and the low values currently attaching to oil and gas companies in Ukraine, this Selling and Distribution and resulted in combined impairments on Administration Costs these assets of US$27.3 million.
Selling and Distribution costs represent principally the cost of freight in bringing the Negative goodwill goods to the domestic Ukraine border.
For During November and December 2008 certain sales, the Group incurs additional FPM exercised its call option to repurchase costs to bring the product to the customer.
6.2% of its issued share capital at a cost Selling and Distribution costs increased in of US$11.0 million from DCM Decometal 2008 on broadly flat volumes as a result International Trading GmbH DCM.
This of an increased proportion of sales made resulted in an increase in the Groups on CFR terms and increases in domestic ownership of FPM from 90.9% to 97.1%.
freight tariffs, principally rail tariffs in As a result the value of the net assets 22 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 previously owned by minorities was Balance sheet and cash flow Key relationships and credited to the profit and loss account The cash flow of the business is significant contracts of the Group in accordance with IFRS summarised in the table below.
The Group has several key relationships and resulted in US$35.0 million of and significant contracts which are critical negative goodwill.
The strong operating results increased to its business.
These include, but are not EBITDA by 104.8% to US$503.9 million, limited to, the Groups relationships with its Finance costs and borrowings reflecting an increase in EBITDA margin majority shareholder, customers, lenders Net finance costs reflect lower average to 45.1% in 2008 from 35.2% in 2007. and employees.
debt during 2008 and lower average LIBOR rates which attach to the majority of Net cash flow from operating activities Majority shareholder the Groups borrowing facilities.
In October, amounted to US$370.9 million in 2008 The majority shareholder of the Group the Group drew down all but US$5.0 2007: US$188.8m.
Net Financial is Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Fevamotinico, a million of its available financing in order to Indebtedness has increased to US$220.1 company owned by The Minco Trust, one ensure availability of funding.
This resulted million at 31 December 2008 from the low of the beneficiaries of which is Kostyantin in gross indebtedness of US$307.9 million, levels of indebtedness in 2007 Zhevago, the Groups Chief Executive leaving the Group holding US$87.8 million 31 December 2007: US$117.9 million.
At the time that this report was in cash and on deposit as at the year end.
Operating cash flow was invested in new published, Fevamotinico held 51.0% Under the terms of the Groups principal mining equipment for the existing of Ferrexpo plcs issued share capital.
loan facility a US$335 million pre-export operations amounting to US$70.6 million, Ferrexpo plc entered into a Relationship finance facility, it is required to repay and in the Yeristovskoye development Agreement with Fevamotinico, The Minco US$6.1 million per month in 2009.
At the project and stripping operations for the Trust and Mr Zhevago in June 2007.
2009 year end this facility will have partly GPL mine which together amounted to amortised and it will continue to amortise US$205.8 million.
Further detail and material terms relating through to December 2010 when it expires.
to the Relationship Agreement are available The Groups share buyback referred in the Groups Listing Prospectus dated In line with its treasury policy, the Group to above, together with distributions to 15 June 2007. currently places up to a maximum of shareholders of the Group, the payment of 50% of its surplus cash on deposit US$11.0 million for the repurchase of FPM Principal customers within Ukraine in US dollars depending shares from DCM and distributions to The Group sells approximately 50% of its on market conditions.
FPM minorities of US$1.2 million amounted production on the basis of long-term supply to $126.3 million in total.
contracts to its two largest customers, Taxation Voestalpine AG Voestalpine in Austria and The Group generates taxable income At the year end the Group held cash the Slovakian and Serbian operations of mainly in Switzerland and Ukraine.
The tax balances of US$87.8 million and had United States Steel Corporation USS.
The charge to profits in the year was 16.6%, undrawn credit facilities of US$5.0 million.
long-term supply contract with Voestalpine the same level as in 2007.
Full details of the expires on 31 March 2015, while it has been deferred tax movements are contained The Group entered into related party agreed with USS to extend that contract to in note 18 to the accounts.
transactions of a non revenue nature in 31 March 2013. the year and these are discussed in note Earnings 38 to the accounts.
As a result of the strong operational performance described above, underlying earnings increased by 129.0% to US$347.4 Year ended Year ended US$ millions 31.12.08 31.12.07 million 2007: US$151.7 million.
Along with the lower number of shares in issue EBITDA 503.9 246.1 following the share buyback, this improved Working capital movements 33.8 1.8 EPS significantly.
Fully diluted EPS rose to Net financial payments 15.4 24.0 48.46 US cents per share in 2008 2007: Income tax paid 67.2 32.0 20.33 US cents per share.
Fully diluted Movement in provisions and other non-cash items 16.6 0.5 underlying EPS was similarly higher at Net cash flow from operating activities 370.9 188.8 57.58 US cents per share in 2008 2007: Sustaining capital expenditure 70.6 49.8 24.86 US cents per share.
Free cash flow 300.3 139.0 Paid for received from: expansionary projects 205.8 54.6 Share repurchase Purchase of available for sale investments 0.3 12.1 In September 2008, the Company Loans to associates 4.0 5.0 repurchased 25.3 million of its own shares Distributions including to minorities and share repurchases 126.3 69.8 at an average price including applicable Net IPO proceeds 153.4 costs and duties of 170 pence per share.
Other receipts 2.5 10.2 Total consideration including costs Currency Translation Differences 68.9 0.5 amounted to US$77.3 million.
These Movement in Debt 102.5 160.6 shares are held in treasury.
23 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Business review Financial Review continued Lenders Mining risks and hazards The Group has entered into several loan The Groups operations are subject to risks agreements, but the facility that is critical and hazards, including industrial accidents, to the Groups business is the US$335m equipment failure, unusual or unexpected pre-export financing facility entered into geological conditions, environmental by the Group on 27 December 2006 as hazards, labour disputes, changes in the amended on 5 July 2007 with ABN AMRO regulatory environment, extreme weather Bank N. V. BNP Paribas Suisse S. A. and conditions especially in winter and other Socit Gnrale as arrangers, BNP natural phenomena.
Hazards associated Paribas Suisse S. A. as agent and security with open-pit mining include accidents trustee and certain other financial involving the operation of open-pit mining institutions as lenders.
Further details and rock transportation equipment and of this facility can be found in note 32 the preparation and ignition of large scale to the accounts, and in the Groups open-pit blasting operations, collapses of Listing Prospectus.
the open pit wall and flooding of the open pit.
In 2008 the Group had three fatalities, Employees compared with one in 2007 and one in 2006.
The employees critical to the business of While the Group is dedicated to the zero the Group are the members of the Groups harm objective, there is no guarantee, given Executive Committee, details of whom can the nature of mining operations, that other be found on page 9 of this Annual Report.
fatalities will not occur in the future.
The Group may experience material mine or plant Risks to our business shutdowns or periods of reduced production The Group faces several risks to its as a result of any of the above factors, and business and strategy, and management any such events could negatively affect the of these risks is an integral part of the Groups results of operations.
The Groups Executive Committee has put in place a Costs and reliance on State formal process to assist it in identifying and monopolies reviewing risks.
Plans to mitigate known Changes in costs of the Groups mining risks are formulated, and the effectiveness and processing operations could occur of and progress in implementing these as a result of unforeseen events and plans is reviewed regularly, in accordance consequently result in changes in with the Turnbull Guidance.
Despite the profitability or the feasibility and cost Groups best efforts to factor these known expectations in mining existing reserves.
risks into its business strategy, inevitably Many of these changes may be beyond the risks will exist of which the Group is Groups control, such as those input costs currently unaware.
controlled by Ukrainian state regulation, including railway tariffs, energy costs and The list of the principal risks and royalties.
In particular, the Group currently uncertainties facing the Groups business relies substantially on the rail freight that follows below is based on the Boards network operated by Ukrzaliznytsya, the current understanding, but because of the Ukrainian State-owned southern railway very nature of risk it cannot be expected to authority, for transportation of its raw be exhaustive.
New risks may emerge and materials and finished products.
Railway the severity or probability associated with tariffs for freight increase periodically, and known risks may change over time.
there can be no assurance that additional increases will not occur in the future.
Risks relating to the Groups operations Ukraine and Russia entered into a dispute Iron ore prices and market relating to natural gas in January 2009.
The The Groups business is dependent on the issues in dispute included the price to be market price of iron ore. Sale prices and paid by Ukraine for the use of Russian gas volumes in the worldwide iron ore market and the distribution of Russian gas across depend predominantly on the prevailing Ukraine to Western Europe.
The dispute and expected level of demand for iron ore, resulted in a two-week period in which the mainly from steel manufacturers, and the gas supply to Ukraine and Western Europe world steel industry is cyclical.
The dispute was settled on current economic environment, there is 20 January 2009, and resulted in Ukraine uncertainty regarding the iron ore price in being required to pay significantly more for both the short and long-term.
natural gas than was the case previously.
24 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 There can be no assurance that this is required to be repaid in equal to completion of these projects and the dispute will not recur.
As a result, increased instalments up to 31 December 2010.
The return on the capital invested.
gas prices will affect the Groups costs facility contains covenants relating to and, if gas supplies are disrupted in future Earnings Before Interest Tax Depreciation Government approvals of expansion for any substantial period of time, this may and Amortisation EBITDA as well as the The Group does not yet have all have a detrimental effect on the Groups normal long-term cover ratio requirements governmental approvals required to ability to conduct its operations.
associated with a pre-Export Finance implement its expansion projects.
The Group currently has sufficient the fact that none of the approvals that In general, the Ukrainian government has long-term contracts to meet these ratios have been applied for to date have been in 2008 shown itself to be willing to raise under all reasonable pricing assumptions.
refused, there is no guarantee that others the prices charged by its State monopolies There is a risk that cancellation of will be granted in the future.
In particular, above the level of inflation, although this contracts as a result of Force Majeure there are some small communities located has been addressed to a certain extent in events and or low price outcomes in on the proposed sites of the Groups the fourth quarter.
Together with high levels subsequent price negotiations would expansion projects at Yeristovskoye of inflation in the Ukrainian economy, these require the Group to seek the lenders and Belanovskoye.
Although the Group factors could have an impact on the permission to assign additional contracts considers that there is a low risk of Groups costs in the future.
to the lenders under this facility to meet difficulties being encountered in relocating certain ratios.
The Group is forecast to these communities, there can be no Logistics have sufficient liquidity to operate assurance of this.
The Group has identified potential logistics successfully throughout 2009 and 2010 bottlenecks that, if left unmanaged, could and to meet its required debt repayments.
Risks relating to operating in Ukraine adversely impact the ability of the Development projects require additional Ukrainian inflation expanded Group to distribute its products.
funding above the cash generation Ukraine has experienced very high inflation The Group has embarked upon a capabilities of the existing operations.
in 2008 as a result of high government programme of investing in its own railcars There is a risk that the banking crisis will spending and rapid economic growth.
and it is also considering investing in hinder the Groups ability to refinance the There are indications that Ukrainian barging capability and making further existing facilities before maturity to obtain inflation will be high again in 2009.
If not investments at its TIS-Ruda port facility for additional funding in the short and mitigated by devaluation of the Ukrainian dredging.
There can however be no potentially the medium term.
currency and efficiency improvements assurance that these investments will be this inflationary environment poses a risk sufficient to manage the bottlenecks that it Counterparty risk to the costs and profitability level of the has identified or that other bottlenecks will In the current economic climate, there is Groups business.
an increased likelihood of unrecoverable debts and customer and supplier credit Ukrainian economic and social risks Licences constraints and insolvency.
Financial Ukraine has been severely adversely The Group continues to monitor and instability on the part of the Groups affected by the global financial crisis review its commitments under its various counterparties could adversely affect and by continuing government instability.
licences, and continues to work to ensure its business.
The Ukrainian steel industry, the largest that the conditions contained within the industry in the country, has collapsed.
The licences are fulfilled or the appropriate Risks relating to the Groups strategy Ukrainian national currency, the hryvnia, waivers obtained.
Licences are critical Delays to major growth projects was informally tied to the US dollar and to the Groups operations, and there can The Group has placed its major growth artificially strengthened during the first half be no guarantee of their renewal or projects on hold.
This will delay any of 2008, to the detriment of the Group.
The reconfirmation in the future, nor that the substantial future increase in production Ukrainian government can now no longer Group will be able to obtain any additional by at least 12 months, and may cause afford to maintain the strength of the licences that it may require.
See also the Group to lose potential future revenues hryvnia because of the economic crisis Risk relating to the Groups strategy once iron ore markets recover.
and high Ukrainian inflation, which has Government approvals of expansion.
resulted in a significant weakening of the Expansion capital expenditure currency.
This will benefit the Group in Risks relating to finance Although not a risk in the short-term, that a large proportion of its costs are Exchange rate risk the Group is planning major expansion denominated in hryvnia, but it may result in The Group receives the majority of its projects once the iron ore market and business failures, repossessions and social income in US dollars.
A large proportion global economy stabilises, which will unrest in Ukraine due to extensive of the Groups costs are denominated in require the investment of significant capital.
borrowing in foreign currencies by the Ukrainian hryvnia.
The variation in the The Group has established procedures Ukrainian private sector.
This eventuality exchange rate between the US dollar to control, monitor and manage this could have an adverse effect on the and the Ukrainian hryvnia can affect the expenditure, and has appointed a Chief Groups business.
Monthly asset reviews occur on site, and investment risks are Ukraine remains politically unstable, and Refinancing risk periodically reviewed by the Board.
populist government and the absence of The Groups principal debt facility requires Notwithstanding these procedures, as strong leadership and policy-setting in the repayments of US$6.1 million per month in with all major capital projects of this kind, country could have an adverse effect on 2009 and in the first six months of 2010. there is a risk of insufficient controls and the Groups business.
From July 2010 the entire remaining facility cost overrun which could impact the time 25 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
