Finance Directors Review Benchmark measure In order to ensure consistency of reporting the group has, in common with other companies in its sector, identied a measure of benchmark profit from operations, profit before tax and earnings per share which it believes will aid in understanding its business.
Benchmark results are stated excluding the results of businesses sold or terminated in the period, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring charges, exceptional items, profits and losses on sale of investments, profits and losses on sale of businesses, goodwill impairment, gains from negative goodwill, share-based payment expenses and net fair value remeasurement adjustments to financial instruments but includes interest received from associates.
Revenue Group revenues grew by 10% to 645.1m 2007: 586.8m.
Excluding the businesses sold or terminated during the year, revenues increased by 16% to 634.0m 2007: 546.0m.
profit Benchmark profit before tax increased by 2% to 57.0m.
profit before tax increased to 34.0m from 16.4m primarily as a result of the impact of the high level of corporate activity and restructuring in the prior year.
Return on sales on a Benchmark basis decreased slightly to 9% from 10% reecting the sales mix of the group following the acquisitions made during the current and prior year.
The charge for amortisation of acquisition intangibles increased from 1.6m to 2.3m due to the impact of the acquisitions made during the current year and the full year impact of those made during the prior year.
Divisional performance Operating margins for both the Home Shopping and Educational Supplies divisions are discussed further within the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4, as are retention rates within the Home Shopping division.
Within Home Shopping, average order values increased to 43 2007: 41, reecting the continued progress of the division in an increasingly difficult market.
Within Educational Supplies, average order values were broadly comparable with the prior year at 200 2007: 201.
Within NRS, on-time collections and deliveries were 94% 2007: 95%, a slight decrease against the previous year.
In the coming year, renewed effort will be focused on maintaining and improving these service levels.
Taxation The groups effective rate of tax, calculated on a Benchmark basis, has increased from 25.2% to 28.3%.
The increase predominantly arises due to the lower rate of tax in the prior year which resulted from the resolution of a number of outstanding tax issues against which provisions were held.
The actual rate continues to be lower than the UK standard corporate tax rate, as a result of lower rates of company taxation in relation to the groups Hong Kong subsidiary and the utilisation of tax losses brought forward from prior periods.
Shareholder return and dividends Benchmark basic earnings per share were 48.72p compared to 50.05p last year.
Basic earnings per share were 28.42p in the year to 31 March 2008 compared to 18.06p last year.
The board has proposed a final dividend of 17.5p per share, a rise of 1.9p or 12% on last year.
The dividend for the year as a whole of 22.2p, a rise of 12% on last year, is covered 2.2 times by benchmark earnings.
Net assets Net assets amount to 129.8m, an increase of 7% on last year.
This is equivalent to 153p per share.
Share price The share price of Findel ranged from a low of 454.25p to a high of 784.5p during the financial year.
On 31 March 2008 the mid market price was 493.25p, giving a market capitalisation of 420m at that date.
co. uk 5 Cash ow The groups net cash from operating activities was an outow of 4.4m, compared with an inow of 17.5m in 2007.
This includes cash costs of 11.8m relating to the ongoing restructuring and integration of the Home Shopping businesses acquired during 2007 and 3.4m relating to the redevelopment of the Hyde site within the Educational Supplies division.
Additional contributions over and above the normal funding costs of the groups pension schemes increased slightly from 2.8m to 2.9m.
Tax payments also increased to 4.4m from 1.7m, principally due to the tax impact of one-off costs incurred in the prior year.
Net cash used in investing activities was 50.1m, the most significant element of which was the loan of 34.4m made to the groups associate company in support of its acquisition and integration of Choices UK.
Acquisition costs of 5.1m were also incurred during the year.
Net interest costs increased by 4.4m during the year, 2.7m of which arose due to the increased costs of borrowing.
Liquidity and funding The maturity and currency prole of the groups borrowings are shown in note 25 to the financial statements.
At 31 March 2008, 83% of the groups borrowings were drawn under long-term facilities, the earliest of which expires in March 2011, and there were undrawn committed facilities of 70.7m.
During the year, the group increased its revolving credit facility by 50m to 250m.
Treasury and risk management The groups treasury function seeks to reduce or eliminate exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks, to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
It does not engage in speculative transactions and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
It operates policies and procedures which are periodically reviewed by the board and is subject to regular audit control reviews.
Interest rate risk management The groups interest rate exposure is managed by the use of xed and oating rate borrowings, and by the use of cap and oor derivative arrangements, details of which are set out in note 26 to the financial statements.
The group also mixes the duration of its borrowings to smooth the impact of interest rate uctuations.
At 21.8m, net interest costs were 4.4m higher than last year.
This principally reects the full year impact of interest costs arising from the increased borrowings used to fund acquisitions made in the prior year, and the increased cost of borrowing.
The net interest charge was covered 3.6 times by benchmark operating profit, comfortably within our banking covenant.
Currency risk management An increasing proportion of the products sold through the groups Home Shopping division and the Educational Supplies division are procured through the groups Far East buying ofce.
The currency of purchase for these goods is principally the US Dollar, with a proportion being in Hong Kong Dollars.
The group has a policy of hedging these foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward exchange purchase contracts.
Borrowing risk The groups exposure to borrowing risk is managed by dealing only with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation.
Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could impact the performance of the group.
The group has a comprehensive system of risk management installed within all parts of its business to mitigate these risks as far as is possible, as described in detail in the Corporate Governance report on pages 16 and 17.
Home Shopping The Home Shopping division is signicantly impacted by movements in interest rates and the state of the wider consumer credit market.
Any adverse movement in interest rates could have a consequent adverse impact on the performance of the Home Shopping division.
The group undertakes appropriate interest rate hedging to mitigate this risk.
The Home Shopping industry is witnessing increased penetration of the market by internet based businesses challenging the historical dominance of catalogue based Home Shopping businesses.
The Home Shopping division has responded to this challenge and is fully e-enabled, leaving it well placed to respond.
During the year under review, 40% of all orders within our Home Shopping credit business were placed over the internet.
6 Educational Supplies The Educational Supplies division is inuenced by government spending on Education.
Any downward movement in government spending on Education may adversely impact the performance of the Educational Supplies division.
The government has reafrmed its continued spending priority on Education such that this risk is not perceived to be significant in the short term.
The Gershon report issued by the government suggested that significant savings were anticipated to be generated from Education spending through more efficient procurement techniques.
There is a risk that this expectation may lead to more pressure on prices and margins with an adverse impact on business performance.
As the Educational Supplies division is a large, efficient supplier of educational products, this may widen the opportunities available to the company due to its scale and efficiency.
Healthcare The NRS business is reliant on a small number of contracts for substantially all of its revenues.
There can be no guarantee that each of the contracts will be successfully renewed when the current contract terms expire.
However, the business is the market leader within the industry, and thereby it is well placed to renew its current contracts and successfully bid for any new contracts that are put to tender.
Finally, each of the groups trading divisions are dependent on third party carriers to distribute the groups products.
The group employs several carriers so as to spread this risk over a number of parties to avoid over dependence on a single carrier.
Exceptional costs Exceptional costs incurred during the year principally comprise the costs of the restructuring and integration of the Home Shopping businesses acquired during the prior year 11.8m and the costs relating to the redevelopment of the Hyde site within the Educational Supplies division 3.4m.
These costs have been reported as an exceptional charge against the operating profit of the respective divisions.
Loss on disposal of businesses Net losses incurred on the disposal of businesses in the year principally comprise the profit on disposal of James Galt & Co within the Home Shopping division 2.5m and the losses on disposal of non core businesses within the Educational Supplies division 3.0m, following the strategic review undertaken during the year.
Again, these costs have been separately reported against the operating profit of the respective divisions.
Share of profit of associate The groups share of the result generated by its associate decreased from a profit of 1m to a loss of 1.35m.
During the current year, interest income of 2.2m has been recognised on the loan of 34.4m advanced to the associate Pensions The groups dened benefit pension schemes had reduced deficits at 31 March 2008.
To improve the funding of these schemes, the group made voluntary additional contributions totalling 3.9m during the year.
The net deficit for all retirement benefit schemes was 8.6m 2007: 10.4m net of tax relief at 31 March 2008.
The deficit is equal to around 2% of the groups market capitalisation and can prudently be resolved over a period of time.
Accounting Policies and Standards The principal accounting policies used by the group are shown on pages 32 to 38.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding periods, other than as described in note 1.
Chris Hinton Group Finance Director www.
