14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 24 FINANCE DIRECTORS REPORT over 220 stores on retail parks that carry A1 consent Financial results and Halfords has completed 22 such transactions to Group sales for the 52 weeks to 28 March 2008 were date centred on such locations.
Ongoing demand for 797.4m 2007: 744.0m, an increase of 7.2% on the premium edge of town locations, allied to Halfords comparable period last year and representing a likedestination status, provides further potential from these for-like sales increase of 4.3%, where like-for-like sales activities and the Group expects a comparable level of are multi-channel sales and also those from stores that contributions, at approximately 4.5m, in the had traded for 12 months or more at the beginning of forthcoming financial year.
the financial year being reported.
Operating leases Gross profit at 402.5m 2007: 376.1m is 50.5% as a All of the Groups stores are occupied under operating percentage of net sales and compares to last years leases, the majority of which are on standard lease figure of 50.6%.
The 10 basis points bps dilution in terms, typically with a 15-year term at inception.
The gross profit per cent represents a further improvement Group has a total commitment under non-cancellable in the quantum of dilution, with reported margin dilution operating leases of 818.6m 2007: 809.6m.
in the first half of the year similar to the second half at 10 bps.
This improvement reflects effective trading Taxation strategies within each category, the flow-through of Far The taxation charge on profit for the financial year was East sourcing benefits and continued sales growth in 26.2m 2007: 23.5m resulting in a full year effective higher margin categories.
This tax rate has been driven by the treatment of intercompany loan notes Operating expenses as a per cent of revenue is 20 bps raised at the time of the Groups refinance in 2006. lower than last year at 37.8% 2007: 38.0%.
This With the reduction, from April 2008, in the rate of performance reflects our intention, measured over the Corporation Tax to 28% the underlying tax rate next near term, to contain our cost growth in line with the year will be around 29.5% and this rate reflects the growth in sales after absorbing the investment in  of depreciation charged on capital channel and pilot operations in each of stand-alone expenditure in respect of mezzanine floors and other Bikehut and Central Europe.
This goal has been store infrastructure and the closure of the convertible achieved in this financial year, which has seen loan note benefit.
continued improvements in store labour productivity and a slowdown in rental inflation more than offsetting Earnings per share costs associated with the introduction of new storeBasic earnings per share EPS, excluding exceptional based systems and the increase in administrative items, were 29.3 pence 2007: 26.6 pence, a year-onexpenses driven by the full year costs associated with year increase of 10.2%.
This level of EPS growth the Czech Republic pilot.
reflects the increase in earnings driven by a strong trading performance and the share buy-back Net finance costs before exceptional items for the year programme.
The increased charge for the year is attributable to the non-cash costs Capital expenditure associated with forward foreign exchange contracts Capital investment in the period totalled 29.5m 2007: and an increase in the cost of servicing debt as a result 23.9m.
The Group continued its focus on adding new of an increase in the weighted average rate of interest, selling space through expanding the store portfolio, which has been partially offset by an increase in opening 29 new stores, and closing five stores, interest income.
growing the portfolio from 426 to 450 stores.
This financial commitment underpins our strategy of Profit before tax was 90.2m compared with 80.9m in expanding the Superstore portfolio and developing and the prior year, an increase of 11.5%.
After adjusting for the 2.6m exceptional finance costs incurred in the rolling out new complementary formats with a further previous financial year, this year-on-year increase three stand-alone Bikehut stores opened during the becomes 8.0%.
year, taking the total to five.
As noted in last years report the Group continues to invest significantly in the Landlord contributions development of its infrastructure, particularly on the Halfords actively manages its store portfolio to national roll-out of new store systems.
This maximise value creation through generating cash, development successfully concludes the Groups making profits and reducing the ongoing rental charge.
ambitious programme to replace all of the core retail, Landlord contributions from the seven transactions operational and financial systems allowing the business completed during the year totalled 4.5m, in line with to concentrate its efforts going forward on the that reported last year.
While not requiring such realisation of the operational benefits these systems planning consent for its customer offer Halfords has provide.
24 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 25 On 3 April 2008 the Group announced that it had given Cash flow, net debt, and capital structure an irrevocable instruction to its brokers to continue the The debt facility now comprises a 180m five-year buy-back process during the close period up to a term non-amortising loan, falling due for repayment in maximum of 9.0m.
July 2011, with a 120m revolving credit facility.
Principal risks and uncertainties Total net debt at 28 March 2008 was 181.7m 2007: The Board considers risk assessment, identification of 180.0m and includes 12.3m 2007: 12.4m in mitigating actions and internal control to be respect of the head office finance lease.
fundamental to achieving Halfords strategic corporate objectives.
The Corporate Governance report on pages The Group continues to generate strong net cash flows to describes the systems and processes through from operations, which were 111.6m to 28 March which the Directors manage and mitigate risks.
The 2008 2007: 112.6m, representing 91.2% 2007: Board considers that the principal commercial and 98.4% of earnings before interest tax, depreciation financial risks to achieving its objectives are those and amortisation EBITDA and reflecting, in part, the identified below.
The Board recognises that the nature timing of Easter included a working capital outflow of and scope of risks can change and so regularly reviews 11.7m 2007: 4.5m.
The Group continues to invest in the risks faced by the Group as well as the systems inventory to ensure high levels of availability and range and processes to mitigate them.
Stock levels remain well managed, with the A COMMERCIAL year-on-year increase of 7.1% generating an improvement in stock turn after the necessary stock Economic and market conditions investment in new stores.
The economy is a major influence on consumer spending.
Trends in employment, inflation, taxation, Dividend and share buy-back consumer debt levels and interest rates impact Halfords remains strongly cash generative.
The consumer expenditure in discretionary areas and a Company is committed to both a progressive dividend number of the markets in which Halfords operates may policy and continued investment in the growth of the experience price deflation caused by technology business, both through organic development and other development.
Whilst many of the products that business development opportunities as they might Halfords sell are non-discretionary in their nature and arise.
predicting future trends is difficult, Halfords reflects the latest independently sourced estimates in its internal The Board is recommending a final dividend of 10.35 plans.
pence per share 2007: 9.50 pence per share, which, in addition to the interim dividend of 4.75 pence per Furthermore, international expansion not only provides share, generates a total dividend of 15.10 pence opportunities for sustainable growth and returns but 2007: 13.85 pence, an increase of 9.0%.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Competition Meeting the final dividend will be paid on 30 July 2008 The retail industry is highly competitive.
The Group to shareholders on the register at the close of business competes with a wide variety of retailers of varying on 13 June 2008. sizes and faces competition from UK retailers, as well as international operators.
Failure to compete with The share buy-back programme continues to progress.
competitors on areas including price, product range, During the year, Halfords purchased 9.5m of its own quality and service could have an adverse effect on the shares at a consideration of 30.3m, an average of Groups financial results.
319.6 pence per share, and in the period from June 2006 to 28 March 2008 the Group purchased 18.5m shares for 60.1m, an average of 325.6 pence per We aim to have a broad appeal in price, range and share.
With the completion of the 50m buy-back store format in a way that allows us to compete in programme, announced in June 2006, and in different markets and to use service as a point of accordance with the Boards intention to maintain an differentiation in each market segment.
We have an efficient capital structure and retain financial flexibility, established training infrastructure to ensure that our the Group has continued to use share buy-back as a colleagues receive ongoing product and service flexible tool in balance sheet management.
We track performance against a broad range setting an absolute target number of shares it is the of measures that customers tell us are critical to their Groups intention to operate key performance debt shopping experience, and monitor customer ratio indicators, consistent with optimising the balance perceptions of ourselves to ensure we can respond sheet and enhancing shareholder returns.
com Halfords Group plc 25 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 Finance Directors Report 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 26 FINANCE DIRECTORS REPORT continued Dependence on key management personnel Responsiveness to changing consumer The success of Halfords business depends upon its preferences senior management closely supervising all aspects of Some of the products that Halfords sells, particularly in its business, in particular the operation of its stores and the car enhancement category, are subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences.
Halfords has recruited the design, procurement and allocation of its experienced, knowledgeable colleagues who can merchandise.
Retention of senior management is identify and interpret trends and consequently respond especially important in Halfords business due to the in a timely manner to changes in consumer limited availability of experienced and talented retail preferences.
Some of the products Halfords sells, such executives.
as childrens cycles, face competition from alternative products such as games consoles and our colleagues If Halfords were to lose the services of members of its monitor developments in these areas.
senior management such as the Nick Wharton Chief Executive or Paul McClenaghan Director of Trading Reliance on foreign manufacturers and were unable to employ suitable replacements in a Halfords sources a significant proportion of the timely manner, its business could be adversely merchandise it sells in its stores from outside of the affected.
UK, either directly or via third-party suppliers.
Consequently, the Group is subject to the risks Our Remuneration Policy outlined on page details associated with international trade particularly those the strategies in place to ensure that high calibre which are common in the import of goods from executives are attracted and retained.
The Group also developing countries, including, but not limited to, operates a Talent Management process to help inflation, the imposition of taxes or other charges on individuals achieve their full potential within Halfords imports and exposure to different legal standards and and to ensure that appropriate succession plans are in the burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws place to meet the future needs of the business.
and changing foreign government policies.
Reputational risk Extensive research is conducted before the Group The Halfords name is a key asset of the business and procures product from any new country or supplier.
as the largest retailer in its markets, expectations of the The Groups strong management team in the Far East Group are high.
Failure to protect the Group's has been recruited from local nationals who reputation and brand could lead to a loss of trust and understand the local culture, market regulations and confidence.
This could result in a decline in the risks.
customer base and affect the ability to recruit and retain good people.
Information technology IT systems and infrastructure The Group has a Quality Assurance team and legal and In common with most retail businesses, Halfords is regulatory control processes both in-house and reliant on the reliability and suitability of a number of externally to advise and take action on existing and important IT systems where any sustained emerging risk management issues.
We continually performance problems, particularly with regard to store monitor loyalty to the Halfords brand through or warehouse and distribution systems, could independent surveys and seek through activities such potentially compromise our operational capability for a as Charity of the Year to contribute to society more period of time.
Our various Codes of Practice regulate our behaviour in our dealings with all stakeholders Extensive controls are in place to maintain the integrity including customers, suppliers and colleagues and the of our systems and to ensure that systems changes are Corporate and Social Responsibility report details the implemented in a controlled manner.
Halfords key Groups attitudes toward such areas as the environment and ethical trading.
trading systems are hosted within a secure data centre operated by a specialist company remote from our Head Office.
These systems are also supported by a number of disaster recovery arrangements including a comprehensive back-up strategy and access to a further data centre elsewhere in the UK in case of a major incident.
26 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 27 The position is regularly reviewed and the Groups B FINANCIAL policy of hedging at least 40% of the following years forecast interest rate exposure is satisfied for the Treasury policy period ending 3 April 2009.
As at 28 March 2008, The Groups Treasury Policy is structured to ensure that 99.3m 2007: 97.3m of net debt was at a adequate financial resources are available for the floating rate.
development of its business whilst managing its currency, interest rate and counterparty credit risks.
Counterparty credit risk The Groups treasury strategy, policy and controls are The Group actively manages its relationships with a approved by the Board.
panel of high quality financial institutions.
Credit risk is controlled by the treasury function setting counterparty The main elements of treasury activity and associated credit limits by reference to published rating agency risk are outlined below: credit ratings and the Corporate Default Swap market.
Funding All such counterparties, which constitute the The treasury function arranges sufficient secure syndicated bank group, have maintained at least an A financial resources to enable the Group to meet its credit rating since the time of the facility agreement.
medium-term business objectives, whilst arranging The Treasury Policy recognises that an exposure to a facility maturities appropriate to its projected needs.
counterparty arises in relation to investments, The Group has a syndicated five-year term facility derivatives and financial instruments.
totalling 300m of committed bank facilities, comprising a non-amortising five-year term loan of Nick Wharton 180m and a revolving credit facility of 120m, which, Finance Director together with cash surpluses, provide adequate funding for the Groups operations.
4 June 2008 Currency The Groups main currency translation exposure is limited to movements in exchange rates to the extent that they affect balances held on its currency bank accounts.
Foreign currency bank balances are controlled by the Treasury function and are actively managed to a level that minimises currency translation exposures.
The Groups main currency exposure is its transaction exposure through movements in exchange rates on its purchases overseas that are not denominated in sterling.
These are mainly imports from Asia denominated in US dollars and imports from Europe denominated in euros.
The Treasury Policy sets out a framework through which the majority of the Groups forecast foreign currency transactions are hedged.
Interest The Groups bank term debt carries a variable rate of interest linked to prevailing LIBOR rates.
In conjunction with the new syndicated loan facility and, in order to mitigate the risk of a rise in UK interest rates, the Group has an interest rate swap, which mirrors rollover dates and the maturity profile of the term loan that matures on 13 July 2011.
As at 28 March 2008, 50% 2007: 45% of bank debt position carried a fixed rate of interest and the weighted average pre-tax cost of debt was 5.9% 2007: 5.6%.
com Halfords Group plc 27 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 Finance Directors Report
