BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GAS BURSTING SAFETY ASSET DETECTION DISCS INTERLOCKS MONITORING Market trends and growth drivers Research published in 2007 suggests that the global market for Gas Detection products was 1 350m in 2005, estimated to reach 486m in 2012.
Demand for gas detection products in the developed world remains robust, supported by a relatively high proportion of aftermarket sales.
The adoption of enhanced safety standards in the developing economies will drive additional demand.
Internal data suggests Bursting Disc market growth of about 4% annually with higher rates in 2 the developing world.
Market conditions for our Safety Interlock businesses were broadly favourable during 2007 08 with particular buoyancy in the global oil and gas market and in the supply chain supporting the expansion of utilities in China and India.
Customers are placing orders earlier in the project cycle to lock in supplies and ensure on-time delivery.
Industrial safety is not yet fully embedded in Asian legislation but is often driven by engineering best-practice adopted from developed countries.
Europe leads the world in worker protection.
Signs that the USA is moving towards European industrial safety practice are favourable to us.
We estimate that the global market niches for Asset Monitoring that our businesses serve is 2 150m: we expect to see an average annual growth rate of 8% to 10%.
Rising global demand for closer monitoring of energy usage and for capturing data relating to high value or sensitive infrastructure assets, offers excellent growth prospects.
This sub-sector was strengthened by the acquisition of Sonar Research & Development SRD in October 2007.
SRD has been fully integrated within our existing Tritech subsea technology business.
Sector strategy To grow our Gas Detection business against strong global competition we have a dual strategy of a regular stream of new products and relentless cost reduction of existing ones.
From our new base in China we will design and manufacture for the local market and source components for our UK manufacturing base.
We have set up a design resource in India to accelerate new product development.
Our strategy for Bursting Disc growth is to capture significant market share in both developed 3 markets and the high growth BRIC economies.
We have set up new distribution agreements in Russia and South America, and are exploring expansion opportunities in China and India.
Market share gains can also be achieved through superior customer service and we have an active capital investment programme to improve our manufacturing capabilities.
For Safety Interlocks, we aim to protect our strong market position and drive sales growth by increased investment on new product development and establishing a sales and operational presence in developing markets.
Leading edge technological innovation is less critical in the safety interlocking market than the ability to adapt existing technology to solve new problems.
Customers will pay premium prices in return for responsive sales and engineering support and reliable deliveries.
Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 25 DIRECTORS REPORT Sector review continued Industrial Safety Our Asset Monitoring business is positioned to satisfy growing worldwide demand for remote monitoring of valuable or safety-critical assets particularly those in hazardous or remote locations.
Our companies work closely with customers to develop solutions based on customer need rather than technological advancement.
We will continue to integrate wireless data capture and communications technology, originally developed for water network management, into other Halma sub-sectors.
For example, a unique wireless-monitored bursting disc was recently launched.
This strategy of inter-company collaboration and technology exchange has the potential to add value to existing and future products across the Group.
Sector performance Gas Detection revenue and profit grew above market rates.
Revenue grew most strongly in export markets, notably in the USA, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
Our concentration on global expansion of our Bursting Disc sales channels resulted in record revenue and profit with growth rates above the market level.
We achieved record revenue and profit from our Safety Interlock businesses with particularly strong growth in Germany and Asia and in those businesses serving the oil and gas markets.
Our Asset Monitoring businesses performed well in 2007 08 benefiting from a particularly good performance from our subsea business, Tritech, acquired in late 2006.
SRD, acquired in October 2007, was successfully integrated into the Tritech group of companies.
Frost & Sullivan, World Gas Sensors, Detectors, Analyzers 2.
Internal market analysis including condential market sources 3.
BRIC economies Brazil, Russia, India and China SECTOR OUTLOOK The major demand drivers in our Industrial Safety markets are relatively resilient.
There is a worldwide progression towards better protection for industrial workers and increasing safety regulation in all types of workplace.
Businesses have to comply with safety legislation even during an economic downturn.
Underpinned by relatively non-cyclical demand drivers, our Industrial Safety businesses have the qualities to maintain growth and outperform the market.
Our strategy of new product investment, additional sales ofces, and significant investment in manufacturing improvements should ensure that we continue to achieve healthy organic growth in 2008 09.
com Each year there are 270 million work accidents and almost 2.2 million work-related fatalities worldwide, costing US$1,250 billion in lost production International Labour Organization, Safety in Numbers, 2003 Shanghai, China Halma interlock safety systems at the Alcoa Shanghai Aluminium Products Co Ltd factory in China ensure that workers can only access potentially hazardous aluminium foil production machinery under safe conditions.
Our trapped key interlocks ensure safety in industrial environments by forcing machine operators through a sequence of safe actions.
Halma safety interlocks were recommended by Alcoa engineers in Australia.
They are easy to use and protect our employees from hazards.
I would certainly recommend them to other companies.
Li Hongbing Secure Engineer, Alcoa Shanghai Aluminium Products Co Ltd Aluminium plant Halmas making a difference
