FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated cash flow statement At 1 March 2008 For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 1 March 3 March 52 weeks Short period 2008 2007 ended ended Notes m m 1 March 3 March 2008 2007 ASSETS Notes m m Non-current assets Cash ows from operating activities Goodwill 15 1,922.7 1,878.9 Cash generated from operations 34 564.2 620.9 Other intangible assets 16 83.7 73.4 Interest received 18.7 13.6 Property, plant and equipment 17 731.8 691.6 Interest paid 3.6 51.4 Investment in joint ventures and associates 18 7.7 9.2 Tax paid 95.1 101.6 Deferred tax assets 27 46.6 74.4 Trade and other receivables 20 4.8 18.0 Net cash in ow from operating activities 484.2 481.5 Retirement bene t assets 25 83.7 9.3 Cash ows from investing activities Other financial assets 26 14.2 8.5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 176.3 134.1 Total non-current assets 2,895.2 2,763.3 Proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment 3.4 3.8 Purchase of intangible assets 35.0 28.3 Current assets Loan to joint venture 8.1 Inventories 19 1,004.8 906.4 Disposal of subsidiary net of cash disposed 3.8 Trade and other receivables 20 597.8 569.4 Purchase of investments 8.7 Current tax assets 16.9 3.0 Disposal of investment 3.9 Other financial assets 26 4.3 Acquisition of businesses 7 41.4 Cash and cash equivalents 21 174.0 283.8 Net cash used in investing activities 254.1 170.5 Total current assets 1,797.8 1,762.6 Cash ows from nancing activities Total assets 4,693.0 4,525.9 Purchase of own shares 29 6.1 Proceeds from the exercise of share options 29 2.3 LIABILITIES Repayment of amounts to GUS plc 50.3 Non-current liabilities Repayment of finance leases 0.1 1.2 Trade and other payables 22 41.3 34.0 Repayment of loans 225.0 Provisions 24 72.6 57.1 Home Retail Group share of GUS plc final dividend 62.0 Deferred tax liabilities 27 67.4 44.8 Dividends paid 13 118.9 34.6 Total non-current liabilities 181.3 135.9 Net cash used in nancing activities 341.7 154.2 Current liabilities Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 111.6 156.8 Trade and other payables 22 1,089.5 1,025.1 Loans and borrowings 23 223.6 Movement in cash and cash equivalents Provisions 24 26.1 25.2 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 21 283.8 130.0 Other financial liabilities 26 2.8 2.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.8 3.0 Current tax liabilities 48.1 35.2 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 111.6 156.8 Total current liabilities 1,166.5 1,311.3 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 21 174.0 283.8 Total liabilities 1,347.8 1,447.2 Net assets 3,345.2 3,078.7 EQUITY Share capital 28,29 87.7 87.7 Merger reserve 29 348.4 348.4 Other reserves 29 3.9 11.4 Retained earnings 29 3,602.0 3,350.8 Total equity 3,345.2 3,078.7 The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 30 April 2008 and were signed on its behalf by: Terry Duddy, Chief Executive Richard Ashton, Finance Director 82 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Analysis of net cash debt Notes to the financial statements At 1 March 2008 For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 1 March 3 March 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION 2008 2007 Home Retail Group plc the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of Home Retail Group the Group, is a public limited company Non-GAAP measures Notes m m incorporated and domiciled in England under the Companies Act 1985 and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Home Retail Group is a home and general Financing net cash: merchandise retailer.
These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 30 April 2008.
Cash at bank and in hand 21 174.0 283.8 Statement of compliance Loans and borrowings 23 223.6 The consolidated financial statements of Home Retail Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Total nancing net cash 174.0 60.2 and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union.
They also comply with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
Operating net debt : Property leases 3,057.1 2,920.1 2.
BASIS OF PREPARATION Previously, Home Retail Group then part of GUS plc prepared its financial information for the financial year for the 12 months to 31 March except for the Total operating net debt 3,057.1 2,920.1 results of Homebase which were included for the 12 months to 28 or 29 February each year, with adjustments to re ect the balance sheet movements in Total net debt 2,883.1 2,859.9 cash to the end of March.
This was done to facilitate comparability of the income statement by avoiding the distortions that would arise relating to changes in the timing of Easter.
In order to align the year-end across the Group, the Board of Directors decided to amend the Groups financial year to a 52-week Deduct: period ending on the Saturday closest to the end of February.
Therefore, following the change of accounting reference date in the prior period, the audited Operating leases that are off balance sheet 3,057.1 2,920.1 accounts have been prepared for the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 with comparatives for the short period ended 3 March 2007.
Unless otherwise stated, references to 2007 within the notes to the financial statements are for the short period 1 April 2006 to 3 March 2007.
Total net cash re ected in balance sheet 174.0 60.2 The Group consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
They are prepared on the historic cost basis modi ed for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated The Group uses the term net cash debt which highlights the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other financial institutions together with financial statements are set out in note 3.
Unless otherwise stated, these policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented.
debt-like liabilities, notably property leases.
The capitalised value of these property leases is 3,057.1m 2007: 2,920.1m based upon discounting the current rentals at the estimated current long-term cost of borrowing of 5.3% 2007: 5.4%.
Group reorganisation Home Retail Group demerged from its parent company, GUS plc, with effect from 10 October 2006.
Shares in Home Retail Group were admitted to the Of cial List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities on 11 October 2006.
All Home Retail Group companies which were owned by GUS plc prior to demerger were transferred under the new ultimate parent company, Home Retail Group plc, prior to 11 October 2006.
The introduction of this new ultimate holding company constituted a group reconstruction and was accounted for using merger accounting principles.
Therefore, although the Group reorganisation did not become effective until 10 October 2006, the comparative gures in the consolidated financial statements of Home Retail Group are presented as if the current Group structure had always been in place.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the ultimate Parent Company Home Retail Group plc, entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of its interests in joint ventures and associates.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity whose operating and nancing policies are controlled by Home Retail Group plc.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control was transferred to Home Retail Group.
Subsidiaries cease to be consolidated from the date that Home Retail Group no longer has control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Home Retail Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are entities in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other interested parties under a contractual agreement.
Associates are entities over which Home Retail Group has signi cant in uence but not control.
The equity method is used to account for investments in joint ventures and associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
Home Retail Groups share of net assets of its joint ventures and associates are included on the Group balance sheet.
Home Retail Groups share of its joint ventures and associates post-acquisition pro ts or losses are recognised in its income statement.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying value of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in a joint venture or associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Business combinations Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of business acquisitions is the aggregate of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, equity instruments issued by the acquirer and any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The cost of a business combination is allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the acquirees identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria at their fair values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
Intangible assets are recognised if they meet the fide nition of an intangible asset contained in IAS 38 and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identi able net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
84 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 2.
BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED The expected return on plan assets is calculated by reference to the plan investments at the year-end and is a weighted average of the expected returns on Changes in accounting standards each main asset type based on market yields available on these asset types at the year-end.
A number of new standards, amendments and interpretations are effective for the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008, but have had no material impact on the The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to determine the present value of estimated results or the financial position of the Group.
future cash out ows expected to be required to settle the fide ned bene t obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures and the complementary amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements Capital disclosures, the market yields of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the bene ts will be paid, and that have terms to maturity introduces new disclosures relating to financial instruments and does not have any impact on the classi cation and valuation of the Group or Companys consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for fide ned bene t obligations and pension costs are financial instruments or the disclosures relating to trade and other payables.
based in part on market conditions at the relevant year-ends and additional information is disclosed in note 25.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 and IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions have not had any impact on the recognition of share-based Goodwill payments in the Group.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs at the level of each business segment.
The recoverable amount of each of the business segments is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculation are those regarding discount rates, growth rates IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment have not had any impact on the Group.
as well as expected changes to costs and selling prices in the period.
Management have estimated the discount rate taking account of the speci c risks At the balance sheet date a number of IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations were in issue but not yet effective.
inherent within the Groups retail businesses.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past experience and expectations of future change in the markets.
These calculations use cash ow projections based on financial plans approved by management looking forward up to five years.
Cash ows The Group has not early-adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
It is not are extrapolated using estimated growth rates beyond the plan period.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations, which management believes anticipated that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, but this standard will be fully are appropriate for both retail businesses, are: considered in due course.
a real growth rate of 2.25% 2007: 2.25% has been used to extrapolate cash ows beyond the plan period: and The Group has not early-adopted the revision to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
It is not anticipated that the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, but this standard will be fully a post-tax discount rate of 7% 2007: 7% applied to the cash ow projections which equates to a pre-tax rate of approximately 10% 2007: 10%.
Impairment of assets The Group has not early-adopted IFRS 2 Amendment Share-Based Payments amendment relating to vesting conditions and cancellations, which is Assets are subject to impairment reviews whenever changes in events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
Assets are written effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, as the amendment has yet to be endorsed by the EU.
Application of this amendment down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting the expected cash ows from the asset at an in the current period would not have had a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, but the materiality of its impact in future years is appropriate discount rate for the risks associated with that asset.
This includes estimates of both the expected cash ows and an appropriate discount rate uncertain, as it is dependent on the level of cancellations of options by participants in each period.
The amendment to this standard will be fully considered which use managements assumptions and estimates of the future performance of the asset.
Differences between expectations and the actual cash ows in due course.
will result in differences in the level of impairment required.
Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations are effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
It is not anticipated that the adoption of this Provisions standard will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, but this standard will be fully considered in due course.
Provisions have been estimated for onerous leases, self insurance and other liabilities.
These provisions represent the best estimate of the liability at the balance sheet date, the actual liability being dependent on future events such as trading conditions at a particular store or the incidence of insurance claims A revision to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
It is not anticipated that the against the Group.
Expectations will be revised each period until the actual liability arises, with any difference accounted for in the period in which the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, but this standard will be fully considered in due course.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 but will not have any impact on the Group.
Inventory provisions IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes and IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value which requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of goods to customers in the Interaction are effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008 and 1 January 2008 respectively.
It is not anticipated that the adoption of these future.
Any difference between the expected and the actual sales price achieved will be accounted for in the period in which the sale is made.
interpretations will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, however, these will be fully considered in due course.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Critical accounting estimates and assumptions Revenue recognition The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax, rebates, discounts and returns.
assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgement at Revenue is recognised as follows: the date of the financial statements, will, by fide nition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and future periods where appropriate.
The estimates and Sale of goods assumptions that have a signi cant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are Revenue is recognised when the signi cant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be discussed below: measured reliably.
Revenue on goods to be delivered is recognised when the customer accepts delivery.
The Group operates a variety of sales promotion schemes that give rise to goods being sold at a discount to the standard retail price.
Revenue is adjusted to show sales net of all related discounts.
Taxes Commissions receivable on the sale of services for which the Group acts as agent are included within revenue.
A provision for estimated returns is made The Group is subject to taxes in a number of jurisdictions.
Signi cant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes as there are many representing the pro t on goods sold during the year which will be returned and refunded after the year-end.
transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially Interest income recorded, such differences will impact the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such Interest income on customer store card accounts and loans is recognised as revenue on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Foreign currency translation Pension bene ts Functional and presentation currency The present value of the fide ned bene t obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The consolidated financial information is presented in sterling, which is the Groups functional and presentation currency.
Items included in the The assumptions used in determining the fide ned bene t obligations and net pension costs include the expected long-term rate of return on the relevant plan financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact the amounts disclosed in the Groups balance sheet and income statement.
86 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 3.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Property, plant and equipment Transactions and balances Property, plant and equipment are held at cost being the purchase price and other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into use less accumulated Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets depreciation and any impairment in value.
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis as follows: monetary items are taken to the income statement with the exception of differences on transactions that are subject to effective cash ow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are included in either equity or the income statement freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: as appropriate.
leasehold premises are depreciated over the period of the lease: Group companies plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated over two to 10 years according to the estimated life of the asset: The results and financial position of overseas Home Retail Group entities are translated into sterling as follows: equipment on hire or lease is depreciated over the period of the lease: and assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: land is not depreciated.
income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the period: and The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
Receivables On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to equity.
Tax charges and credits Trade attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the balance sheet, with the cost of unrecoverable trade receivables recognised in the income statement Goodwill immediately.
Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identi able net assets of Financial services a subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are attributed to the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent The gross margin from the sale of a retail product on extended credit terms is recognised at the time of the sale of the retail product.
The finance charges liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, re ecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting relating to the sale of financial services are included in the income statement as and when instalments are received.
Income under instalment agreements policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in the carrying is credited to the income statement using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its amount of the investment.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment.
recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash ow discounted at the original effective interest rate, and continues to recognise the unwinding of An impairment charge is recognised where the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of the assets fair value less costs the discount as interest income.
to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use calculations are performed using cash ow projections discounted at a rate taking account of the speci c risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity Inventories sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost bases in use within the Group are general retail goods valued on a standard cost or weighted average basis which approximates to actual cost.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, Other intangible assets less applicable variable selling expenses.
Costs of inventory include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying cash ow hedges relating Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill, if those assets are separable and their fair value to their purchase.
Intangible assets acquired separately from the acquisition of a business are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a number of criteria are satis ed.
These include the technical Cash and cash equivalents feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and how the Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of asset will generate probable future economic bene t. three months or less and bank overdrafts.
The cost of other intangible assets with nite useful economic lives is amortised over that period.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for Borrowings and borrowing costs impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, they are written down to the All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
Borrowings higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value and other borrowing costs is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the speci c software.
Computer software Deferred taxation licences are held at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of Deferred taxation is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts.
However, identi able and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic bene ts beyond one year, are recognised as intangible if the deferred taxation arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five years.
Costs associated with transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable pro t or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates developing or maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro t will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred taxation is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
88 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 3.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement Provisions Financial assets and liabilities are those designated at fair value through the income statement.
Derivatives are generally designated as hedges.
Items in this Provisions are recognised when: category are classi ed as current assets or current liabilities if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: Loans and receivables it is more likely than not that an out ow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the the amount has been reliably estimated.
Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classi ed as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are included in trade Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an out ow will be required and other receivables in the balance sheet.
in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an out ow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by Available-for-sale discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classi ed in any of the other categories.
They are the risks speci c to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is certain.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Provisions are made for onerous lease contracts for stores that have closed or where a decision to close has been announced, and for those stores where Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the projected future trading revenue is insuf cient to cover the lower of exit cost or value-in-use.
the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as cash ow hedges.
Provisions are also made for legal claims, restructuring costs and estimated cost of claims incurred by the Groups captive insurance company but not settled at the balance sheet date.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether Operating leases the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash ows of hedged items.
Movements on the hedging Leases in which a signi cant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classi ed as operating leases.
Payments made under reserve in equity are shown in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the life of the lease.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any Employee bene ts changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of fide ned bene t pension plans is the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation at the balance rate swaps hedging xed rate borrowings is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
Changes in the fair value of the hedged xed rate sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service costs.
The fide ned bene t borrowings attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected-unit credit method.
The present value of the fide ned bene t obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash out ows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest in which the bene ts will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
method is used is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the consolidated statement of Cash ow hedges recognised income and expense.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the The cash ow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposures of the future purchases of inventory.
The effective portion of changes in the fair employees remaining in service for a speci ed period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges are recognised in equity.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion would be over the vesting period.
recognised immediately in the income statement.
The hedged cash ow is expected to occur up to one year into the future and will be transferred to the consolidated income statement via inventory carrying value as applicable.
Catalogue costs Costs incurred during the production of the Groups catalogues are deferred on the balance sheet net of any associated advertising revenue and marketing Fair value estimation support until the catalogue is launched, at which point the net deferred cost is charged to the income statement.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in organised active financial markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial Dividends liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments for which there is no quoted market price is determined by a variety of methods Dividends recommended by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved incorporating assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid.
Final dividends are instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash ows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining recognised in the financial statements when they are approved by the shareholders.
Insurance The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less Certain of the Groups insurances are handled by the Groups captive insurance company, Global Guernsey Limited, which accounts for all insurance business estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated on an annual basis and the net consolidated result is dealt with as part of the operating costs in these accounts.
Insurance premiums in respect of insurance by discounting the future contractual cash ows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
placed with third parties and reinsurance premiums in respect of risks not retained by the Groups captive insurance company are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the shares granted is recognised as an expense after Financial instruments taking into account the best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group revisits the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date.
The Group classi es its financial instruments in the following categories: financial assets and liabilities at fair value, loans and receivables and  performance conditions are included in the vesting estimate.
Expenses are incurred over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured at the date sale.
The classi cation depends on the purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired.
Management determines the classi cation of its financial of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes, Monte Carlo model and closing market price is most appropriate to the award.
Market-based performance instruments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this position at every reporting date.
conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revisited for actual performance.
90 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 3.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Market risk cash ow and fair value interest rate risk Non-GAAP financial information Whilst the Groups Financial Services business has gross instalment receivable balances on xed interest rates and oating rates, the Groups income and Exceptional items operating cash ows are still considered to be substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
Items which are both material and non-recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant income statement line.
The separate reporting of The Group maintains a portfolio of cash and borrowings which can result in either a net cash position or a net debt position.
The Group currently holds a net exceptional items helps provide a better indication of underlying performance of the Group.
Examples of items which may be recorded as exceptional items cash position with no borrowings.
are impairment charges, restructuring costs and the pro ts losses on the disposal of businesses.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from any future long-term borrowings that it may incur.
Borrowings issued at xed rates expose the Group to fair value Benchmark pro t before tax PBT interest rate risk.
The principal objective of the Groups interest rate risk management is to manage the trade-off between obtaining the most bene cial The Group uses the term benchmark PBT as a measure which is not formally recognised under IFRS.
Benchmark PBT is fide ned as pro t before amortisation effective rates of interest whilst minimising the impact of interest rate volatility on pro ts before tax.
The aim will normally be to manage interest rate risks of acquisition intangibles, store impairment charges, exceptional items, nancing fair value remeasurements, nancing impact on retirement bene t balances, by achieving a ratio of between 30% and 70% of net debt xed rate.
one-off demerger incentive costs and taxation.
This measure is considered useful in that it provides investors with an alternative means to evaluate the underlying performance of the Groups operations.
If the Group were to incur long-term borrowings it would manage its cash ow interest rate risk by using xed-tooating interest rate swaps.
Such interest rate swaps would have the economic effect of converting borrowings from xed rates to oating rates.
Under the interest rate swaps, the Group would Net debt agree with other parties to exchange, at speci ed intervals mainly quarterly, the difference between xed contract rates and oating-rate interest The Group uses the term net debt which is considered useful in that it provides the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other financial amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal amounts.
institutions together with debt-like liabilities, notably property leases.
At 1 March 2008 the Group had no borrowings.
At 3 March 2007 if interest rates on pound-denominated borrowings had been 10 basis points higher lower 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT with all other variables held constant, post-tax pro t for the period would have been 0.2m lower higher, mainly as a result of higher lower interest Financial risk factors expense on oating rate borrowings: other components of equity would not be affected by such a change in interest rates because gains and losses are not There are a number of financial risks and uncertainties which could impact the performance of the Group: market risk foreign exchange and interest rate recognised directly in equity, but released directly to the income statement.
risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group operates a structured risk management process which identi es, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties.
Credit risk The Groups treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks, and to ensure suf cient liquidity is The Group has no signi cant concentrations of credit risk.
It has policies in place to ensure that sales of financial services products are made to customers available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and pro tably.
Policies and procedures are subject to review and approval by the Board with an appropriate credit history.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash, via major credit cards or via in-house operated financial products.
of Directors as well as subject to audit review.
The Groups exposure to credit risk with regard to treasury transactions is managed by dealing only with banks and major financial institutions with credit Market risk foreign exchange risk ratings of at least AAStandard & Poors or Aa1 Moodys and within a limit of 100m set for each organisation.
Foreign exchange counterparty limits are The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar set at 20m for each organisation.
Dealing activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored daily.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Liquidity risk To manage the foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the Group use forward Home Retail Group manages its cash and committed bank borrowing facilities to maintain liquidity and funding exibility.
Liquidity is achieved through contracts, transacted with external banks.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are arranging funding ahead of requirements and maintaining suf cient undrawn committed facilities to meet short-term needs.
At 1 March 2008, the Group denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
had undrawn committed borrowing facilities available of 700m which expire in 2012.
This facility attracts xed charges and includes a covenant that borrowing cannot exceed 1.5 times earnings before interest, tax, dividends, amortisation and rent.
These facilities are in place to enable the Group to finance Group Treasury is responsible for managing the net position in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts.
The key objective of the its working capital requirements and for general corporate purposes.
Groups foreign exchange transaction exposure management is to minimise potential volatility in pro ts which could arise as a result of exchange rate uctuations whilst maintaining an appropriate competitive stance.
Group policy is that all other cash is invested either in AAA overnight funds or xed term deposits with banks rated AAor higher.
Unlimited amounts with a maturity of up to one year may be invested with sign off from the finance director but the Board may approve an investment with an unlimited duration.
To achieve the above objectives, the Group will initially seek to hedge up to 90% of any foreign exchange transaction risks expected to arise as a result of uncertain, but probable, foreign currency cash ows up to one year forward.
This subsequently increases to 100% as cash ows become certain.
Probable The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period cash ows for this purpose will be considered for hedging once included within rolling 12 month forecasts.
at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not signi cant.
For segment reporting purposes, each subsidiary designates contracts with Group Treasury as fair value hedges or cash ow hedges, as appropriate.
External foreign exchange contracts are designated at Group level as hedges of foreign exchange risk on speci c assets, liabilities or future transactions on a gross basis.
Less than 3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 9-12 months Total At 1 March 2008 m m m m m The cash ow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposure of future purchases of inventory.
Weekly reports are made to management to demonstrate that this objective is being reached.
The hedged cash ows are expected to occur up to one year into the future and will be transferred to the Unsecured bank loan consolidated income statement or inventory carrying value as applicable.
The Group has foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign Other borrowings currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is not hedged.
Fair value hedge Trade and other payables 596.6 596.6 If the UK pound had weakened strengthened by 5 cents approximately 2.5% against the US dollar as at 1 March 2008, with all other variables held constant, post-tax pro t would have been unchanged 2007: unchanged.
Equity would have been 5.3m 2007: 5.0m higher lower, arising mainly from the revaluation of US dollar forward currency contracts.
Less than 3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 9-12 months Total If the UK pound had weakened strengthened by 5 cents approximately 3.8% against the euro as at 1 March 2008, with all other variables held constant, At 3 March 2007 m m m m m post-tax pro t would have been 2.6m 2007: 0.8m lower higher, mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains on translation of sterlingUnsecured bank loan 222.6 222.6 denominated cash balances in subsidiary companies with euro functional currency.
Equity would have been 0.3m higher lower 2007: 3.0m, arising Other borrowings 0.9 0.9 mainly from foreign exchange gains losses on translation of euro-denominated net assets held by subsidiary companies with euro functional currency.
Fair value hedge 0.5 0.5 Trade and other payables 530.5 530.5 92 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 4.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION When a forward foreign exchange contract matures, this requires an out ow of the currency being sold and an in ow of the currency being bought.
The Primary reporting format business segments table below analyses the Groups out ow and in ow from derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period The Groups primary reporting format is by business segment.
This is in line with the current management structure, which re ects the different risks at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
Balances due associated with the different businesses.
The Group is organised into three main business segments: Argos, Homebase and Financial Services together with within 12 months equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not signi cant.
Revenue earned from sales is disclosed by origin and is not materially different from revenue by destination.
Less than 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 9-12 months Total At 1 March 2008 m m m m m Financial Central Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges Argos Homebase Services Activities Total out ow 256.6 200.9 86.1 543.6 Income statement Notes m m m m m in ow 256.7 201.1 83.9 541.7 Revenue 6 4,320.9 1,568.5 95.4 5,984.8 Pro t Less than Operating pro t loss before exceptional items 376.2 45.1 5.5 40.5 386.3 3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 9-12 months Total At 3 March 2007 m m m m m Exceptional items 10 19.4 20.2 0.8 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges Segment result 376.2 25.7 5.5 20.3 387.1 out ow 294.0 143.4 118.8 22.8 579.0 in ow 291.0 142.9 120.3 22.9 577.1 Finance income 11 62.3 Finance expense 11 25.0 Net nancing income 11 37.3 Capital risk management Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 18 1.6 The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and bene ts for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital Pro t before tax 426.0 structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group nances its Taxation 12 131.4 operations through a combination of retained pro ts, bank borrowings and property leases.
The Group has signi cant liabilities through its obligations to pay rents under property leases.
The Group, in common with the credit rating agencies, treats its lease liabilities as debt when evaluating financial risk and Pro t for the period 294.6 investment returns.
The Groups net debt varies signi cantly throughout the year due to trading seasonality.
The result for Financial Services is after deducting funding costs of 19.6m note 11.
