Finance review for the 52 weeks ended 27 July 2008 Financial performance The KPIs applied by the business in each of these areas The chairmans statement and operating review on pages are in line with previous years and are as follows: 2 to 4 cover a comprehensive review of the financial General standards results for the year just ended.
The first half of the year Mystery visitors programme showed strong food sales, although not enough to offset Food-quality audits the impact of the smoking ban on bar sales.
The second  half saw stronger sales, with bar sales recovering slightly.
General business audit and standards review The area of real encouragement was around free cash Level of customer complaints flow which saw a significant growth, year on year.
External environmental audits Business review People The key issues facing the company are covered in the Employee turnover levels chairmans statement and operating review.
The key Annual employee satisfaction survey performance indicators KPIs which the company uses Regular employee liaison groups to monitor its overall financial position can be Level of sickness and absence summarised as follows: It is not appropriate to report actual statistics on these Financial highlights Reported results indicators, owing to commercial sensitivity.
Revenue 907.5m 2% Operating profits 87.2m -4% Finance costs Operating margin 9.6% -0.7% The net finance costs during the year increased from Adjusted profit before tax 55.0m -11% 29.1 million to 32.2 million excluding the fair value Statutory profit before tax 54.2m -13% loss on derivatives.
This increase is driven largely by an Adjusted earnings per share 25.7p -9% increase in average net debt this year, reflecting the Statutory earnings per share 25.2p -21% full-year impact of last years significant cash outflow, Free cash flow per share 50.7p with regard to share buybacks.
The finance costs 2007: 35.6p 42% excluding the fair value loss on derivatives in the income statement were covered 2.7 times, compared Excluding fair value loss on derivatives of 0.8m.
with 3.1 in the previous year.
Fixed-charge cover net Excluding fair value loss on derivatives in FY08 and excluding the finance costs and net rent was 1.6 times 2007: 1.8 times.
benefit of change in the corporation tax rate in FY07.
Excluding depreciation, amortisation, fair value loss on derivatives and lease premiums amortisation, The non-financial KPIs monitored by the company can fixed-charge cover net finance costs and net rent, be divided into two components, being general standards on a cash basis, was 2.2 times 2007: 2.3 times.
including environmental matters and people.
Taxation A full analysis of the taxation charge for the year is set Interest cover out in note 7 to the accounts.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 5 Finance review The tax charge for the year has increased from 33.3% and amortisation EBITDA is 3.3 times, a slight increase excluding one-off benefit of tax rate change to 34.6%.
on the 3.2 times last year, although still at a level which The increase is largely due to a reduced tax credit from allows the company significant operational flexibility.
At the balance sheet date, the company had Shareholders return 82.6 million of unutilised banking facilities and cash Earnings per share decreased by 9% to 25.7p excluding balances.
This level of unused facilities, coupled with the the fair value loss on financial derivatives and a one-off continuing strong cash generation, provides a significant benefit of tax-rate change in the previous year, with cushion against any future changes in the expected cash underlying free cash flow per share up 42% to 50.7p.
flow position of the company.
The proposed final dividend of 7.6p per share, together The companys overall facilities at the balance sheet date with the interim dividend of 4.4p per share already paid, are as follows: brings the total dividend to 12.0p, the same as the UK banking facility 415m previous year.
The total dividend per share will be Matures December 2010 covered 2.1 times by earnings per share, compared with 10 participating lenders 2.3 times in the previous year.
Shareholders funds at the 250m swap expiring in 2014 year end were 180.5 million.
150m swap until 2009 replaced by a new swap until 2016 The company purchased 3.8 million of its own shares Average interest cost of swaps is 5.74% during the year.
These transactions represented a share buyback and cancellation of 2.7% of the share capital in US private placement $140m 87m issue at the start of the financial year.
Matures September 2009 Fully hedged from foreign exchange movements The middle-market quotation of the companys ordinary Total facilities 522m including overdraft shares at the end of the financial year was 231.30p.
The highest price during the year was 608.00p, while the Unutilised banking facilities and cash balances of lowest was 167.75p.
The companys market capitalisation 82.6m as at 27 July 2008 2007: 88.4m at 29 July 2007 was 321.0 million.
Financial risks and treasury policies Financial position The companys main treasury risks relate to the Net borrowings excluding cash flow hedges at the year availability of funds to meet its future requirements and end amounted to 439.6 million.
The key ratio of net debt fluctuations in interest rates.
The treasury policy of the compared with earning before interest, tax, depreciation company is determined and monitored by the board.
The company has no foreign currency risk, given that the US senior loan notes are hedged into sterling.
The Operating proft m impact of this is that there is no exposure to movements 91.1 87.2 83.6 in the exchange rate between sterling and the dollar.
As 77.6 71.5 the company has no trading requirements in any foreign currency, the overall treasury policy in this area is to ensure that there are no currency risks attached to any part of our business.
The interest payments under the US senior loan notes are also covered by an interest-rate 04 05 06 07 08 swap, resulting in a floating sterling interest payment throughout the term of the notes.
6 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Finance review The companys interest-rate risk policy is to monitor Risks and uncertainties facing the company and review anticipated levels of expansion and In the course of normal business, the company expectations on future interest rates, in order to hedge continually assesses significant risks faced and takes the appropriate level of borrowings by entering into action to minimise the potential impact of these risks.
fixedand floating-rate agreements, as appropriate.
The following risks, while not intended to be a At the balance sheet date, the company had entered into comprehensive analysis, constitute in the opinion fixed interest-rate swap agreements which fixed 400m of the board, the principal risks currently facing of these borrowings at rates between 5.40% and 6.46%.
the company: In addition, the company has entered into forwardstarting swap agreements which replaces the current Regulatory risks 150-million swap agreements expiring in 2009.
The Regulation of the sale of alcohol effective weighted average interest rate of the swap As a result of the high level of regulation in the industry agreements entered into is 5.74% 2007: 6.48%, fixed for in which the company operates, any changes to a weighted average period of 5.3 years 2007: 2 years.
regulation may have an impact on the business, for example, owing to the regulatory authoritys intention to During the year, the company entered into forwardincrease alcohol duties over the foreseeable future, there starting-basis swaps, which locked the favourable is a risk that the companys sales and margins may face arbitrage between the one-month LIBOR rates and the increasing pressure.
These are, however, a risk faced by threeto six-month LIBOR rates at the time of the entire industry in which the company operates.
entering the swaps, over the contractual period between August 2008 and September 2009.
Health and safety It is important to provide a safe environment in which Under the scope of IAS 39, the basis swaps have been the companys employees work, as well as safe facilities treated as fair value through profit or loss.
Consequently, for our patrons to enjoy.
Therefore, the company has any loss or gain in the mark to market valuation at the policies to ensure that all reasonable standards of health balance sheet date is included in the income statement and safety are met.
These include a process by which within fair value gain loss of financial derivatives.
At risks are identified in a timely manner and remedied the balance sheet date, the basis swap had a mark to accordingly, including a comprehensive training market loss of 794,000.
It is the companys intention programme to assist employees in this regard.
to hold the basis-swap derivative to maturity: consequently, the companys cumulative net gain or loss Economic and market conditions at the end of the contract will be nil.
Economic outlook Since the company operates in the retail sector, any The company monitors its cash resources through short-, mediumand long-term cash-forecasting.
Surplus downturn in the economy may affect the companys performance.
It is for this reason that the company cash is pooled into an interest-bearing account or placed on short-term deposit for periods of between one and continues to assess and improve its offering on an ongoing basis, thus ensuring that it is always three months.
competitively placed in the market in which it operates.
The company monitors its overall level of financial gearing weekly, with our shortand medium-term Inflationary cost increases Inflationary pressures on the companys inputs pose a forecasts showing underlying levels of gearing which remain within our targets.
Once again, this is a risk faced by the ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 7 Finance review entire industry in which the company operates.
The Operational risks company seeks to minimise the potential effects of this Head office & distribution centre risk by continuing to foster mutually beneficial and Any disasters at the companys head office in Watford long-term relationships with its suppliers, so as to or its distribution centre in Daventry could seriously minimise the effect of any price increases.
Various measures have been undertaken by the company, including a Social issues comprehensive disaster-recovery plan, seeking to There is concern about a minority of people who minimise the potential impact of any such incidents.
misbehave when drinking alcoholic products.
It is the companys policy to work closely with a variety of Information technology organisations, including local authorities and the police, to The companys daily operations are increasingly reliant improve behaviour in association with pub visits.
We on its information technology systems.
Any prolonged strongly support Pubwatch, an organisation bringing or significant failure of these systems could pose a risk together licensees and the police, which has been to trading.
The company seeks to minimise this risk by extremely successful in improving standards of behaviour ensuring that there are policies and procedures to in many town and city centres.
As a company, we are also ensure protection of hardware, software and a member of National Pubwatch and The Drinkaware information by various means, including a disasterTrust, and support the activities of the Portman Group.
recovery plan, a system of backups and external hardware and software support.
Keith Down Finance Director 5 September 2008 8 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
