Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 9 Group Finance and Operations Directors statement Highlights 7.9% 1.1bn 914m Increase in earnings Capital expenditure Returned to shareholders per share Ian Dyson 2007 08 was a year in which we made good progress in moving the business forward.
Earnings per share were up 7.9%.
At the same time as continuing to grow our earnings, we invested 1.1bn in our business to drive future growth, and also returned 914m to our shareholders via dividends and the share buy back.
Shanghai in the autumn, and in India we have signed a deal with Results Reliance to develop M&S throughout this fast developing nation.
Sales were up 5.1% to over 9.0bn with a robust performance in the UK boosted by almost 5% of new space, and another Underpinning our growth prospects is a plan to invest to strong year for International, where sales were up 16.8%.
upgrade our supply chain and our IT systems.
This is a major Gross margin in the UK was down slightly to 43%, but good programme that will enable us to grow our business effectively control of our costs enabled us to deliver profit growth of 4.3% and efficiently.
We will add logistics capacity in food and overall, to 1.0bn.
restructure our GM logistics, centred on the opening of fewer, larger distribution centres, beginning with Bradford in 2010 11.
Our interest charge was up only 4.3%, despite a significant In IT we will implement new store systems, including POS, increase in net debt to 3.1bn, reecting a much higher new trading systems and new support systems.
With a low tax rate of 27% and a lower number of shares in issue, earnings per share were up 7.9% to 43.6p.
While we are sensitive to the economic environment, we are continuing to invest to move our business forward and intend Investing in the business to spend between 800m and 900m in capital expenditure Last year we invested 1,055m to support the future growth in 2008 09. of the business.
This investment was focused in three areas: UK property portfolio, International and supply chain and A strong balance sheet information technology IT.
Our strong balance sheet underpins our future plans to invest in the business and gives us resilience against difficult market We modernised a further 35% of our store portfolio to take conditions.
Our ratios remain strong and we retain ownership us to 70%.
This included some major developments and of 70% of our property portfolio.
extensions at stores such as Edinburgh, London Colney, Cheshunt, Lisburn and Braehead.
We expect to modernise a The strength of our balance sheet enabled us to return more further 10% of our estate in 2008 09.
We also added space in than 900m to our shareholders during 2007 08.
Dividends line with our strategy to develop and expand the M&S footprint increased by 23% and we bought back 7.4% of our share in the UK.
In total we added 4.8% of new space, with 3% capital at a cost of 556m.
in general merchandise GM and 8.7% in food, reecting As Stuart has said, 2008 09 will be tough.
We will manage the continued roll out of our successful Simply Food format.
our business accordingly but will also not lose sight of the In 2008 09 we expect to add a further 5.5% of new space.
longer term opportunity by continuing to invest in our business.
In International we continued to build our business in Ireland, This approach will, we believe, drive value for our shareholders and worked with our franchise partners to move the business over time.
The biggest developments however, were the acquisition of controlling interests in our franchise businesses in Greece and the Balkans, and in the Czech Republic.
We see substantial growth opportunities for these businesses over the coming year.
We have also moved on in establishing M&S in the exciting Ian Dyson markets of China and India.
We will open our first store in Group Finance and Operations Director
