Operational review How we market and sell our products We market and sell our products through our number of sales channels, including direct, four franchises in over 110 countries.
In our wholesale and distribution.
In our Infusion Advanced Wound Care, Ostomy Care and Devices franchise, which has a concentrated Continence & Critical Care franchises, our two business-to-business customer base, we main customer groups are people with chronic primarily sell our products to the leading insulin conditions and healthcare professionals.
make our products available to them via a Strong brands and differentiated products Marketed and sold through our four franchises Advanced Ostomy Care Continence & Wound Care Critical Care AWC, Ostomy Care and CCC products sold through a variety of channels Hospitals Distributors and wholesalers Specialist medical stores wound care clinics Pharmacies intensive care Homecare agencies Product decision maker is usually a We have a network of external In many markets, once a patient leaves doctor or specialist nurse distributors who manage the entire hospital, they obtain medical device Our dedicated sales team provide distribution process on our behalf, products directly through homecare support, advice and training including ordering, warehousing, agencies, specialist medical stores or billing and delivery pharmacies and retail distributors catering to the homecare market Specialist medical stores Pharmacies Homecare agencies ConvaTec Group Plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Infusion Devices Ostomy Continence Also provide consumer-focused BusinessCall centres service and support to-business Direct-to-consumers Leading insulin pump manufacturers In the UK via In the US via our In our own shops Digital sales Amcare, our home Home Distribution in a number of platforms including delivery company Group, our home markets including ostomysecrets.
com care company Central and Eastern Europe, Latin America and parts of Asia ConvaTec Group Plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operational review continued AQUACEL Ag Extra dressing delivers better outcomes Globally there are 50 million reported cases of patients suffering from hard-to-heal wounds.
Such conditions are costly to manage and can have a highly detrimental effect on a patients everyday life.
Our AQUACEL Ag Extra dressing combines our Hydrofiber and unique anti-biofilm technologies to improve wound healing outcomes.
Dan Metcalf is Associate Director within our R&D team, and is actively involved in the innovation and development of infection prevention medical devices.
During a walk in the English countryside in September 2017 he was unknowingly bitten on his left shin by an insect.
Four days later I suddenly felt weak and dizzy and the following day my lower left leg began to redden and swell.
I visited my local walk-in clinic, was diagnosed with cellulitis and was prescribed antibiotics.
During the following days the swelling increased, blistering appeared and I felt very unwell.
I was admitted via A&E to the Acute Monitoring Unit of my local hospital.
I was placed on an increased antibiotic regimen and after a week the infection subsided.
I was discharged from hospital with a non-antimicrobial dressing to protect the wound.
However, over the course of the following days the wound deteriorated considerably, and I was eventually referred to an orthopaedic surgeon who told me that I would need a skin graft.
The evening before my surgery was planned, my wound was observed to be in a very poor condition and so it was dressed with a moistened AQUACEL Ag Extra dressing.
Within 24 hours there was a noticeable improvement and the operation was postponed.
Over the next four days the wound was rapidly improved by debridement, use of AQUACEL Ag Extra dressings and compression.
The operation was cancelled, I could return home, and the wound healed after a further week of management with AQUACEL Ag Extra dressing.
ConvaTec Group Plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Our AWC franchise provides advanced wound dressings, Advanced Wound Care devices and skin care products which are used for the management of acute and chronic wounds including those Revenue $m resulting from conditions such as diabetes, immobility and venous disease as well as from traumatic injury, burns and invasive surgery.
8m 2.6% We are focused on three priorities to drive our growth:.
m Expand our AQUACEL dressings offering through the extension of our AQUACEL Ag dressing with anti-biofilm.
m technology and the expansion of our AQUACEL Surgical product portfolio into new surgical areas.
Organic growth year over year at constant Continue to accelerate our growth in the foam market by exchange rates, and excluding M&A activities.
augmenting our portfolio in the fast-growing protection and prevention foam segments.
Key brands Build on our differentiated entry into the fastest growing AQUACEL segment of the NPWT market.
AQUACEL Ag AQUACEL Ag Foam 2017 revenue performance Avelle System Organic revenue grew 2.6%, with strong demand for our DuoDERM AQUACEL product lines, offset by changes to reimbursement Sensi-Care rates in France and supply constraints which together reduced Aloe Vesta growth by around 2 percentage points.
AQUACEL Ag Extra Dressings Key developments in 2017 included: Continued rollout of our Avelle NPWT system which is now available in 20 markets around the world, including the UK, Germany, France, Canada, Australia and South Africa.
An independent study by researchers at New York Presbyterian Hospital Columbia Medical Center and published in The Journal of Arthroplasty found a four-fold decrease in the incidence of post-operative joint infections with the use of AQUACEL Ag SURGICAL cover dressing, compared with a standard gauze dressing.
Our product portfolio includes: Antimicrobial and foam dressings, which are used by healthcare professionals to manage acute wounds and chronic wounds including those resulting from pressure ulcers, venous leg ulcers and diabetic foot ulcers which can be hard to heal.
Our advanced dressings are designed to help provide an optimal wound healing environment whilst also addressing additional wound challenges such as infection.
Our portfolio of leading global brands includes our AQUACEL line of advanced dressings which feature our proprietary Hydrofiber Technology.
These dressings provide a wound contact layer that transforms into a gel on contact with liquid to absorb and retain wound fluid exudate and support the healing process.
The addition of ionic silver in our AQUACEL Ag dressing further helps manage and reduce the risk of wound infection.
The development of this technology has evolved with our AQUACEL Ag dressing, the first dressing specifically designed to combat wound biofilm.
NPWT, which works by creating a vacuum at the wound site.
Our Avelle System is a unique disposable negative pressure device.
It combines our proprietary Hydrofiber Technology with NPWT, and can be used for up to 30 days.
The Avelle System is the only product on the market to offer this combination.
Skin care products to clean, moisturise and protect skin which are developed for patients with exposed or fragile skin.
ConvaTec Group Plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operational review continued Supporting nurses to help patients regain confidence and fight sedentary lifestyles During the year we launched the me recovery programme, the latest addition to our me consumer-focused support and service offering which is dedicated to helping people with an ostomy live life on their terms.
This programme focuses on nurses, and supports them in enabling patients to live a more active life.
Often people living with a stoma fear any form of movement, which can lead to sedentary lifestyles and reduced quality of life, with the associated healthcare issues such as depression and weight gain.
me recovery provides superior ostomy nurse training and education to support people after stoma surgery to aid recovery and improve long-term outcomes.
It is an evidence-based programme, which focuses on the importance of movement and physical activity after stoma surgery.
Accredited by the Royal College of Nursing in the UK, and the only programme of its kind in stoma care, me recovery enables us to build relationships with nurses and help them improve patients lives.
The programme also helps us drive consumer loyalty and, by building trust, creates long-term relationships with both nurses and patients.
What people say about our me recovery programme There is no doubt that patients who adopt a more active recovery generally do better, not least their physical recovery progresses more rapidly.
They also have a better quality of life, are fitter, healthier and tend to adapt to life with a stoma more easily.
Its also really important to spend some time concentrating specifically on abdominal muscle recovery and I would encourage patients to engage with the exercises such as those illustrated in the me recovery programme.
Professor Sina Dorudi, Consultant Colorectal Surgeon, The Princess Grace Hospital, London The me recovery educational programme was an excellent two-day course which allowed us to practice the exercises and understand the rationale behind the whole programme.
Gill Skipper, Stoma Care Sister, Kings Lynn Hospital, UK The me recovery programme has motivated us.
We feel confident doing the exercises ourselves so are more inclined to encourage the patient.
Mel Claxton, Stoma Care Sister, Kings Lynn Hospital, UK I found the me programme very useful as a reference point providing information on suitable exercises.
This was very important to my overall recovery rate and health and well-being.
Joan Barker, me recovery programme participant ConvaTec Group Plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Our Ostomy Care franchise specialises in devices, accessories Ostomy Care and services for individuals who have a stoma a surgicallycreated opening where bodily waste is discharged, commonly Revenue $m resulting from colorectal cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, bladder cancer, and obesity as well as other causes.
5 2 8.9m 0.8% We are focused on three priorities to drive our growth: Continue to strengthen relationships with ostomy nurses.
m in hospitals to increase familiarity with our products and to provide them with the tools to make ostomy care simple,.
Expand our me direct-to-consumer programmes to Organic growth year over year at constant engage directly and frequently with ostomates to build strong exchange rates, and excluding M&A activities.
Continue to enhance our product portfolio, leveraging our Key brands adhesive technology with consumer-led design and Esteem enhancements.
Esteem Natura 2017 revenue performance Natura Organic revenue grew 0.8%, reflecting strong momentum Stomahesive in the US, Latin America, Japan and China, supported by our Durahesive me direct-to-consumer programme, and from new global InvisiClose product launches.
However, this was offset by supply me constraints due to the transfer of the final manufacturing lines from Greensboro in the US to our Haina facility, which Esteem Flex Convex One-Piece System reduced growth by around 2 percentage points.
Renewal of GPO contracts in the US impacted revenue growth by around a further 0.5 percentage points.
Key developments in 2017 included: Launched Esteem Flex Convex one-piece system globally.
Launched Natura Convex Accordion Flange.
Launched me recovery programme to help patients remain physically active post-surgery and to aid recovery.
The programme has initially been rolled-out in the UK and is accredited by the Royal College of Nursing.
We will now extend the recovery programme across Europe.
Our product portfolio includes: One and two-piece ostomy systems which have a variety of closure and drainage options, deodorising filters and pouch materials.
For individuals living with ostomies, finding the right product and the right level of support is essential.
In order of importance, ostomates are most concerned about leakage, odour and skin issues.
Our products are developed to address these issues and, combined with our services, help people with a stoma to live the life they want.
All of our core products, including our advanced pouch range of Natura two-piece and Esteem one-piece, incorporate our highly differentiated, skin-friendly and clinically proven adhesive technologies Stomahesive, Durahesive and ConvaTec Moldable Technology.
Accessory products that complement our ostomy systems, including Stomahesive paste and powder, Sensi-Care skin care and our Ostomysecrets clothing line.
ConvaTec Group Plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operational review continued Delivering products and technologies that better address customers needs During the year we expanded our GentleCath catheter portfolio with the launch of GentleCath Glide, an innovative intermittent catheter developed to provide users with more options for simple, convenient hydrophilic catheterisation.
GentleCath Glide is a low-friction hydrophilic intermittent catheter, which provides a smooth, slippery surface designed to make self-catheterisation easier.
It includes our unique FeelClean technology that activates upon contact with water and reduces the residuals left behind by catheterisation.
For many people, starting intermittent catheterisation, or cathing, can be a cause of concern or even anxiety.
Using a hydrophilic catheter can help reduce friction and the challenges of cathing.
Jake Klein, MS, APRN, CPNP ConvaTec Group Plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Our CCC franchise comprises three businesses: Continence Continence & Critical Care Care including our HDG business in the US, Critical Care and Hospital Care.
Revenue $m Continence Care: develops and manufactures intermittent urinary catheters used by people with urinary continence issues related to spinal cord injuries, multiple sclerosis, spina 382.9m 1.7% bifida and other urological disorders.
Critical Care: develops and manufactures advanced systems.
m that are used in intensive care units and hospital settings to manage acute fecal incontinence and monitor urine.
m production output and intra-abdominal pressure.
Hospital Care: provides a range of high-quality disposable Organic growth year over year at constant medical devices for use in high-volume procedures in urology, exchange rates, and excluding M&A activities.
intensive care, operating rooms and other hospital departments.
These devices include wound drainage systems, Key brands urine collection bags and catheters, airway management and GentleCath oxygen aerosol therapy devices and gastroenterology tubes.
Flexi-Seal UnoMeter In Continence Care we are focused on three priorities me to drive growth: Continue to innovate and expand the GentleCath GentleCath Glide intermittent catheter portfolio to cover a wider range of needs together with expanding our me platform for intermittent catheter users.
Leverage the reach of HDG, the largest medical equipment distributor of intermittent catheters in the US, to accelerate the adoption of our new products in the US.
Build on the success of GentleCath through launching in other markets.
In our Critical Care and Hospital Care businesses, our strategies are focused on: Continued product innovation for Flexi-Seal FMS.
Rationalisation of our Hospital Care portfolio.
Our product portfolio includes: Increase usage by in-servicing accounts in underpenetrated Our GentleCath line of intermittent self-catheters which regions and markets.
are designed for maximum comfort, safety and ease of use.
Flexi-Seal Fecal Management Systems FMS which 2017 revenue performance provide effective and hygienic management of acute fecal Organic revenue increased 1.7%, reflecting good growth in our incontinence in critical care patients and help doctors and HDG business and GentleCath portfolio, offset by planned nurses manage serious healthcare concerns including the product rationalisation as part of our MIP which reduced spread of C. difficile infection.
revenue growth by $13 million 3.5 percentage points.
UnoMeter hourly diuresis management systems which enable clinicians to monitor the urine output of critical Key developments in 2017 included: care patients.
Launched GentleCath Glide in Europe, an intermittent catheter developed to provide simple, convenient hydrophilic catheterisation for daily users.
Rolled out me programme to cover continence care in Europe and the US.
Launched Flexi-Seal PROTECT Fecal Management System, designed to protect patients and clinicians against overinflation risk, while helping to reduce risks of skin breakdown and spread of C. difficile infection associated with acute fecal incontinence.
ConvaTec Group Plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operational review continued neria guard infusion set People with chronic diseases, like Parkinsons disease or diabetes, can greatly benefit from subcutaneous infusion of their medication.
To make continuous subcutaneous infusion simpler, comfortable, safe and efficient we developed and launched our new neria guard infusion set the first fully automatic all-in-one infusion set.
It has an intuitive design with simple and easy-to-use features including a retractable needle which is convenient to use and helps minimise pain during insertion and reduce needle-related traumas.
neria guard was launched in June 2017 at the International Congress of Parkinsons Disease and Movement Disorders, an international society of over 5,000 clinicians, scientists and other healthcare professions that gathers annually to learn the latest research findings and state-of-the-art treatment options in Movement Disorders.
After trials of various infusion sets I decided to use neria guard.
Not having a needle left in situ felt less painful and more safe.
It was easier to insert compared to other sets which is an advantage when travelling.
It feels easy to carry both pump and infusion set with a soft cannula and I am less constrained with a small pump and a needle that does not hurt.
Eva-Lotta, Sweden Based on observations neria guard with the soft cannula is in my view a very good infusion set, primarily because of the activation button of the insertion device which prevents having to press the complete set toward the body and the integrated adhesive releases as intended.
Both patients and nurses who have tested neria guard have been very satisfied and wish to continue to use it for subcutaneous infusions.
The launch of neria guard has so far been very successful.
Anita Berg, Product Manager Immunology Haematology, Nordic Infucare ConvaTec Group Plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Our Infusion Devices franchise develops and manufactures Infusion Devices disposable infusion sets for the worlds leading suppliers of insulin pumps for diabetes treatment and similar pumps used Revenue $m in continuous infusion treatments for other conditions.
Our customers include Medtronic-Minimed, Roche Diabetes and Tandem Diabetes.
Our products are a critical component within 2 7 5.
We also supply a range of infusion sets directly to hospitals and the home healthcare sector as well as.
m through specialist distributors under our brand name neria.. m We are focused on three priorities to drive our growth: Maintain our strong and long-term partnerships with insulin Organic growth year over year at constant pump manufacturers to secure long-term business.
exchange rates, and excluding M&A activities.
Continue to develop innovative products for both insulin and other drug delivery.
Key brands Leverage our leading industry position to ensure that we are inset the supplier of choice for new entrants into the insulin market comfort and other sub-cutaneous drugs.
neria 2017 revenue performance neria guard Organic revenue increased by 5.2%, with our partners seeing continued growth for diabetes insulin pumps and new product launches.
Key developments in 2017 included: Expanded our manufacturing technology platform for the insulin pump therapy business at Medtronic, increasing our production capabilities to sustain the range of infusion sets and insulin pump therapy solutions offered by the Diabetes Group at Medtronic.
Launched neria guard infusion set the first of its kind to eliminate the risk of needle-stick injuries which has Our product portfolio includes: applications beyond insulin therapy.
This was launched for Disposable infusion sets that connect to external computer- 1 diabetes use, MiniMed Mio Advance, with our partner controlled insulin pumps which allow insulin to be delivered Medtronic in selected markets.
Opened our new manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico, neria infusion sets for continuous drug delivery to manage expanding our capacity to cater for future growing demand.
chronic diseases OEM urology and suction devices, including intermittent catheters, drainage bags and advanced medical film for urology, blood and dialysis bags.
MiniMed Mio Advance trademarks of Medtronic MiniMed, Inc. ConvaTec Group Plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
