3 On an adjusted basis which excludes exceptional and acquisition related items.
4 On a CER basis excluding contributions from bolt-on acquisitions Coats revenues increased by 4%.
There was a neutral impact of foreign exchange on revenues whereas in 2016 we faced FX headwinds due to the previous US dollar strength against certain key trading currencies, so reported revenue growth is consistent with CER growth of 4%.
On an organic basis, which excludes a 1% contribution from the acquisitions of Gotex, Fast React, and Patrick Yarn Mill, revenue growth was 3%.
Industrial revenues grew at 6%, driven by share gains in Apparel and Footwear, and underpinned by our continued focus on product innovation, digital solutions and our strong corporate responsibility credentials.
This growth in Apparel and Footwear was achieved despite mixed demand from clothing retailers.
In addition, Performance Materials revenues grew by 12%, due to double-digit growth in hi-tech end uses, and the contribution from bolt-on acquisitions.
Geographically, our organic growth of 5% continued to strengthen during the year in the key geographies of Asia 6% growth and EMEA 9% growth, although the US consumer durables market e. g. bedding and quilting remained soft in the second half.
The Crafts division saw revenues decline by 11% on a CER basis 10% decline on a reported basis, as the North American market conditions remained weak throughout the second half of the year, alongside an adverse impact from the introduction of own-label handknitting products at a major customer.
This followed the first half business disruption caused by the tornado strike at the main Crafts distribution centre in Albany, Georgia, USA on 22 January 2017 estimated sales impact $10 million.
Group adjusted operating profit increased 11% to $174 million on a CER basis 2016: $157 million and operating margins were up 70 bps to 11.5% 2016: 10.8%.
On a reported basis operating profit which is after exceptional and acquisition related items increased 9% to $167 million 2016: $153 million.
Exceptional and acquisition related items are not allocated to segments and as such segmental performance commentary is based on adjusted operating profit.
Industrial adjusted operating profit grew 13% on a CER basis to $173 million and margins were up 70bps to 13.3%.
This was due to volume growth, realising price increases through continually focussing on our customers needs e. g. speed, quality, innovation and corporate responsibility, productivity and procurement improvements, and continued cost control which more than offset input cost inflation.
The majority of the raw material price increases during the year partly linked to the rising oil price were recovered through price increases.
Organic 27 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Industrial adjusted operating profit grew 11% year-on-year, and margins were up 70bps, with strengthening year-on-year growth of profits and margins in the second half of the year.
Crafts adjusted operating profit declined by 34% to $7 million margins down 120bps due to lower year-on-year volumes in North America particularly in the second half, as well as certain non-trading items see later for details.
This was offset to some extent by cost synergies being realised in the smaller Latin America market following the decision to commence integrating its activities with the Industrial Division as previously announced.
From 2018, it is anticipated that Latin America Crafts will be reported as part of the Industrial division once the integration of activities is finalised.
2 Includes contribution from bolt-on acquisitions made during the period.
3 Includes accessories, zips and trims and global services.
4 On an adjusted basis which excludes exceptional and acquisition related items.
6 On a CER basis excluding contributions from bolt-on acquisitions Apparel and Footwear Industrial revenues grew by 6% in the year due to continued strong momentum in Apparel Highlights for 2017: and Footwear 70% of Group revenues which grew by 5%, along with 12% growth in Strong revenue growth of 5% Performance Materials 7% organic growth and 5% contribution from acquisitions.
Continued market share gains Innovative new products such The strong Apparel and Footwear performance in the year delivered market share gains and as knitted footwear uppers was achieved despite continued mixed demand from clothing retailers and ongoing price pressures, as we maintained our customer-led approach to innovation and digital solutions, alongside our strong corporate responsibility credentials.
Coats ability to continue to take market share was assisted by several factors including deepening its relationships with retailers and brand owners through its global accounts programme, and with manufacturers, through Priorities for 2018 the increasing adoption of digital services e. g. our growing eCommerce platform which now Meeting customer needs for extends to online payment availability in a number of our key markets which helps to reduce speed, productivity, quality payment times from our customers.
In addition, market share gains were realised through the and peace of mind launch of innovative new products, for example knitted footwear uppers for key sportswear Further strengthen operational brands, and we are actively working on further innovation projects with a number of global capabilities in growth brands.
We have also developed and recently launched a 100% post-consumer recycled geographies and markets premium thread, Epic Ecoverde, which is an industry first.
Build sustainable innovation pipelines Performance Materials revenues grew 12% in the period on a CER basis 12% reported, which includes a 5% contribution from the acquisitions of Gotex acquired in June 2016 and Patrick Yarn Mill acquired in December 2017.
Organic growth of 7% was underpinned by strong growth in EMEA and Asia as we continued to drive geographic expansion of existing products across the Coats portfolio, and leveraging Coats global customer base.
However the US consumer durables market e. g. traditional end uses such as bedding and quilting remained soft in the second half.
Growth in hi-tech end uses which now account for 50% 28 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Performance Materials of Performance Materials revenues e. g. wire and cable, and engineering performance yarns Highlights for 2017: remained strong throughout the year delivering double-digit year-on-year growth 18% organic growth.
The business also continued to grow revenues in new, innovative products, Strong growth in hi-tech sectors and in 2017 over 20% of our total Performance Materials revenues were in relation to Acceleration of innovation products that did not exist 5 years ago for example, Coats Synergex.
Overall, following the Gotex exceeding business Performance Materials organic growth of 4% in the July-October period which was reported case in sales and profits in November 2017, we have seen the organic growth for the second half improve to 6%.
By region, revenue in Asia grew by 6% on a CER basis which was ahead of the 4% growth reported in the first half, as momentum in key Apparel and Footwear markets e. g. Vietnam Priorities for 2018 and Indonesia gathered pace during the year 7% growth in H2.
Thread sales in China for Build scale in hi-tech sectors domestic Apparel and Footwear consumption grew strongly by 9% in 2017, supporting our belief that Coats remains well placed in that market to benefit from the macro trend of the Breakthrough into composites expansion of the urban middle class in Asia.
Revenues in EMEA rose 14% 9% organic growth and conductive which was a continuation of a strong and improving performance in 2016 7% organic Deepen innovation culture growth and the first half of 2017 organic growth 8%, driven by double-digit growth in and ecosystem certain key A&F markets e. g. Turkey and hi-tech Performance Materials end uses including Gotex.
In the Americas there was a return to growth in the year 2% decline in 2016 following strong performance in certain key Latin America Markets, and a marginal year-onyear improvement in the US consumer durables market on 2016 although overall this market remains weak.
Industrial adjusted operating profit increased 13% to $173 million on a CER basis 2016: $153 million and margins increased 70bps to 13.3%.
This reflected strong volume growth driving a positive operational gearing impact, realising price increases through continually focussing on our customers needs e. g. speed, quality, innovation and corporate responsibility, ongoing productivity and procurement savings, and a close control of costs.
The majority of the raw material price increases seen during the year partly linked to the rising oil price were recovered through price increases, and together with these other self-help initiatives were able to more than offset the other structural non-raw material inflation e. g. wages and energy that the Group faces across the many countries in which it operates.
Year-on-year adjusted operating profit growth in the second half of 2017 improved to 15% and margins increased year-on-year by 100bps.
Acquisition As previously reported, Coats acquired 100% of the share capital of Patrick Yarn Mill in December 2017.
Patrick Yarn Mill is a manufacturer of high-performance engineered yarns based in North Carolina, US.
It specialises in cut-resistant and flame retardant yarns.
It also produces yarns from recycled fibres marketed under its earthspun trademarks and with its large solar installation promotes its earth friendly yarns as 'Spun by the Sun'.
Founded in 1963, Patrick Yarn Mill has 150 employees.
Patrick Yarn Mill's unique spinning competencies in engineered performance yarns offer an opportunity to expand Coats' existing Performance Materials portfolio as well as to extend its innovation capability.
Coats will support Patrick Yarn Mill's expansion into high-growth markets by leveraging Coats' unrivalled geographic footprint, breadth of global customer relationships and strong corporate brand.
The initial consideration is $21 million, with further payments of up to $4 million over a three year period to 2020, contingent on Patrick Yarn Mill achieving certain performance targets.
The acquisition will be funded from Coats' operating cash flows and existing debt facilities.
In 2017, the business achieved revenues of $42 million, and an adjusted operating profit of $2 million.
It is our intention to grow revenues and operating margins going forward through identified revenue and cost synergies as a result of Patrick Yarn Mill being part of the wider Coats group of companies.
29 OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Crafts Crafts 1 Highlights for 2017: CER 1 2017 2016 Inc dec 2016 inc dec New management team in 1 $m $m % CER % place for North America Crafts Progress in integration Revenue of Latin American business By business into Industrial Handknittings 108 121 11 % 122 11 % 2 Needlecrafts 105 115 8 % 117 10 % Total 213 236 10 % 239 11 % Priorities for 2018 Focus on areas of consumer By region marketing, product innovation North America 149 176 15 % 176 15 % and digital offerings Full integration of Latin America Latin America 64 60 6% 63 1% business into Industrial Total 213 236 10 % 239 11 % 3 Adjusted operating profit 7 11 34 % 11 34 % 3 Adjusted operating margin 3.3% 4.6% 120 bps 4.5% 120 bps 1 2016 figures at 2017 exchange rates.
2 Includes other textile craft products such as consumer sewings and lifestyle fabrics.
Crafts revenues declined 10% on a reported basis 11% CER decline.
This was as a result of the business disruption caused by the tornado strike in January at the main Crafts distribution centre in Albany, Georgia, USA, along with continued tough underlying market conditions in the North American market which persisted throughout the second half of the year and the adverse impact from the introduction of own-label handknitting products at a major customer.
The revenue decline was broadly split evenly across both the Handknittings and Needlecrafts categories.
Revenues in the smaller Latin America market grew by 1% on a CER basis 6% reported, with growth in the key markets of Brazil and Argentina.
Despite the continued difficult trading conditions, the division has continued to make good progress in the areas of enhancing its online offerings and new product launches.
New management is now in place in our North American Crafts business who will be delivering a revised and refocused strategy, and the previously announced integration of the Latin American business with the Industrial operations remains on-going.
Adjusted operating margins in the Crafts Division reduced to 3.3% 2016: 4.5% and adjusted operating profits were down 34% to $7 million 2016: $11 million.
This margin reduction was mainly due to non-trading items that occurred in the second half.
These included reorganisation costs in relation to the North American management team, specific business disruption costs in relation to the Albany tornado, and asset write-downs following the sale of the non-core lifestyle fabrics business due to complete in H1 2018.
Offsetting the above, were the realisation of the initial cost synergies anticipated in the Latin American business ahead of its eventual full integration with the Industrial business.
First half adjusted operating margins of 5.3% benefitted partially from the profit insurance cover in relation to lost revenues resulting from the tornado.
