STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPERATING REVIEW NORTH AMERICA North America is Bunzls largest and longest-established business area, having started in 1981 with the acquisition of Jersey Paper Company in the US.
The revenue of the business area that year was 20 million.
Overthe last 36 years the operations have grown substantially throughoutthe US while at the same time have expanded into Canada and Mexico to become the market-leading business that it is today withrevenue of 5.1 billion.
In North America, revenue increased by management partner, we help our HIGHLIGHTS 10%to 5,061.1 million, primarily due to a redistribution customers to manage their substantial increase in business with an own supply chain from their suppliers to their Revenue existing grocery customer which helped end users.
We analyse how their businesses drive organic sales growth to more than 5%, handle disposables using on-site surveys 5,061.1m 10% as well as the impact of recent acquisitions.
The resulting The rate of organic growth was higher than data helps them optimise the flow of high 2016: 4,362.1m inthe recent past although the additional volume, low value products that are costly business won is at an operating margin for them to handle, resulting in lower Adjusted operating profit below the average margin for the North inventory, reduced operating costs and America business area.
Additionally, our 318.3m 4% therefore increased by 4% to 318.3 million, experienced national sales team helps with the operating margin declining to 6.3%.
ourcustomers market specific products 2016: 289.6m tospecific customers using the expanded Our business serving the grocery sector e-commerce and digital tool capabilities Operating margin benefited from several new accounts thatwe have available.
Our increased focus although the additional business won, on jan-san products is also driving new 6.3% combined with a competitive marketplace, organic growth in this sector and across has led to lower margins.
We are continually ourother businesses.
We have continued 2016: 6.6% working to increase our efficiencies, thereby toexpand our central warehouse system for jan-san items by opening two new locations contributing to a lower cost to serve.
R evenue growth driven by strong organic Theadditional business with an existing to improve national availability across the growth and impact of acquisitions USand take advantage of our scale.
Together customer referred to above has increased S ubstantial revenue growth in grocery our capacity to handle pick and pack items with our ongoing investment in marketing although margins lower tools and the development of new product which will allow us to expand our service toother customers and provide many new items, our jan-san initiative has contributed S ignificant expansion in retail supplies to our growth with foodservice distributor items and a wider range of products.
This, through acquisition of DDS combined with our flexible store delivery customers by allowing them to offer a wider R edistribution growth from category range of products to their own customers.
programmes, allow our customers to source management programmes large volume, low value not for resale items Against the backdrop of improving market in an effective and efficient manner.
G rowth in safety from improving market conditions in the oil & gas sector, our safety conditions, boosted by acquisition of business saw improvements in sales and MLKishigo Our retail supplies business has benefited from the acquisition of DDS in May which operating profit boosted by the purchase of G ood progress in Canada ML Kishigo at the end of March.
The hassignificantly increased the size of our operations in this sector.
DDSs experience acquisition has provided access to a broad, Market sectors strong own label branded range of new and with speciality multi-channel retailers allowsus to offer more products across innovative high visibility clothing and other safety-related workwear.
These items ourcustomer base and provide additional merchandising and delivery capabilities.
complement our existing range of safety products and are now available to all of our Bycombining their expertise in this Employees Locations sectorwith our extensive distribution customers in this sector.
Our other safety businesses have also continued to invest network andscale, we can deliver a more comprehensive market-leading service to inthe development of their own brands 6,071 191 ofpersonal protection equipment.
products contribute higher margins while At constant exchange rates.
atthe same time allow us to offer our Our redistribution business serving the Before customer relationships amortisation foodservice and janitorial and sanitation customers a value alternative to and acquisition related items see Note 2w on manufacturer branded products.
jan-san sectors has grown this year due page 110. tothe success of our category management programme for our larger national and regional customers.
As their category 30 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As a focused and service-oriented organisation we have continued to demonstrate the strength and depth of our customer proposition and show our ability to develop further across the various markets we serve.
Patrick Larmon President and CEO, North America Although our business serving the food Finally, our business in Canada has processor sector has experienced continued to make good progress, marginpressures due to the continuing particularly in the safety, industrial consolidation of several large customers, packaging and grocery sectors.
We were wehave again delivered strong sales and successful in winning and implementing operating profit growth.
We moved the newbusiness for a large grocery customer operations from our largest facility servicing during the year.
We also realised a number this sector into a new, modern warehouse ofoperational synergies through facility that will drive more efficiency and provide consolidations, particularly in western opportunities to grow further.
This facility Canada and the results were further boosted now includes state-of-the-art automation through the impact of recent acquisitions.
tofacilitate the handling of small, individual These include the purchase of AMFAS and items.
Our national accounts strategy Western Safety during the first half of 2017. continues to deliver new ways to expand In addition to distributing commercial and ouroffering to our larger customers using industrial first aid and safety supplies, additional digital and marketing tools that including a full range of personal protection wehave developed.
Our total plant operating equipment, they also provide safety-related supplies programme offers a one-stop-shop services including training programmes solution encompassing jan-san and safety andother workplace safety solutions.
products as well as our own label products including vacuum pouches, shrink wrap bags and bin liners.
Our national accounts sales team is continually looking to drive sales by identifying and pursuing customers who understand the benefit of a single source solution for their plant operations.
Our business that supplies the agricultural sector was negatively impacted by adverse weather conditions in California that resulted in reduced fruit and vegetable yields at harvest.
Despite this, we have continued to invest in the business and have generated new business opportunities, particularly in Mexico.
Having integrated our agriculture businesses onto one IT platform, we are now in the process of changing our warehouse footprint to be closer to our customers and improve efficiencies.
Not only will this reduce our costs, but it will also allow us to enhance the service levels that we are able to provide.
In the convenience store sector, our business continues to generate greater revenue and operating profit by using a pull-through selling strategy with our primary wholesale customers to help them increase sales with convenience store retailers.
Additionally, our ability to manage our customers inventory enables them to have the right products at the right time with excellent fill rates and just-in-time deliveries so that they can reduce their working capital and warehouse space needs.
31 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED CONTINENTAL EUROPE Bunzl acquired its first business in Continental Europe with the purchase of Hopa Disposables in the Netherlands in 1994.
This was followed by acquisitions in Germany, Denmark and France in 1997, 2000 and 2004 respectively.
By 2010 the business had expanded through acquisition into a further eight countries and today operates in 15 countries across the continent.
Continental Europe has enjoyed another In the Netherlands, revenue was up HIGHLIGHTS year of strong growth with revenue rising significantly due to new customer wins in the by 12% to 1,610.4 million and operating healthcare and retail sectors in particular, Revenue profit up 13% to 151.1 million.
As a result, although these gains were at lower margins.
the operating margin improved to 9.4%.
This sales growth was boosted by the 1,610.4m 12% Organic revenue growth of 4% was higher continued expansion of our outsourcing than that achieved in 2016 and we also programme for hospitals.
Sales also 2016: 1,355.1m benefited from the full year impact of the five increased with customers in the horeca, acquisitions made in 2016 and the part year grocery, safety and e-fulfilment sectors, Adjusted operating profit contribution of the five acquisitions although declined in the cleaning and completed in 2017. government sectors.
Overall operating profit 151.1m 13% in the Netherlands grew well.
In France, sales in our cleaning & hygiene 2016: 126.6m business declined as an underlying In Belgium, sales continued to increase in the improvement in growth with regional cleaning & hygiene sector but our business Operating margin customers, particularly in the hotel, serving the retail sector saw a decline in restaurant and catering horeca and food sales as its main customers sought cost 9.4% sectors, was not sufficient to offset fully the reductions in the face of competition from impact of the loss of two larger accounts.
While gross margins 2016: 9.3% Cost increases were minimal but the lower improved, operating profit was impacted sales resulted in a decrease in operating negatively by some one-off costs associated S trong increases in revenue and profit profit.
Our safety business recorded strong with an ERP implementation and warehouse with improved operating margin sales growth after winning some new relocation in the cleaning & hygiene sector.
S ignificant acquisition of Groupe Hedis business, although this was at lower Polaris Chemicals, acquired in May 2016, has further strengthens position in France margins.
Prorisk and GM Equipement, performed ahead of expectations.
acquired at the end of January 2017, have G ood revenue and profit growth in the been fully integrated into our main In Germany, sales declined in all sectors Netherlands from new customer wins, warehouse and onto our ERP system.
other than the hotel sector.
Although costs particularly in healthcare and retail Comatec, our foodservice business which were lower, the sales reduction led to lower S ignificant growth in Spain from organic specialises in the distribution of high-end, operating profit.
Inkozell and Mo Ha Ge, both growth and acquisition of Tecnopacking innovative, single-use tableware to the acquired in May 2016 and principally engaged horeca sector, enjoyed strong sales growth in the distribution of incontinence products to E xpansion into safety in Italy through after investing in additional resources to at-home end users and care homes, have purchase of Neri ensure its continued success.
In a major integrated well into the Group.
S trong performance in Turkey and Israel development, we completed the acquisition with increased levels of profitability of Groupe Hedis in November which has expanded our cleaning & hygiene activities Market sectors and extended our business in France into the catering equipment sector.
Integration is underway and our teams are working hard on delivering the expected synergy benefits.
Employees Locations In February 2018 we sold OPM, a distributor of SodaStream products in France, which wasa non-core business that was no 4,414 188 longerconsidered to be a strategic fit within the Group.
Before customer relationships amortisation and acquisition related items see Note 2w on page 110.
32 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS By listening to their needs, we have formed strong partnerships with our customers, using the expertise of our commercial teams to provide them with reliable and value-added outsourcing solutions and distribution services.
Paul Budge Managing Director, Continental Europe Our business in Switzerland has seen a In Italy, Neri was acquired at the end of return to revenue growth, despite continued March 2017 and has extended our safety pressure in the tourism industry due to the operations into a new country.
The business strong Swiss franc, as a result of good has traded in line with our expectations.
performances in the medical, retail and industrial sectors.
Margins remained under In Turkey, revenue at our personal protection pressure from lower cost suppliers in equipment business grew strongly due to neighbouring countries but costs have been both volume increases and price rises which reduced.
Operating profit was slightly lower had to be implemented following the than last year.
devaluation of the Turkish lira.
Sales also increased significantly at Bursa Pazari, In Austria, Meier Verpackungen has enjoyed thedistributor of packaging and other good sales growth in the fruit and vegetable foodservice supplies and disposable gloves and dairy sectors which, together with acquired in March 2016, due to gains in the improved margins, resulted in higher public sector and price rises.
As a result of operating profit.
this revenue growth, operating profit in both businesses increased substantially.
In Denmark, revenue decreased due to the loss of a major public sector customer in In Israel, sales increased significantly in our thelatter part of 2016, despite increased businesses serving the horeca and bakery sales in the horeca, redistribution, food sectors due to customer wins.
Margins processing and safety sectors.
Costs were improved and operating profit was up reduced as a consequence of the customer considerably compared to the prior year.
loss but this could not prevent a decline in operating profit.
The acquisition of Sbe In central Europe, revenue declined slightly Compagniet was completed in early January as gains in the cleaning & hygiene sector in 2017 and has further strengthened our Hungary and strong growth in Romania and foodservice operations.
the Czech Republic were offset by lower sales to retailers and the agriculture sector In Spain, sales grew strongly in the cleaning in Hungary.
Blyth, a specialist distributor of & hygiene sector, as a major contract win personal protection equipment which is was rolled out, and the safety sector, due based in the Czech Republic and was to a combination of customer wins and acquired in August 2016, and Silwell, which an extension of the product range.
Our isbased in Hungary and sells disposable healthcare business saw substantial growth foodservice items to the horeca sector and from new product launches and enhanced was acquired in September 2016, are both marketing efforts.
Overall, margins trading ahead of expectations.
improved and operating profit was significantly higher.
The results also We have continued to roll out our common benefited from the acquisition in May of e-commerce platform across the business Tecnopacking, which is principally engaged area and a further four businesses went in the distribution of industrial, foodservice liveon the system during 2017.
This will be and retail packaging products to a broad further rolled out in 2018, thereby helping range of customers.
todrive both sales growth and operating costefficiencies going forward.
33 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED UK & IRELAND The acquisition of Automatic Catering Supplies in the UK in 1993 marked the beginning of the Groups expansion into Europe.
Bunzl subsequently entered the cleaning & hygiene sector in 1996, the retail and grocery sectors in 1999 and the healthcare and safety sectors in 2000.
Since then the UK & Ireland business area has continued to develop significantly with annual revenue now in excess of 1 billion.
In UK & Ireland, revenue increased by traditional bricks and mortar operating HIGHLIGHTS 9% to 1,190.8 million, while operating profit model to an increasing online offering.
Although the are continuing to invest in product design and Revenue organic sales growth of 1.5% for the year service innovation to offer our customers recovered from the decline seen in 2016, and clear differentiation in their marketplaces.
1,190.8m 9% the results were boosted by the impact of The acquisition of Woodway in December recent acquisitions, the UK market continues 2016 has further expanded our offering 2016: 1,087.8m to be challenging due to political and in high quality packaging products with a economic uncertainty which has had an particular focus on e-commerce packaging Adjusted operating profit adverse impact on profitability.
The operating solutions and the purchase of Lightning margin was only down 30 basis points to 7.4% Packaging in November 2017 has also 88.5m 5% as we took active steps to mitigate the strengthened our position in this market.
adverse consequences of the significant Ourpoint-of-sale fulfilment business 2016: 83.7m foreign exchange transaction impact from continues to add new customers by providing the weakening of sterling in 2016 which led to both merchandising insight and added value Operating margin higher prices of imported products.
The purchase of Pixel Inspiration atthe end of June 2017 has also expanded 7.4% Both sales and operating profit in our safety this business into the provision of business were down as investment in major digitalsolutions.
2016: 7.7% construction and infrastructure projects The catering and hospitality market has been slowed.
As a result, we undertook steps Str ong revenue growth with operating to improve our operating efficiencies further, adversely impacted by inflation in food costs margin impacted by higher import prices and the increase in the national living wage consolidating some of our warehouses and from weaker sterling investing further in our digital channels.
New which together have put further pressure on T rading in safety impacted by sluggish our customers operating margins, thereby customer wins within our cleaning & hygiene markets: good performance in cleaning supplies business have, however, given rise causing them to look for cost savings in our &hygiene product categories.
The trading environment to some good growth as we look to provide our customers with valuable data driven has also been more challenging due to the G rowth in food retail: non-food retail continuing uncertainty of the 2016 insights to help them operate their own strengthened by acquisition of Woodway businesses more efficiently and effectively in referendum vote for the UK to leave the and Lightning Packaging European Union which has held back some their respective marketplaces.
Gr owth in hospitality from contract investment decisions.
Despite these difficult winsand expansion of business with circumstances, we have managed to expand The food retail market in the UK continues to existing customers remain a very challenging environment our business due to the roll-out of a major H ealthcare held back by difficult customer win, while enlarging our operating which has impacted our business.
Against marketconditions this background, we have nevertheless footprint and further improving our own brand offering and providing greater value to successfully managed to grow with many of G ood growth in Ireland across all sectors our customers by providing extra product all our customers.
Our online ordering app has also been extensively improved to ranges and services.
In addition, we have Market sectors secured two further notable customer wins accommodate more customer functionality going forward.
Our catering equipment during the year, including one customer that moved to another supplier two years ago but business has also continued to grow with some new customer wins in the restaurant has recently returned to us, having recognised the importance of our best-insector, expanded product ranges and an Employees Locations improved online presence.
class value and service proposition that we are able to provide in contrast to many of our The UK government is continuing to focus on competitors.
On the high street, we continue 3,937 100 to encounter both opportunities and reducing costs within the NHS.
As a result, we have seen margins come under pressure challenges in our retail packaging At constant exchange rates.
businesses as the market moves from a during the year which have been further Before customer relationships amortisation and acquisition related items see Note 2w on page 110.
34 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As a reliable supplier of critical, everyday essential items, our customers rely on our sourcing expertise and the depth and breadth of our product offering and service solutions that we provide from our extensive network of distribution facilities.
Andrew Tedbury Managing Director, UK & Ireland exacerbated by the adverse foreign exchange catering and hospitality business which has transaction impact on the price of globally generated further operational efficiencies sourced products following the devaluation with the capacity for additional growth.
Our healthcare businesses have winning in the final quarter of the year of a however managed to grow sales by focusing new large customer, to whom we will provide on value-added products, both within the a full range of catering disposables, light and NHS and in the private sector, as well as heavy catering equipment and kitchen design byincreasing export sales.
Our nursing services, completed a good year for the andcare homes supplies business has also business.
A number of large public sector seen further growth with new customer customer wins in our cleaning and safety winsanda more widely available online business have been rolled out successfully product portfolio.
Kingsbury Packaging, which was acquired in September 2016, has been Our overall business in Ireland has fully integrated and has compensated for the developed well throughout the year with loss of some redistribution business in our strong increases in both revenue and operations serving the retail sector.
We are continuing to invest addition, further improvements to our digital in our operations with the opening of our new capabilities have in turn enhanced our purpose-built facility in Armagh for our customer offering and improved both the range and services available across our customer base.
35 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED REST OF THE WORLD The current operations in Rest ofthe World started in 1983 with the acquisition of United Suppliers based in Sydney, followed by the purchase of numerous businesses throughout Australia and New Zealand in subsequent years.
Bunzl made its first move into Latin America in 2008 with the acquisition of profit Cap in So Paulo, since when the business has expanded both within Brazil and into five othercountries in the region, and has grown further into Asia with the acquisitions in Singapore and China in 2017.
In Rest of the World, revenue increased 5% Vicsa saw lower sales and operating profit, HIGHLIGHTS to718.6 million with operating profit up 5% although further improved gross margins to 53.9 million and the operating margin with a better product mix.
Our other safety Revenue unchanged at 7.5%.
Trading conditions have business, Tecno Boga, experienced lower improved somewhat compared to the recent sales with operating profit flat as reduced 718.6m 5% past and the economic environments in demand for its premium footwear lines was the countries in which we operate have offset by the introduction of a number of new 2016: 624.1m stabilised, but market conditions remain brands and product lines.
Trading conditions variable across the business area.
Of the were more favourable in the foodservice Adjusted operating profit total increase in revenue, 2% was due tothe sector, with increased sales and operating organic growth of the underlying business, profit at our business DPS, despite the loss 53.9m 5% with acquisitions accounting for thebalance.
2016: 46.6m Brazil saw a return to modest economic In Colombia, economic conditions growth during the year despite continued deteriorated during the year with softening Operating margin political uncertainty.
We recorded organic demand in the construction, industrial sales growth in all our sectors for the first andpublic sectors, such that sales and 7.5% time in several years which, together with underlying operating profit fell in our safety improved gross margins, helped operating business, Solmaq.
Restructuring and 2016: 7.5% profit to increase.
Sales through our operational improvement measures were e-commerce platforms were also up in all implemented during the year, leading to a Latin America businesses and we believe we are well much improved performance in the fourth Overall good performance, including positioned to benefit from Brazils expected quarter and a business which is well improvement in Brazil continued economic growth.
Despite the positioned for a future upturn in demand.
Entry into foodservice sector in Brazil Sales in Vicsa Colombia were down but good challenging industrial environment, our with acquisition of Talge safety business showed good increases in margin management led to strong operating Australasia profit growth despite the weakness in the sales and operating profit driven by a strong Continued improvement in trading performance in the redistribution channel local economy.
conditions and improvements in gross margins.
Acquisition of Interpath has enhanced Despite an increase in sales, our cleaning & In our Vicsa operations in Argentina and Peru, healthcare presence sales and operating profit grew significantly hygiene business saw operating profit decline.
In the healthcare sector in Brazil, due to favourable trading conditions.
Asia Expansion in Asia through acquisitions sales continued to grow, albeit at a lower rate in Singapore and China than in previous years due to unexpected In Mexico, our safety business achieved sales growth despite the markets current delays in the arrival of several key imported product lines.
Operating profit was impacted, uncertainty regarding the countrys Market sectors commercial relationship with the US.
however, as gross margins came under some pressure.
However, unfavourable currency movements have put prices and gross margins under We entered the foodservice sector in Brazil pressure, such that operating profit fell despite good cost control.
Our business is in January 2018 with the acquisition of Talge, Employees Locations which is based in Santa Catarina.
The continuing to develop its e-commerce platform and is well positioned for when business imports and distributes a broad portfolio of private label products mainly to market conditions improve.
3,112 102 foodservice distributors in the southeast region of Brazil and provides us with an In Australasia, sales and operating profit At constant exchange rates.
increased as trading conditions continued anchor in this important new sector.
Before customer relationships amortisation toimprove, with GDP growth being driven and acquisition related items see Note 2w on page 110. byincreased capital spending from In the rest of Latin America, we experienced mixed results against a backdrop of lower government investment in infrastructure.
Although the Australian dollar stabilised economic growth rates in most countries inwhich we operate.
In Chile, where we during the year, some raw material and product shortages have increased the cost experienced the continued impact of a subdued mining sector, our safety business ofimported goods which will present some challenges going forward.
36 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our global network of businesses enables us to collaborate and share expert knowledge and best practices, from achieving purchasing synergies to operating our warehouses in the most cost-effective way, thereby creating value and efficiencies for our customers.
Jonathan Taylor Managing Director, Latin America We have grown through the development of long term relationships with our customers and by identifying and successfully executing future opportunities to expand our business with them.
Kim Hetherington Managing Director, Australasia Our largest business, Bunzl Outsourcing business is capitalising on the increased Services, continued to develop within the government funding into infrastructure and healthcare, contract cleaning, catering and has been successful in winning major new retail sectors with sales and operating profit contracts in the construction and energy both increasing.
Healthcare, which is our sectors and with the federal government.
largest sector, continues to grow, driven by Wehave also been able to realise some key the ageing population.
Recent changes to benefits from our recent ERP upgrade government funding has increased demand including improved reporting capabilities by creating new growth opportunities in across the business.
A reduction in costs thecommunity services sector.
We are well through the consolidation of facilities and positioned to capitalise on these opportunities areorganisation of the business to fit the and the requirements for specialist medical current market environment has enabled consumables and clinical support are met usto streamline our operational platform through our national distribution footprint.
and processes and will allow us to continue Wehave also invested in a new e-commerce to drive productivity and enhance our platform which is in the process of being competitive position.
rolled out across the business.
This will further enhance our existing trading platform In October, we acquired Interpath which is which has automated the majority of our based in Melbourne and is a leading national current orders.
distributor of laboratory and healthcare related consumables to the pathology, Our food processor business continues medical research and life science markets tomake progress with our strategy to inAustralia.
This expands our reach in the diversifyour presence across the wider healthcare sector and progresses our foodprocessor sector resulting in higher strategy to develop our portfolio within sales and operating profit.
We have been growing and resilient market sectors.
successful in winning additional large food processor customer contracts across We made our first acquisition in Asia in Australia and New Zealand.
This is building January 2017 with the purchase of LSH in momentum as we roll these out across both Singapore which was followed by the regions.
The business has also developed an additionof HSESF in China in August.
Both improved retail food packaging offering and businesses are principally engaged in the we are already capitalising on several of supply of personal protection equipment these new, innovative product ranges.
andare being integrated into the Group.
While our safety business continues to have astrong presence in the resources sector, we made the strategic decision to develop our expertise in other areas to reduce an overreliance in one sector.
As such, the 37 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017
