28 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operational review IMI Critical Engineering is a world-leading provider of flow control solutions that enable vital energy and process industries to operate safely, cleanly, reliably and more efficiently.
Our products control the flow of steam, gas and liquids in harsh environments and are designed to withstand temperature and pressure extremes as well as intensely abrasive or corrosive cyclical operations.
Performance 3% higher on an adjusted basis and 5% lower Flat Adjusted revenue on an organic basis.
Margins improved to 13.0% While we continue to expect a tough trading against 12.6% in 2016, reflecting the benefits environment in our Oil & Gas and Power markets, 648m of restructuring and Value Engineering.
it is important to recognise the great progress that has been made to realign the cost base Value Engineering and improved project Up 3% Adjusted operating profit and geographic footprint of the division.
The management activities helped deliver a year-end reorganisation programme has been delivered order book of 515m at equivalent margins to 84.0m on-time and on-budget and significantly the prior year.
The divisions Lean scores improved enhances the divisions competitive position.
significantly from 62% to 70% in the year and the core customer metrics showed good progress.
Full year order intake at 658m 2016: 614m was 2% higher on an organic basis.
The Value Key achievements IMI Critical Engineering continued its longer-term Engineering process delivered 139 million of new footprint reorganisation which resulted in the Value Engineering helped secure orders, which would otherwise have been lost or closure of a number of lower growth sites and 139m of new orders and enhanced resulted in unacceptable margins.
Furthermore, delivered 23m of profit benefit in the year.
competitiveness Value Engineering has enabled us to outrun These projects place the division in a stronger Increased margins despite lower sales existing competitors and access new and competitive position, while realigning our adjacent markets.
manufacturing footprint to be closer to Rationalisation programme delivered customers in higher growth markets.
with 23m profit benefit, on-time and As expected, New Construction Oil & Gas order on-budget intake was 11% lower due largely to Middle East In addition to the product and operational HIPPs orders which were secured in the prior year.
investments, the division continued its programme On-time and on-budget ERP While New Construction Fossil Power orders of IFS ERP roll-outs with further successful launches programme implementation now were 11% lower due to reduced activity levels, in Singapore, Malaysia, California and Kansas.
completed at ten sites Petrochemical order input was 53% higher, IFS is now fully embedded in ten of IMI Critical reflecting good orders for Gas Processing and Increased average Lean score to 70% Engineerings CCI sites and we have now agreed to Refinery projects in China and North America in extend the roll-outs to include our Petrochemical Sale of loss-making UK fasteners the first half.
Nuclear New Construction orders businesses, progressively from 2018. business increased substantially from the low base in 2016, and included contract awards for the UK nuclear Outlook project at Hinkley Point.
Based on the current order book and market Aftermarket orders were 1% higher when outlook, we expect first half organic revenues compared to 2016 reflecting a significant increase to reflect a slight improvement with broadly flat in LNG aftermarket in the first half, which offset margins when compared to 2017.
Results for the lower Downstream parts orders in the second half full year are expected to include the benefits of of the year.
Fossil Power Aftermarket strengthened restructuring and the normal second half bias.
in the second half resulting in a 5% increase for the full year.
Nuclear Aftermarket reduced 8%, whilst Petrochemical Aftermarket grew by 18%.
Revenues of 648m 2016: 651m were flat on an adjusted basis and, after excluding 40m of exchange rate benefit and 2m from disposals, 6% lower on an organic basis.
Segmental operating profit of 84m 2016: 82m was Find out more: www.
com Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 29 The substantial change in our geographic positioning and cost base, when combined with our Value Engineering successes, leave us ideally placed to capitalise in a recovering market.
Roy Twite Divisional Managing Director Creating competitive advantage Despite challenging end market conditions IMI Critical Engineering has continued to win new orders by significantly enhancing the competitiveness of its product offering.
Orders totalling 139m were secured during the year through the application of Value Engineering processes and tools which have been embedded in the division as part of our move toward best in class operational and engineering practices.
The Value Engineering philosophy, which examines every aspect of the design, procurement and manufacturing process, enables the division to improve product competitiveness and deliver great value to the customer, while still protecting margins to acceptable levels.
In line with this strategy, Value Engineering has enabled the division to organically expand its addressable market and participate in market segments that were not previously accessible.
In particular, we have a developed a semisevere valve product range and are now competitive in this larger market.
Where Value Engineering has been combined with New Product Development, it has also opened-up new market adjacencies, enabling us to offer industry leading engineering at optimised value for new applications and customers.
Contract wins during the year included: A gas processing contract worth 12m for the largest propane dehydrogenation unit in China A major turnaround contract worth over 10m for the second largest US refinery A US LNG project worth 8m New Nuclear contracts worth 23m, including for Hinkley Point C IMI CCI Korea has become a worldleading manufacturing site for critical valves.
30 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operational review IMI Precision Engineering specialises in the design and manufacture of motion and fluid control technologies where precision, speed and reliability are essential to the processes in which they are involved.
Performance results with improved productivity and a four-day Up 12% Adjusted revenue improvement in inventory days in the year.
IMI Precision Engineerings core markets have experienced a strong rebound with double digit Our focus on New Product Development gained 791m growth in Asia and solid progress in the Americas and significant momentum during the year and as a European regions.
Industrial Automation sales have result we have expanded our portfolio of great new Up 13% Adjusted operating profit now delivered five consecutive quarters of growth products which enhance the competitiveness of globally while our Commercial Vehicle related sales the Group.
Our advanced product quality planning 133.5m experienced strong growth in North America and Asia process APQP and competitor product tear-downs and continued good markets in Europe.
have resulted in the development of industry-leading ranges of platform products.
In 2017, new product Revenues of 791m 2016: 708m were 12% higher launches were introduced across the entire range on an adjusted basis and, after excluding 42m of Key achievements and represented over 75m, or 10% of sales.
exchange rate benefit, 5% higher on an organic basis.
Successfully launched first new Industrial Automation revenues of 440m were 5% Project Janus progressed to plan and to budget platform products in over a decade higher with good growth across all regions.
and contributed 7.4m of benefit in the year.
This successful first phase will be extended to Won significant Commercial Commercial Vehicle sales of 183m were 7% include further actions which will add to the 12m Vehicle contracts higher, despite contract completions in the year, and of cost savings we initially targeted.
The in-sourcing reflect stronger than anticipated markets.
European IMI Norgren Express App supporting actions and improved market conditions helped Commercial Vehicle revenues were slightly higher Industrial Automation growth increase utilisation in the year to almost 70%.
The whilst North America grew by 9%.
Energy sales localisation and low cost manufacturing transfers were 1% lower than 2016 while Life Sciences Lean initiatives delivered are already reducing lead times and will accelerate and Rail were 6% and 15% higher, respectively.
improvement in inventory days as local tooling comes into service in 2018.
Segmental operating profit of 134m 2016: Increased average Lean score In addition to product and operational investments, 119m was 13% higher on an adjusted basis to 70% the division has continued to strengthen its new and, after excluding 7m of exchange rate benefit, JD Edwards ERP system in its core Norgren North Delivered Janus restructuring 7% higher on an organic basis.
Once completed, the division benefits of 16.9% compared to 16.7% in 2016, or 16.2% will have a world-class, fully integrated IT system if property disposal gains are excluded.
which will be progressively rolled-out to the other Operationally, the division has also made great parts of the business.
The combination of Lean, New Product Development and the benefits of project Janus all Outlook contributed to a much improved performance in The global industrial outlook remains positive the year.
In 2018 we have further ambitious with leading indicators pointing to an improved improvement targets which include the completion Industrial Automation market in the year ahead.
and relocation of our Indian operation to a new and We also expect North American Class 8 volumes larger factory in New Delhi.
Our customer facing in 2018 to largely offset an expected 10m of operational metrics will also be a key focus with contract completions in the year ahead.
the new regional organisations working to streamline our supply chains.
Based on current market conditions, we expect first half organic revenues and profits to show The successful implementation of Lean throughout good improvement when compared to the first the division has continued to make excellent progress half of 2017.
The benefits of new product launches with the score increasing to 70% against 66% at the and improved market conditions are expected to end of 2016.
The impact of Lean was evident in the deliver improved results for the full year.
com Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 31 While market improvements are welcome, it is the progress we continue to make to strengthen the competitiveness of our business that gives me the greatest satisfaction and underpins our ambitions for the future.
Massimo Grassi Divisional Managing Director Operational improvements driving commercial success IMI Precision Engineerings ability to compete effectively in the Commercial Vehicle sector is based on a number of critical factors, including product quality and reliability of supply.
In recent years our focus on improving our operations and our new rigorous product development programme have significantly improved the quality of our customer offering and our ability to deliver consistently on time and to an even higher quality.
As a result of our improved performance, the division has been successful in being awarded a number of new contracts including two multi-million-pound projects with leading Commercial Vehicle manufacturers in Europe and America to supply valves into their next generation vehicles.
In addition to the larger, higher profile contract wins, improvements in our operational performance has also had a positive impact elsewhere in the business.
Across our smaller UK accounts we have seen an 18% increase in revenues, which is in large part due to the improvement in operations and customer responsiveness.
As Lean has driven efficiency improvements, it has delivered faster processing time for qualifying, quoting and ultimately converting customers, with notable wins against our toughest competition.
Manufacturing the ISO Standard cylinder line at IMI Precision Engineering in Shanghai.
32 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operational review IMI Hydronic Engineering is a leading provider of technologies that deliver operational and energy efficient water-based heating and cooling systems for the residential and commercial building sectors.
Performance A significant event in the year was the ongoing Up 8% Adjusted revenue roll-out of the divisions new JD Edwards ERP The financial performance of IMI Hydronic system.
The system is now live in two of our Engineering was disappointing and underplays 312m manufacturing businesses and across 13 of the the significant progress which was delivered divisions sales offices.
While the implementations across the range of the divisions 2017 Down 4% have been more disruptive than first expected, Adjusted operating profit improvement objectives.
the commitment shown by local management Revenues on an adjusted basis of 312m to clear the start-up bugs is now delivering 49.7m 2016: 290m were 8% higher than 2016 and, real benefits and efficiencies.
after excluding 18m of exchange rate benefit, In January 2018, Phil Clifton was appointed 1% higher on an organic basis.
Hydronic Engineerings interim Managing Director, Segmental operating profit of 50m 2016: 52m Key achievements replacing Peter Spencer.
was 4% lower on an adjusted basis and, after 23% of revenue generated from excluding 3m of exchange rate benefit, 9% lower Outlook products launched in the last on an organic basis.
While the division achieved four years In the European construction markets the modest revenue growth in the year, profits in the second level of growth experienced in 2017 is forecast Over-the-counter sales strategy half were impacted by one-off charges and to continue.
Organic revenue is expected to grow supporting growth product and geographic mix.
This more than in the first half of 2018 with margins broadly offset the rationalisation benefits achieved, New products continuing to build similar to the first half of last year.
and resulted in operating margins of 15.9% sustainable competitive advantage compared to 17.9% in 2016.
Increased average Lean score New products launched in the last four years to 78% continued to support divisional growth and New leadership to accelerate contributed 73m, or 23% of sales, in the year.
long-term profitable growth The divisions TA and Heimeier product lines both delivered growth in the year which was partially offset by declines in the Pneumatex product line.
Encouragingly, the division further progressed its strategic initiatives in the year.
Its Lean score increased to 78% against 76% at year-end 2016 and the divisions Polish plant was once again the highest Lean scoring facility in the Group.
These improvements helped achieve a seven-day reduction in inventory days at the end of the year.
The divisions over-the-counter sales strategy advanced with wholesale growth delivered from new agreements and arrangements with key distributors in Western Europe and the Nordic countries.
com Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 33 IMI Hydronic Engineering is an attractive business that has made tremendous progress in the quality of its factories and in its customer offering.
The time is now right to translate the hard work and improvements into tangible financial benefits.
Phil Clifton Interim Managing Director Capitalising on our core strengths IMI Hydronic Engineering is recognised for its market leading technical HVAC system expertise and the support it provides to customers across a range of large commercial projects.
Our core strengths and differentiated approach have enabled us to build this reputation.
In particular: our dedicated sales team supports every stage of each project, from planning and design, through to installation and commissioning and, subsequently, maintenance: our New Product Development processes are underpinned by deep technical knowledge, centred on delivering innovative solutions that meet customers exact requirements: and our Hydronic College provides industry leading training programmes that cover the latest HVAC developments.
During 2017 this differentiated approach contributed to a number of significant iconic project wins.
In May, our technical capabilities and customer focused sales management process helped us secure the Iconova development project.
Iconova is a luxury city centre residential and commercial development in Gazlantep, Turkey and is the largest luxury residential development in the region.
The project uses the divisions recently developed control valve range, TA-Modulator, a small valve that delivers a high performance in a compact form which enables both space and budget constraints to be effectively managed.
In the year IMI Hydronic Engineering was also awarded The Trfle, Campus fide la Sant project, a building in Geneva, Switzerland that will house the headquarters of a number of institutions in the health sector, including the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
Our ability to offer technical training via our Hydronic College and the fact that our product, which incorporates smart digital settings, could be installed and commissioned in a very short period of time were instrumental in securing this key contract.
The Eclipse insert is added to its thermostatic radiator valve body at IMI Hydronic Engineering Germany
