Operating review OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE We are undertaking a detailed review of our cost base and the shape of our sales and operating infrastructure to ensure we are well positioned to respond to customer needs and accelerate growth.
During the year, the market environment started to improve.
We saw share across our customer base requires a fresh perspective on our modest recovery in certain markets and geographies in the first half of the approach to our business.
Such an approach will include increased year with a continued improvement during the second half.
The oil industry investment in new product development and a significant enhancement of appears to be stabilising around a lower oil price, with a return to more our service offering.
Both represent fertile territory, with oil and gas normal levels of project activity albeit that projects are generally smaller in customers, for example, demanding much greater innovation from their scale.
We saw steady progress across the water and industrial process supply chain as they seek to regroup around a lower oil price: while service markets with power remaining flat.
Geographically we saw growth in the represents an area of competitive advantage for the Group, being a reliable Middle East, parts of Asia, North America and Europe while Latin America and profitable growth engine even in a downturn.
The investment in new product development and our service offering will Full year order intake increased by 15.6% and by 8.2% on an organic be funded by a reshaping of our sales and operating infrastructure.
We are constant currency OCC basis, while revenue increased by 8.8%, 2.3% re-examining our cost base, which has grown in scale and complexity over OCC, reflecting the improvement in the market environment.
Adjusted the years, a natural consequence of sustained growth, extensive product operating profit increased by 7.9% to 130.2m 2.5% OCC.
The and geographic diversification and an active acquisition programme over a improvement in revenue and our material cost saving initiatives offset the long period.
We are engaged in a series of reviews across all aspects of our impact of inflationary pressures, with adjusted operating margins remaining business to examine our routes to market, innovation funnel, operations constant at 20.3% 2016: 20.4%.
footprint, supply chain, talent development and IT systems.
The order book at 31 December 2017 was 192.5m, 6.5% 9.5% OCC Our initial hypothesis, that we can accelerate growth through investing in higher than at 31 December 2016, giving good visibility into 2018. innovation, service and routes to market, funded by savings generated from rationalisation of our cost base, has been validated by the work completed Overall, oil and gas represented 50.5% 2016: 52.4% of revenue with an to date.
increase in the percentage of upstream and downstream sales but a decrease in midstream.
In upstream, which accounted for 17.0% of revenue, positive sentiment in the USA and the Middle East has provided support for new onshore drilling activity.
Midstream remained challenging, although we saw benefits from an increase in gas pipeline activity and the extension of some LNG projects.
During the second half of the year we started to see an improvement in activity in downstream and we are well positioned to take advantage of any recovery in this market which we expect to be driven by emerging markets, low raw material costs and new environmental legislation.
In the water, power and industrial markets, revenue increased over the prior period by 10.9%, 5.0% and 25.4% respectively, reflecting improving macroeconomic conditions.
This illustrates the growth opportunities across our other end markets.
The Middle East and Africa showed good growth across all our end markets while we saw positive sales momentum in North America in oil and gas, industrial and water, although the power market remained subdued in the USA.
In Europe, growth in the upstream oil and gas and industrial process markets was strong, while the Latin American market remained difficult.
We remain well positioned internationally to benefit from opportunities in all our key markets.
Strategic progress The long-term drivers of our markets remain positive with population growth, urbanisation and automation continuing to drive increased demand for flow control products and services across all our end markets.
Evolving regulations regarding safety improvements and emissions reduction will also drive growth.
The changing oil and gas environment has driven a much greater focus by our customers on cost and margins, giving rise to opportunities for those solution providers who can respond to these needs and we are focused on assisting our customers to increase efficiency, reduce power consumption and maximise cost reduction through innovation in new solutions and enhancements to our service offering.
Delivering high quality, innovative engineered solutions and services to our customers across diverse end markets and geographies remains the key element of our strategy.
Our commitment to ensure we are well placed to accelerate growth in revenues and margins and to increase our market ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 26 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation We commenced the data capture and analysis phase of these reviews in industry on cost reduction and efficiency and the drive across all end 2017 and have made good progress across each workstream.
The changes markets to increase connectivity and digital automation and reduce power to our market drivers have been assessed and validated along with the consumption.
We are developing solutions that have a number of implications for the Group.
See pages 12 to 13 for further details.
applications across our end markets, using several common technologies.
We have completed a high level review of our innovation funnel, having As already announced, we are making a major investment in Bath to developed a framework for analysing opportunities against changing replace our factory and corporate headquarters and develop a state-of-themarket drivers and are now examining the areas of most interest art R&D centre, to be completed by 2020.
Innovation and organic product more closely.
development remains a key part of our strategy for growth.
The workstream to review the operating footprint and supply chain is well Corporate social responsibility CSR underway, with phase one data capture and consideration of first steps Corporate social responsibility values continue to be an integral part of our and early opportunities having been completed.
We have already business model.
We take our responsibilities to our stakeholders very implemented a number of these first steps, including the closure of our seriously and continuously look for ways to improve our performance.
The Melle factory and relocation of three businesses in Italy.
Actions in early work in this area is led by our CSR Committee and sub-committees who 2018 are likely to be procurement related.
Investigation of strategic options met throughout the year.
for the longer term has commenced.
We supported WaterAid and Sightsavers again in 2017 and The Forever We have completed the first wave of our talent development programme Friends Appeal Royal United Hospitals Bath, UK, donating a total of with our senior team and are now widening this to include a broader group 90,000.
Our employees also gave support to their local communities with of people.
the Group contributing a further 175,000 to support these causes.
This brought the total Group contributions in the year to 265,000 2016: The review of our routes to market has also now commenced.
We will use 259,000. the output from the route to market work and the review of our operations to assess the impact on our business systems and ensure these are able to For more information about the CSR Committee and sub-committees and support the business in the future.
the work they carry out see pages 40 to 51.
The outcome of the analysis will contribute significantly to the growth Our people acceleration programme being formulated by our incoming Chief Executive, Our culture and values are key to Rotorks success.
See pages 38 to 39 for Kevin Hostetler and the management team and we expect to be in a further information.
position to give further details of our plans with the announcement of our half year results.
We are delighted that Kevin Hostetler is joining us as Chief Executive and look forward to the fresh insight and leadership skills he will bring We will keep stakeholders informed as our programme progresses and to the Group.
once we are in a position to lay out the detailed plan we will also set out key metrics.
We will be very transparent around our achievements, We recognise that to implement our business strategy we need highly splitting out the underlying trading performance from the restructuring trained and motivated staff.
We invest in our people and encourage internal costs, the investment in the customer offering and how these are development and operate a recruitment policy that supports our future funded by cost savings.
As noted above, we are currently engaged in a talent development programme to assess the needs of our people and ensure we Rotork Site Services RSS are providing the best career enhancement and support.
Our global service network is a key differentiator for us.
Our highly trained service team provides service and support to our customers around the We aim to be a great place to work with strong, consistent values across world through preventative maintenance contracts, onsite and workshop all of our business units and clear adherence to our published Group service, retrofit solutions and through the Client Support Programme which ethics policies.
Our entrepreneurial, open culture is an enabler to getting offers maintenance contracts tailored to our customers specific needs.
2017, we continued to invest in our aftermarket business with 480 directly employed service engineers, an increase of 10% on the previous year Rotorks total employee number in 2017 was 3,835, broadly in line with the 2016: 430.
In future we expect to continue to accelerate this growth and previous year.
expand and enhance our service offering, both in terms of geographic spread and number of service engineers and also in terms of additional Rotorks success is due to the dedication and hard work of our employees.
I services to assist our customers in reducing costs and maximising uptime.
am sure they will rise to the challenges ahead as we embark on our growth acceleration programme.
Research and development R&D In 2017 our R&D spend increased by 18.9% to 14.0m and focused on MARTIN LAMB enhancements to our existing product range.
As noted above, we are Executive Chairman currently carrying out a review of our innovation funnel and in future expect 5 March 2018 to concentrate on responding more rapidly to changing customer requirements, particularly given the increased emphasis in the oil and gas Definitions are shown on page 5.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 27 Operating review BUSINESS REVIEW ROTORK CONTROLS Enhancing the resilience of our supply chain has strengthened our business.
Revenue 325.2m 9.0% Adjusted operating profit 92.9m 6.4% Order intake was 333.0m, a 12.8% increase geographies and although our market compared with the prior year, with revenue up exposure declined slightly year-on-year we will 9.0% to 325.2m.
On an OCC basis order continue to focus on expanding in certain intake and revenue increased by 6.9% and sectors of this market.
Positive growth was also 3.3% respectively.
Adjusted operating profit of delivered from service activities.
92.9m was up 6.4% with an adjusted operating margin of 28.6%, down 70 basis We saw positive sales momentum across North points on the prior year, with gross margin America, Europe and the Middle East and Africa.
maintained but overheads impacted by Latin America had its challenges although power inflationary increases.
and industrial grew in that region.
Oil and gas revenues remained stable in 2017 In 2017 we enhanced the resilience of our and represented 44% of divisional revenues.
supply chain by working with a number of our Whilst both upstream and midstream revenues suppliers to improve the reliability of their declined this was offset by an increase in manufacturing processes.
We continued to downstream business.
Increased revenues were invest in additional tooling to reduce delivered from water, wastewater and manufacturing bottlenecks, improving delivery industrial process markets which are seen as performance.
We have also been developing being steady growth sectors.
The power new products which will be launched through market remained slow across a number of 2018.
IQ3 With the revolutionary dual-stacked display, the IQ3 allows unparalleled data analysis of the condition and operational status of the valve: data analysis that enables accurate asset management of the plant.
GRANT WOOD Managing Director Rotork Controls ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 28 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation BUSINESS REVIEW ROTORK FLUID SYSTEMS Fluid Systems has benefited from material cost savings and operational gearing as volumes have started to increase.
Revenue 150.1m 3.3% Adjusted operating profit 9.0m 45.9% Order intake was up 18.9% to 160.1m up revenues from the Middle East.
We saw 11.7% OCC, with revenue up 3.3% to growth across the water and industrial process 150.1m -2.8% OCC.
Adjusted operating markets, with industrial particularly strong in profit was up 45.9% to 9.0m 33.0% OCC Europe.
Exposure to power reduced slightly and adjusted operating margin increased by due to lower activity in North America, 170 basis points.
partially offset by an increase in the Middle East.
Overall, the reduction in activity in North Fluid Systems is the division with the highest America was offset by increases in Europe, proportion of oil and gas sales, at 67%.
Latin America and the Middle East and Africa.
Upstream increased significantly due to an increase in project activity in Eastern Europe Fluid Systems delivered significant material cost and the Middle East.
However, this was offset savings, benefiting from value engineering efforts by a reduction in midstream, predominantly in on our core products, supported by our ongoing North America, in relation to both Liquefied low cost country sourcing programme which have Natural Gas LNG activity, as we completed benefited both our European manufacturing projects started in 2016, and pipeline projects, facilities and also enabled our regional China and which were generally smaller in size than those India manufacturing operations to better address in 2016.
Downstream was mixed, with their regional markets.
increases arising from new builds in China, India and Korea offset by a reduction in SKILMATIC Skilmatic actuators offer a unique, reliable solution for quarter-turn and linear valves and dampers.
The actuator combines all-electric simplicity with the precision of hydraulic actuation and the reliability of mechanical failsafe operation.
DAVID LITTLEJOHNS Managing Director Rotork Fluid Systems ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 29 Operating review BUSINESS REVIEW ROTORK GEARS The integration of Mastergear into our existing operations positions us well for the future.
Revenue 83.9m 15.9% Adjusted operating profit 15.7m 11.9% Gears performed well over the period, with We saw growth across water, power and order intake increasing 22.1%, including industrial process markets with particularly contributions from the recent acquisition, strong growth in industrial in North America.
Revenue grew 15.9% including Asia grew overall, mainly due to an increase in contributions from Mastergear and currency activity in China across all end markets, while tailwinds.
On an OCC basis, order intake and Europe and North America also experienced revenue increased by 6.1% and 3.3% good sales growth.
Adjusted operating profit increased 11.9% to 15.7m OCC 6.5% with The acquisition of Mastergear was completed an adjusted operating margin of 18.7%, down in June 2016 for 16.3m and, with a well 70 basis points due to a change in the regarded portfolio of manual and motorised geographic mix following expansion of our gearboxes, enables us to offer our customers a Chinese activity and integration costs in more comprehensive range of products and relation to Mastergear.
During 2017, we moved the Mastergear Italy operation into our existing In the divisions largest market, oil and gas, Cusago site and also brought the North upstream remained flat, but midstream and American operation into our Houston facility.
downstream both grew, mainly in Asia and This proved to be a longer and more complex also North America, benefiting from the process than originally envisaged but the acquisition of Mastergear.
Houston team, under our new general manager, have worked through the issues and made a number of process improvements.
SMART POSITION INDICATOR In a typical refinery, 90% of valves are manually operated, a potentially dangerous problem if the valves real time positions are not known.
Our Smart Position Indicator displays the valve position locally and signals it to the control room.
PAMELA BINGHAM Managing Director Rotork Gears ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 30 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation BUSINESS REVIEW ROTORK INSTRUMENTS The successful consolidation of businesses and implementation of our new ERP system into our Bergamo, Italy site provides a blueprint for further consolidation.
Revenue 100.6m 10.4% Adjusted operating profit 20.5m 1.6% Order intake increased 13.0% to 104.5m, other markets we are now serving include a with revenue up 10.4% to 100.6m.
Excluding wide variety of geographies and end markets, currency tailwinds, OCC increases were 8.8% including industrial automation, commercial and 6.1% respectively.
Adjusted operating vehicles, rail and life sciences.
profit increased by 1.6% to 20.5m OCC -4.4% while the adjusted operating margin During 2017 we consolidated our M&M and decreased by 180 basis points to 20.3% due to Soldo businesses into one site in Bergamo, a change in the mix of products sold with Italy.
This integrated site was also the first operating margins further affected by manufacturing facility to which we rolled out inflationary cost increases.
our new ERP system, which continues to drive a number of operational improvements in both The overall mix of Instruments sales shifted processes and reporting.
While the rollout to towards industrial process markets.
In oil and further sites has been paused pending our gas, upstream was strong in North America, operations footprint review, we learned a however growth in this market was offset by number of valuable lessons through this softness in Europe.
Midstream held up well implementation.
We continued to leverage our and downstream grew in North America and product range, with good growth in sales of Asia.
The division recorded double digit our positioners product range and other new growth in the water, power and industrial products developed by our Bifold business.
process markets across Asia and Europe.
The YTC POSITIONER Our YTC Smart Positioners, designed for extreme temperatures, hazardous areas and high vibration conditions, enable technicians to use autocalibration and simple diagnostics to commission and monitor entire systems at the push of a button.
ALAN PAINE Managing Director Rotork Instruments ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 31
