OPERATIONAL REVIEW INVESTMENT SOLUTIONS Investment Solutions MARKET DEVELOPMENTS IN 2017 PERFORMANCE Companies listing on the London Stock Exchanges main Investment Solutions delivered strong revenue growth market are an important source of new business for us.
The of 6.7%, resulting in revenue for the year of 132.3m IPO market was strong during the year, particularly during 2016: 124.0m.
Of this, corporate action revenue was the second half, with numerous large and medium-sized 9.4m 2016: 7.9m.
companies joining the main market.
It was also a strong Underlying EBITDA rose by 16.0% to 43.5m 2016: year for corporate actions.
37.5m, representing a margin of 32.9% compared with There was some consolidation in the registration services 30.2% in the previous year.
Strong revenue growth, higher market which resulted in a higher number of clients than margin project work and our continued focus on operating usual switching providers, and we were able to take leverage were the main contributors to profit and margin advantage of this, winning a record number of clients from expansion.
Share registration had a strong year with an unusually high The UK stock market reached new highs during 2017 number of contract renewals secured during the course but relatively low volatility meant this did not lead to a of 2017 with successful retention of 100% of its clients, corresponding increase in retail share dealing volumes.
reflecting the quality of its technology and service and its Dealing activity in the share plan market was also held excellent client relationships.
This included a new eightback by the lower value of sterling, which caused some year contract with Lloyds Banking Group, which is the uncertainty in the market.
Groups largest client, as well as renewals with FTSE 100 companies such as Imperial Brands, Marks and Spencer, Competition in share plans has increased, with some Prudential and Smiths Group.
software providers extending their offering into administration.
As the market leader, we remain well placed to continue to win new mandates.
The UK base rate influences the margins we earn on the funds we hold on clients behalf.
In November 2017, the base rate increased for the first time in more than a decade from 0.25% to 0.5%.
Comments from the Bank of England suggest further rate rises are likely which will have a positive impact on our earnings over time.
26 26 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW INVESTMENT SOLUTIONS The division was also highly successful at winning mandates This offers an improved customer experience, making it easier from newly listed companies and was appointed by 17 of those to locate key information, simplifying trading and giving users coming to market.
These wins were ALFA Financial Software the ability to trade and access their portfolios on mobile devices.
Holdings, Alpha FX Group, Arix Bioscience, Bakkavor Group, The business has also enhanced its customer contact centre, Charter Court, ContourGlobal, Global Ports Holdings, Pelatro, to further improve service.
In addition, the investment in the Ramsden, Sabre Insurance, Group Ten Lifestyle Group, The City Selftrade platform allows the division to provide white-label Pub Group, The Peoples Investment Trust, TI Fluid Systems, share dealing services to corporate clients, giving it an additional UP Global Sourcing Holdings, Velocity Composites and Xafinity.
In November 2017, Selftrade won Best Investor Education at the Shares Awards.
In addition, there were a significant number of mandates awarded by clients moving from existing service providers.
Investment Services other initiatives in the year included These included Abcam, Arrow Global, Howdens Joinery, investing in its commercial team, to help drive growth in Jardine Lloyd Thompson, Rentokil Initial and J Sainsbury.
The division also enhanced its risk and compliance functions.
This was a significant year for corporate action revenue.
The division has supported a number of major clients undergoing Our shareplans services had a credible year despite a challenging corporate actions, including Aldermore, Berendsen, Jimmy environment, retaining all of its share plan clients and winning Choo, Santander, Shawbrook, Standard Life and Worldpay.
a number of new clients, including Euromoney, Jardine Lloyd Thompson, J Sainsbury and LOral.
With 160,000 employees, Bereavement services and end-of-life estate management J Sainsbury was the largest share plan to change provider since represents an important opportunity for the division and 2009.
This was against a backdrop of interest rates on SAYE continued to gain traction.
The contract secured with Lloyds balances declining in 2016.
Banking Group in 2016 went live in the first half of the year.
A pilot project was also secured with six banks through the British Ahead of completion of the WFSS transaction, Employee Bankers Association which commenced towards the end of 2017, Services had already identified opportunities to work with WFSS creating a 'tell-us-once' service for retail banking.
in the share plans market.
As well as offering Equiniti services to US listed companies, the opportunities include providing Share registrations' ability to innovate and shift to digital US stock purchase plans to UK corporates.
solutions has been an important driver of its success this year.
Corporates are looking to reduce the costs of complying with The augmented reality communications tool Employee Services MiFID II and digitisation can help them to achieve this, for launched in 2016 gained traction during the year and is a example by sending customers electronic statements that capability that is unique to Equiniti.
Clients now using the tool previously had to be printed and mailed.
The division has also include Smiths Group and TSB.
continued to invest in making its services available through Employee Services continued to be recognised by the industry mobile channels.
for the quality of its work with clients such as BT Group, Tullow Share registrations' market leading capability is frequently Oil and Lloyds Banking Group being recognised for excellence recognised through industry awards.
This year, it won Best in employee share plans at the ProShare Annual Awards.
Registrar at the Shares Awards and Best Registrar at the Investors Chronicle & Financial Times Investment Management & Wealth Managements Awards.
Our International Payments business had a good year, building on a strong performance in the previous period.
As well as delivering underlying growth, it continued to win new work with clients.
This included a white-labelling contract with Santander, as the division successfully cross-sold its services to this Group client.
With 160,000 The division has developed a white-label offering for employees, Sainsbury's international payments, which will on-board its first client in 2018. was the largest share The international payments business has also begun to process foreign exchange flows on behalf of other parts of the Group, plan to change provider such as dividend payments of behalf of Registration Services, since 2009. which were previously outsourced to third parties.
Selftrade, the divisions execution-only brokerage service, had a successful year despite muted market conditions, continuing to gain new customers and to win a greater share of business from existing customers.
Selftrade benefitted from significant investment during 2017, resulting in the launch of its new website towards the end of 2017.
Pictured right: Anne-Marie Epsom 27 27 Trusted UK retailer chooses Equiniti for shareholder and employee share plan services Migrating Sainsburys to Equinitis market leading share registration and share plan platforms 28 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY INVESTMENT SOLUTIONS I am delighted that the transition went so well.
The Sainsburys and Equiniti teams worked seamlessly together to deliver a great result for our colleagues and shareholders.
I have been impressed by the way Equiniti have started to forge the relationship with us.
Sainsburys is a business with strong values and we look forward to working with Equiniti in the future TIM FALLOWFIELD, COMPANY SECRETARY AND CORPORATE SERVICES DIRECTOR, SAINSBURYS Equiniti communicated regularly with Sainsburys, giving them EXECUTIVE SUMMARY the opportunity to review the migration process.
This included In March 2017, Equiniti won the contract to provide Sainsburys the facilitation of a risk workshop with Sainsburys and the with a range of innovative and cost effective shareholder tracking of key risks at the fortnightly Sainsburys project and share plan services, underpinned by our technology and progress meeting.
fresh way of working with clients.
The services included Share The purpose of this approach was to ensure sign-off through the Registration, Share Incentive Plans SIP, Save-As-You-Earn various business areas and integrity checks.
This allowed time to SAYE, Discretionary Plans, Corporate Nominee and identify outstanding issues and provided confidence when the Employee Benefit Trust.
Transferring these services to Equiniti after four To ensure all client requirements were effectively delivered decades with the previous incumbent, involved and all project actions were complete and the services fully migrating share plans covering 30,700 SAYE transitioned to Operations BAU, Post Implementation participants, 9,500 SIP participants and 2,500 Reviews were held both internally with our Project Team Discretionary Share Plan participants.
In addition, and with Sainsburys.
This enabled us to continue to refine we migrated their share register with over 330,000 and enhance our migration process and experience for active and historic shareholders.
the benefit of future clients.
A SEAMLESS MIGRATION EXPERIENCE THE RESULT A seamless share register and share plan migration was achieved Equiniti and Sainsburys celebrated a successful and seamless with a dedicated Project Manager and an Equiniti team of migration, during mid-September, with all the key deliverables experts to manage the process step-by-step.
being met within the timeframes agreed.
We had strong project governance in place, consisting of Sainsburys, their shareholders and colleagues are now project reporting, effective communication between all benefitting from a much enhanced offering through our stakeholders, tracking of meetings, risk workshops, managing technology, innovation and fresh way of working.
change and escalation to management displayed throughout the entire project.
The project governance included fortnightly SUMMARY Sainsburys client and Equiniti Steering Group meetings with Sainsburys and Equiniti have built a valuable partnership which executive sponsors.
will continue to grow in the years to come.
They worked as a DELIVERING THE SAINSBURYS EXPERIENCE team to achieve a seamless migration which was completed within the targeted timelines, with full engagement from all Sainsburys gave Equiniti the challenge to migrate by stakeholders throughout the end-to-end project and transition mid-September following the contract award in March.
Using our advanced technology and innovative thinking, Equiniti continues to provide added value and enhanced services.
29 OPERATIONAL REVIEW INTELLIGENT SOLUTIONS Intelligent Solutions MARKET DEVELOPMENTS IN 2017 PERFORMANCE Market conditions were good for Intelligent Solutions Intelligent Solutions delivered strong revenue growth, in 2017, despite some clients being slower to commit with a 14.1% increase to 124.7m 2016: 109.3m.
the result of organic growth of 2.8%, plus the benefit of the acquisition of Gateway2Finance in January 2017 and The credit servicing market remained positive, on the Nostrum in May 2017.
Margins increased from 25.9% in back of buoyant consumer lending.
New and existing 2016 to 26.5% in 2017, with underlying EBITDA of 33.0m players are looking to enter the consumer lending sector.
This was as a result of strong revenue There was increased activity in the customer services growth, driving efficiencies and high margin project work.
remediation market, following the Financial Conduct Growth was underpinned by a wide range of contract Authority FCA setting a deadline for PPI claims of wins and specialist resourcing and remediation delivering 29 August 2019.
The FCA remains active in seeking out double digit growth during the second half.
There was mis-selling by the companies it regulates and a broader strong demand for customer remediation as the division range of clients are looking for remediation services for extended relationships with clients including Santander.
There were also significant wins with Home Retail Group The asset reunification market remains strong although and Lloyds Banking Group, providing both software and the pipeline of opportunities can be lumpy, for example services to create and end-to-end offering.
due to the timing of significant corporate actions.
There Gateway2Finance and Nostrum have been fully integrated remains untapped potential in D2C asset reunification, with the divisions existing credit business, Pancredit, offering individuals a service to reconnect them with lost giving it an end-to-end credit servicing capability.
This assets such as pension funds or savings accounts.
There has resulted in new wins including a contract with mobile are also opportunities to offer asset reunification services network Three, to service its mobile handset financing, as to other market sectors such as utilities, which have built well as new projects with Green Deal Finance Company up cash balances owed to customers who have overpaid and Sainsburys Bank.
The acquisition of Marketing Source towards the end of 2016 bolstered Intelligent Solutions capability in data analytics through its combination with the divisions existing Prosearch business.
30 30 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW INTELLIGENT SOLUTIONS Intelligent Solutions revenue increased by 14.1% to 124.7m 2016: 109.3m During the year, Pancredit won Best Use of Technology at the Car Finance Awards.
Equiniti KYC also won Best Managed Support Services Provider at the Operational Risk Awards.
Notable wins during the year included contracts with Admiral Insurance and Green Deal Finance Company, two existing credit services clients, who are now taking data analytic products.
Marketing Source played an important role in cleansing Equinitis own data during an  project, reducing the number of people required for the project by c75%.
Looking forward, the business aims to help companies to protect their own data through cyber security products and is investing in the development of further data products.
Pictured right: Alison Carter 31 31 Intelligent Solutions provide innovative customer management solutions for the digital world We work with some of the largest regulated businesses in the UK across financial services, utilities, retail, transport and travel Intelligent Solutions 32 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY INTELLIGENT SOLUTIONS We provided the client with We provided the client with 500 experienced consultants.
a range of expertise, including case reviewers with specialist pension qualifications.
The new platform provides the bank with the capability to manage and monitor the complaint process in a much more transparent way.
END TO END SOLUTION COMPLAINT HANDLING RECTIFICATION AND REMEDIATION We provided a complete Software platform halves complaint We helped a major retail bank scale end-to-end complaint management resolution times and improves staff up their resource to manage a large solution to a major credit card efficiency by over 50%.
organisation, providing them As a major UK insurance company with We were selected by a major retail with 500 consultants and a unified over 2.6 million customers, our client was bank to undertake a pension switching complaint management system faced with new regulation and growing programme.
which cut complaint handling customer complaints.
The project involved a review of costs by 50%.
Using inflexible software, the bank realised 4,000 cases and subsequently grew that their incumbent system was not fit to approximately 10,000 cases after Part of a Global Banking Group and for purpose.
After considering several a sampling exercise highlighted a with over 8 million customers, our client options, our complaint management requirement for additional evaluation.
required a single joined up platform to software was chosen due to its enhanced manage their complaints more effectively.
We provided the client with a range of functionality and robust monitoring and expertise, including case reviewers with Choosing our complaint management reporting capabilities.
specialist pension qualifications, through solution the client increased staff The new platform provides the bank with to the actuarial resource needed to productivity, and with more robust MI and the capability to manage and monitor design, build and implement a complex Root Cause Analysis capability, they are the complaint process in a much more redress calculation system.
now using actionable business intelligence transparent way and allows managers to to significantly reduce customer track agent productivity and workloads complaints and improve service standards.
We also provided the client with 500 experienced consultants who work on We have been recognised as being the clients site to help them manage a instrumental in minimising the impact backlog as well as ongoing PPI cases.
As of increasing complaint volumes whilst part of the project, we were also engaged significantly improving agent efficiency to undertake a proactive PPI review on to deliver real business improvements.
Pictured above left to right : Oliver Ayres, Kiron Chanda, Charlotte Pitchers 33 OPERATIONAL REVIEW OPERATIONAL REVIEW PENSION SOLUTIONS PENSION SOLUTIONS Pension Solutions Technology has an important role in driving demand.
MARKET DEVELOPMENTS IN 2017 The increased digitisation of pension administration, the The overall trading environment in 2017 was difficult for development of advanced analytics and employees desire Pension Solutions.
Companies and pension schemes for self-service functionality all create opportunities for have been more hesitant about spending on discretionary providers of sophisticated software and solutions.
projects and there has also been a reduction in central Life insurance companies and other fund providers are government project activity.
looking to innovate and attract savers with new, flexible The withdrawal of Aon Hewitt from the standalone pension retirement income products.
As a result, retirement administration market has led to a number of its clients products that these companies previously considered core changing provider or looking to do so.
Aon Hewitt was a are becoming legacy products, creating opportunities for sizeable player in the market and whilst we have stepped service providers to administer them.
in to provide services to three of their clients under a subcontract agreement, we have seen some of their clients PERFORMANCE choosing to move to smaller providers, where they will be Pension Solutions revenue increased by 0.7% to 139.0m among the new providers largest clients.
The division saw a reduction in the higher Despite those difficult market conditions, there are a margin project and software work, which contributed to a number of factors that continue to drive demand for decline in underlying EBITDA of 11.2% to 24.6m 2016: Pension Solutions services in the longer term.
Companies and pension fund trustees face ongoing Despite a challenging market environment, Pension pressures from increased regulation, their desire to Solutions continued to win new clients and renewed manage their pension liabilities effectively and the cost of existing clients across all of its products and services.
This means that In Workplace pensions we welcomed House of Fraser the shift to full outsourcing of pension fund administration and two more TUI pension schemes to our client list, as continues.
Companies are also looking to fide-risk their well as securing extensions with the London Borough of pension liabilities by transferring the risk to specialist Hackney and the Metropolitan Police.
New payroll services providers and life companies, through buy-in and buyclients included Shawbrook, an existing Group client, out transactions in the bulk-purchase annuity market.
Magnox and University Hospitals of Leicester and Leicester This creates opportunities for service providers such as Partnership Trust.
Equiniti to work with insurers on transfers and ongoing administration.
34 34 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW PENSION SOLUTIONS Pension Solutions revenue increased by Pension Solutions now pays nearly 0.7% to 700,000 annuities on ReAssures behalf.
ReAssure has been a client 139.0m for nine years and renewed its 2016: 138.1m contract with Pension Solutions for a further 10 years.
In addition, the division was awarded contracts to manage GMP reconciliation and rectification for Tayside, Clwyd Pension Fund and SSE plc, who administer their pension arrangements on Equinitis Compendia platform.
The administration contract for the Mineworkers Pension Scheme came to an end following a retender in 2017.
A feature of the divisions business model is that it seeks to partner with growing businesses.
For example, Pension Solutions work for ReAssure, part of Swiss Re, has nearly trebled since ReAssure acquired GREs annuity book.
Pension Solutions now pays nearly 700,000 annuities on ReAssures behalf.
ReAssure has been a client for nine years and renewed its contract with Pension Solutions for a further 10 years.
Having invested heavily in Compendia and its other technology platforms in recent years, the division focused its investment this year on its people, processes and further automation.
This included systemising how the division captures and shares knowledge, and providing training to cross-skill its staff, so they can use that knowledge to deliver enhanced outcomes for our clients.
Pension Solutions is widely recognised for having some of the best technology in the sector.
Its awards this year included Technological Innovation of the Year at the Professional Pensions UK Pensions Awards and Pensions Technology Firm of the Year at the Pensions Age Awards.
Pictured above: Equiniti Group plc customer 35 35 ON 6 JANUARY 2016 ReAssure successfully concluded the deal to acquire 100% of the shares of Guardian Holdings Europe Ltd.
This project, delivered by Equiniti, is a key strategic enabler for ReAssure and one of the key Corporate objectives for 2017.
The successful integration into the ReAssure operating model is a significant achievement across the programme team and our strategic partners.
Equiniti are a key component of our Annuity operating model and have been fundamental to the success of migrating our Annuity business.
TONY FATHERS, PROJECT MANAGER, REASSURE, 16 AUGUST 2017 36 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY PENSION SOLUTIONS The acquisition significantly extended ReAssures position as a major consolidator of closed book life and pensions business in the UK and Ireland.
Equiniti is a market-leading administrator of pensions and annuity products with a strong track record dating back to 1837.
Consolidation of Given the existing strong relationship with ReAssure the obvious annuity policies on a choice to consolidate payroll bureau services under one provider which had previously been administered both externally and single database in-house was Equiniti.
The sheer size of the data transfer and annuity payment operation, combined with tight deadlines required by ReAssure, conspired to create challenges of time and scale.
Increased Leveraging years of data handling experience, proprietary automation payroll technology and scalable service, Equiniti worked with ReAssure to design, build and test a robust platform to enable the migration of a significant amount of annuity policies.
Despite tight timelines, Equiniti used a partnership approach and Prince2 project management procedures to deliver on-time and 409,758 according to plan.
Over the last two years, Equiniti has been a vital enabler individual policy of timely and accurate administration of annuity policies for ReAssure.
Proprietary payroll software and international holders payments capability ensures that annuity policyholders are paid accurately month after month.
By utilising a two phased migration approach Equiniti were able to demonstrate proof of concept ensuring 11.4m the significant larger second phase of the project could be undertaken within a 48 hour window.
rows of data Equiniti now provides high quality pensioner payroll, existence processed checking and overseas payments services for over 650,000 ReAssure policyholders.
End-to-end solution in 18 months Equiniti have implemented a more effective and controlled method of migrating policies into the new operating model as well as improving automation and widening ReAssures customer offering.
Their expertise and support through the programme has been important to this success as demonstrated by the smooth transition into Live and the minimal warranty items experienced.
TONY FATHERS, PROJECT MANAGER, REASSURE, 16 AUGUST 2017 37
