Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 24 Operating review ENA Net Revenue 6,691m 2016: 6,410m LFL growth: -2% Actual growth: 4% Adjusted Operating Profit 2,040m 1 2016 restated : 1,962m Total growth: -2% at constant % of Net Revenue 4% at actual 1 Restated for the reallocation of centrally incurred costs following the disposal of RBFood.
58% Total Net Revenue was 6,691 Russia had a strong finish to the The rest of ENA had a tough Q4 total Net Revenue was 1,809 million, with like-for-life LFL year with double-digit LFL growth.
year, with a LFL decline of -3%, million, a LFL increase of 1%.
North America had Durex delivered an excellent impacted by the combination Within North America 2% LFL a flat LFL performance.
Mucinex performance following improved of weakness in Scholl, supply Mucinex and Lysol delivered a delivered a strong performance, distribution and launch of our challenges associated with the strong performance, as did Finish driven by recent innovations of Fast new emoji campaign, aimed at cyber attack in June and pricing behind the launch of the new Max Clear and Cool and targeted turning the awkward moments pressures.
Despite these issues, a generation of Quantum tablets.
consumer education surrounding of introducing condoms to fun number of brands displayed good, Russia was very strong, both the benefits of 12-hour relief.
Nurofen and Strepsils innovation-led, growth including lapping a weak comparative and saw robust growth, following had strong performance, and Strepsils, Veet with the new delivering a strong in-market a very strong Q4, driven by Finish benefited from penetration precision trimmer, Finish and Air performance, helping the rest the launch of our new laundry improvement programmes.
Wick with the launch of VIPoo.
sanitizer and Wave ITB in toilet Russia remains a volatile market bowl innovations.
Finish also and current growth rates Adjusted Operating Profit was had a strong year, aided by the may not be sustainable.
2,040 million, a decline of launch of our latest generation -2% constant, and in line with Finish Quantum tablets.
Air Wick the decline in Net Revenue: the was negatively impacted by both Adjusted Operating Margin challenging category growth and decreased -10bps to 30.5%, due competitive market conditions.
to pricing pressures, negative Scholl Amop was also weak due product mix and unfavourable to the Wet & Dry Pedi innovation.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 25 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements DvM Net Revenue 3,266m 2016: 3,070m LFL growth: 3% Actual growth: 6% Adjusted Operating Profit 753m 1 2016 restated : 674m Total growth: 6% at constant % of Net Revenue 12% at actual 1 Restated for the reallocation of centrally incurred costs following the disposal of RBFood.
28% Total Net Revenue was 3,266 There were also successes.
China These disruptions are now Q4 total Net Revenue was 771 million, with LFL growth of 3%.
delivered strong double-digit behind us and the Q4 growth million, with LFL growth of 3%.
This was a soft result, well below growth.
This was led by our rate both in terms of Net Trends seen throughout the year our medium-term expectations Powerbrand, Durex, and supported Revenue growth and underlying continued in the final quarter.
of these markets as a whole, well by Dettol, Veet, Move Free in-market sales was strong.
Strong growth in India and which exhibit rising middle class and the recent launch of our South Africa and Turkey also had China was offset by weakness incomes and the increasing ability new Finish dishwashing tablets, strong performances in 2017. in the Middle East and Brazil.
of consumers to afford products specifically designed for compact in the categories in which we table-top dishwashers.
Online Adjusted Operating Profit was operate.
Growth was negatively sales in China now represent 753 million, an increase of 6% impacted in the first half by 50% of total turnover.
The Adjusted Operating known issues in South Korea a strong underlying performance, Margin was 110bps higher at and had an annual impact on having been disrupted during 23.1%, with some Gross Margin the areas growth rate of around the year by the introduction of decline more than offset by -1.5%.
In addition, geopolitical Goods and Services Tax GST, reductions in Selling, General and issues in the Middle East saw exacerbated by cyber attack issues.
this region decline substantially during the year, and particularly in H2.
Brazil experienced challenging market conditions.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 26 Operating review continued IFCN Net Revenue 1,555m Adjusted Operating Profit % of Net Revenue 329m 14% 39 for definition, consistent with ENA, which predominantly Advertising and promotion costs Highlights 2017 Reported Net Revenue was the presentation of the Groups covers the US, declined by increased due to additional other operating segments.
We have taken investment behind brands, 1,555 million, relating to the period from the acquisition date steps to address market share especially in China and the US.
MJN Net Revenue declined by loss, through improved focus Fixed costs also increased as a of 15 June 2017 through to year end.
In Q4, reported Net -1% in 2017, with a weak start to on innovation, on consumer proportion of Net Revenue, largely Revenue was 709 million.
the year more than offsetting the education and strengthening the as a result of negative operational return to growth in H2 2% and a new mums programme.
Cost synergies of US$25 Adjusted Gross Profit for the strong finish to the year Q4: 3%.
early progress with a flat market million were achieved in H2, period, which excludes the share performance, sequentially, helping to drive the improving cost of sales adjusting items Asia saw Net Revenue growth over the last three months.
as per Note 3 to the Financial in H2 at 4% with a strong Statements, was 959 million.
performance in Greater China, LATAM grew 2% for the year, Basis of preparation of MJNs offset by declines in South Asian including a stronger finish to the pro-forma results Adjusted Operating Profit for markets.
The macro trends in year with 6% in Q4.
Growth The summary pro-forma financial the period was 329 million, China, which we saw during H1, was led by Mexico, following the information for MJN is presented, resulting in a reported Adjusted continued as expected.
Specialist launch of a new Enfamil product using RB Group accounting Operating Margin of 21.2%.
retail and e-commerce channels containing DHA and MFGM.
policies, to show the Net Revenue saw strong growth, together with and Adjusted Operating Profit as On 15 June 2017, RB completed premiumisation into imported Adjusted Operating Profit margin if the acquisition had completed the acquisition of Mead Johnson brands.
Offline cross-border for MJN at actual rates fell by on 1 January 2016.
This allows Nutrition MJN and it has been sales between Hong Kong and -390bps to 20.7% H1: -500bps, a comparison between the consolidated into RBs Group China declined, as did locally H2: -270bps.
The decline was full-year 2016 and 2017 results.
In order to manufactured products within driven by a decrease in Adjusted Constant exchange rates are facilitate an understanding of the the Enfa range.
Market growth Gross Margin due to increased calculated and presented in trends in the MJN business, we in China is buoyant, benefiting commodity input costs, especially accordance with the methodology have included Net Revenue and from both premiumisation and for full fat milk powder, pricing used for the rest ofthe Group, Adjusted Operating Profit of MJN modest volume growth from the corrections taken in a number as described on page 39. on a pro-forma basis see page relaxation of the one-child policy.
of markets and adverse mix.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 27 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Health Net Revenue 5,090m 2016: 3,332m Market position LFL growth: Flat Gaviscon is the leading Actual growth: 53% gastro-intestinal brand inEurope Durex is No.
1 worldwide in condoms for both safe and more pleasurable sex Strepsils is No.
1 worldwide in medicated sore throat Mucinex is the No.
1 cough brand in North America Scholl Amop is No.
1 worldwide in footcare Nurofen is No.
2 worldwide inanalgesics Image TBC Growth was broad-based across Highlights 2017 We believe we are well positioned the portfolio, with Mucinex and to outperform long-term category Durex as the top performers, growth within consumer health, 2017 total Net Revenue was 5,090 million, driven by successful innovations of led by our market-leading, with a flat LFL performance for the year.
The Durex Air and Mucinex Clear and trusted brands, strong consumerCool.
In addition, the local sexual centric innovation pipeline and performance of this category was significantly wellbeing brands acquired in significant investment behind impacted in 2017 by both the failure of the Brazil of Jontex, Olla and Lovetex medical professional and consumer benefited from improved in-market education programmes.
The Scholl Amop Wet & Dry Pedi innovation execution.
Our first full year of acquisition of MJN during 2017 following an extremely successful initial ownership of the acquired Bristolhas enabled us to enter a new product offering the Velvet Smooth Express Myers Squibb BMS brands in Latin category of Infant and Child America enabled us to leverage the Nutrition IFCN giving us critical Pedi, and the cyber attack in June.
The innovation pipeline of our global mass in consumer health.
The underlying Health performance however was Nurofen brand, with the launch creation of a new Health business robust with growth excluding Scholl Amop, in of Tempra Fen equivalent to unit from Q1 2018 will enable Nurofen for Children and Tempra even greater focus as we continue the middle of the 4-6% long-term category Forte in Mexico during the year.
our journey as a global leader growth rates.
IFCN forms Q4 total Net Revenue was 1,704 part of the Health category.
million, with LFL growth of 5%.
We saw strong innovation-led growth in Durex, Nurofen, Mucinex and Strepsils.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 28 Operating review continued Hygiene Market position RB is leading worldwide inlavatory care with Lysol inNorth America and Harpicacross Europe and DevelopingMarkets Dettol is No.
1 worldwide in Net Revenue antiseptic personal care Finish is No.
1 worldwide in automatic dishwashing 4,313m No.
2 worldwide in pest 2016: 4,066m controlwith the Powerbrand Mortein, the Group's LFL growth: 1% international brand Actual growth: 6% Veet is No.
1 worldwide in depilatory products Q4 delivered a slight improvement Highlights 2017 initiatives.
Finish had a strong Total Net Revenue was 4,313 year, particularly in the US with in growth with 2% LFL.
Strong performances from Lysol the million, with LFL growth of the launch of latest generation 1%.
Growth was broad-based, Quantum tablets and China the launch of our best-ever disinfecting launch of All-in-1 compact tablets, wipes, Finish and Harpic were although at more subdued rates in2017.
Dettol growth specifically designed for table-top offset by weakness in pest care dishwashers.
Harpic performed and a slowdown in Veet as we lap was negatively impacted by the slowdown in the Middle East, well as we continue to innovate the successful launch of the and build penetration in emerging precision trimmer.
and disruption in India during the year.
We saw strong growth in a markets, and Veet saw continued success with its precision trimmer number of other emerging markets as we continue to innovate for rolling out in more markets.
Our pest care brands had a weak example, the launch of SiTi Shield powered by Dettol a protective year, including Brazil with tough, Zika-related comparatives.
ecosystem against pollution, and undertake penetration-building Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 29 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Home Highlights 2017 Total Net Revenue was 1,860 million with a LFL decline of -3%.
Air Wick remained challenging primarily in the US, where we Market position continued to see increased competitive pressure.
Our Essential Vanish is No.
1 worldwide in Mist test launch in France has fabric treatment proven successful and we are now Calgon is No.
1 worldwide in rolling this out to all markets in Q1 water softeners 2018.
VIPoo is doing well across Air Wick is No.
2 worldwide in several markets and in the US Net Revenue air care retailers are now expanding distribution after the early success.
Vanish had a tough year, partially 1,860m impacted by retailer fide-listings in South Korea, impacting H1.
We 2016: 1,828m saw increased competitive pressure LFL growth: -3% in Brazil.
Actual growth: 2% Q4 saw a decline of -3% on a LFL basis.
Air Wick delivered strong growth in the UK and a number of European markets behind the roll-out of Essential Mist and VIPoo following a successful test launch in Belgium.
Vanish remained challenging, particularly in Brazil.
Portfolio excluding Food Highlights 2017 Q4 declined by 15% with a Net Revenue 2017 total Net Revenue was 249 stable performance from laundry million, with a LFL decline of -9% detergents but weakness in fabric versus the prior year.
Performance softeners and ironing aids.
249m was negatively impacted by South Korea earlier in the year.
2016 restated 254m With the disposal of the Food LFL growth: -9% business, Portfolio brands is a Actual growth: -2% small part of our business 2% on a pro-forma basis and consists mainly of laundry detergents, fabric softeners and ironing aids.
