STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEWS PRODUCTS Excellent performance withstrong margin-accretive revenue growth.
REVENUE INTERTEK VALUE PROPOSITION STRATEGY Our Products-related businesses consist Our Total Quality Assurance value 1,625.5m of business lines that are focused on proposition provides a systemic approach ensuring the quality and safety of physical to support the Quality Assurance efforts ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT components and products, as well as of our Products-related customers in each minimising risk through assessing the of the areas of their operations.
To do this 350.5m operating processes and quality we leverage our global network of management systems of our customers.
accredited facilities and world-leading technical experts to help our clients meet As a trusted partner to the worlds leading STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT high-quality safety, regulatory and brand retailers, manufacturers and distributors, standards, develop new products, the division supports a wide range of 335.5m materials and technologies and ultimately industries including textiles, footwear, assist them in getting their products to toys, hardlines, home appliances, market quicker, in order to continually consumer electronics, information and BUSINESS LINES meet evolving consumer demands.
communication technology, automotive, aerospace, lighting, building products, SOFTLINES industrial and renewable energy products, food and hospitality, healthcare and HARDLINES beauty, and pharmaceuticals.
ELECTRICAL & NETWORK Across these industries we provide awiderange of ATIC services including, ASSURANCE laboratory safety, quality and performance testing, second-party supplier auditing, BUSINESS ASSURANCE sustainability analysis, product assurance, vendor compliance, process performance BUILDING & analysis, facility plant & equipment CONSTRUCTION verification and third-party certification.
TRANSPORTATION FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2017 TECHNOLOGIES Change at Change at 2017 2016 actual constant m m rates rates FOOD Revenue 1,625.5 1,465.5 10.9% 6.1% Organic revenue 1,607.6 1,457.9 10.3% 5.5% CHEMICALS & PHARMA Adjusted operating profit 350.5 297.7 17.7% 13.2% HEALTH, Adjusted operating margin 21.6% 20.3% 130bps 140bps Statutory operating profit 335.5 281.0 19.4% ENVIRONMENTAL Statutory operating margin 20.6% 19.2% 140bps & REGULATORY SERVICES PRODUCT ASSURANCE 22 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT WHAT WAS YOUR ROLE IN THE WHAT DID INTERTEK DELIVER?
COFFEE Intertek developed and assisted with the PROJECT?
roll-out of the integrated programme, ranging CONFIDENCE I was the technical lead, setting the programme from brainstorming sessions and workshops layout and managing the integrated, risk-based through determining the most effective means approach we took to project delivery.
of combining different processes for the best SERVICES OFFERED possible outcomes.
Assurance Certification The Nespresso Company is the world-leader This involved creating new risk-assessment incoffee pods, machines and accessories.
As tools and flexible bespoke solutions that give such, it takes its environmental responsibilities Nespresso a rigorous approach to assess and very seriously, and wants to ensure that the improve its recycling processes, flexible recycling paths for their capsules are enough to be used in all countries.
Jeffrey Eves, sustainable and effective.
Green Services This is now not only delivering the assurance So it has created a global programme, which that the system is working to its current Program Manager, not only enables materials to be recycled but maximum capability it is also enabling Business Assurance, also allows waste coffee to be used in continuous improvement for the years ahead.
But this mammoth USA operation, involving more than 100,000 international drop-off points, uses several different pathways in numerous countries across the world.
When Nespresso asked Intertek to develop anassurance process across the entire value chain, the intent was to improve the system by challenging its implementation, enabling them to iron out any inconsistencies and ultimately ensure that performance can be verified with areasonable level of assurance.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 23 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEWS PRODUCTS continued INNOVATION 2017 PERFORMANCE We delivered solid organic revenue We continue to invest in innovation to In 2017 our Products business delivered growth in our Chemicals & Pharma deliver a superior customer service in our an excellent performance with strong business as we continue to leverage Products-related businesses: margin-accretive revenue growth.
the structural growth opportunities in the healthcare markets in both i2Q Our organic revenue growth at constant developed and emerging economies.
Customer insight: Customers value rates was 5.5%, driven by broad-based fast reports and insights from supplier revenue growth across business lines and Driven by the growing demand for more inspections with differing reporting geographies.
We delivered strong environmentally friendly and higherrequirements by client.
operating profit of 350.5m, up 13.2% quality buildings and infrastructure in atconstant currency enabling us to the US market, our Building & Softlines and Hardlines innovation: deliver a margin of 21.6%, up 140bps Construction business reported good Intertek has developed i2Q, a market versus last year: organic revenue growth.
leading digital inspection solution for supplier product inspections, using big Our Softlines business reported robust 2018 OUTLOOK data to generate advanced insights organic growth performance.
We are We expect our Products division to forcustomers.
leveraging the investments we have benefit from robust organic revenue made to support the expansion of our growth at constant currency.
Customer benefit: Provides same-day customers in new markets and to seize real-time reporting via Interteks unique MID-TO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK the exciting growth opportunities in smart protocol and reports that are Our Products division will benefit from the footwear sector.
We continue to bespoke for each customer.
mid-to long-term structural growth drivers benefit from strong demand from our including product variety, brand and Softlines Robotic Automation customers for chemical testing as well supply chain expansion, product Customer insight: For Softlines as from a greater number of brands innovation and regulation, the growing customers, speed to market is andSKUs.
demand for quality and sustainability from competitive advantage and they value Our Hardlines and Toy business developed and emerging economies, the innovations that can make the testing continues to take advantage of our acceleration of e-commerce as a sales process faster.
strong global account relationships, the channel, and the increased corporate Softlines innovation: Intertek has expansion of our customers supply focus on risk.
introduced a six-axis robot in its fibre chains into new markets and our content tests, which can be used to innovative technology for factory speed up processes where there is inspections.
We delivered robust organic chemical contamination risk, improving revenue growth performance across safety for technicians and allowing our main markets of China, Hong Kong, them to focus on more analytical work.
Customer benefit: Shortens turnaround Our Transportation Technologies time allowing customers to get their business delivered stable organic products to market faster.
revenue growth as we capitalise onourclients investments in new Connected and Automated Vehicle powertrains to lower emissions and Proving Grounds increase fuel efficiency.
Customer insight: Rigorous testing of autonomous vehicles is required to Our Business Assurance business ensure that the technology is safe for delivered double-digit organic revenue consumers and the public.
growth as we continue to benefit from the increased focus of corporations on Transportation Technologies risk management, resulting in strong innovation: Intertek have partnered growth in Supply Chain Audits.
with the American Center for Mobility 'ACM' to provide an extensive range We delivered robust organic revenue ofATIC services for their new 500-acre growth in our Electrical & Network autonomous vehicle proving grounds.
Assurance business driven by higher regulatory standards in energy Customer benefit: The partnership efficiency and by the increased between ACM and Intertek will create a demandfor wireless devices.
market-leading centre for autonomous and connected vehicle testing.
We continue to benefit from the increased focus of corporations on foodsafety and delivered good organic revenue growth in our Food business.
24 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT WHAT WAS YOUR ROLE IN THE WHAT DID INTERTEK DELIVER?
PROTECTING That has now all changed, following Interteks PROJECT?
innovative application of MALDI-TOF mass PRODUCERS AGAINST I was dedicated to this project for a year, spectrometry technology previously used planning and organising it as well as carrying FISH FRAUD only in the microbial area to identify fish out the practical work.
This allowed me to be species bytheir protein pattern.
laser-focused on delivering the project.
Its an approach that has several key SERVICES OFFERED WHAT WAS THE BACKGROUND?
advantages over the DNA approach.
First, it is Assurance Testing In the world of food processing, it is vital that quick the laboratory time involved is typically manufacturers can prove the authenticity of around 90 minutes.
Using our own developed their products, which means that they contain database of fish species also ensures it is what the label claims.
And low manpower and This is particularly important for fish fillet:not maintenance requirements make it costonly is it often difficult to identify a species effective too.
Antje Stahl, following the removal of skin and fins, but the Research Associate, As a result, we can now give customers the wide disparity in value of different species also assurance that they are selling the right fish to Food Services, creates the risk offood fraud.
This could customers, and that their labelling is correct.
Germany involve the substitution of a low-value species, The same for importers buying fish with suchas catfish, for an expensive speciessuch complex supply chains.
At present, DNA-based methods are the only reliable and widely used means of testing.
They can be costly and time consuming but it all depends, however, on the species tested.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 25 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEWS TRADE INTERTEK VALUE PROPOSITION INNOVATION Broad-based revenue Our Trade division consists of three Global We continue to invest in innovation to Business Lines with differing services and deliver a superior customer service in our growth across business customers, but similar mid-to long-term Trade-related businesses: lines and geographies.
structural growth drivers: iDocs Our Cargo AA business provides cargo Customer insight: Agriculture export inspection, analytical assessment, processes are complex and timecalibration and related research and consuming with multiple stages of technical services to the worlds approval and documentation.
REVENUE petroleum and biofuels industries.
AgriWorld innovation: Intertek has 647.8m Our Government & Trade Services developed a cloud-based export GTS business provides inspection documentation system that monitors ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT services to governments and regulatory the export process and provides bodies to support trade activities that customers with real-time updates on 88.7m help the flow of goods across borders, their documentation progress.
predominantly in the Middle East, Africa Customer benefit: Fast and real-time and South America.
STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT information on the progress of their Our AgriWorld business provides exports enabling clients to take any 82.8m analytical and testing services to action required as quickly as possible.
globalagricultural trading companies Mercury Decontamination and growers.
Customer insight: Mercury BUSINESS LINES STRATEGY contamination puts physical Our Total Quality Assurance value infrastructure assets, such as refineries CARGO & ANALYTICAL proposition assists our Trade-related and pipelines at increased risk of ASSESSMENT customers in protecting the value and corrosion.
quality of their products during their AA & Industry Services innovation: GOVERNMENT & custody-transfer, storage and Interteks experts use advanced transportation, globally, 24 7.
TRADE SERVICES technology to detect, monitor and Ourexpertise, service innovations and analyse mercury content in very low advanced analytical capabilities allow us AGRIWORLD levels of oil & gas samples as well as to optimise the return on our customers measuring the mercury emission into cargoes and help them resolve difficult SUSTAINABILITY the atmosphere.
Our independent product assessments provide peace of Customer benefit: The technology mind to our government clients that the enables our clients to minimise the quality of products imported into the impact of mercury on their country meet their standards and infrastructure and to work safely.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2017 Change at Change at 2017 2016 actual constant m m rates rates Revenue 647.8 584.5 10.8% 5.6% Organic revenue 629.7 582.7 8.1% 3.0% Adjusted operating profit 88.7 81.8 8.4% 4.1% Adjusted operating margin 13.7% 14.0% 30 bps 20 bps Statutory operating profit 82.8 75.4 9.8% Statutory operating margin 12.8% 12.9% 10 bps 26 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Fuel Tank Inspection Robot Customer insight: Fuel tank inspections can be costly and timeconsuming due to the sensitive environment within the tank and stringent safety requirements.
Cargo AA and Electrical & Network Assurance innovation: Intertek has partnered with the developers of a fuel tank inspection robot to develop a new inspection process that involves hydrostatic testing, functional safety certification and bespoke evaluations ofother features all in a single piece of equipment.
Customer benefit: The combination of all the features offered by one system is unique, enabling our customers to achieve safety and compliance more quickly and efficiently.
2017 PERFORMANCE Our Trade-related businesses delivered anorganic revenue growth of 3.0% at constant rates, driven by broad-based revenue growth across business lines Dr Sergei Fedorenko A QUANTUM LEAP andgeographies and we delivered an Business Streams operating profit of 88.7m: IN MEASUREMENT Development Manager, Our Cargo AA business reported solid Cargo & Analytical ACCURACY organic revenue growth, reflecting the Assessment, Australia structural growth drivers in the Crude SERVICES OFFERED Oil and Refined Product global trading Assurance Testing Inspection market.
Benefiting from new contracts, our Government & Trade Services business delivered robust organic revenue growth.
WHAT WAS YOUR ROLE IN THE WHAT DID INTERTEK DELIVER?
Now, Intertek has developed a new method PROJECT?
The continued expansion of the supply ofmeasurement based on combining the I launched and ran the project because, as chain of our clients in fast growing volumetric profile width, height and shape aphysicist, I was intrigued as to why tonnage markets led our AgriWorld business to ofastockpile with the compaction force at assessments of stockpiled materials from deliver robust organic revenue growth.
This means the density and therefore coal and rice to fertilisers and copper weight of a layer of materials depends on concentrates were so poor.
2018 OUTLOOK how far down the stockpile it is.
We expect our Trade-related businesses Over the last three years, the new Businesses that own stockpiles of materials to benefit from solid organic growth methodology has been proven in Australias have historically faced significant difficulty in performance at constant currency.
chemical, agriculture and energy sectors, gaining accurate assessments of their weight delivering a quantum leap in accuracy and therefore their value.
Typical margins of MID-TO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK performance of up to 0.01-1%.
Our Trade division will continue to benefit As a result of this work, organisations in When very large qualities of a high-value from both regional and global trade-flow sectors ranging from mining and power material are involved, this can bring about growth, as well as the increased customer generation to fertilisers and even miscalculations worth millions of dollars.
The focus on quality, quantity controls and government can benefit from independent, issue therefore has long been the cause of a scientifically proven expertise in asset supply chain risk management.
profound lack of confidence, not just for evaluations and management.
companies that cannot accurately value their own stock-holdings, but alsofor financial In addition, this revolutionised accuracy institutions and potential M&A partners who meansthat the number of occasions on demand trustworthy valuation data.
whichmeasurement is required may decrease, potentially enabling customers to buy a premiumproduct at a lower overall cost.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 27 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEWS RESOURCES STRATEGY Drones Deliver Energy Asset Our Resources-related Our Total Quality Assurance value Inspection Services proposition allows us to help customers Customer insight: Industrial asset businesses faced gain peace of mind that their projects will owners require inspections to ensure challenging trading proceed on time and their assets will that their assets are operating safely continue to operate with a lower risk of and reliably.
conditions in 2017. technical failure or delay.
Our broad range Industry Services innovation: of services allow us to assist clients in Intertekhas partnered with protecting the quantity and quality of UnmannedEagle Eye 'UEE' in the US REVENUE their mined and drilled products, improve to develop the use of drone technology safety and reduce commercial risk in the as an inspection aid during the capital 495.8m trading environment.
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT INNOVATION Customer benefit: Using drones We continue to invest in innovation to reduces the time that operations must 28.5m deliver a superior customer service in our be shut down and improves safety Resources-related businesses: through reduced need for human entry TM Intertek PipeAware to the equipment or assets being STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT Customer insight: Pipeline asset inspected, which are often difficult owners require a way in which to toreach.
4.4m accurately track and monitor vital asset Robotic mine site laboratories information.
Customer insight: Minerals customers BUSINESS LINES Industry Services innovation: Intertek value fast, consistent and accurate TM has developed Intertek PipeAware, an testing of their extracted commodities.
INDUSTRY SERVICES industry-leading software solution that Minerals innovation: Intertek is the allows customers to access real-time largest commercial operator of MINERALS information on their asset inspection automated robotic mine site data throughout all stages of laboratories globally, ranging from manufacturing.
individual cells to fully integrated highly INTERTEK VALUE PROPOSITION Customer benefit: With Intertek bespoke laboratory systems.
Our Resources division consists of two TM PipeAware, customers are provided Business Lines with differing services and Customer benefit: By operating with a unique solution which combines customers, but both demonstrating similar complex robotic laboratories for the traceability software with cyclical growth characteristics: customers, we provide rapid sample inspection expertise, so customers throughput, improved efficiency and a Our Industry Services business uses achieve full transparency into the comprehensive audit trail, whilst also in-depth knowledge of the oil, gas, pipeline manufacturing process.
reducing employees' exposure to nuclear and power industries to provide hazardous materials.
a diverse range of Total Quality Assurance solutions to optimise the use of customers assets and minimise the FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2017 risk in their supply chains.
Some of our Change at Change at 2017 2016 actual constant key services include technical m m rates rates inspection, asset integrity Revenue 495.8 517.0 4.1 % 8.6 % management, analytical testing and Organic revenue 495.8 517.0 4.1 % 8.6 % ongoing training services.
Adjusted operating profit 28.5 30.2 5.6 % 5.9 % Our Minerals business provides a broad Adjusted operating margin 5.7% 5.8% 10 bps 10bps range of ATIC service solutions to the Statutory operating profit 4.4 13.1 66.4 % mining and minerals exploration Statutory operating margin 0.9% 2.5% 160 bps industries, covering the resource supply chain from exploration and resource development, through to production, shipping and commercial settlement.
28 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 2017 PERFORMANCE Our Resources-related businesses faced, as expected, challenging trading conditions and reported an organic revenue reduction of 8.6% at constant currency.
We delivered operating profit of 28.5m with our disciplined approach to cost control, which enabled us to expand our margins by 10bps at constant currency: Driven by a lower volume of investments in exploration activities from our clients and price pressure in the industry, revenue from Capex Inspection Services was lower than last year.
The demand for Opex Maintenance Services remained stable in a competitive pricing environment.
We saw an improved level of demand for testing activities in the Minerals business.
2018 OUTLOOK While we have seen a reduction in the negative growth rate in the July to Nikhil Kumar CLARIFYING THE COSTS December period of 2017, we do not Managing Director, OF POWER GENERATION believe that we have reached the trough Santa Clara CA facility, in the Resources division, and we expect USA trading conditions to remain challenging in SERVICES OFFERED the first half of 2018 with a gradual Assurance improvement expected in the second half.
MIDTO LONG-TERM OUTLOOK Our Resources division will grow in the medium to long term as we benefit from WHAT WAS YOUR ROLE IN THE set their price and margin.
Historically, investments in the exploration and however, theyve had little insight into their PROJECT?
production of Oil and Minerals to meet the costs in real time.
In addition, any cost analysis I led the project, heading up software and demand of the growing population around was immediately out of date as it only ever algorithm design and implementation.
With deregulation in electricity markets, Now, thanks to a specialist new Intertek power generators have been challenged by solution called Costcom, all that has the need to become leaner and meaner in changed.
Today, growing numbers of plants order to compete and provide favourable across the world are implementing this returns to their investors.
ground-breaking algorithm, which uses While operators understand fuel costs and machine learning to analyse data streaming efficiency, one area where the understanding from hundreds of sensors.
ofthe underlying nature of costs is particularly These plants are not only getting an weak is power plant operation and maintenance immediate and accurate view of costs they O&M, which includes a wide variety of can also use Costcom to immediately identify activities such as equipment monitoring, any activities that are less than optimal.
The implications for the global power Moreover, with increased renewable industry are significant.
Not only can plants generation, traditional power plants across cut their costs, they can also improve their the world have been forced to change their competitiveness with sharper pricing based operations, resulting in increased O&M costs.
Power plants across the world have struggled And thats a valuable benefit for power to determine the effects of this change in generators everywhere.
operating regime on the equipment and, more importantly, the change in operating cost to INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 29
