OPERATIONAL REVIEW 24 This Operational Review covers: Component Solutions page 26 Health & Personal Care Packaging page 32 Filter Products page 36 Management of Principal Risks page 40 Corporate Responsibility page 50 25 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT SOLUTIONS Scott Fawcett Managing Director Component Solutions A leading global manufacturer and distributor of a comprehensive range of components, used in diverse industrial applications and end-markets.
343.1m Revenue 2016: 302.6m 13.4% 58.7m 1 Operating profit 2016: 54.4m 7.9% 17.1% 1 Operating margin 2016: 18.0% -90bps 1 Excluding amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional operating items.
26 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT SOLUTIONS ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Who we are and what we do How we do it customers from the earliest stages of new product development and provide them The Components business is a global The objective of our Components with a compelling value proposition, no market-leading manufacturer and business is to leverage its extensive customer matter how complex the finished product.
distributor of plastic injection moulded, base, product range and distribution vinyl dip moulded and metal items.
capability, using our efficient sourcing and The Card Solutions business has access Operating in 27 countries worldwide, manufacturing operations and integrated to a wide portfolio of products and 11 manufacturing facilities and 24 IT platform, to respond to the demands services, including printers, software and logistics centres serve more than 90,000 of our diverse customer base.
Our tool consumables from leading manufacturers.
customers with a rapid supply of low cost library, product development skills and Our systems produce durable, high-quality, but essential products for a variety of manufacturing experience, combined with credit card-style photo ID cards, which applications in industries such as our inventory and logistics infrastructure, are compatible with the majority of security equipment manufacturing, automotive, are unique assets.
We have sophisticated systems, and which can be specified to fabrication, electronics and construction.
business-to-business, multi-channel incorporate magstripes, barcodes, marketing expertise, and support this with contactless chips or smart cards.
The Pipe Protection Technologies PPT our knowledgeable sales resource and business specialises in the manufacture comprehensive product catalogues, which How we performed in 2017 of high-performance innovative products are available in many languages and online.
from commodity resins to engineeringFinancial performance grade thermoplastics and polymer alloys We target organic growth through Revenue increased 13.4% 8.0% at for use in the oil & gas industry.
Locations increasing the range of products and constant exchange to 343.1m, driven in four countries, combined with a wide effective marketing, cross selling to existing by growth in Components and recovery distributor network, serve customers customers, expanding our customer base in Pipe Protection Technologies.
and entering new geographic markets.
PPT, revenue increased 8.5% 3.4% at We also see opportunities to grow through constant exchange.
The Extrusion business is a leading custom acquisition, where it can move our business profile extruder located in the Netherlands, into complementary product categories or The result in Components was broadwhich offers a complete design and end-markets, or further our geographic based across geographic regions, with production service.
One of the first distribution capability.
a continued strong performance in companies to extrude plastics in 1956, Continental Europe and Asia underpinned Essentra is now one of Europes most As a global leading supplier to the oil by a return to growth in the Americas advanced suppliers of co-extrusion and & gas sectors, our PPT business provides and the UK, further to operational and tri-extrusion to all branches of industry.
the broadest range of custom thread and commercial improvement initatives pipe protection products for a complete implemented in both markets.
The The Card Solutions business is a provider range of Oil Country Tubular Goods increase in Europe was supported by of ID card printers, systems and OCTG tubulars, line pipe and drilling further service improvements at our accessories to direct and trade customers, pipe applications.
Our objective is to regional manufacturing hub in Kidlington, providing a broad product offering and leverage our state-of-the-art manufacturing with better management of inventory competitive value.
footprint headquarters in Houston, US, levels helping to reduce overall net working to meet global demand while ensuring capital.
Trading in the Americas benefited adherence to the latest industry regulations.
from a more defined segmentation of the customer base and product offering Offering a full range of value-adding particularly in the Maintenance, Repair design and production services, Essentra & Overhaul MRO segment further Extrusion is well placed to provide to the roll-out of 4,000 new mechanical purpose-developed products based on components towards the end of the prior unique specifications.
Our objective is to year while growth in Asia was driven leverage our extensive in-house capabilities by electronics and general industrial including a laboratory, R&D department mid-sized customers.
and tooling expertise to partner with 27 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT SOLUTIONS Our general protection range of caps and Revenue in Extrusion was moderately Revenue by destination % plugs increased, with our access hardware lower than the prior year.
Continuing 1 Europe & Africa 53.3 offering also continuing to perform well: to benefit from its expertise in complex, 2 Americas 36.9 in addition, components aimed at the technical profiles, the business saw further 3 Asia including Middle East 9.8 consumer electronics segment delivered good growth for its plastic components a strong result in Asia.
Further to the used in the purification of drinking and 3 successful development of tooling, there processed water in both industrial and was an encouraging revenue contribution municipal installations, as well as in the in custom injection moulding, particularly construction industry for swimming pool in the automotives sector in both Europe covers: however, this was offset by a softer and the US.
Towards the end of the year, performance in extruded finishing parts we also relaunched our catalogue in used in the furniture sector.
1 Europe, featuring c. 1,000 new products 2 including electromechanical switches Adjusted operating profit increased 7.9% and cable management and access 3.9% at constant exchange to 58.7m, hardware solutions.
equating to a 90bps decline in the margin to 17.1% -70bps at constant exchange : In December, we announced the excluding PPT, adjusted operating profit acquisition of Micro Plastics, a leading declined 1.4% -5.2% at constant Revenue by end-market % manufacturer and distributor of nylon exchange to 56.1m, with a 180bps 1 Electronics 30.1 fasteners and other plastic components -160bps at constant exchange decrease 2 Fabrication machinery 23.2 for a wide range of industrial end-markets in the margin to 17.8%.
Further operating 3 Automotive 10.6 including general industrial, automotive efficiency savings, together with a return 4 Oil & gas 9.7 and white goods.
Based in Arkansas, US, to profitability in PPT, were offset by 5 Paper, board & point of purchase 6.6 the transaction not only expands one of measured investment in Components 6 Construction 5.0 our core product ranges and adds to our to rebuild capability, together with a 7 Hydraulics pneumatics 2.6 manufacturing capacity in the US, but significant increase in raw material costs also with a facility in Monterrey in early 2017 and a lower margin product 8 Other 12.2 provides an entry platform for our mix in Extrusion.
Components business in the attractive 8 Mexican market.
Operational developments 7 During the year, we undertook a number 1 6 Like-for-like revenue in PPT increased of operational initiatives across the division.
115.7% to 28.4m, notwithstanding 5 temporary disruption to our Houston, In Components, we further rationalised US facility from Hurricane Harvey: this our footprint with the transfer of our 4 recovery from a low base was as a result seals activities from Ipoh, Malaysia to of an uplift in the North American rig count, our facility at Rayong, Thailand, which and the consequent impact on drilling is accredited to the stringent level of 3 2 activity and demand from the pipe mills, quality demanded by the automotive oil & gas service companies and pipe industry.
As a result of this consolidation processors.
Both our midand heavy-duty of our operational capabilities and resources, product ranges, including Tector Plus we will build scale in south east Asia, as and Titan, performed particularly well well as helping our customers to simplify as onshore drilling improved, although this their own supply chains as all our seals was partially offset by the impact of lower products are now available to ship from investment in offshore explorations and a single location.
In Turkey, we extended production fields.
into a second facility, to accommodate the expansion of both our metal hardware and mainline plastics components offering, while new injection moulding equipment with reduced set-up time was installed at both Kidlington and our Americas regional manufacturing hub in Erie, US.
28 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT SOLUTIONS ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Following the previous addition of robotics Components Industry specification and automated parts handling systems As end-markets become more to our presses at Houston, we further Market trends sophisticated and demanding, so the invested in our PPT manufacturing requirement for higher-quality components platform at this flagship site in additional Given their very wide application, the increases.
Over and above this more automation and laboratory capabilities.
global market for industrial components general trend, certain customers are There was also significant investment is large, fragmented and ill-defined for increasingly facing regulatory guidelines in three large tonnage injection moulding both suppliers and customers.
However, in terms of the specification of the machines in Veracruz, Mexico, which management estimates the value of components they use.
has improved both our capacity and the Bill of Materials small components our abilities.
market at c. 8bn, with growth in line Weight reduction with Industrial Production.
Increasing focus on fuel efficiency in the 2018 key initiatives automotives industry is resulting in weight Introduce further new products in Manufacturing GDP growth rate reduction targets and a trend of replacing Components, to reinforce strengths With low-cost direct material components metal components with plastic.
in core offering and expand one stop being used in a very broad spectrum of shop ranges industrial end-markets, those countries Growing functionality with a higher manufacturing GDP growth Increased product sophistication, Successfully integrate Micro Plastics rate are particularly attractive.
particularly in the automotives and white and leverage cross-selling opportunities goods sectors, is resulting in growing Reorient marketing, digital and sales Increased use of standard components demand for cable management solutions.
efforts to drive new customer acquisition There is an increasing move to small, specialised manufacturing businesses, Key new product opportunities Expand our China footprint through which assemble their parts and equipment Continue range expansion, to provide the creation of a south China facility from a range of standard components.
customers with the broadest selection Continue to focus on improvements This approach provides them with of components to the customer experience in order flexibility, and the ability to move quickly Develop new sectors for existing to improve Net Promoter Score to provide their own customers with the customer base, such as hardware service they require.
Ongoing focus on high performance Globalise successful local products material formulations that improve Just-in-time delivery through established supply chain PPT product performance and decrease As customers are required to deliver part weights Enter new and adjacent product their own products just-in-time, so their markets, such as medical devices Development of a complete line of demand for critical components from their and aerospace high performance tooling, to support suppliers is increasingly on the same basis.
strategic growth in premium high Launch products which are compliant thread protection products for the Increasing labour costs with new industry standards oil & gas industry Standardised manufacturing processes and components typically require less Continued expansion of manufacturing labour, thereby helping customers reduce automation in Houston and capacity their cost base.
There is also a trend at Veracruz among larger customers to design in Investment in an additional extrusion higher technology markets such as the line, to support growth opportunities US, UK, Germany, Japan and Singapore, for swimming pool covers and then to manufacture in lower labour cost regions eg, eastern Europe, China and India, which benefits components suppliers with global reach.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT SOLUTIONS What we measure Pipe protection Technologies What we measure NUMBER OF ACTIVE CUSTOMERS Market trends SALES PER MACHINE HOUR Why we measure it The global oil & gas market is prone to Why we measure it Reflects marketing effectiveness and volatility in supply, with the consequent Indicative of business mix and measures the potential population for fluctuations in energy prices having an productivity further growth opportunities impact on the level of drilling activity and rig count.
How we have done How we have done A 30% increase in sales per machine hour, Reduction from 99K to 94K, as we Evolving oil & gas production reflecting the recovery in the oil & gas focus on mid-sized customers techniques industry during 2017 Over the cycle, the significant increase in shale gas and oil will result in the NET PROMOTER SCORE development of more efficient drilling rigs NEW CUSTOMERS ADDED and the adoption of new technologies, Why we measure it which benefit suppliers with the ability Why we measure it Reflects our customers overall satisfaction to invest in supporting industry growth.
Reflects our ability to successfully target with our products and service, as well as new growth opportunities loyalty to our brand Industry specification As end-markets become more How we have done How we have done sophisticated and demanding, so 62 compares to 137 in 2016 Increased from 25 to 31 on a global basis the requirement for higher quality components increases.
Over and above this more general trend, customers are ON TIME IN FULL ON TIME IN FULL increasingly facing regulatory guidelines in terms of the specification of the Why we measure it Why we measure it components they use.
Demonstrates the ability to meet Demonstrates the ability to meet delivery demands delivery demands Cost Continued customer focus on their How we have done How we have done cost base benefits suppliers with a broad 86.2% compares to 88.9% in 2016 90.4% compares to 89.8% in 2016 product offering across price points and the ability to invest in more efficient equipment and manufacturing processes.
LOST TIME INCIDENTS LOST TIME INCIDENTS Key new product opportunities Why we measure it Why we measure it Continue to invest in state-of-the-art Measures the opportunity cost of incidents Measures the opportunity cost of manufacturing capability and further in the workplace incidents in the workplace capacity, to meet industry demands How we have done Launch products which are compliant How we have done 0 lost time incidents compares to 2 in 2016 with new industry standards Decreased to 8 from 10 in 2016 Leverage new product development expertise, to provide customers with the most comprehensive and costcompetitive range 30 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | COMPONENT SOLUTIONS ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Extrusion Practicality and reliability What we measure In many end-markets, particularly in Market trends construction and furniture, the use of NEW CUSTOMERS WON FROM plastic is increasingly displacing more MADE QUOTES Management estimates the global traditional materials such as wood and addressable market for extruded plastic metal in a wide variety of applications Why we measure it products at around 400m, increasing from finishing to protection, and for Demonstrates the ability to translate broadly in line with GDP.
The underlying interiors and exteriors alike.
quotes into revenue-generating growth rates and key trends vary opportunities depending on the end-market served and Regulatory requirements the respective solution being provided.
and sustainability How we have done As regulation evolves and sustainability 12% compares to 17% in 2016 Increased demand for fully-engineered concerns increase, so there is a growing and rapid solutions demand for products which use more Customers are increasingly seeking more , non-PVC raw WASTE sophisticated and bespoke solutions to materials.
their needs, which typically require more Why we measure it value-added equipment and a more Consumer behaviour Drives productivity and the efficient technically-educated workforce.
In addition, The continued increase in online shopping use of materials with solutions required ever more rapidly, is reducing traditional retail shelf space, the ability to provide prototype tooling while a growing cruise ship market is How we have done for example, through the use of 3D driving demand for waste water solutions.
15.7% compares to 15.6% in 2016 printing, as well as to integrate the design and manufacturing process, is becoming Cost more important.
Continued customer focus on profitability ON TIME IN FULL and competition from low cost economies benefits suppliers with a broad product Why we measure it offering across price points and the ability Demonstrates the ability to meet to invest in more efficient equipment and delivery demands manufacturing processes.
How we have done Key new product opportunities 91.0%, showing an improving trend Continue to invest in high value-added in this first year of measurement tooling and design capabilities, to meet demand for technical and efficient high-end profile solutions and reduce LOST TIME INCIDENTS lead times Why we measure it Actively outsource tools where Measures the opportunity cost of incidents appropriate, to provide greater capacity in the workplace flexibility Investigate alternative suppliers and How we have done or raw materials to meet regulatory 1 lost time incident compares to 3 in 2016 sustainability requirements and customer need 31 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE PACKAGING Iain Percival Managing Director Who we are and what we do Supported by an in-house design studio The Design Hub R&D and multi-million Health & Personal Essentra is one of only two multipound print facilities, Essentra is positioned continental suppliers of a full secondary to deliver the very best in quality, service Care Packaging packaging range to the health & personal and reliability through its worldwide care sectors.
The divisions innovative manufacturing and sales structure.
A leading global provider of specialist products include cartons, leaflets, packaging and authentication self-adhesive labels and printed foils used in How we do it solutions to a diversified blue chip blister packs, which help customers to meet customer base.
the rapidly-changing requirements of these Our objective is to understand our end-markets and can also be combined customers needs and business challenges, with Essentras authentication solutions and then to collaborate closely with them 409.5m o help the fight against counterfeiting.
using our product, process and services Revenue know-how, capabilities and resources 2016: 430.2m -4.8% Our products and technologies which to deliver successful and value-creating also include pressure-sensitive tear tapes solutions.
We seek to leverage our can combine to provide a value-adding, international footprint to provide 7.2m multi-functional product choice for our market-leading quality and service on 1 Operating profit customers.
Accordingly, our range of a global basis, and to add value to both 2016: 34.5m -79.1% solutions helps to ensure that the consumer customers and consumers.
does not get frustrated by opening packs, and receives products that have been Operating from 25 manufacturing sites 1.8% protected in transit, have not been across four geographic regions, Essentra 1 Operating margin tampered with and can be confirmed is a leading global supplier of a broad suite 2016: 8.0% -620bps as genuine.
of innovative specialist secondary 1 packaging and authentication solutions Excluding amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional operating items.
The business is also a leading manufacturer to meet the rapidly changing requirements and distributor of adhesive-coated tape of the health & personal care markets.
products for a wide range of industries Working in effective partnership with and applications, in particular the point customers and strategic suppliers, of purchase and white goods sectors.
Essentra is committed to quality, flexibility 32 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE PACKAGING ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM and creativity, and is well placed to meet In the autumn, hurricane activity impacted the exacting needs of an international our sites in Largo, US and more severely customer base.
at Guaynabo and Manati in Puerto Rico.
While all our employees were fortunately Essentra is also globally recognised as safely accounted for and the facilities were the leading manufacturer and supplier left fundamentally intact, our Puerto Rico of pressure-sensitive tear tapes as well operations were significantly affected by Revenue by destination % as a provider of other solutions such as the infrastructure and supply chain issues bags, sacks and commercial print which which ensued and a reduced level of demand 1 Europe & Africa 56.0 are largely used in the tobacco, food & from customers, who themselves faced 2 Americas 40.1 drink and specialist packaging sectors.
3 Asia including Middle East 3.9 Although normal output levels were fully Serving a broad range of end-markets, restored by the end of the year, management 3 Essentra has expertise in coating estimates the FY 2017 revenue and adjusted multiple adhesive systems in numerous operating profit impact of hurricane technologies.
With close to 3,000 adhesive activity ie, including Largo at 2.5 3.0m products available for same-day shipping, and 1.5 2.0m respectively, net of any Essentras products can meet all highrecovery from insurance.
However, beyond 2 performance needs, from foam, magnetic, the afore-mentioned issues, the focus and finger-lift and acrylic high bond tapes to remedial action of the senior management hook and loop and non-skid foam.
team on the integration challenges of the 1 prior year led to a reduction in the rate of How we performed in 2017 revenue decline in FY 2017 when compared to H2 2016, and key service and quality Financial performance metrics improved progressively during the Revenue decreased 4.8% -9.0% at year in both the US and Europe.
These Revenue by end-market % constant exchange to 409.5m.
Excluding demonstrable and consistent improvements the divestment of the Bristol consumer have been noted by customers, and have 1 Health & personal care 70.0 packaging facility on 5 June 2017, facilitated a significantly enhanced dialogue 2 Food & beverage 10.1 like-for-like revenue reduced 8.5%.
about how we can collaborate to help 3 Tobacco 7.5 them meet a range of needs and business 4 Paper, board & point of purchase 7.0 As expected, the performance in health objectives.
5 Other 5.4 & personal care continued to deteriorate, largely owing to legacy operational issues This enhanced customer sentiment was 5 at certain integration sites in the UK and reinforced by encouraging new business 4 US which had a disproportionate impact wins during 2017, as well as certain on the result.
Specifically, the structural multi-year, multi-product global framework 3 and operational challenges at our folding agreements with international blue chip cartons facility IP5 in Newport were healthcare companies which were renewed 2 such that a proposal to cease production towards the end of the year.
In addition, our was confirmed, and the facility was range of freshness labels which can be 1 closed at the end of the year.
Indeed, tailored to meet specific requirements, and notwithstanding the significant improvement help to keep a product as fresh as possible efforts of the site management team for as long as possible continued to and employees, IP5 generated a FY 2017 perform well, with growth underpinned by 1 adjusted operating loss of 4.5m on further demand from an existing customer.
revenue of 12.2m, and was not anticipated to make a realistic improvement to The result in Tapes reflected gains in the profitability in the near, or even long, term.
appliance sector for speciality tapes and in the food segment for tear tapes, being offset respectively by softness in point of purchase and continued weakness in tobacco.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE PACKAGING While the focus in 2017 was on stabilising paper bags and associated packaging Notwithstanding this investment, our the division and restoring a platform from solutions for the bakery and food service strategy review identified the need for which to grow, nonetheless we continued sectors.
In addition, the closure of our incremental capital expenditure of 20m to develop our product pipeline to ensure IP5 site given its significant weighting over three years, to improve the divisions that customers are well-positioned to towards folding cartons for the consumer capabilities and to support our future growth meet such industry trends as patient goods industry will not only remove agenda.
This upgrade programme to more adherence and evolving legislative significant financial and operational modern equipment should not only continue requirements regarding the tracking, challenges, but will also further focus to improve our productivity, service and tracing and authenticating of products our manufacturing footprint on those quality, but also help us to drive profitability through the supply chain.
Accordingly, end-markets where we can add greatest back towards an industry average level over we further commercialised our serialised value with our specialist secondary the medium term consistent with our carton and label offering, as well as our packaging solutions.
large format literature and range of fibre-tear, void-release and frangible labels Adjusted operating profit decreased 79.1% 2018 key initiatives which allow consumers to easily identify if -80.2% at constant exchange to 7.2m, Continue to improve and maintain packaging has been interfered with.
The 620bps customer service and quality to best decline in the margin -630bps at constant in class levels Following its establishment in 2016, we exchange was due to the volume gearing Grow market share through regaining leveraged the capabilities of our Design effect of revenue decline, the aforeshare of wallet, and continue to build Hub service in providing customers with mentioned ongoing losses at the IP5 site and global Key Account Management to value-added solutions from offering a disruption in Puerto Rico, together with a less increase customer relevance fast turnaround of digital samples and profitable revenue and segment mix in Tapes.
mock-ups to delivering stand-out Implement Voice of Customer survey packaging which helps them to Operational developments findings, reflecting the demands for differentiate their products on-shelf.
In In 2017, there was substantial investment greater innovation, closer supply chain particular, through combining structural to rebuild operational capability across the efficiency collaboration and supporting and creative packaging design with the division, both to help unblock production the trend to multi-product suppliers technical expertise of our product bottlenecks and to support growth Deliver creativity in market-led product development teams, we were pleased to opportunities.
New gluing lines were development eg, patient adherence work with an international pharmaceutical installed at our cartons sites in Charlotte, and further leverage in-house design customer in the successful redesign of US and Barcelona, Spain, with an upgraded expertise their range of folding cartons.
press at Moorestown, US allowing more rapid changeover times and superior colour Implement supporting initiatives in Customers also responded positively to our management and vision control.
Large procurement, plant optimisation and intention to focus on specialist secondary format folding equipment for literature process stability to deliver cost benefits packaging for the health & personal care production was also added in Greensboro Identify growth opportunities in tear sectors, as stated in our strategic review.
and Indianapolis, US, Manati, Puerto Rico tape, to help mitigate continued Reinforcing our commitment to these and Wolfen, Germany, while enhanced softness in the tobacco segment end-markets, in October we created digital capability at Glasnevin, Ireland helped a global divisional organisation with the facility to secure new cartons business Continue to grow industrial applications leadership under a single functional with a clinical trials customer for 2018.
In for speciality tapes team, which will allow us to serve our addition, the introduction of standardised multi-national customers better and with colour management technology at site level Market trends greater alignment, and to leverage our helped to underpin the improvements in scale in innovation, best practice transfer quality metrics made during the year and Management estimates the value of the and talent development.
As a result, we represent a substantial upgrade to our global addressable market for secondary will be even better positioned to pursue capability in this respect.
Indeed, the health & personal care packaging at c. a clear strategic direction with common significant focus on operational efficiency 15bn, growing at a low to mid single-digit purpose, and to provide our customers in general during the year resulted in the level depending on the geographic with a consistent global value proposition.
establishment of a wide range of process region served.
competencies from quality and Sales & Indicative of our strategic focus on the Operations Planning to procurement and In Tapes, management estimates that health & personal care sectors, during the waste reduction has helped to stabilise speciality tapes are modestly increasing year we divested our consumer packaging the division and to provide solid foundations at c. 2%, while a declining market for tear site in Bristol which manufactured printed from which to build in the future.
tapes to the tobacco industry in developed 34 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | HEALTH & PERSONAL CARE PACKAGING ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM economies is being partially mitigated Emerging segments and technologies What we measure by rapid growth in the paper & board As the pharmaceutical and health & segment for online shopping use.
personal care sectors continue to evolve, ON TIME IN FULL so new segments emerge eg, biopharma, Legislation cosmaceuticals with specific packaging Why we measure it Increasing regulatory requirements, requirements.
Drives performance of quality systems such as the European Falsified Medicines and service delivery Directive, are driving demand for Functionality and convenience tamper-evident packaging, while the more There is a growing demand for packaging How we have done standardised pack requirements of the which not only offers optimum product 96.0% compares to 91.4% in 2016 EU Tobacco Products Directive potentially protection, but is also easy for consumers limit the scope for innovative solutions.
CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS Brand and identity protection and Sustainability and waste reduction verification There is an increasing need for packaging Why we measure it Brand owners have a continued need to to be resealable so as to maintain Drives performance of quality systems protect their assets from counterfeiters, freshness and reduce waste, as well as to and performance delivery and to reassure consumers that the have a lower environmental impact.
product they are purchasing is genuine How we have done and has not been interfered with.
Industry specification A 28.7% decrease in customer complaints As the industrial and retail sectors versus 2016 Increasing consumer communication continue to evolve, there is a growing Packaging is increasingly used to interest in replacing traditional fastening communicate brand messages, and to solutions with high quality, efficient, LOST TIME INCIDENTS engage with consumers via promotions lighter-weight alternatives.
Why we measure it Key new product opportunities Measures the opportunity cost of incidents Provision of total solutions Investment in technology, to develop in the workplace Customers are increasingly seeking a novel, value-added packaging and brand partner which can deliver a complete protection solutions, in particular to How we have done offering from design to end-supply meet legislative and regulatory changes 53 lost time incidents compares to as well as individual products capable 45 in 2016 Investment in equipment and digital of providing multiple pack features.
capability, to meet the growing demand for smaller batch manufacturing There is also a clear pattern of one stop shopping by health & personal care Creative and secure design solutions to customers, benefiting suppliers with a provide enhanced communication and breadth of product offering.
authentication opportunities Functional packaging benefits, such as Customer risk management opening, closing and tamper-evidence As customers globalise their own activities, they are seeking strategic multi-continental Eco-friendly packaging solutions, partners who can grow with them and such as closing and resealing hence reduce their supply chain risk.
Replacement of traditional fastening solutions eg, nails, screws with Key account management adhesive tapes in industrial and retail As global customers seek to simplify applications their respective supply chains, they are increasingly seeking suppliers who can meet their requirements across multiple jurisdictions.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS Kamal Taneja Managing Director Who we are and what we do We also increasingly provide adjacent services to the tobacco industry.
Our Filter Products Our Filter Products business is the only Scientific Services facility located in the global independent supplier of filters.
UK was one of the first independent, The only global independent provider Not only do we manufacture standard externally accredited laboratories for and related solutions to the tobacco filters, but as the leading supplier of the testing of cigarettes, cigarette filters, industry.
special filters we also provide innovative smokeless devices including e-cigarettes solutions that meet the consumer-driven and low ignition propensity LIP for demands of the tobacco industry against cigarette papers, and has over 20 years 277.5m a backdrop of ongoing legislative changes.
experience of providing analytical services In addition, our offering extends into to state monopolies, and both independent Revenue nicotine delivery devices, where we and multi-national customers.
Additionally, 2016: 269.2m 3.1% have a number of fully-functional and we offer a full bespoke range for the design, packaged e-cigarette products as well packing and packaging of filters of 34.8m as solutions for the Heat Not Burn roll-your-own brands, providing an efficient 1 segment, which draw upon the broad and cost-effective solution to delivering Operating profit range of technologies which the retail-ready products to the market.
We supply over 500 product specifications 12.5% to c. 250 customers, including all the 1 multi-national tobacco companies.
We Operating margin have seven manufacturing facilities in 2016: 13.9% -140bps seven countries, supported by a dedicated 1 Excluding amortisation of acquired intangible research facility and three regional assets and exceptional operating items.
36 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM How we do it How we performed in 2017 Innovation is at the heart of our Filter Financial performance Products business, and our objective is Revenue increased 3.1% -3.4% at constant to develop value-creating partnerships exchange to 277.5m.
Underlying volumes with our customers.
We seek to leverage were modestly below FY 2016 and pricing our long-standing experience, expertise declined owing to the pass-through of lower Revenue by destination % and insight to provide brand differentiation raw material costs: however, this was offset and identity solutions, as well as excellence by the positive mix effect of a strong result 1 Asia including Middle East 56.8 in both manufacturing and service.
in capsules and growth in flavoured filters, 2 Europe & Africa 28.9 Our recognised ability to provide new particularly in the second half of the year.
3 Americas 14.3 value-added products and services is key to the future growth of our business, as While the nature of outsourcing in the market dynamics in the tobacco industry tobacco industry implies a certain degree 3 continue to evolve.
of volatility in our pipeline, nonetheless the acknowledged capabilities of our business Research in filters is carried out at a in terms of delivering value-added filters dedicated Technology Centre, supported which meet the evolving requirements of by three regional development facilities.
our customers continued to be successfully Together, they work closely with customers commercialised during the year.
Joint 2 to understand their specific needs, and development initiatives with multi- 1 strive to deliver innovative solutions which national customers for higher value will give their brands differentiation and capsule products were particularly successful, relevance, at a pace appropriate to local as well as innovative variants of our market conditions and legislative Combined Performance Superior filter, requirements.
Our offering is further which combine a high level of visual Revenue by segment % enhanced by our ability to complement differentiation with enhanced efficiency.
our customers own strengths and assets Following a weaker performance in FY 2016 1 Other special including capsules 55.7 in a variety of tolling, or outsourced owing to softer underlying market conditions, 2 Monoacetate 26.7 management, relationship arrangements, our business in China rebounded strongly, 3 Carbon 12.8 as well as our growing adjacent services supported by recent Superslim and shaped 4 Flavour 4.8 activities.
filter launches to meet the growing consumer trend for smaller diameter and increasingly 4 We continuously upgrade our technology complex formats.
Overall, therefore, we 3 and footprint, to ensure we exceed our maintained our track record of supporting customers expectations and remain at customers in the development of bespoke the forefront of market trends.
Our flexible solutions tailored to their specific needs as manufacturing capability allows us to they seek to respond to global market trends.
respond rapidly to market changes and 1 customer demand for surge volumes, In FY 2017, our Scientific Services laboratory 2 while a consistent focus on high standards continued to leverage its extensive of quality, cost control and production experience and expanded portfolio efficiency act as further sources of of accredited testing methods for both competitive advantage.
traditional tobacco and non-tobacco products, to ensure the delivery of high-quality analysis which remains at the forefront of industry trends and evolving regulatory requirements.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS Beyond traditional tobacco products, we Continuing to respond to customer continued to develop our NGP capabilities requirements, additional capacity for during the year.
While these remained capsule filters was added in Indonesia, a very modest contributor to divisional Thailand and Dubai, to ensure that we revenue in FY 2017, nonetheless we have remain at the forefront of these innovative product offerings in both e-cigarettes segments in the growth markets of Asia which are located at our Greensboro, and the Middle East, with additional US site as well as Heat Not Burn where technical and development capability we are already a provider of filters to one also being extended in the region.
of the multi-nationals, and we believe that we are well-positioned to support 2018 key initiatives our customers as these nascent segments Evaluate the three potential game continue to rapidly evolve.
changers highlighted in the strategy review: namely, China, further Adjusted operating profit decreased outsourcing and NGPs 7.2% -12.6% at constant exchange to Continue to align geographic footprint 34.8m, and the margin declined by with market shift in production volume 140bps -140bps at constant exchange to 12.5%.
Further efficiency improvements Continue to invest in advanced filter and productivity gains were offset by capability to support further growth the impact of modestly lower volume, Improve value proposition in more and a timing effect relating to the passcompetitive mature tobacco markets through of acetate tow material costs in the first half of the year.
Maintain focus on delivering further productivity and quality improvements Operational developments Drive further benefits from investment In order to ensure that we maintain in high-speed, more flexible filter a flexible and competitive global manufacturing equipment manufacturing base, we benefited from a number of operational initiatives in FY 2017.
The  transfer of a certain line of business to Asia from the US was successfully completed, further to which our Greensboro site was right-sized not only to maintain its capability in traditional tobacco filters but also to become the production hub for our e-cigarette offering.
In addition, following the transfer of our European activity from Jarrow, UK in 2016, quality and service metrics significantly improved in Hungary, with a new development centre also being established to serve customers in the region.
38 STRATEGIC REPORT | OPERATIONAL REVIEW | FILTER PRODUCTS ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Market trends Consumer engagement What we measure As per capita income rises particularly in The global tobacco market is valued at eastern markets so lifestyles change and ON TIME IN FULL c. US$750bn, with a c. 2% cigarette retail new segments are created, with different volume decline.
consumer expectations and aspirations Why we measure it from the products which they purchase.
Demonstrates the ability to meet Regulation As such, there is an increasing demand delivery demands The tobacco industry is heavily regulated for new products to reflect these changes.
around the world on health grounds, with How we have done significant restrictions on the way in which Consumer need 95.2% compares to 92.7% in 2016 products can be marketed to consumers.
Consumers are increasingly concerned Legislation continues to evolve, both in with environmental matters, such as respect of traditional cigarettes and sustainability and pollution, and the QUALITY COMPLAINTS PER innovations such as e-cigarettes and Heat impact of products which they purchase.
BILLION RODS Not Burn devices, as well as surrounding Such needs are often unspoken but create the testing and packaging requirements challenges for the industry to supply Why we measure it for these products.
products which address such Drives productivity and the efficient considerations.
use of material Illicit trade Counterfeiting of tobacco products is a Cost and price How we have done significant and increasing challenge for As the price of cigarettes has continued A 41% reduction in complaints per billion the industry, undermining brand value, to increase, growth opportunities have rods versus 2016 presenting a risk to consumers from been created for other industry segments low-quality goods and reducing tax including roll-your-own and Other Tobacco revenues.
The illicit trade accounts for Products, such as chewing tobacco.
WASTE approximately 10% of duty-paid cigarette volumes and is estimated to be growing.
Key new product opportunities Why we measure it Lifestyle solutions eg, Slims Superslims, Drives productivity and the efficient Beyond tobacco products low ultra-low tar, eco ranges use of material The market for products beyond Brand-specific requirements, such as traditional cigarettes continues to evolve How we have done recessed filters rapidly.
There is increased interest in other 6.0%, a decrease from 6.4% in 2016 nicotine delivery mechanisms such as Enhanced user experience, such Heat Not Burn and e-cigarettes, both of as capsules, flavoured thread and which are reportedly delivering rapid activated carbon LOST TIME INCIDENTS growth albeit from a low base and which Full bespoke service for roll-your-own are forecast to continue doing so.
Why we measure it brands Measures the opportunity cost of incidents East versus west Provision of scientific services in the workplace Accounting for approximately 70% of Adjacent sectors, such as Heat Not total world cigarette volume, the growth How we have done Burn products and e-cigarettes markets of Asia dominate the global Decreased to 7 from 9 in 2016 tobacco industry and are forecast to be flat while western regions continue to decline.
