42 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Operating review Our operating review analyses how we have performed in the year against our strategy Optimising asset Spanish centres: strong rental growth UK investment market and continued strong demand for performance top-quality Spanish centres has driven We focus on creating vibrant valuations up at both intu Asturias and Prime shopping centres continue to environments where customers and Puerto Venecia attract interest from both international retailers want to be.
This increases the Spanish developments: with most and domestic investors.
While activity value of our centres and provides strong, of the planning requirements in was limited in 2017, good levels of demand stable income streams and positive place at intu Costa del Sol, the first remain for quality assets in the UKs operating metrics.
These elements independent valuation of the site, liquid and transparent market for large ensure we deliver attractive long-term which was previously carried at shopping centres.
cost, delivered a 74million surplus over cost A ight to quality has ensured prime yields The table below shows the main other: represents valuation on assets with simple ownership components of the 47.3million movements on assets valued below structures remain stable as investors look revaluation surplus: 200million each at the quality and longevity of income streams coupled with rental growth UK super-regional centres and major The weighted average nominal equivalent potential in a market where new supply, city centres: stable values recognising yield at 31 December 2017 remained by way of development, remains low.
the continuing attraction of this asset stable at 5.03 per cent, an increase of Against this, the depth of investor demand class which remains key to retailers one basis point in the year.
for secondary assets has diminished.
The small overall deficits relate to investment on the On a like-for-like basis, ERV increased by existing intu Watford centre and 1.0percent in the year, compared with tenant repositioning at intu Merry Hill the IPD index which indicated a not yet reected in rental values 0.4percent increase.
The overall quality of our portfolio is illustrated by our long-term outperformance of the IPD capital growth monthly retail index, as shown Valuation in the chart below.
Market value Like-for-like 31 December 31 December Surplus Surplus Total Property Return 2017 2016 deficit deficit m m m % 130 UK super-regional centres 6,373.7 6,315.8 17.7 0.3 125 UK major city centres 2,559.3 2,544.3 15.0 0.6 120 Spanish centres 371.6 331.0 22.4 6.4 9,304.6 9,191.1 10.3 0.1 115 Acquisition: Madrid Xanad 235.2 1.7 0.7 110 Spanish developments 212.8 76.7 74.5 53.8 105 Other 470.1 419.2 28.2 5.1 100 10,222.7 9,687.0 37.7 0.4 intu Chapeleld asset held for sale 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 at 31 December 2017 306.5 297.7 9.6 3.3 intu Total 10,529.2 9,984.7 47.3 0.5 IPD monthly retail index Strategic report Operating review 43 Group like-for-like net rental income UK consumer market 2017 2016 Rent reviews, improved letting and turnover income 2.2% 2.3% Capital investment 0.4% 0.8% Uncertainty regarding the final terms of Vacancy impact -0.4% 1.7% the UKs exit from the EU is creating a Units closed for redevelopment and or repositioning -1.4% -0.6% mixed picture on the state of the UK Other letting activity eg bad debt: surrender premiums -0.3% -0.6% consumer.
Unemployment continues at Increase in like-for-like net rental income 0.5% 3.6% record low levels which should in turn drive growth in personal income.
However, the increase in ination from the Rent from lettings and rent reviews lettings to quality retailers such as Next, weakening of sterling after the EU delivered 2.2percent rental growth.
These were not referendum vote is causing prices to rise Against previous passing rent, lettings income producing in 2017, but will come faster than wages at the moment which were on average up 7percent and rent back on stream in 2018. impacts consumers disposable income.
The Asda benchmark index of household As previously stated, we expect to deliver disposable income has remained level This growth was partially offset by the medium term like-for-like net rental since December 2016.
1.4per cent impact of units closed for income growth of 2 to 3percent per redevelopment and or repositioning, annum, over the next three to five years, Looking further ahead, the Bank of mainly from the former BHS stores which and in 2018 we expect this to be in the Englands forecasts suggest that wage are now substantially relet with excellent range of 1.5 to 2.5percent, subject to no growth will overtake ination as we go material tenant failures.
Consumer confidence, as measured by UK operating metrics GfK, has reduced slightly in 2017, 2017 2016 reecting the negative sentiment on the Occupancy 96.1% 96.0% expectations for the economy, although of which, occupied by tenants trading in administration 0.6% 0.5% consumers view on their personal Leasing activity number, new rent 179, 35m 187, 35m finance situation over the next new rent relative to previous passing rent 6% 4% 12 months is stable.
Footfall 0.1% 1.3% These mixed messages have not had a Retailer sales like-for-like centres -2.1% 0.2% material effect on total non-food retail Rent to estimated sales exc.
anchors and major space users 12.1% 12.2% spending, which remained unchanged in 2017 against the previous year British Occupancy is 96.1percent, in line with international brands ongoing Retail Consortium total non-food retail 31December 2016 and 30 June 2017. recognition of the attraction of intus index, although, with the continued This is equivalent to 97.0percent on the destination shopping centres.
Victorias growth in online, in-store sales were down industry standard EPRA calculation Secret, the US lingerie brand, and by around 2 per cent in the year.
Lovisa, an Australian accessories store, have both added three stores.
Colette, We agreed 179 long-term leases in the the Australian handbag retailer, year, amounting to 35million annual has opened its second UK store at rent, at an average of 6percent above Manchester Arndale and Inglot, previous passing rent like-for-like units a Polish cosmetics brand, opened and in line with valuers assumptions.
its first store outside London at Retailers continue to focus on increasing intu Eldon Square their space in prime, high footfall retail brands recognising the benefit of destinations.
significant activity in the stores as part of their customer year includes: acquisition, with Paul Smith opening their first store in Manchester at new retail anchors, in the shape of key Manchester Arndale and Tesla fashion brands, upsizing to optimise continuing their roll-out of stores at their offering and conguration.
This intu Milton Keynes includes Primark, Next and River Island leisure operators continuing to grow in upsizing at intu Merry Hill, as well agship destinations with Puttshack, as Inditex and H&M expanding their Flip Out and Hollywood Bowl joining International brands such as Victorias Secret brand portfolios with Stradivarius Nickelodeon at the intu Lakeside and Tesla are attracted to intus high at St Davids and Monki at leisure extension and Gravity at the footfall centres Manchester Arndale refurbished Soar at intu Braehead 44 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Operating review continued 259 shops opened or retted in our UK Like-for-like net rental income growth units, leaving 7percent realisable from centres in 2017 2016: 225 stores, around other lease expiries and rent reviews.
Tenants have invested around 89million in these The weighted average unexpired lease stores, a significant demonstration of 0.5% term is 7.5 years 31December 2016: their commitment to our centres.
7.7 years illustrating the longevity of our income streams.
We settled 218 rent reviews in the year Footfall growth for new rents totalling 47million, an Delivering UK developments average uplift of 9percent on the previous rents.
In 2017, we invested 184million in the UK.
This included 63million on the 0.1% Footfall improved by 0.1percent in the intu Watford extension, 58million on ShopperTrak benchmark -2.8% year, signicantly outperforming the the acquisition of additional properties ShopperTrak measure of UK national all currently income-generating which retail footfall which was down by will be integral to future development 2.8percent, highlighting the attraction projects, 12million on the leisure of our compelling destinations against extension at intu Lakeside and the wider market.
51million on other active asset management projects, including the new Estimated retailer sales in our centres Travelodge hotel at intu Lakeside and the were down 2.1percent predominantly Next agship store at intu Metrocentre.
driven by some clothing retailers who had a challenging year in 2017.
In-store sales Near-term pipeline gures take no account of the benefit of Looking ahead, we are progressing our the store to retailers online sales and are near-term pipeline of 562million over further impacted by returns of online the next three years, reinforcing our sales.
The ratio of rents to estimated sales existing assets and delivering valuefor standard units remained stable in the enhancing returns.
team continues to progress these projects on budget and on time, with major Catering and leisure units now comprise developments on site at intu Watford over 500 of our overall 2,800 leases and and intu Lakeside and soon to start at have increased steadily in recent years in intu Trafford Centre Barton Square and a growing market.
Reecting changing intu Broadmarsh, Nottingham.
customer preferences, over the last five years, this market has increased to We are committed to investing around 13 per cent of total rental income.
264 million, most of which is on key Over the same period, we have seen a ongoing projects: reduction in rental income from fashion outlets to around 25 per cent.
at intu Watford we remain on target with our 180million extension The difference between annual property expected to open in October 2018. income see glossary of 462million and The development has topped out, ERV of 544million represents with the feature roof now installed and 37million from vacant and development anchor tenants due to start tting out units and reversion of 45million, in the next few months.
The 380,000 8percent, from rent reviews and lease sq ft project, anchored by Debenhams expiry.
Of the 8percent reversion, 1 per and Cineworld, is two-thirds let by cent is only realisable on expiry of leases space with Superdry and Hollywood with over 10 years remaining eg anchor Bowl exchanged in the year.
The Strategic report Operating review 45 cost to completion of this project is around 100 million, of which 80million, and as previously stated, 70 million will be spent in the period Funding the project is expected to deliver to 2020, delivering a return at a similar a return on cost of 6 to 7percent, level to that of the leisure extension We will fund our near-term pipeline from including 1 to 2percent from the at intu Lakeside cash and available facilities and from existing centre at intu Milton Keynes we expect to recycling capital to deliver superior at intu Lakeside we have commenced invest 15 million commencing phase returns.
Cash and available facilities at construction of the 72million one of the redevelopment of 31 December 2017 were 833 million leisure extension, with 57million of under-utilised space on a pro forma basis including the cost remaining to completion.
This other active asset management 148 million disposal of 50 per cent of intu 175,000 sq ft project is expected to projects are smaller in nature, across Chapeleld.
Further recycling potential deliver a return on cost of 6.5percent all centres and at various stages of lies in the introduction of partners into and has the four leisure attractions feasibility.
We have the exibility to some of our centres, although this would Nickelodeon, Flip Out, Puttshack and start these projects when we have the have a short-term negative earnings Hollywood Bowl exchanged required level of pre-lets and expect impact until the proceeds are reinvested.
at intu Trafford Centre, we have signed them to deliver similar returns to those Primark to anchor the expansion and that we have committed to In addition, we expect to raise finance transformation of Barton Square.
The on near-term projects, such as the 72million project will enclose the Future opportunities intu Watford extension, as they complete, courtyard, enhance interiors, allow Beyond 2020, we continue to work on to fund future opportunities.
trading from two levels and provide securing the required planning approvals a fashion offer for the first time at and tenant demand to start 1.4billion of Barton Square.
We are progressing further projects which we would expect the procurement of the construction to deliver stabilised initial yields of around works and expect the project, 7percent.
We have planning approvals delivering a return of 6 to 7percent, for extensions to intu Braehead, to be completed by mid-2019 intu Lakeside, intu Victoria Centre and active asset management projects intu Milton Keynes and are at earlier total 55 million and include the stages of the planning process for the Halle Place restaurant redevelopment extension of Cribbs Causeway.
at Manchester Arndale, the creation of agship stores for Next at Making the brand count intu Metrocentre and intu Merry Hill and the redevelopment of former The intu brand has positioned us well, as BHS units for Uniqlo and Primark at the role of the shopping centre operator Manchester Arndale and intu Merry has changed, to ensure our centres Hil Hill l r re es sp pe ec cti tiv five el ly y. T. hese projects are remain relevant for both customers and e exp xpe ec ct te ed d t to o d del eli iver a range of returns retailers.
The unprompted awareness of b bet etw we ee en 6 a n 6 an nd 1 d 10 per cent dependent the intu brand increased to 26 per cent, o on n th the na e natur ture e o of f the individual project a threefold increase since 2015 when we started monitoring, highlighting its O Ou ur p r pi ip pe el li in ne e o of f pl pla an nned projects amounts increasing recognition and value.
t to o 2 29 98 8 mil mill lio ion, with a f n, wit ocus on extension Additionally, our prompted awareness a an nd d r re ede dev five el lopmen opment ts: has increased to 71 per cent in 2017, from 63 per cent in 2016. a at in t intu B tu Br ro oa adm dma arsh we have a planned r re ed fide ev vel elo opmen pment t which is e xpected to The combination of our national presence, c co os st t 8 81 mi 1 mil ll lio ion a n nd deliver a stabilised attractive digital offering and in-house initia initial l yie yiel ld o d of f a ar ro ound 7 per cent.
experiences team offers retailers and W We e ha hav five e si sig gn ne ed d The Light cinema brands promotional opportunities, which a an nd H d Ho oll llyw ywo oo od d B owl to anchor the in turn gives us a multidisciplinary s sc ch heme eme a an nd d w we e would expect to have opportunity to help retailers ourish th the r e re equir quire ed d l le ev five el of pre-lets and within our centres.
c co om mp pl let ete ed d d fide et ta ailed design to enable us t us to o c co om mm mit t it to o this b y the second half The importance of identifying new ideas of of 20 201 18 8 and services emerging in the UK retail a at in t intu M tu Me er rr ry Hi y Hil ll we are planning to market cannot be underestimated.
In in inc cr rea eas se e th the c e ca at te ering and leisure to 2017 we launched intu Accelerate, an Our affiliate website drives 9 million b br ri in ng g it in l it in lin ine e wi with other super-regional incubator for these technologies and of retailer sales c ce en nt tr re es s..
I In t n to ot ta al l, we expect to invest services, identifying start-ups to pilot 46 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Operating review continued new concepts in centre and online, We continue to develop the site, with including what is believed to be Europes image recognition to assist product first customer services robot in a search added in 2017.
Shop Insider, the shopping centre.
premium content section of the site, saw traffic up nearly 200 per cent in the year Customer service to 1.5 million visits, leading to a 50 per Putting the customer first is embedded cent increase in visits to the shopping in our culture.
Our net promoter score, pages.
This highlights the power of quality a measure of customer service, ran content to drive both physical and digital consistently high throughout the year sales, as shoppers continue to be ever averaging 70 and demonstrating our more considered in their purchases, in-centre operational excellence.
researching heavily online before Our cutting-edge network planned visits.
Our converged Cisco network across our intu Experiences centres gives us a co-ordinated, managed Curation of the customer experience is a Key to this growth is our online marketing and increasingly secure technical platform key element of our role in managing expertise with over two million individuals that benets customers, tenants and staff.
Our in-house team, on our active marketing database and a intu Experiences, which generated social media audience of over one million.
This robust, high-bandwidth backbone income of 22million, is crucial in enables us to implement an array of new delivering immersive brand partnerships, Seizing the growth technologies quickly and securely, more mall commercialisation and advertising cheaply and with a lower carbon footprint.
opportunity in Spain which is complementary to the asset For instance, as well as free customer wi, strategy of each centre and meets our Our Spanish strategy has been to create we have been able to install large screens quality standards.
a business of scale through acquisitions at agship centres, with programming from and our pipeline of development our central production studio.
Having the An example of this end-to-end control is projects, concentrating on the top-10 key network in place also enables us to the large format digital screen we have catchments, where we now own and experiment with new ideas.
introduced to each of our out-of-town manage three of Spains top-10 shopping centres, providing new income streams The network facilitates predictive centres, with the acquisition of Madrid from global brands.
We own all these maintenance and standardisation of key Xanad in 2017 see Acquisitions and screens and, in many instances, produce building management and security disposals.
In addition, we have three the content in-house an area of growth systems, which in turn allow economies of development sites with the most for us.
scale and interoperability between centres.
advanced project being intu Costa del Sol, near Mlaga.
Similarly, choosing the brands we work with promotionally is important in Operational performance delivering the right messages.
Through The occupancy of our Spanish centres the Easter holidays we furthered our is 97percent.
We agreed 38 long-term collaboration with Nick Jr. Nickelodeons lettings in the year, amounting to over pre-school television channel, adding 2million annual rent, at an average of augmented reality functionality to our 25percent above previous passing rent in-centre app to deliver a new family like-for-like units.
New names to our experience to our customers.
centres included Quiz, Levis, Pandora, Alcott and Xiaomi.
intu Digital Our attractive digital offering through our Footfall increased by 1.0percent in the premium content publisher and shopping year and this includes the disruption in the platform, intu.
co. uk, continued to grow first half of 2017 from the redevelopment strongly and delivered online sales for work at intu Asturias where we developed retailers of 9 million in the year, an a previously underutilised area to increase of 50 per cent against 2016.
Strategic report Operating review 47 introduce a supermarket and new retail Spanish market units.
This opened in July with a strong Acquisitions and disposals uplift in footfall.
The Spanish economy is still one of We have increased the value of the In line with our strategy, we continue to Europes fastest growing economies and centres owned throughout the year recycle capital to focus on our agship this should continue in 2018 with its GDP with growth in rental values being the destinations where we have the growth expected to be one of the highest main driver.
Our share of Puerto Venecia, opportunity to deliver superior returns.
of the major European economies.
For the Zaragoza was valued at 231million, an Acquisitions consumer, unemployment is at its lowest increase of 4percent, and our share of In March 2017, we acquired Madrid level for several years and consumer intu Asturias increased by 11percent, Xanad, one of Spains top-10 shopping confidence at its highest.
centres, for an agreed headline price of benets retail sales which are further 530million.
The centre has many of the enhanced by record levels of tourists In 2018, we plan to roll out the intu brand key retailers, including El Corte Ingls, all which have increased by 20 per cent over to Puerto Venecia and Madrid Xanad.
the Inditex fascias, Primark and Apple, the last two years.
along with a strong leisure offering of Near-term pipeline The investment market remains strong Spains only indoor ski slope, cinema, Our Spanish development pipeline with continuing investor confidence in bowling and soon-to-open aquarium and through to the end of 2020 amounts Spanish real estate supported by an Nickelodeon theme park.
With banks 13million, with a potential catchment of willing to lend against Spanish assets, the fourmillion people living within a We have active asset management weight of money in the market looking to 30-minute drive time.
Over the medium projects of 57million through to the invest in quality assets has continued to term, we see good reversionary potential, end of 2020 across all three centres with strengthen the market.
Partly due to the with further growth opportunities from a focus on enhancing the resort content lack of development in recent years, prime key asset management initiatives which of each centre.
regional shopping centres are scarce will enhance the centres status as a truly which is reected in good demand.
regional retail and leisure resort, drawing Our world-class project at intu Costa del visitors from a wider catchment.
Sol will create a shopping resort of around In July 2017, we formed a joint venture 230,000 sq m. In 2017, the approval of the with TH Real Estate for them to take General Plan of Torremolinos was a major ownership of 50percent of Madrid step forward, with the remaining consents Xanad based on the original expected in the coming months.
very strong interest from tenants and would anticipate being on site in the next Disposals 12 months.
In November 2017, we announced the formation of a joint venture with LaSalle The land, with planning mostly approved, Investment Management for them to was independently valued at the end of take ownership of 50percent of 2017, delivering a surplus of 74 million.
intu Chapeleld, Norwich for a net consideration of 148million, in line with The total cost to completion of the the December 2016 valuation.
The development is expected to be around transaction completed in January 2018.
600million 340million through to 2020, excluding the land, and deliver a stabilised initial yield of around 7percent.
We expect to fund the project through bank and other finance, and introduce a partner at a later stage.
Future opportunities We continue to develop plans at the two other sites in Valencia and Vigo, having decided not to progress with our development option in Palma.
At this point, intu Valencia, where we have renewed support from the regional Continued evolution of intu Asturias with the government, is the most likely to follow remodelled food court and new lower level intu Costa del Sol.
