32 Strategic report OPERATIONS REVIEW The Group reports on an IFRS basis and We have continued to build on these Creating a Home presents its performance in line with best throughout 2017, resulting in a 12% increase practice recommended by EPRA.
The in EPRA earnings to 70.5 million 2016: 62.7 for Success for our Operations and Property reviews focus on million.
This growth has again been driven EPRA measures as these are our key by high occupancy, rental growth and the students is delivered internal measures and aid comparability impact of portfolio movements, as well as by our engaged, across the real estate sector.
further operational efficiencies and ongoing cost discipline.
highly-trained Sales, rental growth and profitability The key strengths of our operating people working business are our people, our PRISM operating platform, our brand and the with a quality service strength of our relationships with Universities.
platform across our Summary EPRA income statement 2017 2016 quality portfolio.
m m Rental income 170.8 159.1 Property operating expenses 44.3 42.8 Net operating income NOI 126.5 116.3 NOI margin 74.1% 73.1% Management fees 14.1 14.0 Operating expenses 24.6 23.1 Finance costs 45.2 45.9 Acquisition and net performance fees 4.3 6.9 Development and other costs 4.6 5.5 EPRA earnings 70.5 62.7 EPRA EPS 30.3p 28.4p A full reconciliation of Profit before tax to EPRA earnings is set out in note 2.2 of the financial statements.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 33 Q&A with Simon Jones Operations Director Rental income has increased by Finance costs decreased to 45.2 million Simon Jones addresses some topical 11.7 million, up 7%, as a result of new 2016: 45.9 million.
An increase in net questions from our shareholders openings and sustained rental growth, debt of 27 million to 803 million 2016: after the impact of disposals made in 776 million was offset by a lower average Q What is happening with rental growth the year.
NOI margin improved to 74.1% cost of finance of 4.1% 2016: 4.2% as we and occupancy?
December 2016: 73.1%, reflecting further have added new debt facilities at lower A Like-for-like rental growth of 3.4% was operating efficiencies from the PRISM average rates, taking advantage of the achieved on our stabilised portfolio, with operating platform.
PRISM provides us historically low cost of debt.
with the ability to differentiate ourselves in net debt was driven largely by spend on from other operators, driving efficiencies development activities which has, in turn, Reservations for the 2018 9 academic through the use of technology, which also led to an increase to 7.4 million in the year currently stand at 75%, which is provides enhanced levels of service for our amount of interest that is capitalised into encouraging.
We maintain our expectation development schemes, up from 5.9 million growth for the 2018 19 academic year that NOI margins will improve to 75% in 2018 in 2016.
We expect the level of interest to be in the region of 3.03.5%.
whilst ensuring that we remain focused on capitalisation to remain at around service level enhancements.
this level given the ongoing level of Q How do you drive operational development activity in 2018 and 2019. effectiveness?
In 2017, we implemented an efficiency Development pre-contract and other A programme which will deliver 5 million costs fell to 4.6 million 2015: 5.5 million, We are on track to deliver our NOI of savings Unite share: 3.8 million.
reflecting the levels of site acquisition, the margin target of 75% and overhead These savings were driven by streamlined earnings impact of share-based incentives efficiency target of 2530bps in 2018. processes and procedures as a result of and our contribution to our charitable trust, The introduction of PRISM has allowed our student insight, PRISM and the scale the Unite Foundation.
us to use technology solutions to free of the business and will reduce the 24.6 up time and allow us to focus more million of operating costs incurred during Occupancy, reservations on customer service.
These savings mean that we are on and rental growth track to deliver our overhead efficiency Occupancy across Unites portfolio target in 2018.
Recurring management for the 2017 18 academic year stands at fee income from joint ventures remained 99% and like-for-like rental growth of 3.4% at 14.1 million 2016: 14.0 million, as a was achieved on our portfolio.
We have result of the valuation growth of assets continued to grow the proportion of beds under management in USAF and LSAV let to Universities, with 60% of rooms under offset by disposal activity.
In addition to nominations agreements 2016 17: 58%, the recurring asset management fees, a up by 5,000 beds over the last three years.
further 4.3 million of net performance and Enhanced service levels and our extensive acquisition fees were generated from USAF understanding of student needs have and LSAV 2016: 6.9 million.
The USAF net resulted in longer-term and more robust performance fee is based on USAFs partnerships with Universities.
cumulative total return at 31 December 2017 and is payable in USAF units.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 34 Strategic report OPERATIONS REVIEW CONTINUED Rental Working closely with our University income partners, we are enhancing our service Agreement length Beds % 000 % to make the sometimes challenging Single year 9,038 31 52,357 29 transition to University life as smooth and 210 years 12,017 41 80.795 44 painless as possible and increase student 1120 years 3,783 13 25,517 14 retention.
As part of this, during the year 20 years 4,225 15 24,515 13 we expanded our network of paid student Ambassadors, who provide Total 29,063 100 183,183 100 valuable peer-to-peer support for students at critical points in their We expect the proportion of beds let to During the year, we continued to drive journey through University.
Universities to remain at or around this level value from our proprietary PRISM operating in the future.
This balance of nominations platform, delivering both the anticipated Our student insight tells us that employability and direct-let beds provides the benefit of operational efficiencies and a better is a key driver of student satisfaction.
With having income secured by Universities, as experience for students.
Building on this this in mind, we recently entered a joint well as the ability to offer rooms to returning and our unique insight into student life, we venture with The National Centre for students and to determine market pricing introduced some significant enhancements Universities and Business NCUB and digital on an annual basis.
to our service with a range of new digital education specialists Jisc to launch Placer, services, including uChat, which provides an app-based service that matches Reservations for the 2018 19 academic the opportunity for students to meet their students with potential employers that will year are encouraging, at 75% 73% at flatmates before arriving at University and be fully launched in the next few months.
the same point last year as a result of our logged over 80,000 messages in the first Placer is working with 22 Universities and continued focus of working alongside the three months of operation.
The enhanced over 200 employers, of whom half have UKs best Universities, as well as the success app, which has been downloaded by over already signed up to the service.
of our online marketing strategy and further 40,000 customers and allows app-based progress through our local marketing reporting of noise complaints and We strongly believe that University is an operation in China.
The structural growth maintenance requests, has been opportunity that should be open to all, within the cities we operate, together introduced together with a more regardless of their background.
During with our differentiated service offering, comprehensive pack of pre-arrival the year, we have significantly expanded provides us with further confidence in information and a smoother booking our commitment to the Unite Foundation future occupancy and supporting rental system for in-house services, such as which now provides scholarships for growth for the 2018 19 academic year, laundry.
We also enhanced our Wi-Fi 170 young people from disadvantaged which we expect to be in the region of provision, upgrading both bandwith and backgrounds who may not have otherwise 3.03.5%.
The range gone to University.
The Foundation works and quality of our digital services now in partnership with 28 Universities up Home for Success represents a key point of competitive and down the country, for whom it Our popularity with students and differentiation for Unite and, going forward, forms an important part of their relationship with Universities are both we will continue to invest in technology to efforts to widen participation.
consequences of continuous investment in provide a living experience tailored to the our purpose: Home for Success.
needs and preferences of todays student.
Placer we have developed the Placer app in a joint venture with NCUB and JISC.
It matches students seeking quality work experience to registered employers with available openings.
The app makes career-enhancing opportunities available to students from any social background.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 35 The Unite Foundation is our flagship social We also continue to invest in our investment and complements a wide reputation and relationships within the range of grass roots charitable activity, Higher Education sector.
Our Universities community engagement and employee Partnerships and Engagement team is volunteering.
Together with programmes dedicated to building strong working to drive deeper levels of diversity and relationships with key University partners.
inclusion across the organisation and This systematic approach has seen us reduce waste and energy use, it is a key integrate specific University requirements cornerstone of our Up to uS responsible into new developments and, in the process, business programme.
helped drive the growth in the number and length of our nominations agreements.
Our At the heart of Home for Success are Insight Reports, meanwhile, look at different 1,400 highly experienced and dedicated aspects of the student experience and people with a passion for helping students.
have become a valuable source of Student Ambassador Programme Developing our teams remains a priority for thought leadership within the sector.
After a successful pilot, the us and we have implemented new Service Student Ambassador Programme Style training to the whole organisation In China, our marketing office is is rolling out to all direct-let and over the year.
This programme ensures well established and benefitting from a nominated properties across the UK that we are providing our teams with local online presence.
We are building to enhance the student experience.
the training required to deliver excellent on our relationships with both local The programme was formulated in customer service as well as developing and British Universities in China, as well response to student feedback, their careers.
Our approach to training and as providing important support to our where a need for a greater sense development has been an integral part of Chinese customers before they travel of belonging, community and our Investors in People Gold accreditation to the UK and to their parents while their connection was highlighted.
and we remain committed to remaining a children are overseas.
We are confident Students apply and then work Living Wage Employer.
that this investment will deliver long-term as paid Student Ambassadors, benefits to the business, as well as to helping new students settle in Chinese students and UK Universities.
at first after arrival, answering questions, organising community Simon Jones events and acting as peer support.
Operations Director They themselves are mentored 21 February 2018 by Unite employees, and the experience and training gained from the position can support job applications.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
