Strategic Report Operating Review Materials ANALYSIS Malvern Panalytical continued to bring the two teams together as Segment performance a single operating company.
The business has now been organised Reported sales Adjusted operating profit around key market sectors Advanced Materials, Pharma and Food, Raw and Bulk Materials with a focus on value-based selling by the newly cross-trained sales and marketing teams.
Numerous 464.9m 83.1m opportunities to promote the Malvern product line to customers 2016: 418.9m 2016: 76.2m of the former PANalytical brand and vice versa have translated into incremental orders and revenue, with an increasing list of Reported operating profit opportunities being actively pursued.
For example, a global cement company which was an existing PANalytical customer bought a 68.6m Malvern Mastersizer for the first time alongside a PANalytical XRD XRF system.
2016: 66.2m New products have been launched during the year: for example, Sales by destination % the Epsilon 1 Meso, a version of the Epsilon 1 XRF spectrometer which combines hardware and software to enable small spot Rest of the world elemental analysis.
In February, the MicroCal PEAQ-DSC differential 8 scanning calorimeter was launched.
This instrument is used to North America assess the developability and shelf-life of biological products and for 24 comparing biopharmaceuticals and their biosimilar counterparts.
This product is the only such DSC system with software compliance for the regulated environment, positioning Malvern Panalytical well with biopharmaceutical customers.
Additionally, in this area, Malvern Panalytical is leading an industrial and academic 41 Europe consortium which was awarded an Innovate UK grant.
This will 27 fund a project seeking to address the specific analytical challenges associated with biopharmaceutical stability, in order to ensure the Asia delivery of safe and cost-effective drugs in the future.
Malvern Panalytical also announced a partnership with TetraScience to develop applications for smart laboratories, which will increase Sales by end-user market % efficiency in the pharma industry, enabling researchers to better manage their equipment and make swift, data-driven decisions.
16 Sales to the pharmaceuticals and fine chemicals industries rose on Other Pharmaceuticals & a LFL basis with Asia seeing particularly strong growth, notably in 32 fine chemicals China and Japan.
As the middle class in this region expands, the 13 number of people who are able to pay for healthcare increases Semicon, and they are demanding better government provision.
In China in telecoms & particular, state funding on healthcare is increasing notably.
North electronics America saw an increase in LFL sales and Europe was up slightly 16 year-on-year.
At Particle Measuring Systems 'PMS', there has been Metals, minerals & Academic research a continued drive to provide our high-level consulting services to 23 mining existing hardware customers following the acquisition of CAS Clean Air Service AG in 2016.
For example, an American pharmaceutical corporation, which already had our air particle sensors installed at their largest US site, requested consultancy support for particle and Reported sales increased 11%, reflecting a 7% increase in LFL sales, microbiological contamination in their filling lines, which then led to a 0.2% contribution from acquisitions and a 4% positive impact a request for further equipment at their site.
Demand for these from foreign currency exchange movements.
Sales growth for the services is motivated by regulatory compliance, which is becoming year was driven primarily by Asia, particularly in China, South Korea more stringent.
This means demand continues to be strong, and India.
In North America, LFL sales increased, with a notable particularly in the area of aseptic pharma.
PMS is focused on swing from a first half decline to a very strong second half.
On a LFL providing complete sterility assurance solutions to the life sciences basis, before Project Uplift costs, adjusted operating profit increased industry and the customer proposition was further enhanced by a 12% and adjusted operating margins increased by 0.9pp, reflecting global partnership with Novatek International, a leader in regulatory the higher LFL sales, slightly reduced gross margin from adverse compliant data management software.
This provides a fully product mix, and lower net overhead costs, with the rise in integrated software and hardware solution for environmental merger-related costs being partly mitigated by good cost control monitoring in controlled manufacturing processes, helping and the benefit of an insurance settlement.
Reported operating companies ensure cleanliness in their manufacturing environment profit increased 4% to 68.6 million.
20 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 whilst automatically collecting much of the information necessary for batch release and regulatory compliance.
The metals, minerals and mining sector reversed its 2016 sales decline, with a strong performance in all major regions, particularly in the second half of the year.
Minerals and mining saw a strong recovery, whilst LFL sales increased more modestly in the metals space, although in North America and Europe, LFL sales were down slightly.
There is a cautiously improving investment climate, and as a result, increased market activity as well as demand from a focus on safety and productivity.
Sales LFL to academic research were notably weak in 2017, although they improved in the second half after a slow start to the year.
The decline was prevalent across all regions with only India and the UK seeing any growth, with the former recovering from a weak 2016 as funding levels improved.
In the USA, there has been little change under the new administration, with 2017 spending at most agencies at 2016 levels, which has generally prevented them from starting major new programmes.
Similarly, political uncertainty in parts of Europe has meant that expenditure has remained subdued or delayed, with LFL sales into Germany notably weak until the latter part of the year as funds were released late.
In Asia, Japanese academic budgets have also been under pressure and although LFL sales were down in China for the year, the governments new Double First Class initiative to develop world-class universities is already impacting positively.
The worlds population continues to grow, Sales LFL to the semiconductor, electronics and telecoms industry with the result that food production needs to continued to grow strongly during 2017, particularly in Asia China increase to keep up with demand.
In agriculture, and South Korea, notably and in North America.
This has been as much as 60% of crop yields depends on the driven by a significant increase in semiconductor capital spending fertility of the soil.
Obtaining fast, affordable as the demand for consumer electronics and IIoT applications rises.
Our customers are also driven by yield enhancement, which can be and reliable access to information about soil improved by ensuring ultra-clean manufacturing environments and fertility is therefore key to helping farmers therefore the ability to measure ever smaller particles is a key increase their yields.
demand driver for our products, alongside the need to meet regulatory requirements.
PMS has had success with its Dutch company SoilCares provides the worlds farming market-leading products that measure 20 nanometre particles community with data-based precision farming tools in in ultra-pure water and ultra-pure chemicals.
order to increase crop yields.
Based on an Epsilon 1 XRF spectrometer from Malvern Panalytical, SoilCares' Segment outlook subscription-based solution, called Lab-in-a-Box, enables individual farmers or farming organisations to have direct We expect continued growth in R&D expenditure by pharma and biotechnology companies with increasing investment in access to soil testing services on site, something which has previously only been possible in a laboratory.
biopharmaceuticals and innovative drugs in western markets.
In Asian markets, we expect continued growth in the development The Lab-in-a-Box measures soil parameters such as pH, of generics as incomes increase and demand for access to nutrients and organic matter using SoilCares unique global soil healthcare products rises.
In this way, Malvern Panalytical enables a complete Within pharmaceuticals, we expect a continued increase in soil fertility report to be delivered back to the farmers computer in less than two hours, together with customised the regulatory scrutiny of manufacturing processes, driving demand for our material characterisation and cleanroom products recommendations for improving the soil.
as well as for related services, as customers seek complete solutions Malvern Panalytical and SoilCares are working together to for regulatory compliance such as sterility assurance and good develop the self-learning database in which the results are manufacturing practices.
stored so that the system can provide increasing knowledge We have seen an improving backdrop in the mining sector which to farmers anywhere in the world.
has led to improved demand for equipment and services.
However, the growth in capital investment budgets for larger-scale greenfield investments may be more modest.
We expect growth in the academic research market to be muted, although demand in China should be better as government initiatives to drive quality across their university system are boosting funding.
Within the semiconductor and telecoms industry, we expect to see continued growth in semiconductor investment, driven by the growing demand for consumer electronics, IIoT applications and autonomous vehicles, albeit at more muted rates than in 2017.
Spectris plc 21 Strategic Report Operating Review continued Test and MEASUREMENT In October, the acquisition of The Omnicon Group, Inc. Omnicon Segment performance was completed for a final consideration of 23.8 million.
Omnicon Reported sales Adjusted operating profit provides a range of services to help its customers analyse and improve product reliability and safety.
Key industries served include aerospace, automotive, transportation and defence and its services 487.3m 68.9m strongly complement the existing capability within the reliability and 2016: 404.5m 2016: 61.8m durability software and services portfolio in this segment, enabling us to offer a broader range of  solutions.
Reported operating profit Within the automotive sector, LFL sales grew strongly during the year with the UK, Germany, North America and China being the 55.6m main contributors.
In China, we benefited from strong growth in 2016: 26.7m torque sales, driven by investment in electrical drivetrains.
At Millbrook, we expanded our testing capacity and capability with the Sales by destination % acquisition of a commercial vehicle test facility in Lancashire in the UK and, organically, through further capital investment in the UK Rest of the world and for additional indoor testing capacity in Finland.
For example, 3 we expanded our powertrain testing capabilities with the opening 21 North America of a new engine test cell to test premium and performance engines, commissioned a state-of-the-art climatic emissions chassis 27 dynamometer to help develop lower emission vehicles and completed the first phase of investment in battery test capabilities Asia to support electric vehicle development.
We are also supporting the development of autonomous vehicles and were selected by the UK government to develop an innovative controlled urban environment for connected and autonomous vehicle testing and have been 49 working with several companies developing driverless cars.
Europe At Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration BKSV, our noise, vibration and harshness NVH offering into the automotive space was enhanced by the release of the latest version of the Sonoscout, Sales by end-user market % an ultra-portable, multi-channel NVH system used, for example, to record vehicle intake and exhaust noise levels for benchmarking Other 16 competitor vehicles, and VSound, a vehicle sound-generating Automotive system that enables virtual NVH prototype evaluation in the context 34 of a real vehicle, without the need for a PC in the vehicle.
Energy & utilities 6 In machine manufacturing, a significant portion of which Academic represents sales into the automotive supply chain, LFL sales were 7 research flat year-on-year.
LFL sales into the two key regions, Europe and Asia, rose but declined in North America.
Germany saw modest 7 Environmental growth with a continued increase in exports.
China, in particular, noise monitoring 10 saw strong growth in demand, driven by the economic backdrop 20 Aerospace & defence Machine building as well as the general trend from volume to quality.
In the aerospace and defence sector, LFL sales reversed the decline seen in 2016, though this is typically a project business and sales Reported sales increased 20%, including a 9% contribution can be lumpy.
Overall, we have seen more aerospace opportunities, from acquisitions, predominantly related to Millbrook, and a especially driven by stronger demand and funding of aircraft, 5% positive impact from foreign currency exchange movements.
helicopter and spacecraft makers in the USA and China, and we LFL sales increased by 6%.
By region, North America, Europe and were able to maintain our leading position in structural testing, Asia delivered similar levels of LFL sales growth, with a decline in including a number of new customer wins.
There was very strong the Rest of the world.
Adjusted operating profit before Project growth in both Europe and North America, and although lower in Uplift costs increased 8% on a LFL basis and LFL operating Asia overall, China saw good growth.
A reorganised sales team and margins before Project Uplift costs increased by 0.4pp, primarily key account programme has delivered new sales opportunities with reflecting the higher sales volumes and gross margin improvement a number of notable contracts signed.
For example, an agreement due to cost-of-sales efficiencies.
Reported operating profit was signed with BAE Systems to deliver a hull vibration monitoring increased to 55.6 million from the 26.7 million recorded in system for the UK Royal Navy and contracts were signed with two 2016 which included a non-cash impairment charge of major North American aerospace manufacturers.
20.9 million relating to a write-down of goodwill and other Sales LFL to our consumer electronics and telecoms customers intangibles associated with ESG.
increased in 2017, primarily reflecting the launch of new products 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 by our customers.
We again saw strong growth in China where we are working with a number of mobile phone manufacturers.
During the year, a new high-frequency head and torso simulator was launched a mannequin with built-in ear and mouth simulators that provide a realistic reproduction of the acoustic properties of an average adult human head and torso.
It is designed for in-situ electro-acoustics tests on smartphones, headsets and microphones.
We are working closely with Sony on headphone development using this product and have also secured orders with leading acoustics and social media companies.
Sales LFL of our environmental noise monitoring services increased during the year, particularly in Asia, where sales are approaching similar levels to Europe.
Our strategy to widen our market reach for noise monitoring equipment and services has continued to see an increase of orders for urban monitoring.
In December, an agreement was signed with Macquarie Capital to form a joint venture with our environmental monitoring business now named EMS Brel & Kjr.
Macquarie Capital will acquire 50% of the business for a total cash consideration of AUD76.6 million.
It is expected to close in the second quarter of 2018, subject to regulatory approvals in China, the European Union and South Korea.
Both parties are committed to an accelerated investment programme to help create additional solutions and services to enable asset owners to monitor and manage their Millbrook is supporting the development resources more effectively.
The venture will benefit from of the vehicles of the future in the area of Macquarie Capitals unrivalled expertise as a world-leading advanced driver-assistance systems and infrastructure adviser and investor.
As with the Materials Analysis segment, LFL sales to academic research institutes declined, with weakness in demand seen in One project, backed by the UK government, involves all regions.
collaboration with the Atomic Energy Authoritys centre for Remote Applications for Challenging Environments to develop Improved conditions in the oil and gas and mining markets in a unique, controlled test bed representative of an urban 2017 resulted in an increase in LFL sales in these end markets, environment for the development of connected and particularly in North America.
Demand for microseismic monitoring autonomous vehicle CAV technologies.
Millbrooks solutions increased markedly in North America and we saw a 70 kilometres of test tracks offer a diverse topography to higher level of activity for our downhole hydraulic fracture mapping replicate the complexity of urban environments.
The test bed and monitoring activities as both the US rig count and production will enable both automotive OEMs and developers of software, rose throughout the year.
We continue to target opportunities in sensors, roadside units and cyber security systems to access a other markets and are making progress in this regard in Latin comprehensive suite of virtual and physical tools for test and America and the Middle East.
As markets recover, ESG is looking validation.
The aim is to speed up development of CAV to work more closely with its customers for  technologies by bridging the gap between track testing and solutions for example, it has developed a microseismic analysis deployment on public roads, enabling advanced connectivity approach that helps operators better diagnose and improve testing, while being safe and secure for all users.
Another initiative is the creation of a virtual model of Segment outlook Millbrooks proving ground which will enable vehicle We expect the automotive and aerospace sectors to benefit from manufacturers to significantly improve the development of further growth in demand for engineering software applications.
CAV systems using digital experiments which precisely mirror The growth in hybrid and electric vehicles is expected to drive the real-world tests conducted on the physical site.
Test drivers demand for our market-leading torque and eDrive solutions and can interact with this virtual replica of Millbrook in full-scale test services.
We are also seeing growth in sound and vibration driving simulators or at desktop workstations with steering and applications in automotive.
This allows drivers to test cars with autonomous systems or use the virtual world to either subjectively assess the In aerospace, as well as improved reliability and availability of behaviour of autonomous vehicles or to provoke emergency engines, driven by safety and maintenance cost requirements, scenarios and evaluate the response.
quieter engines and airframes exterior noise are also an area of focus.
However, overall demand will be driven by new development programmes.
The underlying trends in the consumer electronics market remain healthy in our view, with strong consumer demand for smartphones, audio quality and innovative features, particularly in China and India.
The improving market conditions in the oil and gas industry are expected to create increased demand for our microseismic solutions with expectations for both production and capex in the industry to be higher in 2018.
Spectris plc 23 Strategic Report Operating Review continued In-line INSTRUMENTATION In the pulp and paper markets, LFL sales increased modestly Segment performance compared with 2016, with growth in pulping and tissue offsetting Reported sales the continued structural decline in the coating segment.
We Adjusted operating profit continue to diversify towards the tissue, pulp and packaging markets, including digital solutions to meet mill-of-the-future 310.9m 33.2m needs.
Solutions tailored to drive gains in business performance 2016: 275.6m 2016: 41.2m at our customer sites continue to be the theme of many of the projects that the pulp and paper industry is looking for, including Reported operating profit a more widespread use of automation and real-time monitoring of site-wide operating conditions.
To address this, we have formed 29.5m a new Process Solutions business unit.
For example, a global pulp and paper producer deployed BTGs instruments and Capstone 2016: 37.6m MACS process control software in combination to automate their bleaching unit operation.
Several pulp and paper producers Sales by destination % implemented BTGs dataPARC decision support and analysis software in order to access and visualise real-time data from Rest of the world multiple sources, enabling them to have a more comprehensive 7 and intuitive means of leveraging their operational data.
The data North America analytics offering also continues to be deployed in several other 33 industries, including power generation, chemical, wastewater and ethanol.
31 In the energy and utilities market, LFL sales rose, reflecting the improved global oil and gas markets.
Both the industrial gases Asia business and the hydrocarbon processing sector continue to recover globally and along with the strengthened sales and marketing Europe organisation at Servomex, we have been able to capitalise on this.
29 Growth was also helped by the launch of a number of new flagship products: for example, the Servopro MultiExact 4100, a high-performance multi-gas analyser offering up to four Sales by end-user market % simultaneous digital gas stream measurements and configurable to a wide range of industrial applications.
Gases measured include oxygen, nitrogen, methane, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, Pulp, paper & argon and helium, delivering a new level of performance that 26 tissue Other further optimises processes, improves product yields, ensures high 36 product quality for our customers and helps meet regulatory and safety requirements.
During the year, we acquired Setpoint, a leading provider of 13 vibration and condition monitoring solutions to process industries.
It has become an integrated product line of Brel & Kjr Vibro, Converting, growing our presence in the condition monitoring market.
25 Energy & utilities extrusion & packaging Setpoint is primarily focused on the oil and gas and power generation sectors and its technology enables customers to improve machinery availability, productivity and reliability by delivering accurate condition information.
In August, the first Reported sales increased 13%, reflecting a LFL sales increase shipments of Setpoint systems from Brel & Kjr Vibro were of 6%, a 5% positive impact from foreign currency exchange delivered for the thermal power generation market in the movements and a 2% contribution from acquisitions.
Since acquisition, we have also delivered new orders basis, LFL sales were up in all regions, with a good performance to two major South American oil and gas companies and a in Europe and Asia, particularly in the first half of the year.
This US power generation company, amongst others, and in December, reflected good growth in industrial production and a recovery we received the largest-ever order for Setpoint systems for a large in capital expenditure across many process industries globally.
petrochemical complex being built in Russia.
Excluding Project Uplift costs, LFL adjusted operating profit declined 12% and LFL adjusted operating margins were 2.6pp In the wind energy sector, we are continuing to see growth lower year-on-year.
This resulted from adverse mix and an increase and have further expanded the number of wind farm owners in overheads driven by higher employee costs, plus costs of and operators to whom we provide turbine monitoring services.
4.3 million relating to restructuring and costs following the closure In total, we have now sold more than 18,000 systems into the of a business centre in Europe.
This also led to reported operating wind power industry.
Brel & Kjr Vibro has supplied for the first profit decreasing, from 37.6 million to 29.5 million.
time condition monitoring systems to a US utility company under a five-year systems-as-a-service contract.
Simultaneously, 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Brel & Kjr Vibros systems are now considered fleet-wide standard for wind turbines used by three utility companies: one each in Canada, the USA and Central America.
In our other end markets, sales LFL to the cable and tube C&T and food and bulk F&B markets increased during 2017 with strong performances in North America, Europe and Japan.
C&T sales were up strongly on improved sales coverage, particularly in Europe and China.
F&B sales were up strongly as a result of targeting key growth markets in this segment, including savoury snacks.
Film extrusion and converting sales were especially strong in North America.
NDC Technologies NDCT continues to develop its technology partnerships and products.
It has worked closely with RAM GmbH, a web inspection business, since a business co-operation agreement was signed in March.
Customers will benefit from simplified service support with one organisation handling both gauging and inspection.
During the year, NDCT delivered several new products to the market, including the new BenchMike Pro offline diameter and ovality metrology instrument which offers the highest accuracy in the industry.
The instrument also offers faster communications processing and easy integration into production networks to support customers IIoT programmes.
Restructuring activities at NDCT continued during the year and transfer and consolidation of the manufacturing and administrative functions from California into the Ohio facility is on track for completion in 2018.
The California facility has become the new film Drax Power is the UKs largest power station extrusion and converting solutions technical centre of excellence.
and is Europe's biggest decarbonisation project.
Segment outlook 70% of its electricity is generated from The mix in our pulp and paper business is expected to continue sustainable biomass.
Drax uses Servomexs to improve during 2018 with our new focus on complete solutions, analysers to optimise boiler combustion including digital capabilities, aimed at the growing tissue, pulp and efficiency control, resulting in direct fuel savings, packaging markets.
We also expect to continue to benefit from reduced maintenance and a reduction in direct the combination of Capstones software tools with BTGs instruments to capture new opportunities with the Process carbon monoxide emissions.
The Fluegas Exact 2700 analyser measures both oxygen With an improved environment in global oil and gas markets and carbon monoxide and is therefore suitable for continuous and with a partial revival of activity in greenfield projects as well flow monitoring of combustion processes.
It is designed for as brownfield expansions, we expect growth from the energy and high temperature processes up to 1,750C, so is ideal for utilities sector to continue into 2018.
The addition of Setpoint offers use in extreme heated environments such as hydrocarbon the potential to further grow the machine protection condition processing and power generation applications.
Over the past monitoring solution business in this segment.
The wind energy nine years, Servomex has supplied 48 of these analysers to sector remains healthy and offers the potential for additional monitor the boilers.
capabilities beyond vibration to encompass other condition Drax estimate that improved control of the combustion monitoring in order to provide more predictive analysis and process has saved them millions of pounds over the years offer a full-service wind farm optimisation programme.
in both direct fuel savings and lower operational costs.
Opportunities in the film extrusion, web converting and food and bulk materials markets are expected to increase as customers develop new products which require advanced inline measurement solutions.
Quality requirements, particularly in the food segment and food packaging, continue to be more stringent globally and therefore drive demand for inline solutions.
Spectris plc 25 Strategic Report Operating Review continued Industrial CONTROLS Adjusted operating profit LFL before Project Uplift costs Segment performance increased by 96% and LFL operating margins before Project Uplift Reported sales Adjusted operating profit costs improved by 7.4pp, following the significant improvement in gross margin at Omega as well as the effects of operating leverage.
This reflected improved product mix and pricing and 262.5m 38.3m lower overheads.
There was a restructuring charge of 2.1 million 2016: 246.8m 2016: 21.6m as we continue to improve the performance of Omega.
The operational improvements at Omega were reflected in a Reported operating profit good sales performance and higher gross margins.
Omega derives the majority of sales from the USA and the improving industrial 28.7m environment saw an increase in demand for its products.
The 2016: loss of 92.2m internationalisation programme continued to deliver good sales growth in all major markets outside the USA, with particular Sales by destination % strength in Asia, notably in China.
A focus on lean operations, tighter inventory management and the consolidation of distribution Rest of the world centres globally have all contributed to this performance.
Other 2 performance improvement initiatives have focused on marketing, 16 North America including a shift from higher cost print marketing to preciselyAsia targeted digital marketing campaigns.
These campaigns highlight new products and real-life use applications for example, for the Omega Enterprise Gateway, a software tool in Omegas portfolio 13 designed to link sensor data and monitor a variety of products from Europe a single platform.
Rapid adoption resulted from the targeted digital marketing promotion and expansion of Omegas easily configured 69 pressure transducer product line in aerospace, military and transportation markets.
Examples of these applications include temperature sensors for pre-flight applications and automated data collection systems for robust asset monitoring.
Sales by end-user market % The increasing trend towards IIoT, driven by the need for smarter, more interconnected operations, is benefiting our industrial automation and networking business as organisations seek easy-to-use solutions to connect and expand the capabilities Other Distribution 30 of legacy equipment within existing facilities.
To better service this need, Red Lion reorganised its sales teams to focus on opportunities in certain key vertical markets.
For example, in Asia, a targeted 42 focus in energy and water resulted in sales to a large wind turbine manufacturer and a number of water projects in China.
In India, Red Lion won a project to enable Azure Power to efficiently analyse Semicon, previously installed solar power systems for energy consumption.
Pharmaceuticals & telecoms & 23 5 During the year, Red Lion launched a new generation of human fine chemicals electronics machine interface products HMIs which provide enhanced functionality for remote monitoring and control.
These HMIs allow customers to interconnect devices from a variety of leading manufacturers more easily.
New additions of Red Lions Reported sales rose 6%.
After adjusting for Microscan, LFL sales industrial Ethernet switches were also launched.
The new models increased by 6% and there was a favourable impact of 6% from are designed for industrial, transportation and intelligent traffic foreign currency exchange movements.
With the segments high applications requiring high reliability and the ability to function exposure to North America c. 70%, it was encouraging to see an in extreme environmental conditions to help maximise network increase in LFL sales in this region for the first time since 2014. uptime and prevent lost production, downtime or a safety risk.
Asia recorded strong growth in LFL sales, particularly at Omega.
In Europe, overall segment sales were higher on a LFL basis, with In October, the Group completed the sale of the Microscan growth in both our industrial networking business and in process Systems, Inc. business Microscan to Omron Corporation, measurement and control products.
Reported operating profit resulting in post-tax cash proceeds of 91.9 million.
Microscan increased to 28.7 million from the loss of 92.2 million recorded is a global provider of world-class machine vision technology in 2016 which included a non-cash impairment charge of and solutions for critical identification, inspection and verification 94.4 million relating to a write-down of the balance sheet applications.
However, in light of the Groups more focused goodwill and other intangibles associated with Omega.
strategic direction, we believed that its next stage of development could be better fulfilled elsewhere.
26 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Segment outlook The performance of this segment will continue to depend on US industrial markets.
The growth recorded in 2017 is expected to continue into 2018, although order visibility is very low.
At Omega, the restructuring activities, organisational changes and enhanced marketing approach are producing better results and we expect this improvement to continue in 2018.
In the medium term, the demand for industrial companies to drive productivity and operational efficiencies by enabling effortless and secure access to their manufacturing information is expected to increase.
Industrial customers who are implementing cloud-based analytics applications will drive further demand for best-in-class networking and connectivity solutions for stranded assets and disparate plant systems.
Spectris has focused efforts to be well positioned to take full advantage of these opportunities.
Azure Power, a solar power generation company in India, use a weather station tool for their solar power sites to analyse energy consumption based on the ambient conditions.
To do this, they need to accurately monitor and log weather data from a number of different remotely-located field devices and send all of the data to their head office.
The previous process involved two devices and a long run of cable from the field, which often required site visits to repair.
Now, using Red Lions solution of a modular controller with built-in web server and Ethernet switch, combined with third-party sensors for the field devices, Azure Power can monitor data remotely and store it in the cloud.
This remote monitoring and control eliminates the need for multiple devices and data cabling, reducing the number of site visits required and lowering operating costs.
Temperatures in northern Indias solar panel fields can reach extreme highs, so the rugged, reliable design of Red Lions equipment, with an operating temperature range of 0 to 50C, means that service will continue even in the most extreme of environments.
