Vesuvius plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operating Review Steel Flow Control In 2017, Steel Flow Control sales growth continued to outperform growth in the global steel market Roel van der Sluis President, Steel Flow Control Vesuvius Flow Control business unit, Steel Flow Control products supplied by Steel Flow Control revenue m supplies the global steel industry with Vesuvius include: consumable ceramic products used to Viso isostatically pressed alumina 605.9m contain and control the ow of molten graphite and VAPEX extruded clay steel in the continuous casting process.
17 605.9 graphite products These include ladle This process enables steel manufactured 16 506.4 shrouds, stopper rods, submerged in a blast furnace or electric arc furnace entry nozzles and shrouds, which 15 487.3 to be cast without interruption, whilst channel and control the ow of molten protecting it from the atmosphere.
steel from ladle to tundish and from Steel Flow Control supplies the Avoiding atmospheric contact is crucial tundish to mould stoppers and tubes used to channel as it signi cantly reduces contamination and control the ow of molten and oxidation levels in the steel.
Slide-gate refractories These include steel from ladle to tundish and nozzles, plates and speciality shapes The products Vesuvius supplies into the from tundish to mould: slide gate used in furnace, ladle and tundish slide continuous casting process have a short refractories for ladles and tundishes: gate systems service life often a matter of a few hours slide gate systems: tundish and due to the signi cant wear caused by the mould uxes: and control devices Temperature measurement and extremely demanding environment in RADAR These provide optical to monitor and regulate steel ow which they are used.
These products into the mould.
These products temperature measurement and slag must withstand extreme temperature detection have been designed to resist changes, whilst resisting liquid steel extreme thermomechanical stress Gaskets These create an airtight seal and slag corrosion.
In addition, the and corrosive environments.
between refractory components to ceramic parts in contact with the liquid The majority of these products minimise the risk of air ingress and steel must not in any way contaminate it.
are consumed during the process steel oxidisation The quality, reliability and consistency of making steel and, consequently, of the products and process control demand is primarily linked to steel Fluxes These are powders, spread equipment are therefore critical production volumes.
Continuing on the surface of the molten steel to the quality of the nished metal innovation allows us to offer enriched which provide thermal and chemical being produced and the productivity, solutions that create additional insulation and remove inclusions pro tability and safety of our customers value in our customers processes.
Our Performance 37 Purging systems These are used to stir steel in the ladle O ur teams worked together Control devices These are used to monitor and regulate steel ow into the mould to provide a solution for the 2017 Performance customer utilising the first Steel Flow Control sales growth has worldwide application of new continued to outperform growth in the global steel market.
In 2017, we reported revenues of 605.9m, an increase of patented sealing technology 11.8% on an underlying basis compared with 2016.
All regions outperformed Andrew Morrison and Linna Sun, heads of NAFTA underlying steel volume growth and and Asia VISO Development teams EMEA was our fastest growing region.
Steel production in EMEA increased 4.9% in 2017, and Vesuvius outperformed the Global Development team to provide The Challenge a solution.
Andrew Morrison and A large integrated steel producer in market with underlying revenue up Linna Sun, the heads of the NAFTA NAFTA resolved to convert most of 17.5% to 240.1m, re ecting market and Asia VISO Development teams their production to Vesuvius Flex share gains.
respectively, collaborated in the Cold Start Tundish Shroud, which development of an innovation born channels the ow of steel into the During 2017, we experienced very strong in our R&D centre in Suzhou, China: final mould for solidi cation.
growth of our Flow Control sales in the combination of an intumescent The cold-start technology eliminates EMEA, which temporarily exceeded the coating and an integral groove sealant the need for preheat, increasing the capacity of our manufacturing plants which provides a quicker gas tight seal safety of the tube changing process, in the region, requiring the import of by expanding many multiples of its and reducing energy consumption.
original thickness on commencement, products from our facilities in Asia However, as cold start tubes require and for the duration, of service.
additional time to expand after and NAFTA, incurring additional production starts to form an airtight freight, export duty and overtime costs.
seal at the joint of the tundish and the The Bene ts Measures were immediately taken to tube to prevent air contamination, a This combination of the coating and increase the capacity of the Flow Control preheat would still have been required groove sealant allows the customer EMEA plants and this ramp-up is now for some speci c automotive steel to reliably use the cold start piece for complete, substituting imports from grades to improve sealing times.
The new patented technology creates a tight seal within non-EMEA plants.
one minute of service commencement, Our Solution In the Americas, Steel Flow Controls resulting in immediate reduction in Dale Bower, leading the local NAFTA steel re-oxidation, reduced steel underlying revenues increased 8.8% sales team, challenged the VISO nishing, and overall improved to 201.7m in 2017, against a 5.9% steel quality.
increase in steel production volumes.
Our outperformance rela ativ tive t e to o s st te ee el l production was due to ma ar rk ke et t shar share e gains in North America.
In n t th he US i e US in n particular, our market sha are i re is s continuing to recover from m t th he l e lo ow w point of the second half of 201 of 2015 5 when we were impacted by cu by cus st to om me er r closures and volume losse es s d due ue t to o market pricing pressure.
Vesuvius plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operating Review continued Steel Flow Control An SEM 3085 tube changer, Underlying revenue increased by 7.8% for the robotic tube in Asia-Paci c in 2017 to 164.1m, changing process compared to a 5.7% increase in steel production volume in the region.
The glowing VISO sub-entry Revenues increased faster than the nozzle channels molten steel market in the key regional markets steel into the mould of China, India and South Korea.
The bene ts of the restructuring programme implemented during 2016 and 2017 started to deliver a positive impact on the financial performance of the business unit.
Strategic Highlights from delivering process ef ciency and reducing their waste and cost.
As shown the Year removing personnel from the harsh in the case study on page 37, we have environment around the caster.
In 2017, also developed complementary Following the success of the we saw an increase in demand for technology to allow for the use of this manufacturing rationalisation robotics solutions and received orders product in higher grade steel production.
programme in EMEA, a similar initiative to convert steel plants in South Korea, was launched for the NAFTA region, We continued to develop our service South America and Europe.
This where through a combination of offering helping our customers to positions Vesuvius well to support our improving ef ciency and adapting understand better their mould ow customers in facing the future challenges production volumes between plants, pattern.
This is a key element in the of automation and a greater focus improvements in cost base have been casting process, as it is the last step on quality.
We will continue to pursue this between liquid and solid steel.
This audit effort in 2018 in order to deliver In 2017, we also further developed our service is carried out by our process further bene ts.
capabilities in data capture and experts using speci cally designed tools continuous temperature measurement.
and software to measure ow pattern We are now translating this methodology Our investment in, and exclusive through monitoring temperature, mould to new territories, through which distribution agreement with Sapotech level and meniscus velocity.
We can then we expect to drive further cost Oy, a Finnish technology company compare this with the data generated improvements.
The additional projects offering optical defect detection services from our Computational Fluid Dynamic identi ed include a focus on industrial and real-time data on steel surface simulation capabilities.
Comparing the ef ciencies in Brazil and India.
quality, now places us well to address the data allows us to recommend improved In addition to these wider initiatives, we requirements for data management at solutions to our customers.
More details targeted process improvements aimed our customers.
From the start of 2018, on the work of our Solutions Group are at increasing the output in speci c this business is being managed within contained in the Innovation Section on areas, such as in our mix plant in China.
the Steel Flow Control business unit.
Optimisation work performed here has Our R&D efforts also delivered new allowed us to simplify our supply chain, Looking Ahead products to support the growth in the make it more cost-ef cient and create ladle slide-gate business with the It is our expectation that, despite the capacity to absorb growth.
introduction of our next generation relatively high growth achieved in 2017 Over the last few years, Vesuvius has slide-gate mechanism, which is robotand a broadly positive outlook for 2018, invested in developing robotics solutions ready and uses optimised refractory steel production in the mature economies which improve the safety and consistency plates creating value for our customers of Europe and North America will not of our customers operations while in terms of ergonomics, safety and exhibit material growth in the medium supporting our sales.
Our unique value reliability while reducing their operating long term, given that the nature of proposition is the result of the integration cost.
In addition, we launched our new economic growth requires less steel than of speci c refractory, system and robotic Flex Cold Start Tundish Shroud, which in the past.
This is a key driver behind the design - three core competencies inside allows customers to operate their casters efforts to adapt our manufacturing Vesuvius.
Several steel makers have been with more exibility in terms of sequence footprint and overhead structure in the pioneers in adopting this technology, length and daily operation as well as mature markets.
Our Performance 39 China is the worlds largest producer of steel, accounting for approximately 50% of global production.
The adjustment of Ef cient technology the Chinese steel industry from producing long steel for infrastructure to producing transfer improves customer at steel, typically used for consumer products and automotives, is highly production reliability and bene cial for Vesuvius.
Flat steel typically uses three times as much Vesuvius products by value and as a result we reduces cost believe the accessible market for Vesuvius Flow Control business in China could grow Joe Gu, Production Manager of Slide Gate Refractories and Purge signi cantly in the long term.
Plugs, North Asia Furthermore, Chinas Government is focused on a comprehensive upgrade visiting Vesuvius R&D sites and The Challenge of Chinese manufacturing, making it manufacturing plants, and also steel The Castrip process is a recent innovation-driven, emphasising quality producers using the technology.
technology developed to directly cast over quantity and achieving green Once suf cient information had been steel in a thin strip.
This enables the gathered, the Chinese teams were development though Made in China production of steel coils with less trained on how to support the new energy consumption and a reduced 2025.
This trend towards higher quality Chinese customers, covering refractory production cost compared with the industrial manufacturing is bene cial to design and manufacturing, and on-site conventional process which requires Vesuvius steel division.
Our current strong operational support.
hot rolling after casting to reduce position in this market will help us to slab thickness.
The Bene ts For this technology, Vesuvius has With local production and support developed speci c technology for India is another key growth market and capabilities, we secured an important core refractory materials and designs, one where we enjoy high penetration contract, offering the first Chinese user as well as associated know-how on rates.
It was one of the fastest growing of the Castrip process the shortest operational best practices from our steel markets in 2017 and closely tied to delivery time at the best price, while experience at sites running this maintaining the original product the Governments economic development technology in NAFTA.
Recently, quality developed in NAFTA.
The plans is the target to increase steel Castrip machines were installed Chinese and NAFTA teams continue at a Chinese steel producer, who capacity to 300 million tonnes per annum to share the expertise gained on this required local refractory sourcing.
by 2030, versus a production level in process to allow for a continuous 2017 of c. 101 million tonnes.
As a result, improvement of the refractory parts.
Our Solution Vesuvius also considers that this market A Transfer of Technology team w wa as s presents an opportunity for Vesuvius to formed inside Vesuvius before the he grow sales by a factor of approximately first Castrip machine commenc ce ed d three times in the long term.
Joe Gu was s appointed as the Chinese team leader eader We also remain optimistic about the for this project, which drew expert rts s outlook for future steel production growth from the product lines of Advanc ced ed Refractories, VISO and Systems, t, th he e in countries such as Brazil, Mexico, Turkey, design and manufacturing teams ms, an and d the Middle East, Russia and Vietnam.
He and his t te ea am m identi ed a solid benchmark based sed Roel van der Sluis on Vesuvius experience in NAFT TA, A, President, Steel Flow Control
