Operating review Spire Healthcare aims to deliver operational excellence The operations team is focused on delivering the core elements of our strategy being first choice for private patients, delivering the most recommended customer experience, and operational excellence.
In 2007, many initiatives laid foundations for future success in these areas.
10 years of looking after people In 2017, our patients continued to rate A number of lessons have been learnt our care and attention highly, with 98% in relation to the scale and complexity of patients overall saying that they would of such projects.
Achieving full operating 119.2m be extremely likely or likely to recommend efficiency in the new build sites is slower Investment in capital projects in 2017 2016: 149.5m Spire Healthcare to their family and friends.
than we had expected, but additional Patients at Spire Leeds, Parkway and central resources and targeted development Sussex hospitals reported a 100% Friends programmes implemented in 2017 will and Family score.
ensure positive contributions in the future.
98% We continued to invest in the capacity Friends and Family Test Investment in existing facilities and services to maintain high levels Investments during 2017 included: of recommendation by our customers.
Spire Methley Park Hospital At the end of 2017, our operating theatre refurbishment of administration areas, 134 network grew to 134, including six new bedrooms and theatres, and creation Operating theatres in the Spire Healthcare theatres at Spire Manchester Hospital of a new daycase suite and theatre hospital network and five at Spire Nottingham Hospital.
opened in September: Across the network, 66 MRI and CT Spire Bushey Hospital satellite scanners support rapid diagnostics, out-patient and diagnostic centre with while our pathology services undertook 14 consulting rooms, associated 1.8 million tests.
treatment rooms, out-patient diagnostic In 2018, we have ambitious plans to clinics, state-of-the-art MRI, X-ray and sustain that investment, and make our ultrasound opened in November: private services even easier to access, new MRI scanners at Spire Hull and broader and more transparent in price East Riding and Thames Valley hospitals, and quality of outcome.
We also aim and a replacement scanner at Spire to be even more operationally efficient South Bank Hospital: and in running and scaling-up existing and new CT scanner at Spire Hull and new capacity.
During the year, we invested 119.2 million New builds and acquisitions in enhancing facilities and new equipment Developments during 2017 included: across our existing estate.
Spire Manchester Hospital six theatres, Spire Bushey Hospital, our largest 76 beds, ITU opened in January: and facility in the south-east, is benefiting Spire Nottingham Hospital five theatres, from a two-phase investment which 56 Beds, ITU opened in April.
will significantly increase its capacity.
Spire Manchester and Spire Nottingham The first phase involved the building of hospitals were our first entirely new build a dedicated diagnostic and outpatient hospitals, Spire St Anthonys Hospital our centre in Elstree, Hertfordshire.
It not only first acquisition and major expansion.
offers state-of-the-art diagnostic facilities but also frees the way for the second phase of the development, adding 26 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information capacity in the main hospital.
This will New private services During the year, we create six new consulting rooms, 10 extra In 2017, we launched our Children and invested 119.5 million beds and a new theatre offering the Young Peoples Service.
Working with the potential for an additional 1,400 private CQC, we developed a safe, effective and in enhancing facilities and surgical patients a year.
compliant service with approved clinical new equipment across standards.
We also sought input from In September, we completed the our PMI partners to ensure our service our existing estate.
7.6 million transformation of Spire took into account and resolved the Methley Park Hospital.
A new operating key issues they and their customers theatre, equipped with leading-edge were experiencing.
technology, has enabled more complex surgery, while five extra beds, a new With our hospitals working together physiotherapy unit, gymnasium, daycase as a network, we are now able to offer unit and discharge lounge, an on-site a range of paediatric services from pharmacy and a total redesign of the initial consultation and diagnosis through out-patient department have further to treatment and surgery on a broad increased capacity.
We also launched Spire GP, our hospital Planned 2018 investments based primary care service.
Planned to In 2018, we will continue to invest in be available at all our hospitals by the the latest equipment, to add capacity end of 2018, Spire GP provides quick and and capability in our hospitals.
easy access to professional private GP Planned investments include: services at a time and location that suits our customers.
phase 2 expansion of Spire Bushey Hospital one additional theatre, The launch also marked our first online six consulting rooms and 10 beds : customer service offering patients Spire Murrayfield and Shawfair Park the opportunity to book and pay for GP hospitals new MRI scanner.
appointments from their mobile, laptop Spire Cheshire Hospital new or tablet the first step in a full range MRI scanner : of planned online services.
Manchester Parkway One Pathology Laboratory regional and national Histopathology hub : and the ongoing large-scale refurbishment project at Spire Cambridge Lea Hospital, comprising the expansion and refurbishment of the daycase unit: a new Joint Advisory Group JAG accredited endoscopy suite: and the upgrade of the Level 1 Critical Care extended recovery area.
27 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Operating review Continued The goal is one Spire Way Directly booked appointments 2017 of working, to free up 800 strong local hospital Insurer engagement 600 leadership to run great End of pilot 400 hospitals, support their consultants and patients 200 and grow the local business.
0 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan 2018 Insurer 1 Insurer 2 Grand total Improving service for our PMI partners, we We are increasing investment in marketing successfully completed the pilot of a Direct and services to drive further growth in Booking Portal and from the late summer self-paying patients.
Our central team of rolled it out across our full network.
The sales trainers work across the network to portal was developed in response to our support the hospital based Self-pay sales insurance partners seeking to support their teams.
They focus on improving sales members to book more easily into our conversion through the coaching and consultants clinics and avoid the need for reinforcement of quality enquiry handling, lengthy telephone calls.
The portal provides enquiry management and sales process.
claims management teams with direct They also co-ordinate the best use of access to electronic diaries, booking and the Self-pay CRM system standardising its appointment confirmation.
By year end use, training its users and recommending we had scaled up from around 200 referrals developments to improve the user per month in the pilot to over 600: totalling experience and enquiry data collection.
over 4,000 direct bookings for the year.
Building on this success we are working to make the portal available to more of our insurance partners.
We are also piloting a Direct to Patient service, giving insured patients direct access to support them to select appointments with our consultants.
28 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Continuous operational improvement The NHS standard acute contract 2017 saw the Private Healthcare A range of work streams aimed at requires discharge summaries to be sent Information Network PHIN publish delivering operational excellence, electronically the so-called e-discharge.
quality measures about private hospitals consistently, across all our hospitals, is Our SAP system already links to many online for the first time as a result of being driven forward by enhanced central GPs systems across the country.
In 2017, the Competitions and Markets Authority resources, working with hospital senior we trialled e-discharge notes at Spire Private Healthcare Investigation Order.
The goal is one Spire Alexandra and Spire Sussex hospitals.
We support PHINs objectives of improving Way of working, to free up strong local In 2018, we will extend the benefits to transparency around quality and cost hospital leadership to run great hospitals, other hospitals, ensuring notes are with and continue to actively work with PHIN support their consultants and patients GPs within 24 hours.
The next step will be and the industry as new sections of the and grow the local business.
to send clinic letters to GPs electronically.
regulation are implemented on a phased basis.
In addition, we continue to work Specific programmes tested in 2017 During 2017, our coding teams with our consultants to ensure patients to be fully implemented in 2018 include: implemented the NHSs new tariffs and have the information they need to make 1 upgraded to HRG4.
This included the after a review of our telephony informed choices.
creation of a co-morbidity tick-sheet to capability identified overwhelming bridge the gap between terminologies Further work is also underway on our customer demand, resulting in used by clinicians and coders.
The result website to raise the level of information a frustrated customer experience, ensures that all secondary conditions available to patients.
we piloted across six hospitals relevant to any one patient can be clearly a workstream to identify the documented and accurately coded.
opportunities to improve our telephony capability.
This includes improved All our hospitals have had at least one call routing to ensure a positive impact coding review during the year, highlighting to customer experience and the ability areas where improvements can be to measure performance to drive made to the accuracy of clinical coding.
further improvements: A summary of findings is provided for headline improvements across the each site and, where necessary, action six pilot hospitals include 20% increase plans provided to support improvement.
in Self-pay appointment bookings In addition to the on-site reviews, our compared to non-pilot hospitals.
central team analyses monthly coding a relaunch of our website to raise outputs in order to identify potential search optimisation and usage: and inaccuracies.
The reviews and monthly an ongoing development of a workforce analysis have increased coding accuracy planning tool which uses best in class and income.
acuity assessment and on-line updates to create a safe and efficient staff rota and bookings allocation.
NHS Tariff prices are applied to units of healthcare, based on groups of services that are clinically similar and require similar resources to deliver.
HRG4 is the latest set of such groups, used in present prices.
29 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Case study Strategic priorities Famous for quality and clinical care Most recommended customer experience Image: Val Price Matron: Spire Portsmouth Hospital 30 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Operational excellence in Looking after you everything we do Operational excellence helps our Consultants and staff deliver the best experience and outcomes for our patients through the most efficient use of our resources.
Theatre utilisation is one of the key Our operating theatres work up to three performance indicators of operational sessions a day, six days a week, and we Developing excellence.
Maximising the productivity of have more orthopaedic consultants who our leaders our operating theatres requires efficiency want to treat their patients here than The quality of our hospital throughout the patient pathway we can easily accommodate.
leadership is crucial to the delivery from original booking, through smooth So, were fully focused on maximising of excellence.
Heather Dob, Spire admissions processes, comprehensive theatre usage.
Senior managers, Matron Portsmouths Hospital Director, pre-assessments, timely starts, full lists and myself have weekly and daily planning is a former Matron who has been and appropriate post-operative care, meetings, working flexibly to ensure every with us since 2002.
She is currently to prompt discharge.
We concentrate on starting in her second stint as Hospital All of which requires focus, firmness on time.
We make sure that the right Director at Portsmouth and typical and flexibility from everyone involved.
equipment and consumables are in of the best leaders, she knows theatre.
Very soon we will have one Spire Portsmouth Hospital achieved every aspect of the hospitals of our store staff in theatre at all times theatre utilisation rates of 79% in January operations, but leads her team to improve that link still further.
2017, and by October it had improved with delegated responsibilities.
Hospital Director, We work hard to ensure that patients are As she says: I lead a team that Heather Dob, explains their approach.
properly prepared and pre-assessed this is completely focused on providing year we created a patient briefing video, flexible capacity for our consultants featuring our staff, taking patients right and patients.
And we try to optimise productivity per hour, making sure, where appropriate, Were fully focused on that patients are treated in endoscopy maximising theatre usage.
suites or as out-patients, and using the 84% theatres for high-value procedures as much as possible.
Theatre utilisation at Spire Portsmouth Hospital How we manage our theatres is central to effective patient flow in a hospital 31 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
