Operational review The Board continues to believe the fundamentals of the business remain strong and appeal to an increasingly broad set of international investors.
ALAN AUBREY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2017 was an important year for IP Group, which has During 2017, the Group provided 71.2m of incubation, seen a period of intense corporate activity including seed and development capital to 79 portfolio the transaction with Touchstone Innovations plc.
companies 2016: 58.8m capital excluding multi The integration of the two businesses was a key sector platforms: 55 companies.
operational focus throughout the latter part of the Significant portfolio company year that has continued into 2018.
The combination 1 added a maturing portfolio of 45 new companies transactions and developments to the Group, which we have fair valued at 352.2m Notable highlights in the portfolio in 2017 included: on completion.
This compares to Touchstones last audited accounts at 31 July 2017, which reported a portfolio fair value of 461.1m.
These businesses LIFE SCIENCES complement our existing portfolio companies while presenting growth opportunities across our newlyThis year saw the transition of our single asset formed life sciences and technology sectors.
Further drug discovery company Istesso Limited formerly information on the companies added through the Modern Biosciences plc from a subsidiary to a Touchstone combination is included in the portfolio portfolio company, resulting in a 45.1m profit on review on pages 38 to 39. deconsolidation.
We have operated Istesso Limited as a subsidiary since 2007 as it has progressed its Throughout 2017 we have remained focussed on MBS2320 lead product through product development delivering attractive returns from the portfolio, and into the clinic, however it has always been delivering net portfolio gains of 92.4m, resulting our intention to spin out the business once it from a combination of technical and commercial had achieved a significant value inflection point.
progress in our portfolio companies, and successful Following the commencement of MBS2320s Phase fundraising transactions.
Included in the former 2a clinical trial in rheumatoid arthritis in partnership category were gains from Istesso Limited 45.1m.
with Johnson and Johnson, we recruited two Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited 27.8m, industry-expert non-executive directors in the latter Ceres Power Holdings plc 13.5m and Diurnal Group half of the year as part of the establishment of an plc 9.4m, while in the latter category were gains in independent board for the company.
In combination 2 Ultrahaptics Holdings Limited 11.8m, and Creavo with a reduction in the Groups voting rights and 2 Medical Technologies Limited 5.3m.
a restructuring of debt funding the business, the The most significant fair value reductions were seen in company is now recognised in our portfolio rather a small number of the Groups AIM-quoted portfolio than as a consolidated subsidiary.
companies including hVIVO plc 15.0m, Tissue The Groups largest holding, Oxford Nanopore, made Regenix Group plc 11.8m and Applied Graphene significant commercial progress in the year.
In addition, there were writeNanopore is the company behind the worlds only downs in a small number of existing IP Group private portable, real-time DNA RNA sequencer, the MinION.
Its goal is to enable the analysis of any living thing, by any person, in any environment to disrupt multiple 20 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Strategic Report Our performance scientific and industrial markets.
Oxford Nanopore is now entering its third commercial year and has TECHNOLOGY reported having a customer base of thousands of MinION users, mostly in the scientific research The most valuable holding in the Technology community.
The company also introduced larger portfolio, AIM-listed Ceres Power Holdings plc, formats in the year - GridION and PromethION - that made excellent commercial progress in the year start to access the higher-throughput end of the resulting in a positive movement in Ceres share sequencing market.
The company reported that orders price which translated to a 13.5m gain for the for its products have trebled to $23.5m in 2017 and Group.
The companys annual results, announced with an expectation of $75m for 2018.
Based on the in October, showed revenue increase ahead of commercial and scientific progress made in the year, expectations and up 140% from last year to 4.1m and that more than twelve months had elapsed since 2016: 1.7m while in September, Ceres announced its last financing, the Group updated its valuation the successful conclusion of a one-year field trial in of the business, resulting in a fair value gain of homes in the UK.
The results showed that the Ceres 27.8m.
The validity of this valuation assessment was SteelCell technology is reliable and could reduce confirmed in March 2018 on completion of a 100m annual household energy costs by 400 and carbon fundraising with the addition of a group of major new emissions by up to 2 tonnes per year.
Finally, the investors from Singapore, China and Australia.
company announced that it has secured its fifth OEM partner in a pre-close trading update in December.
Another significant fair value gain of 9.4m came Four of our other key technology assets all completed from AIM-listed Diurnal Group plc, one of the Groups substantial fundraisings in 2017, each involving highmost advanced biotech assets.
Diurnal has two quality new institutional shareholders.
products either in or having completed Phase 3 studies, Infacort and Chronocort, for the treatment of More detail on the performance of our assets is the childhood and adult forms of adrenal insufficiency contained in the portfolio review.
respectively, and anticipates market launch for its first product in Q2 2018.
Among the larger assets, North America it was encouraging to note a positive impact In North America, IP Group, Inc. continued its positive from Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc, a Touchstone momentum, positioning the business well for 2018.
We Innovations plc company, where positive share price finished the year with eight institutional relationships, performance led to a 4.2m fair value gain from five with prominent universities and three with US the date of acquisition to the year end.
Another Department of Energy Laboratories.
Collectively, Touchstone company, Autifony Therapeutics, signed these institutions represented $7.9bn 5.9bn in total a 627.5m collaboration agreement in December with annual R&D spending, with four of the universities in Boehringer Ingelheim in respect of its voltage gated the top 10 for annual R&D expenditure and notable potassium channel modulator platform, including for for conducting world-leading research across a broad the treatment of schizophrenia.
range of life and physical science disciplines.
Initial investments in technologies from several partners were completed: TuneOptix University of Washington, BetterClouds Argonne National Laboratory and Lorem Johns Hopkins University.
We also continued our incubation of new technologies at our mature partnerships: Penn 2, Princeton 1, Columbia 2, NREL 1, PNNL 2.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Operational review CONTINUED By the end of the year, our team in North America is consistently ranked in the top 150 institutions had grown to 15 representing more than 13 advanced worldwide, and each year spend in excess of A$6bn degrees, including six PhDs.
The team has continued c. 3.5bn on research.
to work directly with our research partners in highOn the capital side, the Group was delighted to touch engagement to develop a deep pipeline of welcome TelstraSuper, a significant Australian future opportunities and to advance the existing superannuation fund with AU$19 billion under portfolio of exciting companies, 22 in total so far.
management, to the Groups shareholder register as The North American business has established a part of the capital raising.
In addition, it is pleased to portfolio that continues to attract strong US investor be working with Hostplus, one of Australias largest interest from both financial and strategic investors.
superannuation funds with over AU$30 billion in During 2017, we continued to see strong external funds under management, who has committed validation and support for our US portfolio.
To AU$100m to a global co-investment mandate with date, our portfolio has attracted $11m of external the Group and who made its first investment as investment.
Exyn Technologies University of part of Oxford Nanopores March 2018 financing.
Pennsylvania in January 2018 raised $3m from Following the appointment of the senior team new investors and Lumiode Columbia University for our Australasian business in October, we have received an investment from a large c. $60bn US identified what we consider to be an attractive strategic investor.
In September, Cynash, Inc. Pacific pipeline of opportunities and anticipate making initial Northwest National Laboratories commercialised investments in 2018. three technologies from the Department of Homeland Security Science and Technology Directorate through The Group also held Deep Tech Forum events in its Transition to Practice program creating a novel Shenzhen and Beijing in China, bringing together cyber-defence technique and introducing the new ten of our portfolio companies Oxford Nanopore, cybersecurity solution to the marketplace.
CARMA Tissue Regenix, Istesso, Diurnal, Ceres Power, Eight Therapeutics University of Pennsylvania was voted 19, Medaphor, Creavo, Xeros, Mirriad and over 300 one of the top 20 life science start-ups to watch in Chinese private equity and venture capital investors, 2018 by industry trade publication BioSpace.
corporate representatives and government bodies.
The event was aimed at capitalising on strong In November, the Group hosted its third annual Hard Chinese investor interest in the IP Group story and Science Innovation Forum in Philadelphia, showcasing the innovative companies we help build and resulted more than 16 investments to more than 200 investors, in many new relationships, investment and business academics, politicians, and partners.
This event opportunities and strategic collaboration opportunities comprised panel discussions that examined investing both for the Group and our portfolio companies.
in innovation, advancements in oncology research, AI, robotics and drone technology.
Outlook The Board continues to believe the fundamentals Australasia the Far East of the business remain strong and appeal to an In Australasia, the Group was excited to launch increasingly broad set of international investors.
a landmark agreement with Australasias leading While it remains important to consider the Group universities, under which it anticipates investing at as a long-term business where results can fluctuate 3 least AU$200m c. 116m in funding and developing from year to year, IP Group has a maturing portfolio companies involved in disruptive innovation.
The of exciting assets as well as an expanded pipeline 10 10-year agreements with the Group of Eight Go8 of opportunities around the world.
The Group also universities in Australia and Auckland University in has a sound balance sheet, a strong core business in New Zealand are the first of their kind, and provide for the UK and exciting emerging opportunities in both the Group to gain access to the intellectual property the US and Australasia.
These factors, combined generated by academics at the partner universities.
with a number of anticipated value inflection points The Go8 comprises Australias eight leading research this year, particularly in our life sciences portfolio, Universities - The University of Melbourne, The means we look to the rest of the year with continued Australian National University, The University of confidence.
Sydney, The University of Queensland, The University 1 Excluding a further 39 organic holdings and 42 fide minimis holdings of Western Australia, The University of Adelaide, 2 Of the fair value gains noted above, the following amounts are Monash University and the University of NSW.
Each of attributable to the third party limited partners in the consolidated fund, IPVF II: Ultrahaptics Holdings Limited 2.0m, Creavo Medical the nine partner universities in Australasia Technologies Limited 0.9m 3 1.73 AUD GBP at 31 December 2017 22 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine
