22 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Q&A OPERATING GROUPS OUR THREE OPERATING GROUP LEADERS MIDWAY ATTRACTIONS Nick Mackenzie LEGOLAND PARKS Hans Aksel Pedersen Q.
What are you and your team most proud of in 2017?
The leadership and commitment that ourteams have displayed across all our divisions in delivering exceptional Q.
What are you and your team most experiences for our guests.
Above this, the proud of in 2017?
London and North American businesses In September, LEGOLAND Florida was have worked hard to counter the impacts of hitby Hurricane Irma which led us to close external headwinds: with our other three the park for several days.
Managing such divisions in the UK, Continental Europe and acrisis issomething the team plans for, Asia Pacific having delivered good growth.
andImtherefore very pleased to say Asia reported particularly strong results thatthis training and preparation paid off, driven by our gateway city clusters, such asevidenced in the following feedback a as Shanghai.
Everyone at the park and the resort were Q.
What are the biggest challenges above my expectations.
The staff worked facingyou and your team over the overtime to make sure all of the guests were coming years?
comfortable during a scary, pre-Hurricane Midway London is our largest and most timeEven when they lost power they did profitable division.
Front and centre of their best to provide food and entertainment ourfocus will be getting back towards our for the kids and make everyone as comfortable historical growth trajectory.
We knew devastation was of years strong growth came from our happening around us but being there we felt expansion on the South Bank where we safe, kids were happy 24 7, and it took our added new attractions and improved minds off the unknown at home which we thecustomer experience, while Madame really needed at times!!
We will never forget Tussauds continued to perform strongly our 4 nights there and cant wait to go back!
In the recent, more THANK YOU LEGOLAND!!
challenging, period we have worked hard to maximise market share during this temporary decline.
We will maintain this focus and remain confident that over time customer volumes will increase and revenues will grow.
What are you and your team most excited about for 2018?
I am excited about new products in development that will underpin growth and further improve the customer experience, in 2018 and into the future.
We are working on a number of initiatives with Merlin Magic Making, developing new technologies, for example to show off our amazing SEA LIFE marine displays or to take the Madame Tussauds experience beyond wax.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 23 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 RESORT THEME PARKS Justin Platt Q.
What are you and your team most We find that guests who spend more than proud of in 2017?
one day with us tend to report greater The continued recovery at Alton Towers levels of satisfaction.
Not only is the Resort is a testament to the great team we accommodation itself a key appeal, but they have at that attraction and the underlying are able to explore more of what we have strengths of what is, for many people in the to offer in the resort, and do so in a more UK, the definitive theme park.
year we opened the CBeebies Land Hotel, a truly magical addition to the resort, which Q.
What are you and your team most had strong occupancy levels and great KPIs.
It is also the first major third party IP Im really excited about two key hotel Merlin has built outside of the developments.
Firstly, the new Wicker Man LEGOLAND parks.
ride at Alton Towers which looks fantastic.
This is of course targeted towards the At Chessington World of Adventures Resort thrill-seeker market and were hopeful that we brought another well-loved childrens this will drive further recovery at the resort.
IPto life with The Gruffalo River Ride Adventure, aimed at the pre-school market.
Secondly, following the agreement signed Q.
What are the biggest challenges Re-imagining an existing ride allowed for with eOne in 2017, well be launching Peppa facingyou and your team over the great capital efficiency and were pleased to Pig Lands at Heide Park and Gardaland.
have driven strong KPIs and visitation with Wehad great pre-school success with LEGOLAND Parks had another year of this new, incremental pre-school audience.
CBeebies and The Gruffalo and are hoping strong growth in 2017.
Our near term to replicate that with Peppa Pig.
challenge will be in maintaining these Q.
What are the biggest challenges growth levels, particularly given that the facingyou and your team over next LEGO movie is not until 2019.
that in mind we are very excited to have A big challenge, but also a great opportunity, signed an exclusive agreement with is how we maximise our potential in the Warner Bros. for LEGO Movie themed short break market.
We have seen a clear lands in all LEGOLAND parks from 2019. shift over recent years away from guests taking longer holidays, towards havingmore Q.
What are you and your team most frequent shorter breaks.
ourselves to be a global leader in themed There is plenty going on in 2018. accommodation and we continue topush LEGOLAND California will see the this using both our own and external IP.
launch of LEGO City: Deep Sea Adventure a real submarine that takes you on a hunt for treasure amongst all kinds of sea creatures, including stingrays and sharks.
The park will also see the opening of a 250 bedroom LEGO Castle themed hotel which will double the size of our unique accommodation there.
