Strategic report Operational review CYBGs long-established Retail and SME franchises have significant scale and strong market share in personal current accounts, business current accounts, mortgages and SME business lending in our core regions.
In 2017, we made significant operational progress with improvements in our customer experience taking effect.
This in turn is enabling us to deliver the mid-single digit loan growth we are targeting and which is prudently funded through our strong customer deposit franchise.
Above: The first B store in Birmingham opened in September a flagship Deposits funding property for CYBG in the heart of the Midlands.
We offer a wide range of current accounts, savings will become available for customers in the future accounts and term deposit products for personal including loans and mortgages.
At 30 September 2017, the Bs product offering and advanced functionality has Group had 13.9bn of current account balances, resulted in a market-leading customer experience 7.7bn of savings account balances and 6.0bn of and, at September 2017, B had a Net Promoter term deposit balances.
As a result, since its launch CYBG has a loyal personal current account PCA in May 2016, B has over 100,000 accounts and customer base that represents a stable source of deposit balances of c. 1bn.
Bs success to date, funding and sets us apart from most other combined with its low cost to serve and nationwide challenger banks.
We had approximately 1.8m PCA presence, means it remains a key element of our customers as at 30 September 2017, of which 37% customer and deposit strategy.
also held savings accounts, 14% held CYBG credit We made improvements to our PCA proposition cards and 6% held mortgages with us.
Last year we during the year, including a reduction in the time to identified key customer demographics in which we open a bank account from 45 minutes when opened are underweight and have targeted growth across within a branch and 12 days on phone, down to younger and more affluent customers.
We also introduced Android Pay, element of our strategy that supports our targeted in addition to Apple Pay that was introduced last year.
growth in these demographics is the launch of B our digital banking proposition, with current account, linked savings account, and credit card Bs product offering and advanced products that help customers manage their money functionality has resulted in a and plan their savings through the use of  customer experience defined savings pots.
As B develops, further features 22 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Business current accounts have shown healthy growth over the year, both in terms of volumes and Mortgages the number of customers.
This is partly due to our renewed investment and commitment to the SME market, which we believe is underserved by the We have a strong and growing mortgage franchise, larger incumbent banks, and the 25 months fee with the majority of customers sourced through free offer currently available to new customers a network of brokers that allows us to diversify risk or switchers.
Progress is currently being made to across the entire UK.
As at 30 September 2017, extend the B account for micro and small business we had 164,000 retail mortgage accounts, customers in 2018, so that businesses can manage diversified across multiple regions in the UK.
their money and forecast in the same way as The total mortgage book increased by 7.5% in the personal customers.
year to 23.5bn, compared with market growth of 2.9% over the same period.
We advanced 5.5bn of Term deposits and cash ISA savings products remain new mortgages in the year with 80% of this coming an important part of our customer offering and a through our broker network, while our proprietary key element in our funding strategy.
In line with our mortgage business delivered 20% to our retail and channel development strategy, a range of digital private banking customers.
The UK mortgage and omni-channel offers have been tested with market continues to be dominated by brokers and, customers.
Demand has been high for these offers while digital capability is emerging, this remains a and very positive feedback has been received from very small part of the market.
The journey customers customers on the process and proposition.
go through when choosing a mortgage with us is a Total term deposit and savings account balances key area of focus, with multiple enhancements made did reduce over the course of the year as CYBG to our service offering in 2017, most notably a 50% took advantage of relatively low cost funding from reduction in time from application to offer for all the TFS and used the opportunity to run off more customers and the delivery of a fully packaged defensive term deposit and savings balances.
application to offer in less than 10 days.
This However, these reductions were partially offset enhanced customer journey makes a real difference by an increase in B savings account balances.
to both customers and brokers, with customers having certainty quickly over our ability to lend to Overall customer deposit balances including current them.
We are committed to enhancing both accounts increased by 2.5% or 0.7bn in the year customer and broker journeys, which will position as part of a balanced approach to funding our us well as the market continues to evolve.
We continue to have a diverse wholesale funding We are continually looking to enhance our strategy which includes balances secured on our mortgage offering and 2017 saw further progress high-quality mortgage book and deposits with other in improving our customer proposition.
During the year we drew down 1.9bn from our mortgage offers are now valid for 180 days, up the BoEs TFS and completed our inaugural MREL from the previous 90 days.
We have also reduced issuance transaction which was 300m of senior the amount of documentation we request from debt and was well received by the market.
brokers as part of the application process without compromising our data capture, making it easier for brokers to do business with CYBG.
These incremental process improvements have enabled us to increase our share of broker business and reduce the proportion of consumers that drop out part way through the application process.
This has enabled us to capture market share in the mortgage market without compromising on pricing or weakening our underwriting standards.
Left: In the B app, customers can set up and name savings pots making it easier to put money aside regularly.
Other B smart tools, such as the sweep facility and budgets, have also been designed to help make saving simpler.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 Strategic report Operational review We also have a successful mortgage retention proposition and customers are now able to switch SMEs to a new deal up to three months before the end of a fixed rate term without incurring an early repayment charge.
We have also launched an online SMEs are the engine of the British economy and we broker switch portal that makes it easier for brokers believe CYBG has a critical role to play in providing to switch to a new deal for their customers.
banking services for start-ups, cultivating established businesses as they scale up and encouraging sector expansion and innovation.
At CYBG, we have a Incremental process improvements proven track record of being a regional economic have enabled us to increase our champion and in April we announced a 6bn lending share of broker business and reduce commitment, available to UK SMEs over three years to 2019.
We advanced over 2bn of new loans and the proportion of consumers that facilities in the first year and our SME business is a drop out part way through the key differentiator for us in the market.
We have a strong belief that we need to understand how SMEs are performing UK-wide, both now and The BTL market represented a smaller proportion of in the future, in order to support them in the best the growth in the mortgage portfolio in the year to way possible.
With this is mind, we launched our 30 September 2017, due to regulatory changes and SME Health Check Index, a quarterly report, in our continued focus on the owner occupier market.
collaboration with the Centre for Economics and The changes in the taxation regime, coupled with Business Research Cebr, in June, which analyses tightening underwriting standards, have slowed different statistics to evaluate the health of the business growth in the market as a whole.
Our BTL strategy and macroeconomic environment.
Despite being in remains unchanged and we continue to lend to this its infancy, the index has already been well received by segment within our clear and prudent risk appetite.
business and industry our business banking teams are relishing the opportunity to discuss the regional The average loan to value LTV of the mortgage results with current and potential customers, while book is 57.5% and the average LTVs of the owner analysts have used the report findings in their work.
occupied and BTL portfolios are 56.9% and 58.6% respectively.
The loss rate on the mortgage portfolio continues to be at historically low levels and the book is well diversified across the UK.
This strong position is partly due to the underwriting process, where the Group primarily uses automated credit decision tools to support its underwriting services, supplemented by a robust manual underwriting process.
Successful IRB accreditation should enable CYBG to be more competitive in other areas of the mortgage market, while maintaining a healthy risk position.
24 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information This year has seen excellent momentum in our SME We also provide relationship banking for our small business, with a strong pipeline and drawdowns up business customers delivered through 79 centrally 13% year on year.
In support of our lending pledge based relationship managers via telephone Business our core SME balances grew 6%, in line with Direct.
This channel will also next year be migrated our expectations.
to our iB digital platform enabling an integrated approach to banking.
We provide SME customers with a full range of products and services including a deposit portfolio, Given our history of supporting the economies of which consists of business current accounts, variable the north of England, we are very supportive of the rate savings accounts and fixed rate term deposits.
Governments Northern Powerhouse initiative and We also have a range of lending products and its aim to spread economic growth more evenly services for SMEs across a 7.3bn portfolio, which across the UK.
CYBG believes passionately that consists of term lending, overdrafts, revolving credit the Northern Powerhouse offers significant facilities, working capital, trade and treasury solutions.
opportunities for SMEs in the North of England We also offer business banking products and services and we believe that we are uniquely placed to help to larger SMEs and mid-corporate businesses them benefit from this opportunity.
where we have the sector expertise, experience Our non-core portfolio continued to run off as and relationships to do so competitively and have a planned, reducing by 30% in the year and is now range of propositions designed for specific industries.
0.5bn or less than 7% of the total portfolio.
We are proud that 57% of our business customers have been with the Bank for more than 10 years and retain a commitment to local relationship management for all businesses with turnover Personal above 2m.
SMEs are the engine of the British lending economy, and we believe CYBG has a critical role to play in providing The Group has taken a cautious approach to the unsecured lending market and has continued to banking services for start-ups, invest judiciously in our digital capabilities as part cultivating established businesses of our omni-channel approach.
During the year, as they scale up and encouraging our personal loans book increased by 2.7%, while sector expansion and innovation.
the credit card book reduced by 1.1% due to the competitive pricing environment and long duration balance-transfer periods from peers, which CYBG We are continuing to develop our product, service has chosen not to compete with.
We also introduced and sector propositions for key customer segments the B credit card in June of this year which has as we actively seek to grow our lending portfolio attractive features like an absence of charges for and support our SME customers.
The Fintech purchases made abroad as well as the ability to tag partnership we have launched will provide an and track spending on the innovative B app, and this innovative online lending facility for our small has been well received by our customers with over business customers who will benefit from faster 10,000 cards already active.
decision making and fulfilment of funds, through We remain comfortable with the asset quality of an easy to use online application.
The technology our unsecured lending book and will continue to will eventually provide a fully automated review offer personal unsecured lending to customers in and approval for the customer, with funding a manner reflecting our risk appetite and the provided on acceptance.
In addition, SME customers will begin to migrate onto iB for both mobile and web in 2018: this will enhance our service offering for small businesses by leveraging the capabilities of our iB platform already built and tested in other channels.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25 Strategic report Highlights of the year October November December January February March April May June July August September FINANCIAL INJECTION DOUBLES PRODUCTION AT SHETLAND MUSSELS At CYBG, we understand that SMEs are the engine room of the UKs economy with SMEs accounting for 99% of businesses in the private sector.
Its therefore vital that we are supporting businesses offering the right support and finance to ensure their success.
One example of this is our support of Shetland Mussels Ltd, which is set to double production thanks to our multimillion pound finance package.
The company already supplies over 900 tonnes of mussels to restaurants, wholesalers and retailers up and down the UK every year, but its expected that this will grow significantly by 2020.
A family business, Shetland Mussels is owned by father and sons Lollie, Richard and Michael Tait.
The company already provides jobs in Shetland and expects to increase their number of employees over the coming few years.
26 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report F Fiin nanc anciial al re res sul ult ts s Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information JUNE October November December January February March April May June July August September CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27
