OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS OPERATING REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW We are focused on delivering quality growth with the right brands in the right markets.
Our increased investment aligned to our Market Repeatable Model is driving market share gains while our Growth Brands continue to outperform strongly.
BRAND PERFORMANCES We achieved another strong performance with our Growth and Specialist Brands.
These are the most important assets in our portfolio and together they now account for 62.7 per cent of our tobacco net revenue, up 260 basis points on last year.
We have substantially increased our investment behind these brands, improving their growth momentum and supporting the success of our migration and stock keeping unit simplification programmes.
Total Group tobacco volumes were 265.2 billion stick equivalents 2016: 276.5 billion, with volumes down by 4.1 per cent outperforming industry volume declines of 4.4 per cent.
We have achieved a strong momentum in second half volumes, down 2.6 per cent against industry volumes down 4.5 per cent, as our investment behind the Market Repeatable Model gained traction in a tough trading environment.
Against this backdrop our Growth Brands increased volume by 5.5 per cent and market share by 80 basis points as we continue to migrate consumers from local, low priority brands.
Excluding the benefit of brand migrations, Growth Brands grew volumes by 1.1 per cent.
Our priority continues to be driving growth from our strongest brands supported by prioritised investment and portfolio simplification.
GROWTH BRANDS Full Year Result Change Constant 2017 2016 Actual Currency Market share % 8.5 7.7 80 bps Net revenue m 3,690 3,265 13.0% 1.2% Percentage of Group volumes % 60.2 54.7 550 bps Percentage of tobacco net revenue % 47.6 45.6 200 bps Our Growth Brands are Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, JPS, West, Fine, News, Winston, Bastos, Lambert & Butler and Parker & Simpson.
These are quality brands with broad consumer appeal that are generating an increasing amount of our volume and revenue.
Growth Brands outperformed the market in the period.
Net revenue grew 13.0 per cent on a reported basis, although additional targeted price investment coupled with a weaker pricing environment resulted in growth of 1.2 per cent at constant currency.
Growth Brand investment was also prioritised behind equity building campaigns, additional consumer activations and new formats such as queen size and crushball to meet changing consumer demands.
This investment supported a stronger second half with volumes up 7.6 per cent and net revenue up 5.5 per cent.
Growth Brands now account for 60.2 per cent of total Group tobacco volumes, an increase of 550 basis points, and 47.6 per cent of overall tobacco net revenue, an increase of 200 basis points.
Brand Chassis Highlights JPF JPS, Parker Volume and share growth in the chassis was driven by JPS and Parker & Simpson.
Players in the UK and Parker & & Simpson and Simpson in Russia continue to perform very strongly supported by the launch of new formats.
Investments in JPS Fine in Italy have increased share especially in soft pack variants.
The launch of the Blue Stream variant has added to our share in Germany where we have also launched a new advertising campaign, Big Idea.
West West, L&B, West has grown volumes and share driven by Saudi Arabia and Japan, and by the migration of Stolichnye in News and Bastos Ukraine.
L&B Blue crushball performed well with increasing market share in the UK.
News is making excellent progress in France with both volume and share growth and is now the number two brand in the market.
Winston Winston made further share gains supported by increased investment through our buydown programme coupled with a new pack design, digital marketing initiatives and an improved retailer presence, supported by our retailer programmes.
Davidoff Investments in brand equity and activation have supported further share growth in Greece.
Davidoff share is stabilising in the sharply declining premium segment in Saudi Arabia, supported by increased distribution.
The launch of Davidoff Ice, a menthol Crushball variant, has boosted sales in our duty free business.
Share declined in Taiwan due to pressure on the premium segment.
Gauloises Increased investment in Germany behind the successful Vive le Moment campaign supported the brand in the second half of the year, alongside the launch of Gauloises LAutre.
We also gained share in Morocco.
Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 www.
com 15 OPERATING REVIEW continued SPECIALIST BRANDS Full Year Result Change Constant 2017 2016 Actual Currency Net revenue m 1,172 1,042 12.5% 2.2% Percentage of tobacco net revenue % 15.1 14.5 60 bps Specialist Brands appeal to specific consumer groups and include: blu e-vapour, Gitanes, Kool cigarettes, Golden Virginia, Drum, Route 66 fine cut tobacco, Cohiba, Montecristo, Romeo Y Julieta premium cigars, Backwoods cigars, Skruf snus and Rizla papers.
Our Specialist Brand Style was migrated to Jad as part of our new Chinese joint venture.
Jad has replaced Style as a Specialist Brand and we are focused on building its international scale outside of China.
We continued to make good progress with these brands with revenue growth in Backwoods, Skruf in Scandinavia, Premium Cigars and Rizla papers.
Backwoods has delivered strong revenue and share growth as we focus on the growing mass market cigar market in the USA.
Our iconic cigar brands, Cohiba, Montecristo and Romeo Y Julieta, continue to deliver strong growth and these three brands now represent more than half of our Premium Cigar revenues.
We have invested in our e-vapour brand blu to create an exciting pipeline of new product formats which are scheduled for launch in the new financial year in new and existing markets.
Net revenue grew 2.2 per cent and Specialist Brands now represent a greater proportion of the business at 15.1 per cent of net revenue, up 60 basis points on last year.
PORTFOLIO BRANDS The rest of the portfolio is comprised of Portfolio Brands.
Some of these are strong local brands that support our volume and revenue development, while others are delisted or migrated into Growth Brands as part of our portfolio simplification initiatives to improve the quality of growth and drive efficiencies.
Portfolio Brand volumes fell 18.0 per cent with over a third of this decline driven by further migrations to Growth Brands and the rest by delistings and other volume declines.
Net revenue declined by 8.6 per cent at constant currencies, with price mix gains of 9.3 per cent, as we further optimised the profitability of these brands.
MARKET PERFORMANCES We divide our footprint into Growth Markets, the USA and Returns Markets.
We manage these markets based on their strategic roles, with Growth Markets and the USA Market prioritising long-term share and profit growth.
In Returns Markets the focus is on sustainable profit delivery and effective management of our strong share positions.
GROWTH MARKETS Full Year Result Change Constant 2017 2016 Actual Currency Net revenue m 1,768 1,568 12.8% -0.2% Adjusted operating profit m 411 443 -7.2% -17.2% Growth Brand % of net revenue % 49.1 47.2 190 bps Growth Brand volume bn SE 49.9 46.0 8.5% Growth Brand market share % 4.3 3.7 60 bps Targeted investment in Growth Brands aligned with the implementation of our Market Repeatable Model has enabled us to deliver improved share trends in our priority Growth Markets.
We have strengthened our quality of growth through further migrations and more focused investment in Growth Brands.
Growth Brand volumes grew 8.5 per cent and we increased revenues as a proportion of our total by 190 basis points.
Growth Brand share gained 60 basis points.
Net revenue grew strongly at 12.8 per cent at actual rates, due to the benefit of currency translation.
At constant currency, net revenue was marginally lower by 0.2 per cent as a result of a tough industry environment.
Our focus on Growth Brands, supported by additional investment, has driven improved share performances in Russia, Saudi Arabia, Italy and Japan.
Adjusted operating profit fell 17.2 per cent at constant currency, materially driven by the increased investment as well as a difficult trading environment in Russia.
In January, we announced a new joint venture with a subsidiary of China Tobacco which is developing growth opportunities in China and international markets.
The partnership will promote Davidoff and West in China and Horizon and Jad in other markets outside China.
The joint venture has made an excellent start, creating an exciting growth opportunity in the worlds largest tobacco market.
16 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 16 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Country Performance Russia We grew market share in a challenging trading environment with strong growth in Parker & Simpson especially in the queen size format supported by increased investment in distribution.
This was partly offset by a decline in Maxim share due to increased competition in the low price segment.
Saudi Arabia We delivered further share growth driven by West, although the introduction of a new selective tax, effectively doubling retail sale prices, is affecting the premium segment and therefore Davidoffs market share.
Italy We increased our share in Italy, achieving a record high, driven by a continued strong performance from JPS supported by Davidoff.
Greece We delivered record share growth in Davidoff, maintaining the brands growth momentum, while we also grew Golden Virginias share in fine cut tobacco.
Sweden and Norway We delivered increased revenue in Sweden and Norway.
We maintained our Norwegian snus share, while delivering further share gains in Sweden.
Japan Our investment in expanding our presence in the value segment with West is continuing to deliver volume and share growth.
Taiwan We achieved strong share growth in Parker & Simpson although this was offset by share declines in Davidoff, reflecting pressure on the premium segment.
USA MARKET Full Year Result Change Constant 2017 2016 Actual Currency Net revenue m 1,665 1,477 12.7% 0.3% Adjusted operating profit m 1,013 823 23.1% 10.1% Asset Brand % of net revenue % 44.5 41.8 270 bps Asset Brand volume bn SE 11.1 10.9 1.8% Growth Brand market share % 2.5 2.3 20 bps Our strategy in the USA is to grow our strongest brand equities, including Winston and Kool in cigarettes and Backwoods in mass market cigars.
We grew net revenue 0.3% reflecting increased pricing, despite additional investment in our buydown programmes.
Net revenue was much stronger in the second half reflecting the timing of Master Settlement Agreement adjustments and the lapping of the start of buydowns in the prior period.
The percentage of tobacco net revenue generated by Asset Brands increased to 44.5 per cent.
Winston and Kool benefited from our successful US retail programme which now encompasses 172,000 stores nationwide, as well as a new pack design and direct mail and digital marketing initiatives.
We continued to focus investment behind Winston, through buydowns across more territories.
We also invested in a new Bold Choice campaign for the brand, as well as the relaunch of a Gold Select blend.
These initiatives supported a 20 basis point gain in Winston share.
Kool also gained 10 basis points in the fast growing menthol segment.
Overall share declined 30 basis points, as these Winston and Kool gains were offset by declines in our defocused Portfolio Brands.
We are pleased with another strong performance from our mass market cigar business, which includes the Backwoods, Dutch Masters and Phillies brands.
Our investment behind new customer activation and engagement programmes, as well as the benefits from restructuring our route to market last year, has delivered excellent results, including further share gains.
Adjusted operating profit grew 10.1 per cent at constant currency, despite a significant net increase in brand and market-focused investment, which has been more than offset by further efficiencies and the benefit of a one-off gain of 18m arising from changes to post retirement benefits.
Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 www.
com 17 OPERATING REVIEW continued RETURNS MARKETS Full Year Result Change Constant 2017 2016 Actual Currency Net revenue m 4.324 4,122 4.9% -4.5% Net revenue per 000 SE 25.88 23.51 10.1% 0.2% Adjusted operating profit m 2,171 2,094 3.7% -4.2% Growth Brand % of net revenue % 58.0 54.6 340 bps Growth Brand market share % 16.7 15.5 120 bps In our Returns Markets, we increased investment behind our Growth Brands and in our priority markets aligned with the implementation of our Market Repeatable Model.
As a result, we achieved share gains in many of these priority markets despite a more challenging trading environment.
We grew share in the UK, Australia, Germany and Poland, and although share was down in France and Spain, we have achieved better share trajectories in blond tobacco in both markets.
These strong performances were offset by some share pressure in other non-priority investment markets such as Ukraine and Belgium.
Net revenue was down at constant currency reflecting the higher investment, a tougher trading environment and the impact of EUTPD II regulations on volume in some European markets.
Positive currency translation supported gains at actual exchange rates.
Our investment activities also supported a stronger second half momentum in volumes, revenue and profit.
We grew net revenue per thousand stick equivalents by 0.2 per cent and further improved the quality of our portfolio with Growth Brands now generating 58.0 per cent of tobacco net revenue, an increase of 340 basis points.
Growth Brand volumes increased 4.5 per cent while industry volumes declined 3.0 per cent.
Growth Brand share increased 120 basis points, supported by migrations and strong organic brand performances.
Adjusted operating profit was down 4.2 per cent at constant currency, reflecting the increased investment and the conclusion of the distribution contract for Philip Morris International in the UK and Morocco.
Second half operating profit improved with the benefit of additional cost initiatives, including a pension scheme restructuring, which has helped mitigate a tough trading environment and protect our investment initiatives.
RETURNS MARKETS NORTH Full Year Result Change Constant 2017 2016 Actual Currency Net revenue m 2,755 2,645 4.2% -4.2% Net revenue per 000 SE 30.69 28.01 9.6% 0.7% Adjusted operating profit m 1,485 1,439 3.2% -3.3% Growth Brand % of net revenue % 60.2 57.2 300 bps Growth Brand market share % 16.6 15.0 160 bps Country Performance UK Our consistent pricing strategy together with investment in activation and distribution supported share growth.
Our fine cut share continues to grow with strong performances from Gold Leaf and Players.
Cigarette share increased due to the success of Players.
Germany We grew share supported by our investment behind distribution, brand equity building and activations.
Fairwind and West grew in fine cut tobacco while JPS supported growth in cigarette share.
Benelux We grew share in the Netherlands with JPS and Gauloises through the launch of larger formats supported by consumer activation.
Australia We delivered another year of strong growth in share, revenue and operating profit supported by our focus on JPS.
Ukraine Increased prices have supported revenue and profit growth despite the market size deterioration.
West has grown share following the migration of Stolichnye and with the successful launch of larger formats.
Poland We increased our market share in Poland led by Parker & Simpson fine cut tobacco performance, supported by sustained portfolio optimisation and wider distribution.
18 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS RETURNS MARKETS SOUTH Full Year Result Change Constant 2017 2016 Actual Currency Net revenue m 1,569 1,477 6.2% -5.1% Net revenue per 000 SE 20.29 18.27 11.1% -0.7% Adjusted operating profit m 686 655 4.7% -6.0% Growth Brand % of net revenue % 54.2 50.0 420 bps Growth Brand market share % 16.9 16.2 70 bps Country Performance Spain Increased investment in Fortuna and West has supported an improving share trajectory in blond cigarettes in recent months, although overall year-on-year share is down due to fine cut tobacco and dark tobacco declines.
France We delivered a strong performance in our News brand, benefiting from investment in trade programmes, while the environment remains challenging due to a number of tax and regulatory changes.
Our blond tobacco portfolio held share in the year.
Algeria Disruption to local third party production affected net revenue and operating profit.
Our share declined following a strong performance last year due to increased competitive pressure.
Morocco We achieved an improved share trajectory supported by our recently launched Maghreb brand and a continued good performance from Marquise.
Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 www.
