About Grocery 14 Grocery comprises consumer-facing businesses that manufacture and market a variety of well-known brands both nationally and internationally.
Twinings Ovaltine has the broadest geographical reach, selling premium teas and malted beverages in more than 100 countries.
AB World Foods focuses on the creation and development of world flavours and its Pataks and Blue Dragon branded products are soldinternationally.
Westmill Foods specialises in highquality ethnic foods including rice, spices, sauces, oils, flour and noodles sold under brands such as Rajah, Lucky Boat andElephant.
Jordans, Dorset and Ryvita operate in the better-for-you cereal and savoury biscuits categories with increasing international presence.
Jordans has a heritage of using traditional methods inthe production of its wholegrain cereals and cereal bars.
Dorsets award-winning muesli and granolas arerenowned for thequality of their naturalingredients.
Ryvita has a strong reputation in healthy snacking and is the UK category leader in crispbreads.
Allied Bakeries produces a range of bakery products under the Kingsmill, Sunblest, Allinson and Burgen brands, with flour and semolina produced bysister company, Allied Mills.
Speedibake specialises in own-label baked goods for retail and foodservice customers.
Silver Spoon and Billingtons are our two retail sugar brands in the UK, complemented by a range of dessert toppings and syrups under theAskeys and Crusha brands.
HIGH5 and Reflex Nutrition are recently acquired brands in the sports nutrition sector.
In Australia, Tip Top is one of the countrys most recognised brands, with an extensive range of bread and baked goods and George Weston Foods alsomanufactures a variety of bacon, ham and meat products including the Don and KR Castlemaine brands.
ACHFoods includes within its range ofbranded products, Mazola, the leading corn oil in the US, and Capullo, apremium canola oil in Mexico.
17 A CUT ABOVE THE REST 19 STAYING ONE STEP AHEAD 20 3 STEPS TO FLAVOUR PERFECTION 21 BEAUTIFUL BLENDS Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 R U O G N I N O I P M A H C GROCERY Strategic report operating review 15 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 G R O C E R Y R U O B G R N I A N O I N P D M S A H C 16 GROCERY EVERYDAY FOOD PRODUCTS ENJOYED ALL OVER THEWORLD Jordans and Dorset Cereals continued Grocery revenue and adjusted CONTINUING BUSINESSES their international expansion with the operating profit from continuing brands now being sold in 75 countries, Revenue businesses, which exclude the results and overseas sales of Jordans now of the US herbs and spices business greater than those in the UK.
Country sold during the year, were both ahead Crisp and the launch of Frusli bars drove of last year at actual exchange rates.
3,381m strong sales growth in France and further Revenue was level with last year at success was achieved in Australia where constant currency although profit 2016: 3,097m the brands lead the growing granola was lower.
Twinings Ovaltine had Actual fx: 9% market.
Trading conditions in the UK another good year with excellent Constant fx: level were more challenging for Ryvita with sales and profit growth.
Profits and a larger crispbread market share being margins improved at ACH in the taken by own-label driven by the growth US and at George Weston Foods of the European retail discounters.
However, a very Adjusted operating profit competitive UK bread market and Westmill Foods recently announced inflationary cost pressures led to a further expansion of noodle production lower revenue and margin at capacity at its Manchester factory, 303m Allied Bakeries.
responding to increased demand, and 2016: 294m The Twinings brand performed well in a continuing focus on overhead reduction its major markets.
It gained further value led to a rationalisation of its distribution Actual fx: 3% market share in Australia and the US, operations.
Pataks and Blue Dragon are Constant fx: -6% and good volume growth was achieved the leaders in their respective categories in black tea in the UK although infusions in the UK and both performed well and green tea came under some this year.
Blue Dragon underwent a Adjusted operating profit margin competitive pressure.
Significant significant re-branding and both achieved investment in tea packaging technology further growth in international markets.
in the UK was completed during the We acquired two small sports year driving production efficiencies and 9.0% nutrition brands during the year: enabling the relaunch of infusions with HIGH5, a hydration and recovery brand an improved format.
Last years return 2016: 9.5% with leading positions in the UK and to growth for Ovaltine in Thailand, which Scandinavia: and Reflex Nutrition, is its largest market, was sustained, a premium, protein-based, strength driven by a strong increase in ready-toReturn on average capital employed and recovery brand.
Further progress was made has grown strongly in recent years in Switzerland with particular success for reflecting healthier, more active, Ovomaltine brand extensions, and the consumer lifestyles.
The two brands 24.7% strong sales growth of Crunchy Cream have annual sales of some 20m and over the last few years led to capital production will be rationalised into one 2016: 24.2% investment enabling production to be site, in Brighton, by the end of this brought in-house.
At Allied Bakeries, the Kingsmill relaunch On 12 October 2017 we completed the earlier this year was well received by acquisition of Acetum S. p. A. the leading consumers.
However, with low retail Italian producer of Balsamic Vinegar prices, a resurgence of lower margin of Modena for 317m including debt own-label products as retailers sought assumed.
These vinegars have been to differentiate their bakery offering, and granted European Protected Geographical inflationary cost pressures all combined Indication status due to the unique nature to result in a significant margin decline.
of their production, their provenance and high quality.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Creating new opportunities for local communities FIND OUT MORE AT WWW.
CO. UK RESPONSIBILITY IN AUSTRALIA DON CREATED NEW OPPORTUNITIES FOR LOCAL COMMUNITIES BY OFFERING STABLE EMPLOYMENT The Karen are an ethnic group originating primarily from Myanmar.
Tens of thousands 1,000 have become refugees due to persecution in their native country.
Karen refugees Some 11,000 Karen refugees have made their way to Australia with resettled in 1,000 resettling and building a new community in the regional town of Castlemaine area Bendigo, 35 kilometres from the Don meat factory at Castlemaine, Victoria.
To date Don has recruited 40 Karen Don has been working to reduce its people with immediate plans for dependence on casual labour by a further 20, and more thereafter.
creating more permanent positions In order to facilitate their transition, at the Castlemaine site where induction materials have been ongoing skills can be developed translated into the Karen language through a more reliable and with translators on hand during permanent workforce.
This has included proactively This has been a rewarding experience exploring, with local communities for Don, fulfilling its need for more and government bodies, how best permanent local labour while to source people for these positions.
continuing to invest in and support As part of a trial with the local state the local community.
government recruitment agency, a small number of Karen people were included as part of an initial recruitment intake.
Managers 40 praised their work ethic and commitment to the organisation Karen people and the Karen people had access employed after to permanent work to assist them with their assimilation into the local successful trial community.
S Str tra at te eg gi ic c r re ep po or rt o t perating review 17 ABOVE A CUT THE REST nationally.
Over five days, 700 Deli Acetum was founded by Cesare The Don smallgoods business managers were introduced to The Mazzetti and Marco Bombarda, both in Australia has consistently Ham Revolution, with more remote of whom will remain in the business, stores utilising an e-learning module and its brands include Mazzetti, demonstrated its ability to to ensure they were fully informed.
the leading brand in Germany and drive increased consumption A Ham Hotline was created to Australia, as well as Acetum and Fini.
respond to any questions and the Its products are sold in more than 60 and category profitability for its launch was supported by a strong countries and, in the year ended 31 customers through the strength in-store merchandising programme December 2016, generated net sales including badges and hats for the of 102m.
This business will benefit of the Don brand, its superior Deli team, posters and a variety from the groups existing capability in category management skills of display features.
selling and marketing speciality foods and a strong engagement with internationally and we have ambitious This project saw Don working closely plans to grow.
customers across all functions with several teams within the Coles We completed the sale of ACHs business, including Merchandising, and levels.
herbs and spices business in the US Replenishment and Supply, to ensure on 21 November 2016 for a gross the success of this groundbreaking A twin-pronged approach of driving cash consideration of 294m.
Over five months, weekly increased purchase of everyday Operating profit at ACHs continuing meetings were held to ensure items through a strong pre-packaged operations were well ahead of last alignment around all aspects of what offering, coupled with a premium year driven by higher revenue and proved to be an excellent launch.
range to be sold at in-store delicatessen lower overheads.
Mazola increased Great work was done to reduce counters have resulted in Don growing its market share, with continued packaging and raw material sourcing sales strongly over the last three years.
support from its successful television timelines to meet launch deadlines During the last year the business advertising, and consumer yeast, corn free-range ham was even available has partnered with Coles, one syrup and corn starch all performed in the Deli three weeks earlier than of Australias leading supermarkets, well both in retail and foodservice.
In the first three months to deliver a major change in Deli ham.
some 212,000 cartons were ordered Margins improved again this year at In what has been nicknamed with a 99% customer service level.
George Weston Foods in Australia The Ham Revolution a new range Latest store sales data indicates a where cost management delivered of clearly differentiated hams was significant level of category growth significant operational efficiencies and introduced with a good, better, best and Coles voice of the consumer overhead reduction.
All nine hams in the range insights are very positive.
strong listings of Thins, a product new have their own positioning and reason to the Australian market, which was The level of engagement between for being, providing consumers with launched during the year.
The Don Don and Coles around The Ham more choice, and, with reinvigorated KRC meat business continued to Revolution was nothing short of merchandising, the Don product grow volumes and worked closely Hamazing and set a new benchmark offering within Coles has been with key customers to develop the for excellence.
Coles were so brought to life.
category as exemplified by the pleased with the project that it was To make sure the excitement of this introduction of a much improved deli nominated for three trophies at their new initiative was followed through ham range for Coles Supermarkets.
annual Supplier Awards, and was in-store, 58 two-hour engagement successful in the Supply Chain sessions were held in 25 locations Excellence category.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 D A E H 18 GROCERY Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A P E T S E N O G N I Y A T S Strategic report operating review 19 AB World Foods Blue Dragon brand is the clear leader in the UK Ambient Oriental category, having established a strong position over 40 years since its launch in 1977.
Over the years the product range has developed to meet consumers changing expectations and today the line-up comprises a wide range of products including Chinese, Thai and Japanese cuisines.
Whereas, in the early days, the main comparison might have been with the local Chinese takeaway, today increasing numbers of people are travelling to Asia and bringing back their experiences with a desire to recreate the dishes they have discovered and enjoyed.
This was the challenge presented to the Blue Dragon marketing team the recipes were exciting and vibrant but this wasnt matched by the packaging which was more reminiscent of traditional China.
Several elements of the packaging had also been copied by others and it no longer stood out on shelf.
A totally new identity for the Blue Dragon brand was developed which captures the excitement of todays Asian cuisines, but in a way that is unmistakably Blue Dragon.
This new design, which was introduced from early 2017, is now unmissable on the shelves of supermarkets and convenience stores across the UK, and has been greeted by a very positive consumer response.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
