Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 J O HN CR A NE MI S S IO N - CRI T IC A L E N G INE E RE D S OLU T I ON S F OR G L OB A L E NE R G Y A ND P R O CE S S IND U S T R IE S CUSTOMERS PRINCIPAL OPERATING REVENUE BY SECTOR We serve process industries REGIONS including oil and gas, We have operations in Oil and gas c. 55% chemical, power generation, more than 50 countries, Non-oil and gas c. 45% and pulp and paper, as well including around 200 sales as pump and compressor and service centres, and OEMs.
Our customers include manufacture in 14 countries.
Chevron, International Paper, ExxonMobil, Shell, BASF, Sulzer, GE, and Siemens.
COMPETITORS SUPPLIERS REVENUE PERFORMANCE M Our main competitors We align purchasing across 885M are Flowserve and Eagle our global supply chain to Burgmann seals, Kingsbury leverage regional suppliers.
2017 885 2016 830 and Waukesha engineered Direct sourcing includes 2015 905 bearings, Danaher and metals, ceramics, and Hydac filtration, and advanced materials and parts.
32 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 although we have seen improving market John Crane provides mission-critical DID YOU KNOW... sentiment and expect a gradual recovery solutions for pumps, compressors, Our Metastream couplings help over the next few years.
In particular, and other rotating equipment across rotating equipment run smoothly customers are investing in growing areas and have been used by the British process industries.
such as liquified natural gas and pipelines, Navy for nearly 60 years and we have recently seen increased aftermarket activity in the form of demand Markets and trends for ongoing maintenance and upgrades.
We combine technology leadership with REVENUE IN 2017 1 proven field experience, helping to optimise DOWN 4% We believe megatrends such as the global customers manufacturing operations.
demand for energy, and more stringent environmental and safety requirements, Our comprehensive product portfolio will continue to generate demand for 885M includes mechanical seals, seal our products over the longer term.
support systems, engineered bearings, power transmission couplings and We also have a significant and growing specialised filtration systems.
These presence in other process industries engineered solutions drive reliability around 45% of revenue, including improvements in customer operations.
HEADLINE OPERATING PROFIT chemical, power generation, water and 1 DOWN 4% wastewater, and pulp and paper.
We expect Our large installed base built over the last these verticals will continue to grow in century across several vertical markets the near term, helped by building demand drives significant aftermarket demand.
Although 204M have one of largest global sales and service global industrial production forecasts networks in the mechanical seal industry, remain cautious due to an uncertain ensuring we are close to customers and macro-environment, drivers such as provide rapid service.
These centres improved plant productivity, workforce provide a range of services including repair safety and equipment reliability will and refurbishment, root cause analysis, STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT continue to create growth opportunities and alignment and condition monitoring over the medium to long term.
to improve equipment performance and reduce operational downtime.
Around 64% of our sales stem from the 190M aftermarket servicing and support of Our primary vertical market oil and gas existing installed equipment, which has has experienced the most severe market proven resilient.
We continue to expand downturn in the past 30 years.
Major our footprint through opening new service oil and gas producers remain cautious centres in selected higher-growth markets.
around capital expenditures in the face HEADLINE OPERATING MARGIN of low and volatile commodity prices, 23.0% GROWTH DRIVERS COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS Need for operational A market leader in mechanical improvements in non-oil and seals gas process industries Strong proprietary technology Pent-up demand for and expertise in applied maintenance and upgrades in engineering oil and gas and petrochemical Market-leading aftermarket Expansion in high growth service offering, with around markets two-thirds of sales in Disruptive innovations including aftermarket materials science One of the largest global service advancements and digital networks in the mechanical seal transformation of industry industry, with c. 200 sales and service centres 33 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 J O H N C R A N E C O N T I N U E D DID YOU KNOW... Every year our upstream pumper seals for the chemical, oil, paper and water treatment industries help conserve up to 1.3 billion litres of water in the US alone W E HAV E A L E AD IN G A F T E R MAR K E T INVESTMENT IN NEW PRODUCT S E R V I C E O F F E R IN G A ND O NE O F D E V EL O P M EN T T HE L A R G E S T G L O B A L S E R V I C E UP 17% NE T W O R K S IN T HE MEC H A NI C A L S E A L IND U S T R Y 10M OUR STRATEGY Strategy Progress in FY2017 Priorities for FY2018 Our strategy is to reinforce our global Investment in digital transformation Continue expansion in selected process leadership in technologies and services technology for John Crane Sense, our industries, leveraging sales, marketing for rotating equipment with a competitively predictive diagnostics platform, with and product development differentiated offering that will deliver around 30 field trials currently in Develop new products and expand more above-market long-term growth in the operation into innovative digital technologies most attractive process industries.
We Product development for non-oil and Maximise aftermarket performance and will maintain differentiation by investing gas markets including launch of Single expand our service offering in product development, broadening Use Seal Build out selected high-growth markets our aftermarket value proposition, Successful divestment of Artificial Enhance productivity and cost delivering operational excellence with Lift business competitiveness throughout the supply a particular focus on safety and quality, Continuous improvement and lean chain and accelerating growth through boltmanufacturing initiatives reducing waste on acquisitions.
We will also continue Integration of Asset Management to diversify into non-oil and gas business into Performance Plus segments and higher-growth regions.
aftermarket offering FY2017 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2017 2016 Reported Underlying m m growth growth Revenue 885 830 7% 4 % Headline operating profit 204 181 12% 4 % Headline operating margin 23.0% 21.9% 110bps Statutory operating profit 190 151 26% Return on capital employed 22.9% 20.3% 260bps 34 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Performance water companies and power plants led to Research and development Growth in John Cranes non-oil and gas an increased aftermarket order book.
Research and development expenditure and aftermarket revenue was offset by increased by 17% to 10m resulting in declines in its oil and gas activities that Revenue from higher-growth regions several new product launches, including: were impacted by the difficult conditions represented 24% of sales, broadly throughout global energy markets.
On an in line with the prior year on an the introduction of a range of high 1 1 underlying basis total revenue fell 4%.
underlying basis, despite lower activity performance aftermarket replacement Reported revenue increased 7%, with in certain parts of Latin America.
filter elements: favourable foreign exchange translation an innovative new pipeline seal benefits partially offset by the impact of the Headline operating profit was down 4% engineered to withstand the harsh 1 divestment of the Artificial Lift business on an underlying basis, as lower sales abrasive and clogging fluid properties that refocused John Crane onto its core end and strategic investments in OE projects of crude oil: and markets and higher-margin businesses.
were only partially offset by operational two new coupling designs that enhance efficiencies.
Headline operating profit the protection of critical rotating John Crane continued its expansion into margin increased by 110 basis points to equipment assets.
non-oil and gas industries, which now 23.0% benefiting from the disposal of represent c. 45% of total revenue, with Artificial Lift and continued operational Active areas of research include: the use 1 sales up 2%, on an underlying basis.
The difference between of nano-materials to enhance seal face This was offset by reduced oil and gas statutory and headline operating profit performance, and investment in our dry 1 underlying sales, down 7% reflecting primarily reflects 7m restructuring and gas seal development facilities enabling the challenging market conditions.
These 9m litigation costs net of the 4m gain ultra-high pressure gas seal testing market conditions also impacted total on the sale of the Artificial Lift business.
We continue to further develop 1 Original Equipment OE underlying sales Sense, our predictive diagnostics platform, that fell 11% during the year.
We remain Return on capital increased 260 basis with the installed base of around 30 field focused on increased investment in OE points to 22.9%, principally due to trial units, which has grown from five projects and expanding the installed base reduced assets following the disposal units in 2016, demonstrating excellent with multiple new project agreements of Artificial Lift.
performance results and a fast growing secured during the year, particularly in the customer demand for additional units.
John Cranes large installed The divestiture of the Artificial Lift base and market-leading service offering business in November 2016 significantly 1 Underlying excludes the effects of foreign exchange ensured it is well positioned to satisfy the reduced John Cranes exposure to the translation and acquisitions but includes divested pent-up aftermarket requirements for commoditised aspects of upstream oil and business for the period they were owned in the reported financial year and adjusts the prior financial year repairs, maintenance and upgrades, driving gas and was margin accretive.
Prior to comparator as if the divested business were owned for 1 1% growth in underlying aftermarket the sale in November, Artificial Lift sales the same period in that financial year to aid comparability revenue.
Aftermarket represented 64% of were 12m, with an operating loss of 2m, total revenue during the year 2016: 59%.
The business number of significant contract wins across performance of Artificial Lift up to the date oil and gas customers, as well as smaller of divestiture is included within the financial retrofit and upgrades with municipal summary and results presented above.
DRIVING DIVERSIFICATION Leveraging our century of engineering expertise in mission-critical components and extensive global service footprint, FY2017 has seen John Crane successfully expand our presence in non-oil and gas markets around the world.
Through focused account management and partnerships with OEMs, we are helping customers across process industries including chemical, power generation, water and wastewater, and pulp and paper, among others, to improve reliability, maximise uptime and reduce operating costs.
Non-oil and gas now accounts for c. 45% of revenue with a strong aftermarket component and further expansion is a core priority for FY2018.
35 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 SMITHS MEDICA L HIGH-QUA LIT Y, COS T-EFFECTI V E MEDICA L fide V ICE S A ND CONSUM A BLE S TH AT A RE V ITA L TO PATIENT CA RE GLOBA LLY CUSTOMERS PRINCIPAL OPERATING REVENUE BY SECTOR Three-quarters of our REGIONS revenue is derived from We sell our products in Infusion Systems 32% hospitals, while the over 120 countries with Vascular Access 33% remainder comes from operations in over 30, with Vital Care and surgery centres, clinics, manufacturing in North Specialty home care providers and America, Europe and Asia.
Products 35% products sold to other OEMs.
COMPETITORS SUPPLIERS REVENUE PERFORMANCE M Our competitors range from Assured supply of quality 951M large multi-national medical products is critical in the device manufacturers industry.
We work with 2017 951 2016 874 such as Medtronic, Becton our supply chain to reduce 2015 836 Dickinson, Baxter and costs, improve delivery B. Braun, through to small, performance, and ensure single-product companies.
high quality standards and continuity of supply.
36 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 syringe pump Medfusion and Graseby Smiths Medicals portfolio DID YOU KNOW... market.
The rise in chronic conditions, incorporates established brands and We pioneered safety devices and the continued advancement of digital strong positions in select segments of including the first safety peripheral connectivity between infusion devices, IV catheter and port for delivering the Infusion Systems, Vascular remote monitoring systems and hospital chemotherapy.
Access and Vital Care markets.
information systems, indicate growth in this area over the longer term.
A combination of capital equipment REVENUE IN 2017 Our Vascular Access products protect 1 and consumables, as well as growing DOWN 3% healthcare workers and patients from software and service offerings, provides the risk of infection.
Our portfolio covers diversity within our portfolio, and a range of functions, including drawing continuous access to customers.
blood, infusing fluids via catheters, 951M injecting vaccinations Jelco and Portex, Markets and trends delivering chemotherapeutic agents The medical device industry remains very Deltec and monitoring blood pressure attractive.
The global market we serve for critically ill patients Medex.
The is estimated to be 6bn and growing Vascular Access market is expected to HEADLINE OPERATING PROFIT at about 3% annually, with long-term grow due to safety legislation producing 1 UP 8% trends such as a growing, ageing global initiatives for the use of safety-engineered population, increasing incidence of syringes to protect healthcare workers chronic diseases, a growing middle-class from needlestick injuries and the drive in developing countries, and increased to reduce hospital-acquired infections, a 209M access to healthcare offsetting budget growth were well positioned to serve.
constraints in developed markets, pricing pressure, provider consolidation and Our Vital Care products help to manage growing regulatory requirements.
patient airways before, during and after surgery, alleviating breathing difficulties STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT Our Infusion Systems products deliver Portex, improving bronchial hygiene medication for treating indications such as Acapella and helping maintain body acute and chronic pain, cancer, pulmonary temperature Level 1 and Equator.
Drivers hypertension and Parkinsons disease, in include the expansion of enhanced recovery 286M hospital and home settings.
We are one of after surgery and the prevalence of chronic the market leaders in ambulatory infusion obstructive pulmonary disease COPD.
CADD and have strong positions in the HEADLINE OPERATING MARGIN 22.0% GROWTH DRIVERS COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS Ageing populations with Category leadership in our increasing life expectancy and chosen markets quality of life expectations Highly recognised and Growing incidence of chronic respected brands diseases Category breadth and depth, Increasing need for including capital, consumable interoperable and connected and software products systems Reputation for quality and safety Growth of alternate site and Extensive global sales network home-based medical care Rising healthcare spend in developing markets, offsetting budget constraints in developed markets 37 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 S MI T H S ME D I C A L C O N T I N U E D DID YOU KNOW... Our tracheostomy tubes help patients as small as a premature baby weighing 1 kg to a rhinoceros weighing 2,000 kg OUR GLOBA L M A RK E T IS E S TIM ATED INVESTMENT IN NEW PRODUCT AT A ROUND 6BN A ND GROW ING AT D E V EL O P M EN T ABOU T 3% ANNUALLY UP 16% 61M OUR STRATEGY Strategy Progress in FY2017 Priorities for FY2018 Our objective is to achieve category Divested the Wallace product line to Launch differentiated new products in leadership in the infusion systems sharpen portfolio focus our priority categories segment and in selected vascular Expanded presence in higher-growth Focus on building category leadership access and vital care segments.
We will regions Enter higher-growth, adjacent categories build on our reputation for high-quality, Increased digital capabilities and Advance sales with alternate sites and innovative solutions, creating a portfolio initiatives homecare providers of leading products and services that Invested in differentiated technology Increase penetration in higher-growth drive sustained competitiveness and development regions above-market growth in our chosen Consider inorganic opportunities to build segments.
We will achieve this primarily category scale and competitiveness through a pipeline of innovative organic developments, including investment in product development, manufacturing and supply chain optimisation, and efficiency gains in marketing and distribution models.
We will also continue to drive progress in higher-growth regions and new channels to market outside the hospital.
We will continue to review opportunities to accelerate growth through acquisitions.
FY2017 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2017 2016 Reported Underlying 1 m m growth growth Revenue 951 874 9% 3 % Headline operating profit 209 187 12% 8% Headline operating margin 22.0% 21.4% 60bps Statutory operating profit 286 166 72% Return on capital employed 16.7% 15.7% 100bps 38 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Performance Sales into higher-growth regions decreased Research and development 1 During the year Smiths Medical made 12% on an underlying basis.
This decrease During the year Smiths Medical progress on the ongoing repositioning was driven by a one-off regulatory situation increased investment in research and of its portfolio, and increased targeted in China which has now been resolved.
development to support future growth, investment in its key product categories with the development of innovative, to address the historic underperformance Headline operating profit grew 8% on commercially focused products across 1 in its product portfolio to support corean underlying basis with operational the portfolio generating a strong pipeline 1 market category leadership.
Underlying efficiencies and a medical device tax of products due to be launched in FY2018 revenue was down 3%, driven by softer refund more than offsetting the impact and beyond.
Research and development performances in Infusion Systems and of the revenue declines and downward expenditure increased to 61m 2016: Vascular Access, where the product pricing pressure on older products.
52m, representing 6.4% of sales 2016: portfolios are in the process of being The headline operating margin of 6.0%.
Specific developments included: revitalised and expanded.
Reported 22.0% was 60bps higher than the prior revenue grew 9%, with favourable year.
The difference between statutory within Infusion Systems, enhanced digital foreign exchange translation benefits and headline operating profit reflects and information security capabilities, in partially offset by the impact of the 16m of restructuring charges, 6m particular wirelessly enabling the CADD divestment of the Wallace product line amortisation of intangible assets, and line of ambulatory infusion pumps to and the underlying revenue softness.
a 100m gain on the sale of Wallace.
connect to the PharmGuard server software, which received FDA clearance 1 Underlying revenue declined by 3% Return on capital employed increased post year end: in Infusion Systems due to lower sales 100bps to 16.7%, reflecting improved differentiated technology developments in hospital infusion hardware and profitability that supported greater capital in Vascular Access including the Closed disposables, and a slower than anticipated expenditure in new product development, Blood Sampling System, the Jelco Seriva transition to advanced technology capacity and manufacturing efficiency.
and ViaValve Winged Safety peripheral ambulatory pumps in the home infusion catheters and the Delta Ven Closed 1 market.
Vascular Access underlying In November 2016 Smiths Medical divested System catheter: and revenue declined by 4% as growth in cardio the Wallace product line as part of an a strong pipeline of new products in Vital thoracic was offset by declines in sharps ongoing programme to focus the portfolio Care, particularly in the tracheostomy safety and peripheral intravenous catheters on scalable,  product lines.
Underlying revenue from Vital Care leadership positions in its chosen markets.
and Specialty Products was down 2%, with Prior to the sale, Wallace revenue was 1 Underlying excludes the effects of foreign exchange continued growth in tracheostomy and 5m, with operating profit of 4m and translation and acquisitions but includes divested respiratory COPD products being offset net assets sold were 32m.
The business business for the period they were owned in the reported financial year and adjusts the prior financial year by declines in temperature management performance of Wallace up to the date of comparator as if the divested business were owned for and commoditised anaesthesia products.
divestiture is included within the financial the same period in that financial year to aid comparability summary and results presented above.
BREATHING MORE EASILY Patients come in all ages, shapes and sizes, so our Bivona tracheostomy tubes are fully customisable, providing the flexibility to fit each patients unique requirements.
By combining malleable, medical-grade silicone with spiral wire reinforcement, this innovative solution allows the tube to adapt to a patients anatomy while also maintaining airway diameter.
Unique in a market of disposables, our Bivona tubes [for adult patients] can be cleaned and sanitised for reuse up to 10 times, giving a lifecycle of almost 11 months, a significant advantage in the homecare sector.
39 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 SMITHS fide TECTION A LE A DER IN THE fide TECTION A ND IDENTIFICATION OF SECURIT Y THRE ATS A ND CONTR A BA ND CUSTOMERS PRINCIPAL OPERATING REVENUE BY SECTOR The majority of revenues REGIONS are influenced by over 100 We sell our products to Air transportation 52% governments and their around 200 countries Ports and borders 15% agencies.
The acquisition of and territories, with Military 9% Morpho Detection significantly manufacturing facilities Urban security 24% enhances our market-leading in Germany, France, positions and expands Malaysia, USA and the UK.
COMPETITORS SUPPLIERS REVENUE PERFORMANCE M We compete with a wide We coordinate manufacturing 687M range of companies in each and purchasing activity end-use market.
Those globally to achieve 2017 687 2016 526 with the broadest global economies of scale and 2015 467 reach include Rapiscan, meet stringent quality 2014 00.0 L-3 SDS and Nutech.
2013 00.0 40 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 of screening equipment and airport Smiths Detection is a leader in its DID YOU KNOW... information are being used to improve the sector and produces equipment for Our trace detectors can identify a efficiency and effectiveness of the security customers in the air transportation, billionth of a gram of explosives on process, resulting in increased demand.
ports and borders, urban security and military end-use markets.
In the ports and borders market, continuing globalisation of trade, combined with increasing regulatory standards, will Markets and trends REVENUE IN 2017 drive the growth in demand for security 1 Demand for our detection equipment and UP 4% screening equipment and digital service is forecast to continue to grow solutions that can integrate a disparate at mid-single digits per annum over the installed equipment base.
Powerful near term, driven by ongoing geopolitical technologies are required to address 687M unrest and the resulting terrorist and a variety of threats as governments criminal threats, but there is considerable become increasingly concerned about the variation by geography and end-use smuggling of explosives, weapons and market.
The majority of customers are radiological materials, while continuing to government-funded so budget constraints recognise the strong revenue-generating HEADLINE OPERATING PROFIT affect market revenues.
Nevertheless, our potential from contraband detection.
1 UP 21% growing installed equipment base creates significant opportunities for aftermarket The urban security market is large, service and support and digital revenues but fragmented and unregulated.
through the sale of software upgrades.
Growth in demand continues as public 103M and private sector organisations seek The heavily regulated air transportation to provide better protection for their sector is our largest market.
Rising assets and staff in response to a wide passenger volumes, together with and ever-increasing range of threats.
continuing security threats, a strong STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT replacement cycle and increasing air freight Global demand for chemical warfare volumes from continuing globalisation agent detection equipment and other of trade are expected to continue to threat-specific sensors required by the support market growth and new airport military is forecast to grow steadily in 70M investment.
Integrated, networked systems our key NATO-oriented markets.
HEADLINE OPERATING MARGIN 15.0% GROWTH DRIVERS COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS Persistent and evolving terror A market leader with a threats strengthened global position Changing security regulations following the Morpho acquisition for air cargo and passengers Operate in several regulated Equipment replacement cycle, markets requiring product typically 710 years certification Software-driven solutions Technologies leveraged across providing functionality, many markets and applications networking and systems Growing aftermarket revenues integration 39% of total Growth of security infrastructure in emerging markets 41 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 S MITH S D E TEC TI O N C O N T I N U E D ADVANCING TRANSPORT SECURI T Y Airports, airlines and authorities around the world trust our deep expertise in designing and servicing integrated detection solutions.
In the past twelve months, we have secured orders for hold baggage screening Explosives Detection Systems EDS worth over 80 million from airports in the Americas, Middle East and Europe.
Our next-generation scanners combine high-resolution X-ray technology, medical quality computed tomography and advanced detection algorithms to deliver exceptional levels of security and efficiency, while the ability to upgrade software to combat evolving threats helps to future-proof our customers infrastructure investments.
OUR STRATEGY Strategy Progress in FY2017 Priorities for FY2018 Customers choose to partner with us Focused investment in air transportation Continue the integration of Morpho because we can equip them with highhold baggage and checkpoint Detection and deliver planned integrity solutions that satisfy their Delivery of customer-oriented products phased savings security needs, while meeting broader and integrated, networked solutions Strengthen sales channels in all regions commercial and operational requirements.
Extending product certification in Drive R&D investment behind key response to customer demand product initiatives Highly targeted investment in products Implementation of lean standards, Deliver further growth in aftermarket and software development should enable eliminating waste, improving flow and and digital revenues us to outperform our chosen markets.
reducing working capital Implement additional continuous We continue to grow our aftermarket Key digital product launches: CORSYS, improvement initiatives plus and digital solutions upgrade offer EDS CB upgrades and Checkpoint.
Evo an increasingly important source of profitable revenue, which counteracts the volatility of prime contracting.
Operational improvements based on quality, waste elimination and reduced lead times deliver savings which are reinvested in the development of products and software solutions.
FY2017 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2017 2016 Reported Underlying m m growth growth Revenue 687 526 31% 4% Headline operating profit 103 69 50% 21% Headline operating margin 15.0% 13.0% 200bps Statutory operating profit 70 63 12% Return on capital employed 12.6% 11.9% 70bps 42 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Performance Revenue from higher-growth regions Research and development Smiths Detections market-leading represented 21% of sales, broadly in line Smiths Detection increased its investment 1 position in growing markets drove an with prior year on an underlying basis.
in research and development during the 1 underlying revenue increase of 4%, in year, accounting for 7.1% of sales, or 6.0% particular in the air transportation market Headline operating profit grew 21% excluding customer-funded R&D 2016: 1 and in the Asia Pacific region.
Focus on on an underlying basis, reflecting the 5.2% and 4.7% respectively.
Specific aftermarket supported growth in revenue strong sales growth, increased focus on highlights include: and aftermarket revenue now accounts aftermarket and improved business mix.
On This growth in profitability was despite for the air transportation market, x-ray a reported basis, revenue grew by 31%.
continued competitive pricing pressure machines capable of meeting the new This included 62m revenue from the on large programme contracts and the EU ECAC Standard C3, new versions of acquisition of Morpho Detection Morpho, ongoing challenge from lower-priced our Checkpoint.
Evo remote screening which completed in April 2017 and is now competitors in unregulated parts of software and faster CT machines for hold being integrated, as well as favourable the market.
Headline operating margin baggage screening: foreign exchange translation benefits.
increased by 200 basis points to 15.0%.
in the military market, the development Headline reported operating profit of the next generation of chemical 1 Underlying revenue in air transportation improved 50%, including 8m profit warfare detection devices: increased 9%, with strong growth in EMEA contribution from the Morpho acquisition in ports and borders we launched and Asia, including deliveries to Berlin and 10m of favourable foreign exchange CORSYS, our large-scale enterprise Brandenburg Airport and revenue from translation benefit.
The difference between platform that connects an entire ports long-term contracts in Abu Dhabi.
Contract statutory and headline operating profit and border security operation and wins during the year include orders for 85 includes a 4m restructuring charge, supports the need for digital expansion in CT hold baggage scanners for Amsterdam 8m amortisation of intangibles and the this market: and Airport Schiphol, London Gatwick Airport, 18m costs of the acquisition of Morpho.
we continue to focus on software Cochin International Airport, EL AL Airlines development, building on the strengths of and by the US Transportation Security Return on capital employed improved our existing business and Morphos Administration TSA.
Post year end we 70 basis points to 12.6%, with higher software expertise, as well as value have also won two additional contracts profitability offsetting the dilutive engineering projects to deliver for orders totalling 55 CT scanners for impact of the acquisition of Morpho.
competitive products in cost-critical Frankfurt Airport and Narita International sectors, as well as country-specific Airport.
Future growth in air transportation The acquisition of Morpho completed on versions of some of our most successful was also underpinned by key regulatory 6 April 2017 and significantly enhances products.
certifications achieved in the period.
Smiths Detections position in attractive 1 Underlying excludes the effects of foreign exchange Revenue from ports and borders decreased growth markets and expands the product translation and acquisitions but includes divested 1 by 2% on an underlying basis as growth portfolio.
Regulatory clearance for this business for the period they were owned in the reported financial year and adjusts the prior financial year in EMEA, including major deliveries in acquisition was conditional on the postcomparator as if the divested business were owned for Africa, Italy and the Middle East, was completion divestment of Morphos the same period in that financial year to aid comparability offset by last years strong comparator explosive trace detection business, due to the completion of a number of key which completed on 7 July 2017.
Underlying revenue in four months since completion Morpho military decreased by 2%, as a number of delivered headline revenue of 62m and US military programmes started to wind headline operating profit of 8m with down, partly offset by stronger growth in good air transportation sales during EMEA.
Urban security revenues were flat the second half of the year, including 1 on an underlying basis with strong growth deliveries to the US TSA.
The integration in Asia and sales to emergency responders of Morpho is progressing well and we in the US, offset by lower sales elsewhere.
are confident that we will be able to drive We continued to experience pressure on even more benefits from the combination government budgets in all regions, which than initially anticipated and expect was most marked in the US due to the the acquisition to drive future margin effect of the Continuing Budget Resolution.
expansion for the division overall.
43 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 SMITHS INTERCONNECT SOLU TIONS FOR HIGH-SPEED, SECURE CONNECTI V IT Y IN DEM A NDING A PPLICATIONS CUSTOMERS PRINCIPAL OPERATING REVENUE BY SECTOR Our blue-chip customers REGIONS are prime contractors, We sell products to over Defence 28% OEMs, system suppliers and 50 countries, manufacture Semi-conductor 20% sub-system manufacturers.
in nine and have offices Medical 8% Examples include Raytheon, across North and Central Space 5% Lockheed Martin, BAE America, Europe and Asia.
Commercial Systems, Huawei, NVIDIA aerospace 10% and Biosense Webster.
Rail, Industrial, Other 29% COMPETITORS SUPPLIERS REVENUE PERFORMANCE M Our competitors range from We cultivate deep supplier 419M large multinationals through partnerships that enable new to small, more focused technology developments, 2017 419 2016 435 companies across our product quality and efficiency, 2015 420 portfolio.
Examples include while ensuring we have no Amphenol, TE Connectivity, substantial dependencies Yokowo and Cobham.
44 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 In the rail market, our cable solutions Smiths Interconnect provides highDID YOU KNOW... provide communications connectivity, while reliability innovative connectivity Our in-flight antenna systems have our ferrite components and connectors solutions for the defence, aerospace, given passengers more than 15 are used in applications such as controlmillion hours of internet access on space, rail, medical and command and signalling in autonomous over 1,000 planes semiconductor test end markets.
Growth is driven by increasing demand for sophisticated digital train systems that improve safety Markets and trends REVENUE IN 2017 and security, high data-rate connectivity 1 We provide a range of mission-critical UP 1% for passengers, and the distribution products to the defence market, including of high levels of electrical power.
Rail microwave technology, and ruggedised applications can be some of the harshest and high-speed connector solutions.
environments our products face and 419M These are deployed in the most extreme qualifying products can be challenging.
environments, such as in sensors, communications equipment and nextOur medical portfolio includes highgeneration radar systems.
Global defence reliability enhanced signal integrity spending has been constrained in recent performance connectors for applications HEADLINE OPERATING PROFIT years, as governments maintained tight requiring higher bandwidth and data rates, 1 UP 5% budget control.
However, the current including advanced imaging, augmented economic environment and increasing reality, and surgical robotics.
A growing, geopolitical uncertainty represent a ageing population and the rise in chronic platform for growth.
New investment diseases continue to drive growth for 56M is focused on system upgrades in the global medical market, especially critical areas such as intelligence, in China and India.
Consumers demand surveillance and reconnaissance, force improved accuracy, efficiency and costprotection and force multipliers.
effectiveness in healthcare services, meaning aligning our technologies STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT In aerospace, we provide connectors, with the cost-control mindset of this components and satellite communications market is a key consideration.
antenna solutions for various aircraft and space applications.
The commercial We provide test sockets, probe heads 124M aerospace market remains robust, driven and cable assembly solutions for by increasing passenger and freight semiconductor testing applications.
demand, particularly in developing The high rate of technology refresh, regions, and the need to upgrade aircraft increased functionality and greater fleets to more efficient models.
connectivity requirements of electronic devices are key drivers for this market.
HEADLINE OPERATING MARGIN 13.4% GROWTH DRIVERS COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS Growth in high data rate Innovative and technically applications differentiated offerings Continued proliferation of Ultra-high reliability solutions electronics used in demanding applications Demand for greater connectivity Customer intimacy, and mobility responsiveness and product Increasing sophistication of customisation customer needs in high-growth Global presence, reach markets and support Increasing geopolitical uncertainty 45 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 S MI T H S IN T E R C O NNEC T C O N T I N U E D DID YOU KNOW... We are providing the entire Ethernet data cabling network for the Orion spacecraft that will one day fly astronauts to Mars W E FOCUS ON CUS TOMER S W HO INVESTMENT IN NEW PRODUCT VA LUE OUR INNOVATI V E, TECHNICA LLY D E V EL O P M EN T DIFFERENTI ATED SOLU TIONS, UP 7% A S W ELL A S OUR AGILIT Y A ND R E S P O N SI V E N E S S 28M OUR STRATEGY Strategy Progress in FY2017 Priorities for FY2018 We focus on customers who value our Restructured to create a functional Sharpen focus on strategic markets, innovative, technically differentiated organisation aligned around six markets customers and sales channels solutions, as well as our agility and Migrated all historical brands to Smiths International expansion, particularly responsiveness.
Our offering includes Interconnect in Asia both custom and platform solutions.
We Established a key account management New product investments targeted at focus our portfolio and resources on the programme focused on deep higher-growth end market segments most attractive regions, such as Asia, relationships with technology seekers Reduce costs through value engineering and end markets, particularly defence, and partners and scale efficiencies aerospace, space, rail, medical and Rationalised and simplified our Attract, retain, develop, engage and semiconductor.
We aim to outperform distribution channels inspire talent our end markets through customerEnhanced programme management focused innovation, service, and sales and tools to improve execution and time marketing initiatives, as well as attracting to market and retaining the best talent.
Restructuring Divested non-core businesses of and efficiency initiatives, including lean and Power and Microwave Telecoms value engineering, drive competitiveness and provide funds for investment.
FY2017 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2017 2016 Reported Underlying m m growth growth Revenue 419 435 3 % 1% Headline operating profit 56 57 1 % 5% Headline operating margin 13.4% 13.1% 30bps Statutory operating profit 124 26 372% Return on capital employed 11.4% 10.3% 110bps 46 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Performance wins.
The medical segment grew, with Research and development 1 During the year Smiths Interconnect underlying revenue up 4% tied to increased Total research and development completed significant strategic and volume at one of our leading customers.
expenditure of 28m was 2m higher structural change to focus on fewer, Industry consolidation impacted the buying than the prior year, representing 6.7% higher-growth end markets.
This patterns of several of our key customers of revenue.
During the year Smiths included the divestments of the Power in the semiconductor test segment Interconnects engineering function 1 and Microwave Telecoms businesses and with underlying revenue down 4%.
was realigned with our strategic market a major reorganisation of the business segments of defence, aerospace, 1 structure.
In a period of considerable Operating profit grew 5% on an underlying space, rail, medical and semiconductor change the business was able to deliver an basis and the headline operating margin test, with significant emphasis on 1 underlying revenue increase of 1%, driven increased 30bps to 13.4%, driven by the driving improved time to market for by growth in both the space and aerospace benefits of restructuring activity in the new product development and an segments.
On a reported basis, revenue prior year combined with a continued increased focus on developing product declined by 3%, as favourable foreign procurement and operational efficiency platforms over bespoke solutions.
exchange translation benefits were offset focus.
The difference between statutory and by the impact of the divestments.
Isolating headline operating profit primarily reflects Product developments during the the performance of the remaining core a 72m profit on business disposals.
year included: 1 business, underlying revenue grew 3%.
Return on capital employed increased for the space market, the development 1 Underlying revenue grew by 20% in 110 basis points to 11.4%, driven by the of the K2TVA Series to our Thermopad the space segment, driven by increased higher profitability during the year and the portfolio with an improved thick-film spending on Low Earth Orbit constellations positive mix impact of the two disposals.
thermistor technology to enable more and increased content of the nexttemperature compensation and mitigate generation high-throughput satellites using During the course of the year Smiths the degradation at higher frequencies flexible digital payloads.
In aerospace, Interconnect disposed of both its Power typical of this type of technology: 1 underlying revenue grew by 44%, driven and Microwave Telecoms businesses to in semiconductor test we introduced a by the continued deployment of our concentrate on its remaining core with higher performance version of our SATCOM antenna products and connector scalable, top three leadership positions DaVinci test socket, which can now be and component solutions on military and in its chosen markets.
Prior to the sale of used to test the most advanced CPU and commercial airframes tied to new higherthe Power business in January 2017 sales GPU semiconductor devices: and efficiency engines.
The strong, doublewere 47m, with headline operating profit we also expanded our Outrigger resistor digit growth in both these segments was of 7m and net assets were 157m.
Prior line with the CRHB 1216 product series, offset by small declines in the defence, to the sale of the Microwave Telecoms improving the power-to-size ratio of our semiconductor test and rail segments.
business in May 2017 sales were 55m, resistor line, which has applications in 1 Underlying revenue decline in defence headline operating profit was 1m and net most of our core markets.
of 4% reflected a slowdown in deliveries assets were 41m.
The performance of on several key defence programmes both the Power and Microwave Telecoms 1 Underlying excludes the effects of foreign exchange approaching end of life that was not businesses are included within the financial translation and acquisitions but includes divested business for the period they were owned in the reported offset by revenues from new programme summary and results presented above.
financial year and adjusts the prior financial year comparator as if the divested business were owned for the same period in that financial year to aid comparability INCREASING DIGITAL RELIABILITY As computers, mobiles and smart devices become more advanced, so must the integrated chips that support them.
Were leading the way with our Volta semiconductor test solutions.
Used for testing the integrated chip packages behind everything from Bluetooth and power management to digital displays, Volta significantly outperforms the competition in both durability and performance.
By developing new electrical contact technologies and integrating manufacturing and assembly processes, we opened up an attractive new market segment and demonstrated our commitment to continuously innovating to meet the changing needs of our customers.
47 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 F L E XT E K INNO VAT I V E COMP ONEN T S TO HE AT A ND MO V E F LUID S A ND G A SE S CUSTOMERS PRINCIPAL OPERATING REVENUE BY SECTOR We serve the US construction REGIONS industry, domestic appliance, The majority of our sales Construction aerospace engine and and operations are in Products 32% airframe manufacturers, North America, with Fluid Management 24% and other specialist markets.
some operations and a Large customers include growing sales mix across Heat Solutions 25% Watsco, Ferguson, Boeing, Europe and Asia.
Flexible Solutions 19% Airbus, Pratt & Whitney, GE, Samsung, Trane and Carrier.
COMPETITORS SUPPLIERS REVENUE PERFORMANCE M We compete with leading We source key materials 338M providers in each of our from world-class companies product categories.
Examples selected to provide the quality, 2017 338 2016 284 include Parker-Hannifin and service and value needed for 2015 269 Eaton for aerospace tubing, mission-critical components.
Omega Flex for flexible natural gas tubing, and Nibe for heating elements.
48 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 consistent temperature controls to improve Flex-Tek provides engineered DID YOU KNOW... system efficiency and performance for components that heat and move fluids Our heated hoses maintain a heating ventilation and air conditioning and gases for aerospace, consumer constant air temperature and are HVAC equipment, tumble dryer, and helping sleep apnoea patients products, construction, medical and other bespoke applications.
Growth breathe more easily at night industrial applications.
in Heat Solutions is largely driven by the US housing market, along with an increasing number of specialty heating Markets and trends REVENUE IN 2017 applications in North America and 1 Our business is structured around four UP 3% Asia.
Steady growth in US housing is segments: Heat Solutions, Construction also driving demand for our leading Products, Fluid Management and Flexible flexible gas piping and HVAC ducting in Solutions.
Key markets include US our Construction Products segment.
338M residential and commercial construction, global aerospace tubing and hoses, Our Heat Solutions elements are also and electrical heating elements.
used in the manufacturing of medical devices, and our Flexible Solutions hoses Our business performance generally are used in this market too, particularly HEADLINE OPERATING PROFIT follows macroeconomic indicators such as for respiratory care devices.
Increasing 1 UP 11% US GDP, US housing growth, healthcare global healthcare spend is driving growth.
spending and capital goods expenditure.
Population growth drives residential In the automotive market our hoses are construction and domestic appliance used to deliver fuel and brake fluid, and 65M demand in the US, while high-growth will play a crucial role in the delivery of gas markets drive commercial aerospace and hydrogen in next-generation vehicles.
demand through increasing air passenger and freight volumes, and investment in In aerospace, we are a market-leading next-generation aircraft.
The diverse provider of specialty, high-performance STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT nature of our markets reduces our reliance flexible and rigid Fluid Management on any specific technology, although we tubing assemblies that provide reliable, are primarily exposed to the US economy.
efficient delivery of hydraulic fluids and jet fuel for commercial and military aircraft 68M In heating, we are one of the worlds globally.
The market for commercial largest manufacturers of open coil aircraft remains strong, with an OEM heating elements.
These specialised order book of over 13,000 aircraft.
elements and thermal systems provide HEADLINE OPERATING MARGIN 19.3% GROWTH DRIVERS COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS Steady growth of the US housing A strong performance in construction market residential gas tubing Continued increase in large High-performance flexible commercial aircraft production tubing products for aerospace Growth of medical devices and Leading capability in the design their increased use of flexible and manufacture of heating tubing solutions for bespoke Growing presence in Europe applications and Asia with further expansion Strong customer relationships potential 49 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 F LE X - TE K C O N T I N U E D DID YOU KNOW... Our heaters are used to convert soy beans into sustainable biofuels W E D EL I V ER ED A N O T HER S T R O N G P E R F O R M A N C E, W I T H R E V E NUE UP 4% O N A N U ND E R LY IN G B A S I S OUR STRATEGY Strategy Progress in FY2017 Priorities for FY2018 Our strategy is to outperform our Heat Solutions total revenue grew 12%, Expansion of our Heat Solutions product markets through technological largely in the engineered solutions application base through new technologies differentiation, with the need for safer, segment Growth of Gastites natural gas tubing more energy-efficient solutions providing Enhanced sales efforts in Europe business in Europe opportunities for us to establish leadership and Asia New product development in Gastite positions across our segments.
Expanding range of applications for Expansion of sales in Asia, especially bespoke heating element solutions China We aim to do this by developing our Fluid Management delivered first Delivery of new aerospace platform wins product portfolio, expanding in our production orders of tubing for GEs Complete the acquisition and integration target regions, growing existing market GEnx jet engine platform of Osrams heating solutions business shares and driving operational excellence to increase competitiveness.
We also consider the right strategic bolt-on acquisitions to support growth.
Specific focus areas include growing our share in the US housing market, expanding our markets for gas tubing and securing positions on next-generation aircraft.
FY2017 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2017 2016 Reported Underlying m m growth growth Revenue 338 284 19% 3% Headline operating profit 65 51 28% 11% Headline operating margin 19.3% 18.0% 130bps Statutory operating profit 68 37 85% Return on capital employed 35.8% 31.6% 420bps 50 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Performance Titeflex Corporation subrogation claims Flex-Tek delivered a strong performance, due to increasing US discount rates.
1 with revenue up 3% on an underlying basis, driven by growth in all segments Return on capital employed increased except Fluid Management.
On a reported 420 basis points to 35.8%, driven basis, foreign exchange translation by improved profitability.
benefits led to revenue growth of 19%.
Since the year end Tutco LLC, part Construction revenue grew 2% on an of the Heat Solutions business, has 1 underlying basis, with both Gastite and signed an agreement to purchase the Thermaflex benefiting from growth in heating element division of Osram, the US housing market and Gastites broadening its portfolio into fasterincreasing European presence.
Heat growing engineered heating solutions.
Solutions revenue increased by 12% on 1 an underlying basis, principally due to Research and development growth in its engineered solutions.
Flexible Total research and development 1 Solutions underlying revenue growth of expenditure remained broadly consistent 3% was driven by increased demand from at 0.6% of sales, focused on marketthe medical sector, partially offset by a leading innovative solutions to meet decline in the floor care segment.
In particular: Management revenue was down 2% on an 1 underlying basis, primarily due to order the continued development of 5000psi timing issues associated with a specific aerospace tubing for a broader range of customer.
The aerospace market for applications: components otherwise remained strong.
in Gastite, the further development of its technology-leading FlashShield product Headline operating profit increased 11% to improve ease of installation: 1 on an underlying basis to 65m and the heat Solutions refocused development of headline operating margin increased flexible heaters, with a new production 130bps to 19.3%.
Margins expanded in all cell for this product now operational: and segments with the exception of Thermaflex Flexible Solutions expanded the use of its due to pricing pressure.
Improvements heated wire hose technology in medical in profitability were driven by positive mix hose applications.
in Heat Solutions, procurement savings 1 Underlying excludes the effects of foreign exchange in Gastite and Flexible Solutions, and translation and acquisitions but includes divested continued strong operating cost control.
business for the period they were owned in the reported financial year and adjusts the prior financial year The difference between statutory and comparator as if the divested business were owned for headline operating profit is primarily due the same period in that financial year to aid comparability to the 4m release in the provision for QUICK, CONTROLLABLE COMFORT From hospitals and office spaces to indoor sports arenas, our new E-series duct heater technology is helping to control zone temperatures across a range of complex environments.
With improved electrical efficiency, a wider range of watt densities, and symmetrical design to ensure versatility, our Tutco business line is driving innovation in the duct heater market.
Even with a fully custom design, we have reduced our lead time to as little as 24 hours significantly less than the competition allowing us to reach new customers in the fast-moving construction and product replacement markets.
