STRATEGIC REPORT Operational review Serving food outside at the Golf Hotel, Ipswich.
PUB COMPANY AVERAGE NUMBER OF PUBS TRADING 1,812 4.1% At the year end our Pub Company division comprised 1,769pubsand restaurants open across Britain, REVENUE appealing to a broad rangeof the population.
Before exceptional and non-underlying items.
24 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Our Pub Company strategy is to attract customers with exciting brands that deliver unrivalled value, service and quality.
The acquisition of Spirit has helped us accelerate this strategy through the addition of successful brands and the opportunity to learn from each other and enhance the customer offer.
It also provides greater scale to drive cost efficiencies that can be reinvested in the business and help to protect margins.
Pub Company is the core driver of growth within our business and it grew 1 0.4%pts faster than the market over the year with LFL sales growth of 1.5%.
Revenue was up 7.7% to 1,817.4m, driven by a good Christmas, a stronger fourth quarter, an impressive performance from our wet-led local pubs and a 4.1% increase in the average number of pubs trading.
Sales figures were also boosted by average uplifts of over 30% from the brand conversions completed over the year.
Drink sales growth was notably strong in the year.
Operating profit grew 3.0% to 308.1m while the operating profit margin was down 0.7%pts to 17.0% following investment in food quality, customer service and price, as well as the difficult cost environment.
We had a notably We also had a notably strong year from Local Pubs and we have recently invested in the ex-Spirit Taylor Walker estate in London, converting over 100 pubs to the Greene King brand.
The performance of Local Pubs has strong year from been supported by marketing campaigns such as the To the Pub digital campaign and the Best of British campaign and we will continue to target Local Pubs.
growth in Greene King Locals through campaigns this year such as Summer of Sound, Greene Kings own music competition, run in conjunction with Radio X.
The most important element of our business is the people we employ, On an underlying basis, our net promoter score grew 0.5%pts to58.4%.
with around 44,000 people working at Greene King, of which more than We continue to target improved service and expect increased investment 95% work in Pub Company.
Following a year of considerable change, in labour and training to lift guest satisfaction scores across thebusiness wesaw a small increase in team turnover compared to the previous year, inthe new financial year.
although employee engagement scores remained strong at 85%.
Our leading apprenticeship programme saw another 3,076 starters in the year and we were pleased to receive the Best Apprenticeship Strategy award at the Springboard Awards as well as being the only pub company to appear in the Rate My Apprenticeship Top 70 School Leaver Employers Table 2017.
Our increased investment in the recruitment, retention and development of our people will lead to a better trained and more motivated team across our business, which will be reflected in ongoing improvements inteam retention and customer service.
Consistent investment in our estate is one of the key differentiators of Greene King and a significant driver of our growth.
We invested 93.3m incore capex over the year, we opened eleven new pubs at the top end of our estate and we successfully completed the disposal of 65 pubs at the bottom end as we continue to improve the overall quality of our estate.
Digital is becoming ever more important in the eating and drinking out sectors.
We now have one combined database platform across the group, improving the effectiveness of our customer digital communications.
Our social media audience continues to expand with a 42% increase in followers of the Greene King Twitter feed, a 19% increase in LinkedIn followers and an increase of 24% in our Facebook fan base to 2.9m.
Our new corporate website was launched in July 2016 and we have since seen a 148% increase in users to 80,000 per month.
The website has had over 4m page views intotal this year.
Now that we have completed the integration of the two Pub Company is the businesses, we can look toward further investment in digital innovation inorder to increase engagement with, and insight into, our customers.
core driver of growth within our business.
Source: Coffer Peach Tracker, 52 weeks to end of April 2017.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 25
