26 Strategic report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operating review EMEA Services EMEA Europe, Middle East and Australasia Services combines world-leading expertise with unique facilities to provide technical assurance, test and evaluation and training services, underpinned by long-term contracts that provide good visibility of revenues and cash flows.
The division is also a market leader in research and advice in specialist areas such as C4ISR, weapons and energetics, cyber security and procurement advisory services.
release of engine servicing obligations as we gridded ion engine electric propulsion Financial performance invest in new aircraft for test aircrew training.
system for the flight module to be used There were other contract adjustments on ESAs BepiColombo mission to Mercury.
2017 2016 impacting on the results, but the financial This ambitious, multi-spacecraft mission m m impact of these was not material in aggregate.
is due to launch in October 2018.
1 Orders 520.9 495.4 Excluding the 5.2m credit, a 3m credit in The business secured 2m of research Total orders 1,522.3 495.4 FY16 and the effect of foreign exchange and funding to lead a team to upgrade the scale Revenue 613.5 616.4 acquisitions, underlying operating profit fell by models used in the Farnborough wind tunnel 4.6m, predominantly driven by the lower Underlying using technology adapted from F1 motor baseline profit rate for single source contracts.
operating profit 92.7 93.8 racing, leading to improved efficiency and The impact of the lower baseline profit rate in increased capacity.
Underlying FY17 was in line with our expectations.
2 operating margin 15.1% 15.2% It unveiled an innovative material, Titan 1 Weave, that reduces the weight of aircraft Book to bill ratio 1.3x 1.2x As we anticipated, the baseline profit rate for 1 and is three times stronger than current Funded backlog 813.6 719.1 new and renewed single source contracts materials used to protect against bird Total funded signed in FY18 will fall by 149 basis points strikes and other impacts.
backlog 2,019.8 1,123.8 from the FY17 baseline rate.
Including the It entered a teaming agreement with Thales LTPA contract, 76% of EMEA Services revenue and Textron to provide an innovative offer 1 2016: 74% is derived from single source Excludes the 998m third-term of the LTPA to the MOD for the Air Support to Defence contract agreed in 2013 and the 1bn contract contracts, an increased proportion of which Operational Training Programme.
B2B ratio is now contracted on a long-term basis.
For is orders won divided by revenue recognised, example, the 11-year, 1bn amendment to excluding the LTPA contract.
Maritime, Land & Weapons 45% of EMEA the LTPA, signed in December 2016, was 2 T he 2017 margin excluding the 5.2m nonServices revenue contracted using the FY17 single source recurring release in respect of LTPA engine The Maritime, Land & Weapons business profit formula.
delivers operational advantage to customers by providing independent research, evaluation Orders, excluding the 1bn LTPA amendment, FY17 review and training services.
grew 5% to 520.9m 2016: 495.4m including the award of the 109m 11-year renewal from Air & Space 30% of EMEA Services revenue Modernising UK Test & Evaluation the MOD for the Naval Combat System The Air & Space business fide-risks complex The business delivered the successful trial Integration Support Services NCSISS, aerospace programmes by testing systems of the new Spear 3 missile system planned and 80m of additional orders added to and equipment, evaluating the risks and for the UKs F-35 Lightning II stealth the Air Strategic Enterprise contract.
It secured an 11-year contract extension The 1bn amendment to the LTPA signed Modernising UK Test & Evaluation worth 109m for the Naval Combat Systems during the year has significantly increased The Strategic Enterprise model for aircraft Integration & Support Services based at total EMEA Services backlog.
The remaining engineering services has now been in place Portsdown Technology Park.
Later in the LTPA contract is due to be repriced on for a year, delivering savings to the MOD.
year the site hosted the Royal Navys 31 March 2018.
80m of additional contracts were added Information Warrior exercise designed to to the model during the year to provide develop and test new information warfare Revenue was flat on both a reported basis in-service support for eight aircraft including capabilities through a series of trials, and an organic constant currency basis with the Apache, Puma and Merlin helicopters including defensive cyber operations, a broadly consistent performance across all and Tornado fast jets, as well as test and digital influence operations and business units within the division.
The impact evaluation services for the Wildcat Future artificial intelligence.
of the RubiKon acquisition, which completed Air to Surface Guided Weapon programme.
The business led a team from across QinetiQ in January 2017, and favourable foreign The business is focused on the to deliver Unmanned Warrior for the Royal exchange movements were largely offset modernisation of test aircrew training Navy, a demonstration by 40 companies of by the Cyveillance disposal in the prior year.
provided by the Empire Test Pilots how autonomous vehicles under the water, School which achieved Approved Training on the surface and in the air, can be used At the beginning of the new financial year, 79% Organisation status during the year allowing for future operations such as mine hunting.
of EMEA Services FY18 revenue was under it to train civil test pilots.
Investment in new contract, compared with 77% at the beginning Later in 2017, it will host another aircraft and a revised syllabus will allow of the prior year.
international exercise at MOD Hebrides it to pursue opportunities for growth.
During the year, Boeing Defence UK Underlying operating profit reduced to 92.7m To enable similar exercises to take place, the identified MOD Boscombe Down, which 2016: 93.8m.
FY17 underlying operating business is modernising the air ranges, with we operate and manage on behalf of the profit included a 5.2m credit relating to the work beginning to upgrade facilities and MOD, as the preferred site for its future tracking radar at the Hebrides range.
UK headquarters and European hub for maintenance, repair and overhaul.
Investing in innovation The business is a member of a UK industrial Investing in innovation Definitions of the Groups Alternative consortium, called Dragonfire, which won a The business relationship with the European performance measures can be found 30m contract for a Capability Demonstrator in the glossary on page 151.
Space Agency continues with its transceiver Programme for laser technology.
The operating successfully as part of the demonstration is reliant on an innovative ExoMars mission to Mars, despite the QinetiQ-developed technology, with the Schiaparelli lander on which it was mounted trials taking place on LTPA sites.
The business is continuing to deploy significant resources to develop the QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at te eg giic r c re ep po or rt | O t perating review 27 It won an 8m contract to implement International 8% of EMEA Services revenue EMEA Services FY18 outlook and evaluate vehicle survivability for Dstl, On 1 April 2016 a new International business including installing a Soft-Kill Defensive was established to deliver our capabilities in In EMEA Services revenue under contract Aids System on a Challenger 2 tank.
for FY18 is in line with the prior year, and the It also won a 5m contract to deliver a Real division is expected to deliver modest revenue In January 2017, the Group acquired Time Simulation System for the Sentry E-3D growth this year although the lower baseline RubiKon Group, an Australian integrated aircraft to enable effective operations with profit rate for single source contracts logistics support provider.
represents a headwind for operating margins.
allows QinetiQ Australia to provide a more comprehensive service offering Cyber, Information & Training CIT to customers and pursue strategic 17% of EMEA Services revenue partner opportunities with the The CIT business helps government and Australian Government.
commercial customers respond to fastevolving threats based on its expertise in QinetiQ Australia continued to develop its training, secure communication networks core capabilities, extending contracts for the and devices, intelligence gathering and provision of integrated engineering services surveillance sensors, and cyber security.
at the Defence Science and Technology Groups Fishermens Bend workshop in Modernising UK Test & Evaluation Port Melbourne, and for Aircraft Structural The business won a 10m contract to Integrity services.
Through RubiKon, it also link existing Typhoon synthetic training at signed a new strategic support partnering RAF bases to the QinetiQ-run Distributed contract for the replacement of the AP-3C Synthetic Air Land Training DSALT facility Orion fleet with a combination of unmanned at RAF Waddington, building towards the and manned aircraft.
MODs ambition to integrate all synthetic Our business in Australia also grew order training into one programme.
intake, including contracts to support tanker It delivered a cyber range for an Army aircraft, Navy guided weapons systems, exercise as part of a growing capability ground-based air defence, and the Australian to support customers in the test and Artillery Regiment.
QinetiQ Canada achieved its first home QinetiQ is enabling Royal Air Force Typhoon pilots to win with a contract to provide advice train together in virtual environments from different Building an international company to the Royal Canadian Coast Guard.
locations by linking simulators at the Squadrons The business delivered its stand-off Main Operating Bases.
The project is a new addition A new QinetiQ office is also being threat detection system, SPO-NX, to the to QinetiQs existing Distributed Synthetic Air Land established in Malaysia to support US Transportation Security Administration Training DSALT contract with the UK Ministry of sales and marketing in South East Asia.
Defence, which provides synthetic mission training TSA for use at several high-profile at RAF Waddingtons Air Battlespace Training events, including the US Presidential Centre pictured.
Investing in innovation The business leads research framework contracts for the UK MOD, managing a network of more than 100 UK SMEs, as well as innovation initiatives for local and regional governments to support local business growth.
This includes bringing together expertise in technology horizon scanning, human sciences, commercial off-the-shelf exploitation and experimentation as a service to help customers keep pace with the rapidly evolving technical and social media landscape.
During the year the business secured contracts totalling 10m for secured navigation, working with European and UK Government customers to enable the effective exploitation by users of the Galileo constellation of satellites the European Union version of GPS which goes live in FY21.
This included the first demonstration of accessing the encrypted Public Regulated Service PRS in real-life applications.
The business has built on this success by agreeing a partnership to go to market with Rockwell Collins around the globe.
28 Strategic report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Operating review Global Products Global Products delivers innovative solutions to meet customer requirements and undertakes contract-funded research and development, developing intellectual property in partnership with key customers and through internal funding with potential for new revenue streams.
The division is technology-based and has shorter order cycles than EMEA Services so can have a more lumpy revenue profile.
In international markets, robots, vehicle Financial performance FY17 Review protection, and soldier protection systems, remain highly relevant as security challenges QinetiQ North America 41% of Global 2017 2016 and instability persist in the Middle East Products revenue m m and elsewhere.
QNA develops and produces innovative Orders 154.4 164.4 defence products specialising in unmanned In addition to product sales, QNA is building Revenue 169.6 139.3 systems, survivability and maritime its base of contract R&D projects to drive Underlying systems along with products in related technology development, explore new operating profit 23.6 15.1 commercial markets.
customer problems and expand its Underlying competitive offerings.
Progress continues operating margin 13.9% 10.8% QNA delivered very good orders and with awards for an airborne wind profiling revenue performance in FY17 driven by radar, robotic enhancement projects, Book to bill ratio 0.9x 1.2x the continued strength of its US military a turbine-based power and thermal Funded backlog 158.9 139.1 robot business, sales of aircraft armour, management system, and a number and its continued role supporting the next of other commercial research and Orders reduced to 154.4m 2016: 164.4m generation of US Navy aircraft carriers.
as a result of a strong comparative year which included a large pipeline contract in OptaSense In total, the business was awarded more OptaSense 15% of Global Products revenue and a five-year 10m contract to provide than $40m of orders for unmanned ground OptaSense provides innovative fibre sensing materials research and advice to the UK MOD.
vehicles principally for the reset of robots solutions to deliver decision-ready data in Order flow in QinetiQ North America QNA previously used in operations and for multiple vertical markets.
was strong, including $41m of US aircraft capability upgrades such as detection carrier orders during the year.
of CBRNE chemical, biological, The OptaSense subsidiary grew last year, radiological, nuclear and explosives.
driven principally by continued strength The Global Products division had 55% of its The business is bidding for multi-year in its pipeline sensing business and FY18 revenue already under contract at the Programs of Record, that are under way some recovery in the North American beginning of the new financial year compared now or will be under way this year.
with 64% at the same time last year, reflecting Programs of Record will be funded out of the shorter contract cycle of the division.
The business is delivering the system for the Department of Defenses base budget the worlds largest distributed fibre sensing for TALON-class and Dragon Runner-class Revenue was up 22% on a reported basis at project for the 1,850km Trans-Anatolian systems, robotic applique kits for route 169.6m 2016: 139.3m including the impact Natural Gas Pipeline TANAP that runs clearance vehicles and squad mission of the acquisition of Meggitt Target Systems from Azerbaijan, through Georgia and equipment transports.
and favourable foreign exchange movements.
In October 2016, it announced a strategic On an organic constant currency basis revenue Following the establishment of an advisory partnership with the Estonian company grew by 8% due to a strong performance in board to provide expertise in key target Milrem for Titan, a modular, hybrid military QNA, driven by product shipments relating markets, OptaSense has signed an unmanned ground vehicle UGV for to the new US aircraft carriers, together agreement to work together with Siemens dismounted troop support.
to pursue new opportunities in the rail sector.
QNA also confirmed a $41m contract with The business is also undertaking General Atomics which follows the initial Underlying operating profit increased to collaborative research with Stanford School $16m announced in December 2015.
The 23.6m 2016: 15.1m, including the impact of Earth, Energy and Environmental Sciences business will deliver control hardware and of the acquisition of Meggitt Target Systems, in California that includes the installation of software for the Electromagnetic Aircraft favourable foreign exchange movements and a fibre-optic seismic array on the Stanford Launch System and the Advanced Arresting 2.2m of credits relating to historical overseas campus to better understand the complex Gear to be installed on the US Navys contractual disputes.
With these items removed, geology of the Bay Area.
next aircraft carrier, the John.
F. Kennedy underlying operating profit increased by 3.6m CVN 79. driven by QNA and OptaSense.
In September, QNA launched a new meteorological sensing product, iQ-3, that provides real-time atmospheric data in support of military requirements such as artillery fire support, tactical weather modelling, and air drop.
Its LineWatch product, which accurately measures the current and voltage of power distribution lines, is being piloted by 10 North American utility companies following the delivery of its first production unit in FY16.
Definitions of the Groups Alternative performance measures can be found in the glossary on page 151.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at te eg giic r c re ep po or rt | O t perating review 29 Space Products 11% of Global EMEA Products 33% of Global Global Products FY18 Outlook Products revenue Products revenue QinetiQs Space Products business provides EMEA Products provides research services The Groups Global Products division has satellites, payload instruments, sub-systems and bespoke technological solutions shorter order cycles than EMEA Services and ground station services.
developed from intellectual property and its performance is dependent on the spun out from EMEA Services.
timing of shipments of key orders.
As a The business secured a 2m contract result of its contracted orders and pipeline with the European Space Agency to develop In December 2016, the Group acquired of opportunities, as well as the anticipated the next generation computer and power the Target Systems business from Meggitt full year contribution from the Target management system for its PROBA PLC, adding aerial, land and maritime targets Systems acquisition, the division is family of satellites, in addition to other to the portfolio of products and services expected to continue to grow in FY18.
Focus to date has been on integration and realising synergies, Its P200 satellite, the latest evolution of with early contract wins in the United the PROBA series, was also listed in the Arab Emirates.
In April 2017, QinetiQ NASA catalogue which will help facilitate Target Systems successfully completed the procurement of spacecraft by US its first commercial flight of the Banshee federal agencies and their affiliates.
Under other contracts awarded during the During the year, the US Defense Advanced year the business supported the development Research Projects Agency DARPA invested of a spacecraft for the Argentinian space a further $3m in QinetiQs electric hub-drive programme, and a satellite for a joint European technology that will improve mobility and and Chinese solar wind programme.
survivability of future military ground It also secured further funding to continue the vehicles.
The new agreement builds on development of its International Berthing and previous contract awards and will take Docking Mechanism IBDM for spacecraft.
the technology from concept design to the building and testing phase, including production of two fully working units.
QinetiQ remains a leader in the research and development of stealth technologies A Mk.
II TALON robot from Japan-based Explosive and advanced materials.
We continue Ordnance Disposal Mobile Unit 5, is used to inspect to support the UKs sovereign capability a suspicious package during a force protection and in this area and deliver projects for other anti-terrorism training exercise at a United States Navy allied nations.
The exercise trained first responders and support personnel how to react to an improvised Subsidiaries Boldon James and Commerce explosive device scenario.
Decisions are reported in EMEA Products.
Boldon James further expanded its product portfolio with the introduction of several new enhancements to its data classification offering, which it provides to large military and commercial organisations.
