STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW The implementation of the Vision 2020 growth strategy is progressing well, reflected in a good trading performance in 2016 17 with continued organic growth and achieving record profitability levels with robust cash generation.
FOCUSED ORGANIC GROWTH GROUP OVERVIEW The plastic packaging markets are growing ahead RPC is a leading plastic products design and of GDP helped by the ongoing substitution from engineering Company for packaging and selected other materials.
In that context, the Group has non-packaging markets, with 31 innovation continued to grow profits and sales ahead of centres and 185 operations in 33 countries, and GDP in the major geographical areas served by employs more than 23,800 people.
The Group its businesses, with overall like-for-like sales develops and manufactures a diverse range of improving by 3% over the year.
Activity levels products for a wide variety of customers, including improved in both Packaging and Non-packaging many household names, and enjoys strong market segments with particularly strong performances positions in many of the end-markets it serves in Food and Non-food packaging and Technical and the geographical areas in which it operates.
Innovation in both product It uses a wide range of polymer conversion PIM VERVAAT design and process engineering continues to technologies in both rigid and flexible plastics Chief Executive be a key driver of growth, with over 50% of manufacture, and is now one of the largest plastic the 175m capital expenditure made in the converters in Europe, combining the development period attributable to growth-related projects.
of innovative packaging and technical solutions Following the most recent acquisitions, the for its customers with good levels of service Group now has 31 design centres of excellence.
Further investment opportunities for growth in The business is organised and managed innovative products are being targeted alongside according to product and market characteristics pursuing a margin enhancement strategy in and is split into two segments, Packaging and selected more commoditised market segments.
The Packaging business serves the Food, Non-food, Personal Care, Beverage SELECTIVE CONSOLIDATION IN THE EUROPEAN PACKAGING and Healthcare markets.
The Non-packaging MARKET THROUGH TARGETED businesses design and manufacture moulds, ACQUISITIONS plastic products and technical components for specific market segments.
The pace of consolidation within the European packaging industry accelerated during the year.
The Group is organised into seven divisions RPC is participating in this trend selectively servicing both the Packaging and Non-packaging usinga strict set of acquisition criteria.
In August markets, each focusing on particular markets 2016, the Group made a further strategic or product groups.
The divisions Superfos, European-based acquisition, British Polythene Bramlage, M&H, Promens, Bebo, Ace and BPI Industries PLC BPI.
A leading manufacturer and Group are organised into a number of strategic supplier of polythene films for a diverse range of business units SBUs reflecting the segmented end-markets and with a turnover of c. 470m, BPI industry structure.
They operate across a wide provides the Group with an established flexibles geographical area for reasons of customer platform in line with major international peers.
proximity, local market demand and manufacturing It has strong market positions in Europe and resource, with the RPC Ace divisions operations globally in agricultural films.
Headquartered near based in China.
Glasgow, with 19 sites of which 14 are in the UK, it gives entry to another adjacent polymer STRATEGY market, enhancing the Groups overall strategic The Group continues to make excellent purchasing position, increasing the range of progress in implementing all elements of the polymer conversion technologies within the Group Vision 2020 strategy as the pace of industry and providing excellent opportunities for further consolidation accelerates.
consolidation and growth in the flexibles market.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW Continued In addition the Group was able to exploit further the beauty, cosmetics, pharmaceutical and food group of scale a mini RPC, with well-established consolidation opportunities in Europe with three markets.
With a turnover of A$13m 8m it has market positions, in a new territory with smaller bolt-on acquisitions completed during the been incorporated into the RPC M&H division.
good medium to long term growth prospects.
All of these acquisitions strengthen existing In March 2017 the Group also acquired Amber Completion is expected in June 2017. packaging market positions within Europe.
Plastics, a manufacturer of injection moulded pots In addition to the acquisitions, the Group extended These were: and containers for the food industry, with IML capacity to its existing operation at Winchester, capability.
With a turnover of A$9m 5m it has 3 Sanders Polyfilms, a specialist manufacturer Virginia, enhancing growth in sales in the food been incorporated into the RPC Superfos division.
of high yield collation shrink film, consolidating and personal care markets in North America.
one of the UK market segments.
Total sales In China the RPC Ace division acquired Shenzhen Further progress was also made in developing are 23m with sites in the UK and Romania.
Howyecen Automotive Electronic Company the Groups own manufacturing capability in The business has been integrated into the new Limited HYC in January 2017, a specialist Brazil, in supplying a multinational customer with RPC bpi division: supplier of the printing, forming and cutting of coffee capsules to support a recent launch into foils for automotive and smart electronics markets South America.
3 Jagtenberg Plastics, a well invested which will enhance the Groups product offering in manufacturer of blow moulded products for the As a consequence sales outside Europe increased this area.
It had sales of 4m in 2016. packaging and non-packaging markets with by 76% to 384m representing 14% of total sales, sites in the Netherlands and Germany and with In March 2017 the Group made a strategic and over time will provide the Group with further total sales of 23m.
This business extends the acquisition in the USA by purchasing the Letica opportunities to sell its innovative packaging and geographical reach of the industrial packaging Corporation, enhancing the growth platform for non-packaging product ranges to these markets.
business within the RPC Promens division: North America.
Headquartered in Rochester, The return on sales outside Europe was 16%, well Michigan, it is a leading manufacturer of rigid above the Groups average of 11%.
3 Plastiape, with three operations in Italy and packaging and food service products, and is Poland and sales of 53m, strengthens the an important partner to many blue-chip North Groups position in the healthcare market, American customers and brands.
With a well particularly in medical devices.
Combined with invested manufacturing footprint of 13 plants in RPCs existing healthcare businesses, Plastiape 11 states, it had sales of $476m and adjusted provides a platform for future organic and operating profit of $41m in the 12 months to acquisitive growth.
March 2017, with a robust engineering capability in injection moulding, including a proprietary CREATING A MEANINGFUL in-house design centre.
Its presence provides PRESENCE OUTSIDE EUROPE critical mass to the existing RPC operations As the packaging markets are increasingly in North America, extending these to 20 sites becoming more global, the Group has continued and more than doubling its sales revenues and to increase its global footprint through organic polymer purchases in this region.
growth and acquisition of businesses outside of The Group also agreed during the year to Europe.
The acquisitions of Ace, Promens and GCS acquire Astrapak Ltd, a leading South African in the previous three years provided operating manufacturer of rigid plastic packaging products capability and access to new markets in countries and components with a broad product offering such as China, Canada, the USA, Tunisia, Mexico, across injection moulding, blow moulding Thailand and the Philippines.
The acquisition of BPI during the year added Listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, a further two sites in Canada serving North the Company serves industrial and consumer America with agricultural film.
In the second half markets, supplying customers in Sub Saharan of the financial year, the Group also acquired Africa.
Its manufacturing footprint comprises nine two small businesses in Australia Melbourne, facilities in South Africa, employing approximately both of which provide entry points to support 1,100 people and for the year ended 28 February customers within the Australasian market.
2016, the company achieved revenues of ZAR In November 2016 the Group acquired Synergy 1.4 billion 81m, providing RPC with a strategic Packaging, a manufacturer of PET containers to opportunity to acquire a rigid plastic packaging 32 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 PURSUING ADDED VALUE business operates in an adjacent sector, it forms GCS OPPORTUNITIES IN a new SBU in one of the seven divisions: if in an The integration of GCS, which was acquired on NON-PACKAGING MARKETS overlapping business it is integrated into one or 29 March 2016, was completed in the year, with more of the existing SBUs.
Typically organisational Good progress has been made in developing the business operations integrated within the RPC integration will be completed within six to sales and enhancing profits from the various Bramlage division and duplicated functions in the twelve months of acquisition completion, with niche non-packaging businesses from recent GCS Paris head office removed.
Realisation of the realisation of related synergies including acquisitions.
The mould making business in RPC the purchasing synergies is complete and work restructuring activities to integrate both acquired Ace division showed improved profitability during in optimising underperforming businesses and in businesses and existing RPC sites taking longer to the period, with recent developments in new identifying opportunities to consolidate excess occur.
Recent larger acquisitions have been Letica, mould technology enhancing margins, and sales capacity within the combined Group is nearing BPI and GCS.
of electroplated products will further increase completion.
In this context the USA business at following investment in a third electroplating Libertyville has been restructured and reorganised, LETICA line at Zhuhai, China.
The materials handling and the site at Torres, Spain closed and business As a well-established and independent business, specialty vehicles businesses acquired through the transferred to other Group sites in Spain, Italy and the integration effort required for Letica will be Promens acquisition continue to perform strongly Germany, and the transfer of the existing closures relatively moderate.
Cost savings and productivity under RPCs ownership.
The Strata Products business at Halstead, UK, to other operations is initiatives identified by the Letica management are acquisition has performed particularly well under almost complete.
expected at $12m per annum realised over two RPCs ownership, with sales increasing by 10% years.
In addition, synergies of $5m per annum over the year.
have been identified by the Group.
Operating as In January 2017 the Group acquired ESE World a standalone business within RPC Superfos, the BV, a leading design and engineering company existing Letica management have been retained in temporary waste storage solutions.
With a and are incentivised to deliver growth and turnover of c. 200m, two major manufacturing additional cost savings through a two year facilities in France and Germany, an R&D centre earn-out structure.
and 12 sales offices throughout Europe, this is a plug & play acquisition with a separate BPI customer base and requiring little integration Operating in the flexibles and films markets in effort to extract synergies from the business.
different product and market segments and using It enhances the Groups buying position and is a complementary plastic conversion technologies, complementary business to the Groups existing BPI operates as a standalone division within the materials handling business and operates within Group.
Acquired on 1 August 2016, the PLC cost the RPC Promens division.
base and duplicated corporate overheads have been removed and the procurement synergies BUSINESS INTEGRATION largely completed.
The reorganisation of the RPC has a proven track record of efficiently business has been implemented reducing the assimilating acquisitions with good number of business units from nine to four, integration capability across the organisation.
resulting in a market focused organisation Corporate functions are aligned through the head facilitating increased cross-selling opportunities office team, with strengthened and enhanced and better asset utilisation.
A review of the governance, tax, IT, treasury, legal, management manufacturing footprint is well underway, with and financial reporting.
Group purchasing perform the site closure in progress prior to the acquisition a coordinating role, are active in extracting date at Sevenoaks completed, additional purchasing synergies and in strengthening internal restructuring at the Worcester site to refocus the resources post acquisition.
From an operational business and the closure of the site at Portadown, perspective key management are retained and Northern Ireland, announced.
business strategy enhanced by providing, as a member of the RPC Group, access to a wider product range and customer base.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW Continued GROUP PERFORMANCE PACKAGING 12 months to 12 months to The Group produced a strong set of results, in 31 March 31 March terms of both profit and cash flow performance.
2017 2016 The weakening of sterling following the EU Sales m 2,365.3 1,345.4 referendum in the UK enhanced profits, producing Adjusted operating profit m 246.2 133.4 a translation benefit in the year of 29m to Return on sales 10.4% 9.9% adjusted operating profit, but polymer price Return on net operating assets 25.4% 23.3% movements offset this creating a headwind variance of 14m compared with last year.
The Packaging business serves diverse After taking account of these effects and the end-markets with innovative packaging solutions, contribution of recent acquisitions, the increase both in rigid form and flexibles, through a range of in adjusted operating profit resulting from plastic conversion processes including injection synergy realisation, organic growth and business moulding, blow moulding, thermoforming and improvement more than offset inflationary blown film extrusion.
After taking account of REVENUE increases to the Groups cost base.
acquisitions net of disposed business and trade Revenues grew 67% to 2,747m due to the which contributed a net 792m of sales, foreign 2,365M acquired businesses principally GCS, BPI and exchange translation impacts of 210m and eight further acquisitions in the year as well as polymer price reductions of 23m, like-for-like 2016: 1,345M growth in both packaging and non-packaging revenue growth of 3% was achieved during the products, which were up 3% overall on a period.
Adjusted operating profit on a like-for-like like-for-like basis.
Adjusted EBITDA was 441m basis increased by 26m 19% reflecting the 2016: 251m and adjusted operating profit of impact of cost reductions through integration 308m increased by 134m 77%, with return activities and mix improvements through a on sales at 11.2% 2016: 10.6% and RONOA at selective margin enhancement strategy to ensure 26.0% 2016: 22.4%, both measures showing returns are sufficient to support current capacity significant growth and comfortably ahead of levels.
Return on sales and RONOA all showed the Vision 2020 minimum performance metrics.
further improvement reflecting the above.
Statutory operating profit at 192m 2016: 95m The strongest growth rates were in the Food RONOA was more than double the previous year.
ROCE at and Non-food packaging end-markets, with new 15.1% 2016: 15.7% remained at a robust level in product development and geographical expansion spite of the recent acquisition activity.
Beverage, Personal care Cash flow generation was strong, reflecting both and Healthcare sales were relatively flat during 2016: 23.3% the impact of the recent acquisitions and good the year.
working capital management, with free cash flow of 239m 2016: 123m and net cash from operating activities of 277m 2016: 151m.
The Group continued to invest in growth and efficiency projects, with a cash outflow of 175m 2016: 101m of capital expenditure in the year.
Working capital as a percentage of sales was 6.2% 2016: 6.6%.
The Group retains a strong balance sheet following two acquisition related equity raises during the year, with net debt of 1,049m 2016: 744m representing a prior 12 month pro forma 1.8x EBITDA multiple, and it had total finance facilities of 2,245m available at 31 March 2017.
34 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 SALES 2016 17 LIKE-FOR-LIKE END-MARKET M GROWTH PERFORMANCE FOOD 755 5% Food packaging sales grew mainly through increased demand for barrier products and the development of innovative packaging solutions for convenience foods.
There was strong growth in Dairy products, in Sauces through barrier products as the conversion from glass and metal to plastic continues, in Confectionery with major new contracts won and in Frozen food where printed film sales supplied by BPI grew.
On the other hand, the market for Spreads, in which RPC has a strong market position, showed some decline as butter has gained market share.
The market continues to be driven by shelf-life enhancing solutions, the need for portion control and minimising food waste.
NON-FOOD 632 4% There have been strong increases in industrial packaging across all divisions with specific focus on margin enhancement rather than volume growth.
New bespoke packaging for the Tobacco sector was developed by Bramlage and Superfos, offsetting some decreases in surface coatings where customer demand has softened.
The market comprises many diverse segments with different growth profiles and is subject to growth through innovation.
PERSONAL CARE 401 0% Sales of Personal care products including cosmetics remained static, with contract wins in Europe and increased sales at RPC Promens Hefei China in personal care, offset by some contract losses in cosmetics.
Globalisation continues to drive demand, with good growth opportunities existing in Asia and North America.
BEVERAGE 383 0% Beverage sales overall were flat.
There was good growth in the GCS businesses with an increase in sports caps sales, growth from new lightweighted caps developed for a major multinational and growth in wines and spirits closures.
These offset lower sales in single serve coffee capsules which slowed temporarily due to customer dual sourcing in Europe and there was also a reduction in demand in the USA.
In the market, overall demand for single serve systems is expected to continue as evidenced by the commercial launch of a single serve tea system SpecialT in Europe during the year.
Growth is expected to resume through new capsule and patented closure projects.
HEALTHCARE 130 1 % There was good growth in over-the-counter packaging sales, but medical devices sales decreased mainly due to a gradual decline in demand for the older product ranges and the cancellation of a major product launch.
However, the overall demand for health care projects is increasing and with the acquisition of Plastiape, RPC is well positioned to grow this business.
In addition there was a further 64m of packaging The Group also substantially completed the At RPC Bramlage the related synergy realisation sales by businesses which are in the synergy realisation projects of the Promens programmes in Germany and Slovakia, resulting Non-packaging segment.
packaging sites during the year, with a further in the closure of Pulheim, were completed, and four sites closed Blyes, LAigle, Kerkrade, restructurings at the French operations at Marolles The rigid plastic packaging market is forecast Halstead and a fifth site closure at Bjaeverskov transferring business to Monastir, Tunisia and at to grow at above GDP over the next three years Denmark announced as part of a Nordic Geovreisset transferring manufacturing capability which will continue to present opportunities restructuring.
Projects in RPC Promens at to La Roche and Bellignat were well advanced.
for the Packaging business to continue to grow Kutenholz, Hockenheim and Ettlingen were The RPC Superfos site at Old Dalby was also organically both inside and outside Europe, completed, withintegration activities at Gent and closed and sold, with its business transferred to through innovation and continuing to launch Eke nearingcompletion and a second phase of sites at Oakham and Blackburn.
turnkey projects from its extended platforms in changes to the Theessen site commenced.
theAmericas and the Far East.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW Continued NON-PACKAGING 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Sales m 381.9 297.0 REVENUE Adjusted operating profit m 62.0 40.9 Return on sales 16.2% 13.8% 382M Return on net operating assets 32.4% 24.4% 2016: 297M The Non-packaging businesses of the Group first standalone strategic acquisition, Shenzhen comprise the RPC Ace division, RPC Promens Roto, Howyecen Automotive Electronic Company Strata Products and ESE World, and RPC Bramlage Limited HYC, an existing supplier with capability Vehicle Engineering.
The impact of acquisitions for printing, forming and cutting of foils for the on sales is largely attributable to the full year automotive and smart electronics markets.
impact of Strata Products, which was acquired RPC Promens Roto and RPC Bramlage Vehicle in November 2015, and ESE World, which was Engineering, which manufacture plastic parts for acquired in January 2017.
Acquisitions contributed trucks and specialty vehicles from sites in the 40m to sales and after taking account of foreign Netherlands, France, Estonia, Germany and the exchange translation impacts of 39m like-for-like Czech Republic, performed ahead of expectations RONOA basis sales increased by 4%.
with increases in sales volumes and profits over The RPC Ace division, based in China, operates the period, and additional orders for longer term 32.4% a world class mould design and manufacturing sales secured.
The cost base of these operations capability, supplying complex moulds to both have been optimised during the integration 2016: 24.4% internal and external customers and provides process with further investment planned.
the Group with an Asian precision engineering RPC Promens Roto business, which includes platform for manufacturing high added value Splast, serving the fish and agricultural co-engineered injection moulded products.
industries, continued to focus on its markets It serves, alongside packaging markets, medical, in Europe and the Americas, with its operation lifestyle, power and automotive end-markets.
at Ahmedabad India sold in the period.
In the The business traded ahead of expectations during former Promens vehicles division, significant the period, with profits considerably enhanced, factory layout changes were made at Zevenaar.
particularly in automotive components, having Strata Products performed particularly strongly, secured new contracts with several major with sales up 10% with new contracts secured western vehicle manufactures, and in mould with major UK DIY stores.
tool sales where a higher proportion of complex and technologically advanced tool designs The ESE business, acquired in January 2017, commanded higher margins.
With the slowdown contributed 25m to sales and will be a material in GDP growth in China abating and the renminbi contributor to this segment in future years.
depreciating against the major currencies, Ace These non-packaging products are attributed was able to benefit from the improved economic to the Technical components end market, with environment.
New contracts for Lifestyle products packaging sales of 64m being reported in the were secured and a third electroplating line was Packaging segment.
installed at the Zhuhai site during the period, facilitating the growth in sales of electroplating and spray painting for specialist automotive and other products.
In January 2017 Ace made its 36 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 NON-FINANCIAL KPIS RPC has three main non-financial key performance indicators KPIs which provide perspectives on the Groups progress in improving its contribution to employee welfare and the environment.
12 months to 12 months to 31 March 31 March Continuing operations 2017 2016 1 Reportable accident frequency rate 534 925 Electricity usage per tonne kWh T 1,965 1,981 Water usage per tonne L T 795 702 1 Reportable accident frequency rate RAFR is defined as the number of accidents resulting in more than three days off work, excluding accidents where an employee is travelling to or from work, divided by the average number of employees, multiplied by 100,000.
The Groups health and safety performance OUTLOOK realised a step change as the reportable accident The implementation of the Vision 2020 growth frequency rate decreased significantly compared strategy is progressing well, reflected in a with last year, following continued focus on health good trading performance in 2016 17 with and safety across the Group, and in particular continued organic growth and achieving record the concerted efforts made to bring the former profitability levels with robust cash generation.
Promens and GCS sites up to the RPC standard.
Acquisitions made since the launch of the strategy A programme of assessment, review and in 2013 continue to add value including the recent improvement is underway for the BPI and other GCS and BPI acquisitions, whose performance acquired sites.
in the year has been better than expected.
The recently completed Letica acquisition will The Group continues to make stringent efforts provide an enhanced platform for growth in North to improve its efficient usage of electricity and America and has made a good start under RPC water.
Electricity usage per tonne reduced, with ownership.
Going forward, the Group continues the replacement of older machinery with more to explore opportunities for growth in line with its modern energy conserving equivalents and strategy.
The new financial year has started in line inclusion of more modern machinery from some with managements expectations.
of the recent acquisitions more than offsetting the higher consumption per polymer tonne converted associated with the manufacture of higher value PIM VERVAAT added products.
Water usage and recycling Chief Executive initiatives include closed loop cooling systems introduced to manufacturing sites across the 7 June 2017 Group.
The changes in water usage largely reflect the impact of the GCS sites acquired at the end of last year.
