Clients Legal Company Secretary Finance Workflow Transformation HR Technology Operating review The shape of our business today Professional Services P. 15 & Connected Workspace Cleaning & P. 16 Environmental Services P. 18 Security P. 20 Catering P. 22 Engineering Services P. 24 Public Services Optimally structured business Managing our business responsibly In January 2017, the Company announced a new We manage Mitie for long-term success.
We operate in a responsible way, in accordance with our code of conduct, organisation structure and a new leadership team.
The financial and operating performance of our six divisions minimise our impact on the environment and recognise that reflect this new organisation, and the way we run the diversity among our employees will benefit our organisation.
A restructure of the support functions is also There is one woman on our Board of Directors and seven underway to ensure P&L accountability and consistent men, 103 female senior managers and 458 men, and policies across our group functions.
21,066 women across the Group in total, compared with 31,732 men.
Business KPIs We also realise that our engagement with the In addition to the Group KPIs detailed in the preceding communities where we operate contributes towards pages, we have highlighted a select number of business our licence to operate.
KPIs linking strategy directly to execution.
Health & Safety is a priority, and this year our RIDDOR reportable rate improved by 4% to 2.02 per 1,000 people.
Our employee engagement score changed to 45%, and our Net Promoter Score NPS measurement of customer satisfaction changed to -1.
Full details of our strategy for sustainability, our statistics and our achievements during the year can be seen on our website www.
com sustainability 14 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Professional Services & Connected Workspace Professional Services & Connected Workspace is our new consultancy services division that thinks Performance strategically, operates collaboratively, and leverages 2016 technology to make a real difference to our clients m Restated 2017 real estate and facilities services.
By combining Revenue 97.9 90.9 our consultancy capabilities with strategic account 1 Adjusted revenue 97.9 90.9 management, we are advising our clients on how to save them money and improve their working environments.
Operating profit before other items 5.5 4.2 Linking these capabilities with the new technologies and 1 Adjusted operating profit 5.6 6.7 analytics incorporated in our Connected Workspace Order book 190 221 platform, we are very well placed to take our services Beyond FM.
Mitie has over 3,000 major clients and a wide product offering, which provides us with a wealth FY2017 operational highlights of opportunities to deliver more to our clients by crossselling and expanding service delivery.
The division reported 90.9m of revenue and 4.2m of operating profit before other items.
The adjusted operating The professional services team brings together our profit was up 20% from previous year.
This is a relatively consultancy businesses, including Source8, Mitie Waste and new division, formed in the last quarter of FY17.
Over the Utilyx Energy Services, allowing us to develop and provide last 12 months, the combined business saw a significant comprehensive and joined-up propositions for our clients.
increase in consulting activities with existing and new Our capabilities are aligned with our Real Estate and clients.
Despite revenue decline from the Waste business, it Facilities Management offerings, and include property secured contracts with JLL, a large national leisure operator, and real estate, technology, risk management, energy and expanded existing contracts with Network Rail and and sustainability.
Our strategic sales and account Manchester Airport Group.
The professional services team management team has been re-built under new was engaged to deliver strategic planning, real estate leadership, with new processes, to better target and reduction, and design and move projects for prestigious manage our most important strategic accounts.
Within this division we are building the Connected Next 12 months Workspace solutions and capabilities.
The Connected Our focus is to differentiate Mities proposition in the market Workspace is a set of evolving technology-driven through the provision of world-class professional services solutions that will enable Mitie to improve the delivery and industry-leading Connected Workspace solutions.
With of facilities services and provide superior value to our the reach of our products, the extent of our client base and clients.
For example, we are supporting a 20% estate our 53,000 colleagues, we will collect and analyse real-time reduction target through design and smarter workplace data, and develop targeted strategies that enhance the management for one of our largest customers.
We are productivity and wellbeing of our clients workspaces.
using real-time data capture for analysis and monitoring to drive efficiencies through occupancy-based energy controls and maintenance regimes.
See pages 26 and 27 and the Appendix on page 174. www.
com 15 Operating review continued Cleaning & Environmental Services We remain one of the largest cleaning services providers in the UK, offering a full suite of cleaning Performance services as well as specialist services, such as pest 2016 control, landscaping, and gritting.
The new division m Restated 2017 unites our Cleaning business with our Pest Control Revenue 408.7 395.4 and Landscaping businesses Environmental Services.
1 Adjusted revenue 407.1 399.0 Waste Management, which previously sat within Operating profit before other Environmental Services, has been realigned with items 25.5 6.0 Professional Services due to the advisory nature 1 Adjusted operating profit 23.6 20.3 of its services.
Order book 894 811 FY2017 operational highlights The business reported 395.4m of revenue and 6.0m Operational KPI highlights 2016 2017 of operating profit before other items.
Adjusted operating NPS -10 -14 profit was down 14% year on year to 20.3m.
The significant Workplace 0% 15% under performance in Cleaning was partly offset by the strong performance from Environmental Services.
Technology has a key role to play in the shift towards a Cleaning demand-based workforce where cleaning is performed at It was a difficult year for Cleaning, with revenue down optimal efficiency.
It will also allow us to improve employee 5% with further deterioration in margins.
The business engagement, enhance our internal communications, faces significant structural headwinds from service cement the Mitie Way of doing things, and create genuine commoditisation, low barriers to entry, and efficiencies through a connected workforce.
Environmental Services Despite a difficult trading year, the business secured a The Environmental Services segment has outperformed number of contracts with high-profile customers, including this year, contributing c. 50% to overall divisional adjusted an expanded street furniture cleaning and maintenance operating profits.
We saw strong revenue growth of 23% contract with Transport for London TfL, a renewal with and adjusted operating profit growth of 4%.
Hinchingbrooke Health Care NHS Trust and an expansion with Amazon.
The pest control business had a solid year with continued organic profit growth.
It renewed contracts with Mitchell & Our client retention rate for FY17 was below expectations.
The business continues to Our NPS score tells a similar story, with a slippage of expand by targeting growth in food manufacturing, retail 4 points, but we anticipate an improvement as we realign and distribution, as well as through innovative solutions our sales force and bolster our proposition post the such as drone technology.
Used with a number of our recent restructure.
clients, drone technology enables safer and more efficient We recognise the structural headwinds of the overall inspections.
The business has also invested extensively in Cleaning sector and we are responding to these pressures an operations platform, to improve the efficiencies of our by: extending our capabilities into more technical areas of technicians, customer experience and reporting.
work: simplifying our overhead structure: and introducing Landscaping has had an exceptional year following the improved technology for better workforce management.
successful mobilisation of contracts secured at the end of To improve our workforce management and employee FY16.
The business has commenced work on several new engagement, we have accelerated the implementation of contracts: Merseyrail, NHS Property Services, JP Morgan Workplace, a handheld-enabled, all-in-one operations and The Southern Co-operative.
However earnings from portal for scheduling, payslips and supplies.
In FY16, there gritting were softer than expected due to a milder than were no cleaning operatives on Workplace, at the end of average winter in the UK.
FY17 there were 15%, and our target is to have more than 80% of our operatives on the portal by the end of FY18.
Next 12 months The wide adoption of Workplace will also allow the Over the next 12 months, the focus will be on looking business to better communicate with our employees, after our customers better, by getting the basics right.
measure and analyse the productivity patterns of our This means simplifying our business structure and making operatives, and enable rapid roll-out of best practices.
operations more efficient and effective.
Our goal is to transform our cost base by eliminating role duplication and ineffective processes, and to improve productivity by using existing toolkits and standardising how we operate.
See pages 26 and 27 and the Appendix on page 174.
16 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Birmingham Airport Birmingham Airports aim each day is to deliver a truly Birmingham Airport is the UKs world-class service for the nine million passengers that travel through the airport each year.
rd With an increasing footfall and an environment that is 3 largest continuously changing, the highest standard of facilities airport outside of London is core to enhancing the passenger experience.
Our promise from the beginning has been to exceed all stakeholders expectations: our clients, customers and We clean employees, which is underpinned by our continual drive towards innovative and technology-led solutions.
11,000 This year, weve introduced robotic technology, which has improved operational efficiencies, helped to deliver square metres at Birmingham Airports terminal an exceptional cleaning performance, and assisted our cleaners who were using manually operated auto-scrubbers.
For the second year, weve received the Kimberley-Clarke Golden Service Award for the As an additional resource to our cleaning team at Birmingham Airport, the robotics have enabled our cleaners to focus on higher-skilled, value-added tasks, resulting in increased staff morale and productivity.
Best Cleaned Furthermore, by utilising ultraviolet light technology, Transport Hub with Birmingham Airport the robot removes 99.9% of viruses and bacteria, and their advanced water saving systems reduce the consumables required for cleaning, leading to significant costs savings for the client.
com 17 Operating review continued Security We are currently the 2nd largest integrated security services provider in the UK, uniquely delivering Performance a full suite of services and products, including 2016 security personnel, remote monitoring, mobile m Restated 2017 response solutions, and fire and security systems - Revenue 364.4 404.2 all underpinned by a risk-based ethos.
Working across 1 Adjusted revenue 364.4 404.2 all sectors we are the leading provider in the transport Operating profit before other and aviation and retail sectors along with critical items 20.8 16.1 security environments.
1 Adjusted operating profit 19.8 19.9 The new Security division comprises Security Management, Order book 776 876 Front of House, Document Management, and our employee vetting business - Procius.
The grouping of these businesses Operational KPI highlights 2016 2017 allows us to further develop our technology capabilities and NPS 9 15 enhance solutions in a collaborative and integrated way.
Customer retention 77% 84% Our goal is to build upon and strengthen our market-leading Staff retention 79% 81% position, continue to influence buying behaviours, and cement long-term partnerships with our customers through innovative operating models.
market is trending towards the increased use of technology.
In a highly competitive market, our focus is to deliver The business has a national footprint offering a full range of sustainable growth through a converged service offering, document process outsourcing services ranging from challenging traditional procurement approaches by raising managed print solutions and outsourcing of mail room awareness of risk-based, technology-driven solutions.
activities to a complete customised restructuring of We want to be known as industry and thought leaders in document work flows and processes.
Recent deployments risk-based deployment, across all the sectors we operate include the implementation of hybrid mail into the second in.
We strive to attract and retain our customers through largest local authority in the UK as well as one of the largest the provision of exceptional service, and we are pleased private sector landlords and new mail tracking technology to report a 67% increase in our NPS score in FY17.
into clients including: PwC, Holman Fenwick Willan and Herbert Smith Freehills.
FY2017 operational highlights Our front of house business was the recipient of the The division reported 404.2m of revenue and 16.1m prestigious Customer Focus Award at this years UK of operating profit before other items.
Adjusted operating Customer Satisfaction Awards.
However, our trading profit remained relatively flat, margin deteriorated, performance was significantly impacted by contract impacted by contract losses from Front of House.
In FY18 the business will undergo a rebrand sales performance has resulted in a 13% growth in our and repositioning of its offering in the market, which will order book to 876m.
strengthen its market position and ensure our delivery Earlier this year, we were awarded an expanded contract meets our customers needs.
The business is looking to with leading supermarket chain, Sainsburys, where we have advance under new leadership and move towards implemented a risk-based deployment model, applying sustainable growth for the coming years.
software and handheld technology to capture incidents Procius, our employee vetting business, which is one of the and analyse data to drive informed decision making.
UKs largest providers and the leader in the transport and Over the last 12 months, the Security Management aviation sector of pre and post-employment screening and team has renewed a number of major contracts, including criminal records checking services, continues to deliver Citigroup, Technicolor, John Radcliffe Hospital, DP World strong growth.
In FY17, we saw an increasing demand for and Strathclyde Passenger Transport.
Customer retention our services across existing customers such as British rate closed at 84% vs. 77% in the prior year.
In FY17, our new Airways, Jet2 and EasyJet along with significant contract business wins came in at 30% above the previous year.
wins, including Ovo Energy and Arsenal Football Club.
Notable contract awards include the expansion of Procius has also widened its product offering to cover a Sainsburys, London City Airport, BNP Paribas and the broader range of employment lifecycle services, which will NHS Property Services.
Our sales pipeline has doubled deliver further growth opportunities in FY18.
We believe this is only the beginning of a paradigm shift towards innovative risk-based solutions, Next 12 months and we will continue to refine our proposition and look to We expect further growth in FY18, supported by a solid gain further market share to become the industrys delivery model combining risk analysis, technology leading security provider.
deployment, off-site monitoring and responsive services and we will continue to refine our proposition in order to Our Document Management business had a solid year with challenge and lead the market with our approach to 100% client retention and organic growth across its transformational client contracts.
Similar to security, the document management 1.
18 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Sainsburys Our partnership with Sainsburys is based on Sainsburys is the UKs second largest transparency and innovation, and built around a unique supermarket and employs around Safer Community model designed to ensure the safety of colleagues, visitors and members of the public.
Sainsburys Safer Communities SSCs was introduced to 161,000 people pilot a new way of working within the security management contract.
We analyse the risk profile of each store and create a tailored security service based on an individual In November 2016, we were awarded a stores threat profile: because we understand that some stores are more likely to be a target to shoplifting than others, and that posting four security guards in a low-risk store is a poor use of our clients budget.
By deploying our 3-year multi-skilled security officers in line with risk, we can contract to deliver integrated risk management, improve safety while reducing the cost of the service.
technology and manned guarding services across its Technology underpins how we work together, with entire UK portfolio several market-leading systems implemented to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the contract, including our Security Manager and Resilience SMART tool.
We employ SMART provides real-time incident management and alerts, building systems monitoring, and risk pattern 2,500 and crime trend analysis.
Its also linked with automatic number plate recognition ANPR cameras at Sainsburys security colleagues across its 1,400 UK locations fuel station forecourts.
By using our SMART systems business intelligence module, Sainsburys can now analyse and share relevant information within its business to prevent repeat offenders across their estate.
com 19 Operating review continued Catering Our goal is to be recognised as the UK and Irelands most distinctive, tech-enabled workplace catering experts, Performance where the wellbeing of our clients employees is high on 2016 the agenda.
We look to achieve this by concentrating m Restated 2017 on our core strength: creating food with personality, Revenue 126.6 134.3 served by people who are passionate about delivering 1 Adjusted revenue 126.6 132.7 the highest quality of service.
Our catering division is Operating profit comprised of Gather & Gather our core brand, and before other items 5.4 4.7 Creativevents our specialist outdoor catering business.
1 Adjusted operating profit 5.3 5.3 Our people have always played a major part in our overall Order book 463 458 proposition, and we are proud to report our staff retention rate increased to 71% in FY17.
Operational KPI highlight 2016 2017 NPS N A 6 In FY17, Gather & Gather received two prestigious Staff retention 70% 71% awards in recognition of its innovative approach.
The first award was the BIFM Brand Impact Award, recognising Employee engagement 65% 75% Gather & Gathers founding mission of bringing food and people together to enhance the workplace.
The second award was won by head chef, Clark Crawley, who won retail bars, food and hospitality for a range of prestigious Gold as part of the English National Culinary team in the clients, including Royal Ascot, the RHS Chelsea Flower Culinary Olympics.
Show, the Farnborough Air Show and Lords Cricket Ground.
FY2017 operational highlights Next 12 months The business reported revenue of 134.3m and operating The focus over the next 12 months is to fine-tune our profit before other items of 4.7m.
Despite a solid 6% top offering, and broaden the Gather & Gather brand and its line growth, Adjusted operating profit was flat due to reach.
We have established a strong presence in the media contrasting performances between Creative Events and sector but there are attractive opportunities in the financial Gather and Gather.
Our goal is to build on our recent contract wins, and show that we can adapt our style Gather & Gather delivered solid revenue growth, to suit professional services firms.
underpinned by a number of new wins in Ireland, including a contract expansion with LinkedIn.
Our order book remains relatively stable at 458m.
We have also established a new baseline for NPS of 6.
External market forces such as food inflation have pushed up our cost base and impacted our margin.
Food inflation is an ongoing factor.
We believe that our core offering is attractive and marketable, as we pay particular attention to the provenance of our ingredients, how the food is served and how it impacts workplace productivity.
We continue to win contracts over bulge bracket competitors due to our customised approach to service delivery.
Food is an integral driver of workplace productivity, and we are engaging our own team and industry experts to develop technology that will form a key pillar of Mities overall connected workspace proposition.
For example, Gather & Gather has introduced a mobile application to improve the Gather & Gather operates two bars at the top of the Shard customer experience.
The app is live with a number of skyscraper London and western Europes tallest building prestigious clients, allowing our customers to pre-order, and are expecting to serve over 660,000 visitors in 2017. collect loyalty rewards, leave feedback and receive targeted push notifications.
Creativevents had a challenging year, impacted by external factors such as adverse weather conditions and reduced attendances at events following terrorism incidents in Europe.
Furthermore, we continued to exit non-profitable contracts after recent changes to management.
Despite the challenging backdrop of FY17, we continue to provide 1.
20 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Creating an inspirational environment with Vodafone In January 2016, we secured a 5-year contract to provide food services across Vodafones UK property portfolio We were awarded the Hospitality Assured accreditation by the Institute of Hospitality, just 6 months after being appointed With workplace and employee wellbeing becoming Gather & Gather cater for increasingly important to the corporate agenda, organisations property and people objectives have never been more aligned.
9,000 Gather & Gather is supporting clients to achieve their Vodafone employees every day across 12 locations workplace wellbeing initiatives by placing food, social spaces and people at the heart of decision making.
Since securing the food services contract for Vodafones UK property portfolio in 2016, weve worked closely with the Vodafone wellbeing team and Nuffield Health to create a wellbeing partnership which supports mental, social and physical health.
By working collaboratively across the service lines, it enables us to identify health concerns on a site by site basis and tailor specific health promotion programmes, whilst taking into consideration demographics, purchasing habits and food trends.
Weve introduced a Live Well range of nutritionally balanced and portion-controlled food options, designed by our team of nutritionists and development chefs, along with dedicated wellbeing ambassadors on every site.
Additionally, we hold regular nutrition workshops and consultation days with the Gather & Gather nutritionists, as we believe customer engagement and education is key to influencing food purchasing behaviours.
We believe that whatever the time of day, the need for food creates a chance to connect.
Its not simply about serving up an outstanding breakfast or lunch: its about taking the opportunity to bring people together to create a happier, healthier and more productive workforce.
com 21 Operating review continued Engineering Services We are one of the leading providers of engineering services in the UK, delivering technical and building Performance maintenance services across a wide range of sectors and real estate assets.
In addition to our core 2016 m Restated 2017 maintenance offer, we provide critical specialist services Revenue 800.3 797.4 such as heating, cooling, lighting, water treatment and 1,2 building controls.
Adjusted revenue 788.4 809.1 Operating profit We have combined our Hard FM business, and the before other items 53.7 0.2 management team of Integrated FM, into one division: 2 Adjusted operating profit 42.0 37.9 Engineering Services.
Engineering services has historically Order book 3,325 3,259 been the service line with the largest share of our integrated contracts: therefore, by combining and streamlining Operational KPI highlights 2016 2017 operations, we can create financial and operational synergies.
NPS 16 -16 MiJobs mobile roll out 0% 100% FY2017 operational highlights The overall business reported revenue of 797.4m and operating profit before other items of 0.2m.
The Adjusted operating profit declined 9.8% to 37.9m.
Adjusted operating margin also declined from 5.3% to 4.7%.
The underlying trading performance has been impacted by lower margin on chargeable works.
Nevertheless with contract extensions and new business wins our order book remains steady at 3.3bn.
Despite the challenges above, we continued to pursue a number of large opportunities and have delivered the following: extension and expansion our contract with Thales retention of Allianz Insurance expansion of our contract at Heathrow Airport This will begin with the integration of our core workforce, to an extension with the Scottish Parliament create a highly flexible and skilled team with the optimum retention and expansion with Manchester Airport Group support systems.
We will automate work flow management for scheduling, tasking and billing.
Our engineers will have an extension with Lakeside North Harbour business the necessary training and tools to operate in the safest centre.
and most effective manner and deliver the highest quality of The business also successfully mobilised contracts with service for our customers.
NHS Property Services and CTIL with combined revenue in excess of 40m p. a.
Longer term, our vision is to use technology to link outputs to the Connected Workspace, providing the most We see a significant amount of untapped potential in both responsive and valued service in the market.
By using a revenue and margins, given our critical mass in the UK.
With combination of existing building systems and environment this in mind, we have fast-tracked the roll-out of a sensors, along with energy data, asset data, and workplace standardised mobile workflow solution, MiJobs.
Prior to data, we will provide tailored solutions to suit each clients MiJobs, the business had several different mobile-enabled unique requirements.
workflow solutions, and we have migrated all mobile engineers to MiJobs over the last 12 months.
Our national footprint coupled with more effective workflow management, will mean improved operational efficiency and superior service delivery for our customers.
Next 12 months Over the next 12 months, our focus is on getting the basics 1.
The difference between Reported and Adjusted revenue relates right.
The business is embarking on a multi-year largely to adjustments to POC balances and accrued income as part transformation programme, designed to standardise and of the Accounting Review.
simplify our operations to deliver the most efficient and 2.
See pages 26 and 27 and the effective service, at the lowest cost to our clients.
22 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Engineering: The Scottish Government Achieving a unique carbon status We complete In July 2016, we helped the Scottish Government retain its unique status as the only government in the world to hold the Carbon Trust Triple Standard.
19,000 The Carbon Trust Standards are independent certifications planned preventative recognising organisations that successfully measure, maintenance tasks manage and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, water for the Scottish use and waste, while demonstrating leadership within their Government per industry by making real year-on-year progress.
year, covering an Weve been providing a range of FM services to the Scottish expansive geographic Government since 2010, from security and landscaping to area from Stranraer to engineering and waste management.
We also maintain and the Shetlands.
monitor the building fabric, heating and lighting, which was instrumental in helping the Scottish Government achieve its sustainability ambitions.
com 23 Operating review continued Public Services Property Management and Care & Custody Property Management Performance The Property Management business provides a wide range of maintenance services in the UK, predominantly 2016 m Restated 2017 to clients in the social housing sector.
The business also delivers claims handling and repair services for Revenue 313.5 257.7 insurance companies, and is the largest painting and Adjusted revenue 313.5 257.7 commercial refurbishment roofing provider in the UK.
Operating profit loss before other items 16.8 4.5 FY2017 operational highlights 1 Adjusted operating profit 16.2 12.3 Property Management reported revenue of 257.7m and Order book 639 663 an operating loss before other items of 4.5m.
Adjusted operating profit was disappointing at 12.3m down 24% year on year.
This was impacted by a shortfall of in-year Operational KPI highlights 2016 2017 project revenue, affecting both top-line growth and the NPS 43 40 overall blended margin.
Revenue from the social housing business was negatively Technology has been an integral part of our integrated and impacted by delays in client capital spend, with its adjusted partnership offerings, as it brings efficiency and decision profit also impacted by a reduction in higher margin project making benefits to our clients.
For example, the introduction works.
In adjusted profit terms, the painting business had a of our thermal-imaging drone service to help with home positive year, and the roofing business remained relatively surveys.
We will continue to invest and deploy technology flat versus previous year.
to improve the value we provide to our customers.
In light of the performance during the year, the Board has Next 12 months carefully reviewed the carrying value of goodwill and while The main focus for the next 12 months is to get the basics it is confident that the business plan is deliverable, it has also come to the conclusion that an impairment of 15.0m right, invest in our people, deliver the highest quality service to customers at the right cost for our clients and is appropriate, reducing the goodwill to 70.2m FY16: 85.2m continue to invest in the communities in which we work.
The business has had a challenging trading year.
Nevertheless, our order book has remained buoyant, growing 4% to 663m.
The current order book contains over 100m of annual revenues held within long-term c. 10yr partnering contracts in housing, with a blue chip client list.
Even though our NPS score declined marginally year-onyear, we did achieve a 100% in year success rate on long-term maintenance housing contract re-bids.
Under new leadership, the sales and marketing team has relaunched its value proposition to address the changing landscape of the social housing market, developing two new propositions: Integrated Property Management bundling services to provide enhanced asset management services Partnership Solutions to provide innovative long-term solutions to address sector spending challenges The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham H&F has Our goal is to differentiate our offering in a relatively welcomed our thermal-imaging drone service to help survey commoditised market, by creating long-term partnerships, its homes and quickly identify repairs.
In place of unsightly thinking differently, and working innovatively to achieve our and expensive scaffolding, the drones detect problems with customers strategic goals.
buildings faster, resulting in an improved service for H&F tenants, and long-term cost savings for the client.
We have seen some early traction, with notable wins including a 7 7yr Integrated Property Management contract with national social housing provider, Home Group, worth 12.5m p. a: and a 5 5 5yr Integrated Property Management contract with new client Islington and 1.
See pages 26 and 27 and the Shoreditch Housing Association.
24 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Care & Custody Our Care & Custody business delivers a range of public Performance services for vulnerable adults in secure environments, 2016 on behalf of the UK government.
These include m Restated 2017 managing immigration detention centres for the Revenue 35.5 46.4 Home Office, forensic medical examiner FME 1 Adjusted revenue 35.5 46.5 and custody support services for police forces Operating profit across England and Wales, and offender healthcare before other items 2.1 2.2 provision in two prisons on behalf of NHS England.
1 Adjusted operating profit 2.7 2.9 FY2017 operational highlights Order book 310 244 Care & Custody had a good year, delivering revenue growth of 31% up from 35.5m in previous year to 46.4m.
Operational KPI highlights 2016 2017 Operating profit before other items was 2.1m in FY2016 Inspector feedback Good Good and 2.2m this year.
Adjusted operating profit was 2.9m Absence rate 6% 8% up 7.4% year on year, despite building some overhead relating to upcoming bids.
Following the acquisition of Tascor Medical Services Next 12 months now Care & Custody Health, we have won c. 50m of new Our focus is to build on existing relationships, ensuring we business over the year.
Expansion into the forensic medical have a clear understanding of our clients needs, and design services market helped secure several flagship contract solutions that meet and exceed their expectations.
This wins in the police FME segment.
We have also seen involves maintaining the highest standards for those in significant growth in the sales pipeline, with an increase our care.
We recognise that our policies and processes from 1.6bn to 2.9bn due to several large Home must reflect and respond to relevant legislation, and actively Office contracts coming to market.
We underpin these principles by promoting a culture of openness, One of our flagship contract awards was for the provision transparency and high performance.
of FME services to Greater Manchester Police: a contract which also includes liaison and diversion services, delivered through partnerships with the NHS and the Cheshire and Greater Manchester Community Rehabilitation Company.
We envisage this model of contract being adopted by other police forces, which should bolster our pipeline in the future.
In order to deliver high-quality services, we need to attract and retain the highest quality people.
We have created specific career paths and provide access to training and education.
We are currently pursuing a number of options to develop training and apprenticeships for detention custody officers, clinicians and managers, to upskill them and to create long-term careers for ambitious and motivated individuals who want to join our team.
We see this approach as vital to helping secure a sustainable recruitment pipeline: with an ageing and On the Greater Manchester Police contract, our tightening labour market, attracting and retaining specialist staff will conduct early health assessments talented individuals in this sector can be difficult.
of approximately 134,000 detainees in custody over a three year period.
