National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 13 Strategic Report Operating environment Our operating environment is shaped by the regulatory choices governments make to respond to the changing needs of energy consumers.
In meeting these demands, regulators seek to balance often conflicting objectives.
In the last year we have seen a shift in focus to affordability and moving to a low carbon economy.
Affordability Security of supply Sustainability The cost of the energy is an issue for The energy system is in a phase of transition Our world is changing as a result of human consumers, industry, energy providers, from high to low carbon.
Coal plants are activity and its impact on the environment.
Consumers closing down and being replaced with The Paris Agreement sends a clear signal expect a reliable energy system that delivers nuclear, renewables and gas, as well as that the shift to a low-carbon economy is gas when and where it is needed.
They pay emerging battery storage.
During the inevitable, and it is now accepted that for the cost of this infrastructure and transition, margins need to be monitored and sustainable business is good business improvements to it through the network costs actively managed as we move to a generation delivering value for people, the environment part of their energy bills.
The costs are mix with greater volumes of intermittent and business.
This includes reducing subject to regulatory approval.
greenhouse gas emissions, managing nonrenewable resources, and preserving and protecting habitats and ecosystems.
The Government set out proposals for an Energy security remains a priority for the In December 2015, the Paris Agreement industrial strategy that confirms the high Government, and a number of balancing tools entered into force.
The Agreement requires priority placed on affordability of energy.
are available to manage capacity.
The signatories to commit to reducing global Ofgem proposed a number of adjustments to Department for Business, Energy and greenhouse gas emissions with the aim of allowances for Gas Transmission following its Industrial Strategy BEIS introduced limiting increases in global average mid-period review of the RIIO-T1 price amendments to the UK capacity market to temperature.
As new technologies are adopted, improve long-term planning of capacity and there are fears that low-income customers reduce Investing in the low-carbon economy is a may not have access to cheaper, cleaner costs to consumers.
The BEIS green sources of energy.
paper on industrial strategy included a focus on developing education and skills for energy innovation.
Our regulated business continues to strive for We continue to support BEIS and Ofgem on Reducing greenhouse gas emissions forms greater efficiency to help offset the impact of capacity market policy development and part of the Companys KPIs see page 12. costs for energy and capital investment applicant readiness.
We also continue to work We are working with customers and programmes.
We continue to find innovative with our delivery partners to achieve stakeholders to gather insights on the future ways to reduce both the time and cost to operational milestones.
role of gas in managing the transition to a repair or replace assets, minimising the costs low-carbon future.
We continue to work with to consumers.
BEIS and Ofgem on the development of future energy systems as we respond to the We voluntarily set aside 150 million of the shift to low-carbon energy in the UK.
proceeds from the sale of a majority interest in our Gas Distribution business that will be used to benefit consumers.
