Operating review Merchandise Our merchandise segment comprises food and accessories for a wide range of popular pets.
This is offered in our stores, with a wider range available online.
Food Our Merchandise brands Merchandise revenue Revenue split % Advanced Nutrition Grocery food Treats 716.7m Other food 2.9% Accessories Pet homes and habitats Toys, collars, leads, clothing Revenue split Growth and other accessories Food 395.1m 3.3% Health & Hygiene products Accessories 321.6m 2.4% Food Pet food is the largest part of our We continue to innovate strongly in this Innovation is critical to growth in this business, generating revenues of segment and this year we introduced Step category.
Progress follows trends that 395.1m in 2017.
This represented 55% Up to Naturals, a bridging brand to provide mirror those in home furnishing and of our Merchandise revenues.
We provide a first step for customers to improve the fashion.
Our private label brands support a range of diets for dogs, cats, small diet for their pets.
Our 3 Peaks brand mammals, fish, reptiles and birds.
delivers a range of harnesses, collars In pet treats we have expanded our range and leads for active dog owners and our Our ranges of dog and cat food are to include more natural products, as well new Baby Bea brand provides scratchers planned to provide customers with a full as items that mirror human food trends and toys that have been specifically spectrum of dietary choices to suit their but are formulated particularly for pets designed for kittens, incorporating pet and their pocket.
This stretches from such as popcorn and muffins.
advice from cat behaviourists, to grocery brands, which are widely available supporttheir development.
in supermarkets and other outlets, Grocery pet food, which is also sold in throughto our comprehensive range of supermarkets and discounters, forms the Integrating online with stores seamlessly Advanced Nutrition diets, which are a more other major segment in the food category.
Our in-store ranges are supported by considered purchase offering significant anexpanded offer of 11,000 products health benefits to dogs and cats.
We have developed Nutrition revenues grew at 4.1% over the Accessories account for 45% of our Order in Store which provides colleagues year.
Pets at Home now has a market Merchandise revenues.
In 2017 revenues with the opportunity to advise customers share of 53% in Advanced Nutrition.
and, using PetPads, place orders from the expanded range while the customer is still Pets at Home own label and our private We range products by pet type.
We have also developed a label brands, such as Wainwrights and include collars and leads, feeding bowls, subscription platform with the option AVA, now account for 31% of our total food clothing, toys, travel and training products tosign up either in-store or online.
Private label afford us great for dogs and cats: housing, bedding and Thisprovides a convenient solution for opportunities to highlight the value of enrichment for small animals: and health customers to receive a regular delivery Advanced Nutrition diets.
In the fourth and hygiene ranges.
ofproducts such as preventative flea quarter we launched Switch & Save treatments in a timely manner to benefit tohighlight the everyday value of our their dogs and cats.
Wainwrights and AVA diets compared F Y16 comparative information presented on a 52 week toother popular brands in the category.
For reconciliation to a 53week statutory basis see page 179.
Pets at Home Group Plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Performance Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Operating review Services Our Services segment comprises first opinion and specialist vet practices, grooming salons and pet insurance, in addition to sales of pets.
Services & Other Our Services brands Services revenue Revenue split % First opinion veterinary practice services Specialist referral veterinary 117.5m centre services 44.5% Grooming salons Insurance Pets Revenue split Growth Vet practice fee income 47.1m 24.6% Other services 70.4m 61.7% Veterinary practices Pets at Home operates the largest partner.
We retain control over the selection and Barkers, our premium segment dog branded network of first opinion veterinary of a new partner if the business is sold.
stores where the spa and bath house are practices in the UK, with 438 practices a major element of our total offer.
The To allow prospective partners to work with operating mainly under the Vets4Pets 290 pet grooming salons make The us before committing to a joint venture brand name.
Two thirds of these practices Groom Room the largest branded chain agreement, we operate a number of are in Pets at Home stores, with the of pet grooming salons in the UK.
practices that are wholly owned by us.
Having The pet grooming market in the UK is Specialist Division entered the market for specialist veterinary highly fragmented.
In addition to having Specialist referral centres are larger and referrals in 2015 16 with the acquisitions strong, national brands, our grooming more valuable business than first opinion of Northwest Veterinary Specialists and operations rely on having highly trained practices.
Recognising the strength of our Anderson Moores, we have subsequently colleagues as stylists in every salon, joint venture model in first opinion, we acquired Eye Vet and Dick White Referrals, delivering a full range of grooming services developed a shared ownership model for expanding our representation significantly.
from our Muddy Buddy, a simple bath our entry into the specialist referrals First Opinion Division and brush, through to styling to breedsegment, which not only allows Directors to We operate the only large-scale joint standard.
Our salons are separated from retain a significant interest in the business, venture veterinary services business in the our stores by fully glazed partition walls, it also supports future growth and clinical UK.
This model affords individual vets the providing customers with an excellent development.
We are already seeing opportunity to partner with us and create viewof our talented colleagues at work.
synergies from consolidating services, their own practice operating under our Pet insurance such as pathology, into one of our centres, brand.
Each joint venture is constituted During the year we made a significant allowing us to build our specialist capability asan independent small business.
These change to our pet insurance offer, forming to the advantage of the Group as a whole.
are funded by a small investment into the a strategic partnership with market leader With four specialist centres now in the business from the vet and the Pets at Petplan.
Previously we offered a range of Group, we have retained the experience Home Vet Group to create the joint venture.
Pets at Home branded insurance products ofmany talented individuals who have A larger independent bank loan provides that were arranged, administered and been instrumental in establishing and forthe fit out and initial working capital underwritten by a third party.
Under the developing these centres of excellence.
The Group receives a new partnership, Pets at Home now This is a powerful resource which will be percentage of the income of the practice in recommend Petplan insurance to any new invaluable to us as we seek to build our return for the services we provide, including insurance customers, while existing Pets presence in the specialist veterinary finance, marketing and systems support.
at Home insurance customers will be segment through organic growth and A service charge is also levied on those invited to renew onto a new Pets at Home bolt-on acquisitions.
practices located in a Pets at Home store.
product underwritten by Petplans parent Pet grooming The partner has access to all the profits company Allianz Insurance plc.
We operate pet grooming salons under of the business once the loans are repaid.
F Y16 comparative information presented on a 52 week two brands: The Groom Room, operating They are also entitled to any increase in basis.
For reconciliation to a 53week statutory basis see primarily in Pets at Home Superstores, value of the business if it is sold to a new page 179.
Pets at Home Group Plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Performance Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
