CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OVERVIEW Rachel English Interim Chair of the Board At present, we have not received any indications of Barrick's intentions Dear shareholders, for future nominee Directors under the Relationship Agreement between Acacia and Barrick.
We will continue to engage on this as part of overall During 2018, the ongoing operating Board composition assessments.
Our Board succession planning activities remain ongoing and we will challenges in Tanzania have continued provide a further update prior to the 2019 AGM.
to provide the backdrop to the Board's In addition to overall Board succession planning, following my appointment as Interim Chair, the Board specifically assessed the skills discussions.
and profile requirement for the Chair position going forward.
As part of this, a Chair profile was agreed against which various candidates could The Strategic Report contains details of steps that the Company has be assessed.
Further information on this profile is set out on page 71. taken, overseen by the Board, to ensure its ongoing resilience during this period and to optimise its mine plans in preparation for when full Throughout the year, the Board continued to be focused on the Group's operations are able to recommence.
From a strategic perspective the relationships with all of its stakeholders: including employees, suppliers Board, through the Independent Committee, also continues to monitor and local communities, as well as shareholders.
"The Board continues closely the ongoing discussions between Barrick and the Government of to recognise the important role the Group plays in supporting both Tanzania ""GoT"", and our position with respect to pursuing arbitration local communities around its existing operations as well as the wider claims against the GoT."
As well as specific projects as part of our Sustainable Communities initiatives, further details of I was appointed as Interim Chair with effect from 1 September 2018 as a which are set out on pages 56 to 70, the Group also continues to result of Kelvin Dushnisky stepping down from the Board following his progress its review of its supply chain with a view to further increasing departure as an executive of Barrick.
On behalf of the Directors annual spend with Tanzanian-owned businesses.
While the Group has I would like to thank Kelvin for his contribution to the Company always pursued a policy of sourcing locally first, where viable, we have during his five-year tenure as Chair.
My priorities since my appointment looked to further increase our commitment here.
We plan to increase our have included ensuring the Company pursues all available avenues annual spend on goods and services with Tanzanian-owned businesses of engagement to resolve these challenges, advancing plans for by 10% during the first half of 2019 compared with the equivalent period orderly Board succession and continuing our strong focus on in 2018.
There would be a further significant increase in local spend in corporate governance.
the event that an appropriate resolution to the disputes with the GoT is I am grateful for the support of my fellow Directors in my role as Interim achieved, so as to allow for the resumption of full operations at Chair and value the range of skills that the various members of the Bulyanhulu.
An analysis of those skills brought by Board members, The Board remains focused on ensuring that Acacia is as resilient to ensure that these reflect an appropriate range and balance of as it can be while continuing to work towards a comprehensive resolution capabilities, has been a major area of focus for the Board during the of our disputes with the GoT, and on ensuring our plans are optimised for latter half of 2018 as part of our wider review and discussion on Board the resumption of full operations as and when the disputes are resolved.
effectiveness, Board composition and succession planning.
This review follows changes to the Board during 2017 and 2018, including the departure of Kelvin Dushnisky in 2018.
As a result of this review, the Nomination and Governance Committee recommended, and the Board agreed, that the Board should seek to appoint new Independent Non-Executive Directors in due course, including one with a strong background in technical mining expertise and Rachel English one with a strong financial background and audit committee experience, Interim Chair of the Board to address Audit Committee succession planning requirements.
In addition, one of the criteria on which the selection will be based is the extent to which the candidate will enhance the diversity of the Board.
Compensation Committee succession planning would also be addressed by virtue of these appointments.
70 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT Board structure Board Management Executive Further support the Responsible for day-to-day committees leadership team Board and comprise the management of our business following key committees: and operations and for Disclosure monitoring detailed performance Reserves and resources of all aspects of our business Capital allocation Board committees Audit EHS&S Nomination & Compensation Independent Committee Committee Governance Committee Committee Committee reviews and oversees the reviews and oversees all aspects monitors financial development of makes recommends overall and implications statements strategy and policy recommendations to remuneration policy of the discussions oversees on Sustainable the Board on its and strategy between Barrick and relationships with Communities, composition and that reviews and the GoT, and any internal and external environmental, of its Committees approves related proposals auditors health and safety reviews and oversees remuneration oversees external and security matters the formulation and arrangements for audit process reviews the adoption of Acacia Executive Directors reviews internal effectiveness of corporate governance and Executive audit plans Sustainable policies and Leadership Team compliance matters Communities, procedures environmental, health and safety and security management programmes and systems 2018 Membership 2018 Membership 2018 Membership 2018 Membership 2018 Membership Andre Falzon Chair Rachel English Chair Rachel English Chair Michael Kenyon Chair Michael Kenyon Chair Rachel English Peter Geleta Michael Kenyon Rachel English Rachel English Steve Lucas Andre Falzon Steve Lucas Steve Lucas Andre Falzon Steve Lucas Non-Executive Chair Executive Director Non-Executive Directors The Chair creates the conditions for overall Board and The CEO is an Executive Director and has Non-Executive Directors have a responsibility to individual Director effectiveness.
The Chair is required responsibility for proposing strategy to the Board, and uphold high standards of integrity and probity and are to demonstrate the highest standards of integrity and for delivering the strategy as agreed.
The CEO has, required to have a strong command of the issues probity, and set clear expectations concerning the with the support of the Executive Leadership Team relevant to the business in order to make a positive Companys culture, values and behaviours, and the ELT, primary responsibility for setting an example to contribution to the Board.
Non-Executive Directors style and tone of Board discussions.
The Chairs role the Companys employees, and communicating to support the Chair and the CEO in instilling the is wide-ranging and includes: demonstrating ethical them the expectations of the Board in relation to the appropriate culture, values and behaviours in the leadership: setting a Board agenda which is primarily Companys culture, values and behaviours.
The CEO is boardroom and beyond.
All Non-Executive Directors focused on strategy, performance, value creation and responsible for supporting the Chair to make certain are required to ensure that there is sufficient accountability, and ensuring that issues relevant to that appropriate standards of governance permeate consideration of business issues prior to, and these areas are reserved for Board decision: making throughout Acacia.
The CEO ensures that the Board informed debate and challenge at, Board meetings.
certain that the Board determines the nature, and is made aware, when appropriate, of the views of In making decisions, they take into account the views extent, of the significant risks the Company is willing to employees on issues of relevance to the business.
In of shareholders and other stakeholders, given that embrace in the implementation of its strategy: regularly addition, the CEO ensures the Board knows the ELTs such views may provide different perspectives on considering succession planning and the composition views on business issues in order to improve the the Company and its performance.
of the Board: making certain that the Board has standard of discussion in the boardroom and, prior to effective decision-making processes and applies final decision on an issue, explain in a balanced way sufficient challenge to major proposals: encouraging all any divergence of view in the executive team.
Board members to engage in Board and Committee meetings by drawing on their skills, experience, knowledge and, where appropriate, independence: and consulting the Senior Independent Director on Board matters, as necessary in any given context.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 71
