Corporate Governance Introduction from the Chairman During the year, the Board reflected on the importance of the Groups culture and held a specific Board session in January 2018 on the trends and observations coming out of the participation by employees across the Group in the Best Place to Work Survey.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER, participation by employees across Board in 2018.
I was pleased to welcome the Group in the Best Place to Work Andy Crossley, who joined the Board as a I am pleased to present the Groups Survey.
Admiral has a strong and unique Non-Executive Director and member of Corporate Governance Report for 2018 culture a key differentiator from the Audit Committee in February 2018, which sets out the Admiral framework our competitors.
This will continue Mike Brierley, who joined the Board as a of governance and the approach the to be a focus of the Board and, Non-Executive Director and member of Board has taken during 2018 to promote consequently, we will allocate Board the Audit Committee in October 2018, the standards of good corporate time to the assessment and monitoring and Karen Green, who joined the Board governance that are rightly expected by of the Groups culture to ensure that as a Non-Executive Director and Chair our stakeholders.
it remains aligned with the Groups of the Audit Committee in December The revised UK Corporate Governance purpose and values.
Karen succeeds Colin Holmes, Code issued in July 2018, which applies who stepped down as a Non-Executive Customer outcomes were also to the Group with effect from 1 January Director, Senior Independent Director considered by the Board in April 2018.
2019, contains significant amendments and Chairman of the Audit Committee The session focused on the Admiral to the previous version issued in 2016. in December 2018 after 8 years on brand and the development of customer As a result, the Board has set spent the Board.
I would like to take this experience and oversight, as well as how time reviewing how the updated opportunity to thank Colin for his loyal the Groups customer journey compared provisions will be implemented and service, wise counsel and excellent against competitors.
what amendments will be required contribution to the Admiral Group to enhance our current reporting and during the time he has been on the Succession planning remains an area processes.
We are already well placed Admiral Board.
of focus as the Board seeks to ensure to comply with the changes contained that the composition and balance of An externally facilitated evaluation in the new Code, however, we will report the Board is reviewed and refreshed is due to take place later in 2019 and, against the principles and provisions in where necessary: that continuity is therefore, the process of evaluating the new Code in more detail in our 2019 maintained, and that directors with the the Boards performance this year Annual Report and Accounts.
appropriate skills and experience join consisted of each Board member the Board to bring fresh perspective During the year, the Board reflected completing a questionnaire detailing and challenge to the Groups strategy on the importance of the Groups specific areas of focus for the Board in the markets in which it operates.
culture and held a specific Board including succession planning and In this context, there were a number session in January 2018 on the trends Board composition, the priorities of changes to the composition of the and observations coming out of the for change, the impact of previous 62 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information evaluations, and board expertise to meet future challenges, particularly in the digital and technology sectors.
The results of the completed questionnaires then formed the basis for discussion when the results of the evaluation and areas for development were discussed and considered by the Board at the meeting in January 2019.
A summary of the outcomes of the Boards discussion and consideration of the results of the evaluation are set out in more detail at page 68 of this report.
This Corporate Governance Report is structured in order to demonstrate to shareholders and other stakeholders how the Board has sought during the year to comply with each section of the Code - Leadership: Effectiveness: Accountability: and Relations with Shareholders.
Remuneration is dealt with in the separate Remuneration Report and details of the Groups Corporate Social Responsibility CSR reporting can be found at pages 58 to 61.
Annette Court Chairman 6 March 2019 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63
