INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate governance developments The Financial Reporting Council published a revised UK Corporate Governance Code in July 2018 the 2018 Code.
The 2018 Code calls for companies to establish a corporate culture that is aligned with the company purpose and business strategy, promotes integrity and values diversity.
In particular, the new 2018 Code: Requires greater board engagement with the workforce to understand their views.
Emphasises that remuneration committees should take into account workforce remuneration and related policies when setting director remuneration.
Strengthens the role of the nomination committee on The governance framework put in succession planning and establishing a diverse board.
place by the Board to support the The 2018 Code sets out a number of delivery of our strategic priorities Principles, and comply or explain continues to deliver results.
Provisions and is supported by the Guidance on Board Effectiveness.
The Ken Hanna 2018 Code will apply to Aggreko for the Chairman financial year beginning 1 January 2019.
Much of what Aggreko does already re ects the best practice embodied in the 2018 Code.
However, we have carefully reviewed the 2018 Code and The Board remains committed to the supporting guidance and agreed a number of measures to re ect the 2018 principles of good corporate governance Code.
These new measures include: contained in the UK Corporate Governance The Ethics Committee will have Code April 2016 the Code, which formal responsibility for engagement is published by the Financial Reporting with the workforce, supported by management, with a core team led Council and available on its website by the Group HR Director and at www.
To re ect its broader remit, we have renamed the committee the Ethics & Corporate The Company continues to follow the good Responsibility Committee.
Nicola practice which the Code recommends and Brewer will Chair the new Committee.
the Board considers that the Company has The Ethics & Corporate Responsibility applied the principles and complied with Committee will also assume responsibility for our Speaking Up the provisions set out therein throughout whistle-blowing process, including 2018, as detailed in this Statement and the oversight of its effectiveness, from the Audit Committee.
The Board believes that We will ensure that the Remuneration the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 are, Committee has clearer visibility of when taken as a whole, fair, balanced and workforce remuneration and related policies when setting policies for understandable, providing shareholders Executive Director remuneration, with the requisite information to assess the and to enable it to advise the Board Companys performance, business model whether Company policies and practices support culture and strategy.
We will ensure that the Nomination Committee has further visibility of the succession pipeline one level below the Executive Committee and will delegate formal monitoring of our diversity policy to the Committee.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 46 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We have reviewed and amended the programme to support the continued Terms of Reference of each of the success of the business.
We continued Leadership Committees to re ect their new roles.
to work closely with the Nomination The Board challenges strategy, Committee to make a number of In this way, we believe that we will be performance, responsibility and changes to our Board in early 2018. in a position to meet the comply or accountability to ensure that Our previous CFO, Carole Cran, left the explain Provisions of the 2018 Code every decision we make is of the business in December 2017 after 14 years from 1 January 2019, and will report on highest quality.
Carole was succeeded how they have operated in our 2019 by Heath Drewett in January 2018.
Read more about our Heath brings a wealth of experience as Leadership on page 48 A corresponding development in a finance professional and has settled reporting regulation is contained into the CFO role well with a rigorous in The Companies Miscellaneous approach to delivering further financial Reporting Regulations 2018.
They will improvements in the business.
His full require Aggreko to include statements biography is set out on page 48.
Accountability in our Annual Report relating to Russell King retired from the Board at All of our decisions are discussed Directors statutory duties and, our 2018 AGM.
Russell dedicated nine within the context of the risks speci cally, engagement with years to Aggreko and during this time involved.
Effective risk management employees and other stakeholders.
he served as Chair of our Remuneration is central to achieving our strategic These new reporting requirements will Committee and Senior Independent objectives.
apply to our 2019 Annual Report, and Director.
Barbara Jeremiah succeeded so do not strictly apply to this Annual Read more about our Russell as Remuneration Committee Accountability on page 54 Report.
However, Aggreko already Chair and Uwe Krueger was appointed engages extensively with stakeholders, as Senior Independent Director.
Further as we have described our approach detail on both of these appointments in previous Annual Reports, and we can be found on page55.
have included a summary of our Effectiveness engagement with employees and Board oversight and other stakeholders during 2018 on The Board continuously evaluates page 34 of this Annual Report.
monitoring the balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independence of The Audit Committee has played the Directors.
It ensures that all new Diversity a key role in ensuring that there was Directors receive a tailored induction appropriate challenge and governance The Board believes that diversity, both programme and the Board scrutinises around the accounting treatment of in the boardroom and throughout the its performance through an annual the decisions taken during the year organisation, is key to our success.
and ensuring robust risk management, pleased to report that 33% of our Board controls and assurance were in place.
roles continue to be held by women.
Read more about our Effectiveness on page 51 The Board adopted a formalised approach to board diversity by adopting Annual General Meeting a board diversity policy in December Our Annual General Meeting will be held 2017, which you can read more about on at 11.00am on Thursday 25 April 2019 at page 55.
We do, however, acknowledge 200 SVS, 200 St Vincent Street, Glasgow, Relations with shareholders that there is more to do to ensure the G2 5RQ.
The Notice of Annual General development of diversity across the Maintaining strong relationships Meeting, together, with the explanatory organisation.
Diversity and inclusion, with our shareholders, both private notes of the resolutions to be proposed, and the gender pay gap in particular, are and institutional, is crucial to is set out on pages 141 to 146 of this now areas of focus as we acknowledge achieving our aims.
the need, and desire, to address the throughout the year to maintain imbalance.
We support management in an open dialogue with our investors.
Looking ahead to 2019 its efforts to address this by establishing Read more about our Shareholders a team which will look at diversity on The Board will be focusing on ensuring and Stakeholder Relations on page 34 a Group-wide basis, determine what compliance with the 2018 Code and changes need to be made and work with remains committed to ensuring the the business to implement them over highest standards of corporate the next few years.
Our full gender pay governance across the Group in all gap disclosure, including the actions we aspects of the delivery of our strategic Remuneration are taking, is published on our website in priorities.
Our people are at the core of Having a formal and transparent line with the UK government guidelines.
I am con dent they will procedure for developing policy on See www.
com continue to implement our values in remuneration for Executive Directors order to achieve our goals and that, by is crucial.
Our remuneration policy focusing on our Always Orange culture Talent, development and aims to attract, retain and motivate and core values, we will deliver on those succession by linking reward to performance.
Finally, I would like to thank The results of the 2017 Board evaluation our employees for their dedication and Read more about our showed that the Board had acted upon support during 2018.
Remuneration on page 62 the results of the previous years evaluation in reviewing the succession plans for the Executive Committee and its direct reports and further recruiting a number of potential high calibre Ken Hanna managers.
In 2018, we continued to have Chairman oversight of this to ensure the business has an ongoing talent management Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47
