GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE Strong corporate governance underpins our ability to deliver long-term sustainable success, generate value for our shareholders and contribute to wider society.
The Anglo American Board is committed to ensuring that we continue to adhere to high standards of corporate governance.
Stuart Chambers, Chairman This section of the Annual Report provides an overview Remuneration Committee.
In addition, we announced of the means by which the Company is directed and thatJack Thompson, our chair of the Sustainability controlled.
The Board of directors is there to support Committee, will step down from the Board at the end of our and challenge management and to ensure that we 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM after nine years of operate in a manner that promotes the long-term service on the Board.
IanAshby will take over the role of sustainable success of the Company.
Over the next chair of the Sustainability Committee.
On behalf of the fewpages we describe the ways in which we seek to Board, I thank Jack for the wealth of mining industry achieve this.
experience that he hasbrought to Board discussions and most particularly thededication he has brought to his role aschair of the Sustainability Committee.
Annes global BOARD COMPOSITION executive and board experience and Ians extensive mining As described in my statement on pages 4-5, we career will further enhance our committee deliberations announceda number of changes to the Board in 2018. under their leadership.
SirPhilip Hampton, our senior independent director and The Nomination Committee has considered the chair of the Remuneration Committee, stepped down at the composition, structure and size of the Board and believes end of December after nine years of service.
On behalf of the number of non-executive directors can be reduced by the Board, I would like to thank Sir Philip for his dedication one whilst maintaining the requisite mix of skills, experience and professionalism during his nine years on the Board, the and diversity on the Board.
The Committee is at an last four being in the particularly demanding role of senior advanced stage intheprocess of recruiting a non-executive independent director.
On 1 January 2019, Byron Grote took director withsubstantial mining experience and experience up the role of senior independent director.
We are fortunate in SouthAmerica to fill the vacancies on the Board.
The to have Byrons more than 35 years of experience across Committees process to recruit the non-executive director thenatural resource sector and are delighted that he has isdescribed on page 86. agreed to serve as senior independent director in addition tohis continued stewardship of the Audit Committee.
AnneStevens has taken up the role of chair of the 72 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The Board supports the principles and provisions of the UKCorporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 the 2016 Code, which is available on the FRCs website www.
The principles and provisions of the 2016 Code have applied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2018.
It is the Boards view that the Company has complied in full throughout the year with the 2016 Code.
The ways in which the 2016 Code has been applied can be found on the following pages: Code section and where to find details.
Stuart Chambers meets employees in our Marketing business during a visit to Anglo Americans Singapore office in January 2018.
Section A: Leadership Pages 74-80 give details of the Board and executive management and the Board governance structure DIRECTOR AND BOARD VISITS TO OPERATIONS Section B: Effectiveness I believe that director and Board site visits are invaluable.
Pages 86-124 describe the activities of the Board They provide an opportunity for all directors to learn more committees and the induction and evaluation of the directors about the operations and understand the opportunities Section C: Accountability andchallenges faced by the businesses in their local The role of the Board in this area is primarily shown on pages environments.
Site visits are also a key mechanism for 92-99, with further detail on the Groups strategic objectives theBoard to engage with the workforce from a range and the principal risks to the business in the Strategic Report ofbackgrounds and seniority and play an important part inensuring that the interests of the workforce are taken Section D: Remuneration intoaccount in Board decision making.
There are also The Groups remuneration policy and the report of the opportunities with site visits to meet with local stakeholders Remuneration Committee are found on pages 100-124 and understand their interests and concerns.
The site visits Section E: Relations with shareholders are described on pages 84-85.
The Board supports the new UK Corporate Governance WORKFORCE ENGAGEMENT Code which is in effect for the reporting period beginning on The Board embraces the greater focus on board-workforce 1 January 2019 and against which we will report in our next engagement contained in the new UK Corporate Annual Report.
Governance Code published in July 2018, and is I hope you find this report useful and informative.
I look  for the most effective, practical forward to seeing as many of you as possible at our andsustainable way to meaningfully achieve the level of AGM and would encourage you to vote your shares even engagement contemplated by the new Code.
if you cannot attend in person, so that we gain a better For more on ways in which we currently engage with our workforce understanding of the views of our shareholders as a whole.
See pages 34-39 BOARD EVALUATION In 2018, we conducted an external evaluation of the Board, its committees and each of the directors.
I am pleased to report that the overall conclusion was that the Board and committees function well.
Of course, there is always room for improvement and each committee and the Board itself Stuart Chambers have developed action plans to ensure that we address Chairman the points raised by the evaluations.
The findings of the evaluation are described in more detail on pages 88-89.
COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE Starting on page 90, each of the Board committee chairs presents a report on the activities of their committee during2018.
The effective and efficient operation of the committees and their interaction with the Board are vital to ensure that all matters receive the necessary attention in a timely manner.
I am grateful to the members and the chairs of those committees in particular for their commitment and the work that they do throughout the year in this regard.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 73
