CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION DEVELOPING OUR GOVERNANCE FOR A BETTER FUTURE One of the foundations of our success has been our enduring regard for international corporate governance best practice, which we apply to enable us to operate successfully in Chile, where our corporate headquarters, senior management team and all of our operating assets are located.
Jean-Paul Luksic, Chairman The Board has been pursuing and overseeing a number of important INTRODUCTION developments during the year, which are highlighted throughout this As noted in my introduction to the Annual Report, it is now nearly Corporate Governance Report, a selection of which I would like to 40years since my father Andrnico Luksic acquired a stake in the highlight in this introductory letter.
Company and began the process of creating one of the worlds leading copper mining companies.
Over this period, the Company RISK AND RISK APPETITE hasgenerated significant returns for shareholders over several The risks facing the Group are constantly evolving, and in order miningcycles and we have contributed enormously to the interests toachieve our strategic objectives we believe it is fundamentally ofour stakeholders, most of whom are in Chile.
important that our approach and attitude towards those risks is One of the foundations of our success over this period has been our equally dynamic.
enduring regard for international corporate governance best practice, During 2018, the Board, with the assistance of the Audit and Risk applied in a way that allows us to operate successfully in Chile, where Committee, reviewed and updated the Groups risk management our corporate headquarters, senior management team and all of our policy and risk appetite.
The purpose of this exercise was to ensure operating assets are located.
that our management team have clear and current guidance from As you would expect, we have been closely monitoring the UK theBoard on this subject and for this guidance to be applied to the corporate governance reforms that were finalised during 2018 and day-to-day responsibilities of all of the members of our workforce.
we will report against those in the 2019 Annual Report.
We have conducted a thorough analysis of the requirements in the new code REVIEWING AND EMBEDDING and I, and our Senior Independent Director, Ollie Oliveira, have met with shareholders and policy makers during the year to discuss the OUR CULTURE implications of these reforms and to understand how they will impact In recent years, we have put a tremendous amount of effort into our ability to continue to operate successfully in Chile.
We were defining the values that drive our culture and our vision for the pleased to receive assurances from policy makers and shareholders future.
In 2018, those efforts were furthered through the adoption alike that the comply or explain methodology underpinning the Code ofour purpose statement and behavioural guidelines, setting out remains fundamental to the UK corporate governance framework and thebehaviours that embody our culture and charter of values.
Over that our unique circumstances as a controlled company based in Chile the last two years, our employees have provided input and guidance will continue to be taken into account when considering how we on these matters and I was delighted to lead several discussions decide to apply the new Code in 2019. withthe Board during the year that allowed us to refine and adopt Throughout this years Corporate Governance Report we outline how statements that are truly reflective of the culture we have and want we have applied the principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance todevelop further.
Code, while highlighting some of the unique circumstances that differentiate us from other companies and that, in many cases, havebrought us the success that we have achieved thus far.
88 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE I was enormously proud that three women from the Company STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT werehonoured by the Women In Mining advocacy organisation in Mining is a long-term business and timescales often run into decades.
their Top100 Global Inspirational Women in Mining 2018 Edition, Our relationships with our employees, local communities, suppliers, identifying them as key women in mining today, and that our governments, customers and shareholders are central to our occupational health and safety manager, Katharina Jenny, was long-term success.
The Groups governance structures include namedfemale executive of the year in Chile.
anetwork of arrangements to ensure that the views and interests ofstakeholders are represented in the boardroom and considered BOARD CHANGES AND SUCCESSION aspart of deliberations.
PLANNING Along with fellow Directors, I regularly visit the Groups operationsand projects to understand first-hand the realities As announced in November last year, Francisca Castro, who has andchallenges thatexist on site.
These visits provide us with served as an independent Non-Executive Director since 2016, has  the topics that are important for our been appointed as Chair of the Remuneration and Talent Management workforce andother stakeholders.
Committee, with effect from 1 May 2019.
Ms Castro is replacing TimBaker as Chair and Tim will continue to serve on this Committee We engage constantly with our workforce, not only in the years to assist Francisca during the transition period.
I would like to thank whenthere are scheduled union negotiations, but every year.
This them both, and indeed all of our committee members, for their hard open dialogue is key to maintaining good relations and is a testament work over the course of the year.
to the trust that has been built up between the Company and its employees.
I am proud that we have maintained such strong As announced in January, William Hayes, a Non-Executive Director employee and union relations, successfully completing wage ofthe Company since 2006, will not offer himself for re-election as negotiations at Los Pelambres and the transport division this year aDirector at the Companys upcoming Annual General Meeting.
I andrecording yet another year without strikes.
would like to thank Bill for the significant contribution he has made to the Company as a Director, former Senior Independent Director The strength of these relationships is something that we have sought and Audit and Risk Committee Chairman, and for the wise counsel to replicate with the communities that surround our operations.
In he has contributed to the Board over many years.
2014 we launched Somos Choapa, an innovative model of community engagement at Los Pelambres and I am delighted that the success of In accordance with the Boards succession plans, we expect to be in this model has seen it expanded to our operations in the north of Chile aposition to appoint a new independent Non-Executive Director soon during 2018. and we will notify shareholders as soon as a decision has been made.
As always, I welcome questions or comments from shareholders at DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION the Annual General Meeting.
We have a diverse Board comprising Directors with a broad spectrum of complementary skills, personalities and competencies.
We believe Jean-Paul Luksic in the benefits of diversity throughout the Group, not just at Board Chairman level, and that more diverse companies attract the best talent and achieve stronger, more reliable overall performance.
The Company took further steps to implement the Groups diversity and inclusion strategy during 2018.
This included appointing female executives to all the Groups operating company boards, inclusiveness and unconscious bias training for all employees and further talent management efforts to increase the number of female workers in theGroup and to enable us to achieve our goal of 1% of the workforce comprising workers with disabilities by the end of 2019.
We are also incorporating global profiles into our Group, which will enable us to integrate new perspectives and organisational practices.
Progress in the implementation of our diversity and inclusion model will onceagain be measured and assessed during the year and specific objectives have again been included as targets within the Groups 2019 Annual Bonus Plan.
Performance against these targets will be determined by the Remuneration and Talent Management Committee and the Board at the end of the year.
co. uk 89 SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS INTRODUCTION ENSURING INDEPENDENCE The Companys corporate governance arrangements rigorously protect the interests of all shareholders.
I regularly meet shareholders to discuss corporate governance and related matters and report these discussions to the Board.
Ollie Oliveira, Senior Independent Director Q.
WHAT ARE YOUR RESPONSIBILITIES AS SENIOR Their support is of course conditional on the continuation of the current corporate governance framework, which rigorously protects INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR?
the interests of all shareholders equally.
I am appointed by the Board to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors I, and all the Independent Directors, place a strong emphasis on andshareholders.
Thus my role is to support the Chairman on maintaining this governance and protection regime.
I advise him on corporate governance matters and independence and preside over a framework and processes that go Iseek to ensure that he clearly understands the issues that are beyond the regulatory norm.
We are supported and encouraged by especially important to the Boards independent Non-Executive the other Directors who like the Independent Directors bring their Directors.
I lead the annual review of the Chairmans performance own perspectives and opinions and are committed to the long-term and follow up on the closure of gaps identified in internal and sustainable success of the Company.
 reviews of Board and Committees performance.
The controlling shareholder, and the members of the Luksic family Most importantly, Iprovide feedback on issues that matter to the who serve on the Board including the Chairman, are not just Companys shareholders.
supportive of this framework but actively encourage the Independent Directors to provide the independent input and challenge that we are I live in Europe, close to many shareholders, directors at other convinced proves indispensable in Board decision-making.
UK-listed companies and advisers, and I am senior independent director at another large FTSE-listed mining company, which helps Q.
WHAT DID YOU DISCUSS WITH SHAREHOLDERS me to ensure that the Chairman, the Board and the Group receive IN2018?
independent and objective feedback and challenge, as well as a balanced view of issues that are relevant and important for I initiated meetings with a number of shareholders and proxy advisers shareholders of UK-listed companies.
during the year to understand their perspectives ahead of the 2019 AGM and reporting season, to explain and reinforce the reasons Q.
WHAT IMPACT DOES THE CONTROLLING behind the Companys current governance arrangements and to SHAREHOLDING HAVE ON COMPANY DECISIONS?
anticipate and gauge responses to the Companys likely approach The Luksic family first acquired an interest in the Company 40 years tothe 2018 Code.
Since then, the Company has demonstrated an excellent track I was delighted to hear that levels of concern regarding the record in terms of safety, operational expertise and financial acumen.
Companys current corporate governance arrangements are low First as an Independent Director and now as the Senior Independent andto receive assurances that explanations and circumstances will Director, I have discussed the role of the controlling shareholder with becarefully considered when assessing how the Company decides other shareholders, proxy advisers and policy makers.
The widelytoapply the new Code in 2019. held view is that the substantial controlling interest is regarded positively, with shareholders satisfied that the interests of Ollie Oliveira thecontrolling shareholder are aligned with theirs, with their Senior Independent Director understanding of the copper price cycle and market fundamentals, long-term vision of the industry, and well-known conservative operating, financial and growth strategy.
90 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The E. Abaroa Foundation is a controlling shareholder ofthe Company Certain related party transactions outside the ordinary course of business for the purposes of the Listing Rules and certain other shareholders must be subject to independent assessment and approval.
The Company of the Company including Aureberg Establishment arealso treated has for many years presented all such related party transactions as controlling shareholders.
Details of the Companys substantial regardless of their size between the Company and the controlling shareholders are set out on page 138. shareholder or its associates to a committee of Directors independent from the controlling shareholder, to support the negotiation process In 2014 the Company entered into relationship agreements in and ultimately to make an assessment as to whether the Company respectof each controlling shareholder, which contain the mandatory should enter into such transactions.
In most cases, transactions of independence provisions required by the Listing Rules.
The Company this nature will also be subject to independent review by third-party has complied with, and, so far as the Directors are aware, each shareholders in each of the Groups mining operating companies.
controlling shareholder and its associates including Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment has complied with Any other proposed related party transaction over $25 million, the mandatory independence provisions at all times during 2018. whether or not in the ordinary course of business, is also tabledforBoard approval.
Any Director with a potential conflict or connection with the related party will not take part in the decisionon that transaction.
RELATED PARTY GOVERNANCE IN PRACTICE There are a number of checks and balances to ensure that there is full transparency in the way related party transactions are handled by the Board.
The following diagram summarises the approach taken to identify and manage related party transactions and actual or potential conflicts of interest.
IDENTIFYING DIRECTORS INTERESTS Process Monitoring of Directors interests How this is managed Responsibility If a Director has an interest in any other company, the Board will normally consider that interest under Directors its arrangements for authorising conflicts of interest under section 175 of the Companies Act.
Further details on this process are set out on page 138 Proposed transaction Ongoing monitoring of Directors interests and the Companys related parties provides information to Responsibility determine if a related party approval is required for a proposed transaction.
Company Secretary, Antofagasta Group management and the Executive Committee Process Contract negotiation and verification How this is managed Responsibility The Executive Committee seeks to ensure that the best possible terms are achieved for a proposed Antofagasta Group transaction and that they are verified by industry benchmarking reports or independent third-party management and valuation assessment.
Executive Committee and, if involving the If the potential transaction is between the Group and the controlling shareholder or its associates, controlling shareholder, acommittee of Directors independent from the controlling shareholder and its associates is formed, Directors who are tooversee and support management with this process and to ensure compliance with the independent from the .
controlling shareholder Process Approval by Independent Directors How this is managed Responsibility Potential related party transactions outside the ordinary course of business that involve the controlling Directors who are shareholder or its associates are approved by a committee of Directors independent from the independent from the .
related party All other potential related party transactions over $25 million, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, are approved by the Board and any Director with a potential conflict or connection with the related party will not take part in that decision.
Transactions within the ordinary course of business that are below $25 million require approval by the relevant subsidiary board.
