GROUP GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STRUCTURED FOR EFFECTIVE DECISION-MAKING ANTOFAGASTA PLC BOARD BOARD COMMITTEES The Boards role is to promote the long-term, sustainable success Sustainability ofthe Company, generating value for shareholders and contributing Nomination Remuneration Audit and and Projects and Talent towider society.
The Board has established the Companys purpose, and Risk Stakeholder Governance Management values, strategy and risk appetite and monitors the culture of the Management Group as well as ongoing performance against these measures.
The Board is assisted in its responsibilities by five Board Committees.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is available on the The Board has delegated authority to these Committees to perform Companys website at www.
certain activities as set out in their terms of reference.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES The Chair of each Committee reports to the Board following Culture each Committee meeting, allowing the Board to understand and, Strategy if necessary, discuss matters in detail and consider the Governance .
Shareholder engagement The terms of reference for each Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
Internal controls, risk management and compliance Financial and performance reporting KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Approving material transactions The key responsibilities of each Committee are set out on page 104.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE INFORMATION FLOWS BOARD AND CHAIRMAN AGREES AGENDA PAPERS CIRCULATED COMMITTEE MEETINGS WITH DIRECTORS IN ADVANCE OF MEETINGS The Chairman tables an agenda of Materials are sent to Board and Each Board and Committee meeting has standing topics to be considered by Committee members a week in advance one or more short sessions without theBoard each year, which is then of each meeting.
management present to allow Directors supplemented, during the year, toset expectations for the meeting and Each presentation has a summary sheet withagreed key topics and events toreflect on and evaluate the meetings setting out the objective, background, .
The CEO provides timely proposal, justification and risk analysis updates to the Board on emerging issues, and next steps.
Materials include the and executives present to the Board CEOs report, which is an open and andits Committees on operating and candid summary of his views on evolving development matters, allowing close strategic challenges, changes in risk interaction between Board members and assessments and emerging issues, as a wide range of executive management.
well as the management report with detailed information on the Groups performance against key safety, health, environmental, community, financial, project development and organisational culture indicators.
92 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE CEO AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE SUBCOMMITTEES OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Board has delegated day-to-day responsibility for implementing the Groups strategy and fostering the corresponding organisational Operating Business Project Performance Disclosure Ethics culture to the Companys CEO, Ivn Arriagada.
Development Steering Review Mr Arriagada is not a Director of the Company but is invited to attendall Board and Committee meetings and is supported by the members of the Executive Committee, each of whom has executive The Executive Committee is assisted in its responsibilities by responsibility for his or her respective functions.
Mr Arriagada chairs theOperating Performance Review Committee, the Business the Executive Committee.
Development Committee, the Disclosure Committee and, from timetotime, Project Steering Committees.
The Executive Committee reviews significant matters and approves Members of the Executive Committee also sit on the boards of the expenditure within designated authority levels.
Groups operating companies and report on the activities of those The Executive Committee leads the annual budgeting and planning companies to the Board, Mr Arriagada and the Executive Committee.
processes, monitors the performance of the Groups operations and Following the introduction of the EU Market Abuse Regulation, investments, evaluates risk and establishes internal controls, and the Board adopted its current Disclosure Procedures Manual and promotes the sharing of best practices across the Group.
delegated to the Disclosure Committee primary internal responsibility for identifying information that may need to be disclosed to the market and for managing the disclosure of such information.
The Ethics Committee is responsible for implementing, developing and updating the Groups Code of Ethics and monitoring compliance.
ACTION LISTS PREPARED MINUTES PREPARED, INFORMATION BETWEEN AND UPDATED AS KEY ACTIONS CIRCULATED AND APPROVED MEETINGS ARE IMPLEMENTED The Company Secretary minutes all Board The Board and each Committee Between Board meetings, Directors and Committee meetings and these are respectively maintains an action list that is receive flash reports with monthly and circulated and reviewed by the Board and reviewed at the beginning of each meeting year-to-date production and financial management before being updated as to ensure that Directors enquiries and results, including key metrics in respect necessary and tabled for approval.
concerns are clearly identified and ofsafety, environmental and communityaddressed in a timely manner.
relations performance, ensuring that the Board is regularly updated on the Groups performance.
Occasionally, Directors may receive additional reports highlighting key developments in the Groups exploration, projects and business development activities, or general information on thecommodity markets or innovations inmining.
The Groups management team, led by Ivn Arriagada, performs an essential rolein ensuring that the Board has the information required to make effective decisions, reporting in real time on theCompanys performance and implementation of the Groups strategy.
