Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Governance CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE Dear Shareholder, We are committed to the highest standards of corporate The Board is committed governance, which along with our Company beliefs and to maintaining very high behaviours, underpin the integrity of our operations and standards of corporate are the foundation for how we create sustainable value governance and ensuring for our stakeholders.
values and behaviours The Board is accountable to Ascentials shareholders for good governance and are consistent across this report, along with the Directors Remuneration Report, describes how we the business.
have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 throughout the year.
We note that the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code will apply from 1 January 2019 and we will report compliance with the 2018 Code in next Scott Forbes Chairman years Annual Report.
Our goal is to be the global market leader in delivering specialist information that enables our customers to win in the digital commerce economy.
2018 has been a critical year in establishing the capabilities we need and we are now well positioned to become the global leader for specialist information in the digital commerce economy.
You can read more about our 2018 performance in the Chief Executives Statement on page 10.
We know that it is critical to build and maintain successful relationships with all of our key stakeholders.
Our employees are one of our most important group of stakeholders and we have implemented a wide range of actions to build a One Ascential culture and drive higher engagement.
We conduct an annual engagement survey to measure how well we are doing with our plans to drive employee engagement and the results of the 2018 survey were very encouraging, with an increase in our overall engagement score from 2017.
You can read more about the results of the engagement survey and other key processes, programmes and events in the Our People report on page 42.
54 Strategic report Financial statements Governance The Board evaluation process confirmed that the Board has worked Leadership effectively during the year, with a committed Board who are very engaged The Directors continue to provide strong leadership, with an effective mix with the Ascential business.
All Directors will offer themselves for of experience and capabilities.
As our strategy has evolved, so has our re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
commitment to match the strategic priorities of our Company with the profile of our Board.
The Board continuously compares these priorities Accountability and profiles, and has undertaken its recurring externally facilitated Board The Board considers principal risks throughout the year, as well as formally strategy review to ensure that we continue to have the optimum Board reviewing principal risks and the risk management framework.
I will report on the outcomes of this review in the 2019 Committee reviews the system of internal controls and reports this work to Annual Report.
the Board, which then reviews the effectiveness of internal controls in place throughout the year.
We have also focused on career development and succession planning to ensure that we have a healthy talent pipeline for senior management, As part of the assessment of principal risks, the Board considered an impact Executive Committee and Board roles.
A development plan has been analysis of the risks associated with Britain exiting the EU.
As there remain created for key executives.
This is explained in further detail in the significant uncertainties and unknowns in respect of the final deal that may Nomination Committee report on page 66. be struck, the impact analysis focused on the worst case scenario of a disorderly hard Brexit.
You can read more about our principal risks and risk Effectiveness management framework on pages 37 to 41, and on the work of the Audit 2018 is the third year in our three-year performance evaluation cycle Committee on pages 61 to 65. and we conducted an internal Board evaluation process during the year.
We intend to conduct an externally facilitated review during 2019.
Non-executive engagement The non-executive directors devote considerable time to developing their We followed a similar process to that used in 2017, with a focus on knowledge and understanding of the business.
All Non-Executive Directors key strengths, Board processes and behaviours that have improved, have attended Cannes Lions and Money 20 20 events, and have engaged opportunities for continued development and risks that might benefit meaningfully with a wide range of senior management in and outside of from more attention from the Board.
Responses from individual Directors the boardroom.
were provided to the Company Secretary, who anonymised the feedback before circulating to the Board for discussion.
The Senior Independent In addition to formal Board meetings, the Directors attend an annual offsite Director consulted with other Directors to seek specific feedback on the meeting to review strategy.
These extended meetings also give the Board Chairmans performance, which was discussed with the Board without the opportunity to hear directly from external speakers, including key the Chairman present.
customers or experts in a particular sector or market relevant to Ascentials growth plans.
The Board is operating effectively.
Directors agreed that there has been thoughtful and rapid progress with the development and execution of Relations with shareholders changes to the strategy and business model.
The Board has been able As Chairman, I am responsible for effective communication with to spend a significant portion of its time on strategic priorities, whilst shareholders and for ensuring that the Board understands the views of maintaining an appropriate balance of operational reporting and major shareholders.
During the year, I have met with several shareholders governance.
There continued to be a positive atmosphere for constructive and the Companys brokers provide the Board with unattributed feedback debate, supported by relevant, clear and well-presented Board papers from investors after each results roadshow.
which create a productive environment within Board meetings.
We run an extensive investor activity programme and activity in 2018 The Directors also agreed that key areas for continued development included product deep dives on Cannes Lions, Clavis and One Click Retail, were to maintain an in-depth understanding of the evolving customer Money 20 20 Asia and a Capital Markets Day focussed on Flywheel Digital propositions including contributions from acquired businesses.
Directors and Edge by Ascential.
You can read more about the investor relations will focus on enhancing knowledge of the ecommerce sector and China.
Scott Forbes Chairman 22 February 2019 BOARD OVERVIEW LENGTH BOARD GENDER BALANCE OF EXECUTIVE AND OF TENURE DIVERSITY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Over 6 years 14% Male 43% Non-Executive 57% 36 years 15% Female 57% Executive 29% 03 years 71% Chairman 14% 55
