4 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chairmans statement Were innovating now to create an estate thats fit for the NHS of the future.
Simon Laffin Non-Executive Chairman The NHS is Assuras prime customer, better terms on our debt.
We have signed EPRA EPS accounting for 84% of our total rent roll.
new unsecured debt facilities of 200 Some 7.5% of the UKs NHS patients now million, lowering the overall cost of use our premises.
This important social borrowings by 94 basis points to 3.12%.
dimension to our work is reflected in our 2.5p alignment with the values of the NHS and Following the two equity raises in the up by 4.2% our commitment to the highest standards yearour loan to value LTV fell from of ethics and integrity.
We have Dividends paid per share stated previously that we are comfortable Over the last 12 months, Assura has with LTV increasing to a level between continued to grow, providing more and 40%and 50%, so the current position better premises to the primary care sector.
gives us a significant level of headroom 2.46p Our property portfolio has been expanded for future investment.
We are continuing up by 9.3% significantly, through both acquisitions to source attractive opportunities and andnew developments.
We now own and currently have a 152 million pipeline manage 518 premises, up by 120 since offurther property acquisitions and last year.
Over the period under review developments in solicitors hands.
Dear Shareholder wehave added 314 million of property Assura exists to provide premises to the and this, together with the 170 million A key part of our strategy is our unique UKs primary care sector and we are proud ofproperty additions in the previous year, partnership with GPs, to whom we offer of our role in supporting the public health increased our net rental income by 18% all elements of property service.
The NHS is often maligned, but to80.2 million.
provides GPs with a long-term partner it is in fact a great organisation providing approach throughout the lifecycle of a free health services to everyone, based Thanks to the continued support of our medical centre, from first idea for a new onneed not means, and at a cost that is shareholders we were able to raise 409 surgery through the NHS business case: competitive in international terms.
It is million in two separate equity raises in June the development and build of the new widely accepted now that the NHS needs 2017 and December 2017.
This support surgery: moving in: sale of the old to leverage its investment in primary care has enabled us to fund our investment property: and maintenance of the new more effectively in order to relieve the strain programme and restructure some of our premises over the next 25 plus years.
Our on secondary care and to reduce costs more expensive debt facilities.
We are ability to develop, invest and manage whilst improving patient outcomes.
When welladvanced in implementing our plan gives us a crucial advantage when the Government makes this change of todeploy these proceeds.
securing new development opportunities emphasis, as surely it must, Assura will be and other asset management initiatives.
well placed to assist by providing further We remain the UKs largest developer Moreover, our model is highly scalable private sector capital to enhance primary andowner-manager of primary healthcare meaning that, as we grow, the benefits care premises, enabling GPs to provide property with a property portfolio valued ofscale accrue to shareholders through more services and attend to more patients.
The increased scale agrowing dividend stream.
The benefit of ofour operations and our strong financial this model has been illustrated again this position have assisted us in obtaining yearas net rental income rose by 18% to Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 5 Our investment case Assura is one of the UKs leading primary care real estate investors and developers, supporting the future requirements of the NHS.
As a trusted partner of GPs, ourscalable platform and robust balance sheet enable us to deliver sustainable returns.
L eader in the provision of primary care real estate with astrong brand nurtured through long-term partnerships with GPs and delivering value for money to the NHS.
S trong balance sheet together with sustainable, covered and progressive dividend policy.
C apitalising on acquisition and development opportunities supported by a scalable platform toaddress growing demand.
L ow risk, growing portfolio providing a recurring andpredictable revenue stream.
80.2 million and EPRA earnings rose by I indicated to the Board last year that Iwas Looking ahead 24% to 50 million, and profit before tax considering retiring, and as a resultEd Assura has the strongest balance sheet was 71.8 million.
Smith was appointed as a Non-Executive inthe sector and we are well placed to Director in October 2017 withaview to continue investing in primary care property, Dividends succeeding me as Chairman.
On 22 March which remains a very fragmented market.
We aim to deliver superior risk adjusted 2018, Iannounced my intention to retire at In addition, we remain focused on carefully returns to our shareholders and a key the conclusion of the AGM and the Board managing our existing portfolio with our component of this return is a growing, has announced that it intends to appoint in-house management team striving to covered dividend.
In January 2018 the Ed Smith as Chairman at that time.
Ed has deliver the highest standard of customer Board increased the quarterly dividend a long and successful career in finance service and operational excellence for the payment by 9% to 0.655 pence per share.
aswell as deep experience of the health nations GPs, while also maximising the This represents an increase of nearly one service and government and this will serve value of our portfolio through asset third from the level of 0.5 pence per share us well when he becomes Chairman of management initiatives.
Although the policy consensus across Shareholder engagement Assura has undergone much change since allmainstream parties to increase We are committed to the highest I joined back in August 2011.
Werefocused emphasis and investment in primary standards of financial transparency and to become a pure property company, sold careis more positive now than ever believe a significant investment in investor non-core activities, simplified the Group before, weremainfrustrated by the relations activity is a key responsibility for structure, launched fiveequity issues to slowprogress intransforming policy into any public company.
We have held 141 raise a total of 933 million, refinanced meaningful investment.
Everyone seems meetings with investors during the year ourdebt, became a REIT and entered to agree that better healthcare hinges on and I am delighted to welcome a number theFTSE 250 index.
Over this period, our more care being provided in the primary of significant new shareholders onto property portfolio increased from some sector.
Having more doctors and better ourregister.
500 million to 1.7 billion today, and leveraging their expertise through ancillary ourmarket capitalisation increased from healthcare professionals will require more Our people and the Board 120 million at its low point to just over and better premises.
We stand ready Following the appointment of Jonathan 1.4billion today.
The business is now tosupport this essential investment Murphy as CEO in February 2017, we inexcellent shape with a leadership inNHS infrastructure by offering a thenrecruited a very talented new CFO position in its chosen market, a supportive powerful combination of the right skills, inJayne Cottam, who joined us in shareholder base and a strong financial relationships and capital to make such September 2017.
Jayne brings a wealth of position to underpin future growth.
plans a reality on the ground.
financial and debt strategy experience as well as a keen mind.
Andrew Darke retired We have 50 people employed in Assura Simon Laffin from the Board on 31 March 2018 after and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to Non-Executive Chairman 14years of sterling service, although thank each and every one of them for their 22 May 2018 Iampleased to report that he continues hard work, dedication and contribution to to support the business as an advisor.
the success of the business.
They are the key to Assuras success.
