Chairmans In this Governance Report, we report onhow we ensured that the principles Introduction ofgood governance applied to everything we did throughout the year.
I t oo set great store by ensuring the Board did the right thing as we oversaw implementation of our strategy of returning to sustainable growth.
Changes to our Governance reporting The strategy on which we embarked in 2013, At the end of 2018, we said farewell to Shriti This year, we have made a number of and to which we have been committed in the Vadera who had served on the Board for changes to the structure of our reporting years since, bore fruit in 2018 as we returned eightyears.
She was an exceptional colleague around Governance to make the to Product Sales growth.
Good governance during a period of pipeline renewal.
has underpinned our success and will diligence, focus and constant commitment to The Corporate Governance Report now continue to do so.
our success will be missed.
On behalf of all her contains the following sections: Board colleagues, I thank her for her service Sound governance and and wish her every success in the future.
Board of Directors and SET: which shows the members of the Board, Board sustainable growth Committees and SET as at 14 February Following the science and putting patients first Transparent leadership 2019, from page 94. are two of the AstraZeneca Values.
Employees I am grateful to all the members of the Activities of the Board: which describes commitment to and embodiment of those Boardfor their individual contributions the key activities of the Board during 2018, including the Board effectiveness Values has been an essential element in the towhatwas an eventful and successful review conducted in 2018, from page 98. transformation of the organisation that saw year.
Iam particularly grateful to those Connecting with our stakeholders: which usreturn to Product Sales growth.
Doing the members ofthe Board who bear the added sets out how the Group has engaged right thing is another value espoused by our responsibility of chairing its Committees.
As with its key stakeholders during 2018, from page 100. employees and, as your Chairman, I too set previously announced, Rudy Markham will Compliance with the UK Corporate great store by ensuring the Board did the right bestepping down from the Board at the end Governance Code: which describes thing as we oversaw implementation of our of the Annual General Meeting in April 2019. howwe have complied with the UK strategy of returning to sustainable growth.
As aresult, Graham Chipchase became our Corporate Governance Code published in 2016, from page 102. senior independent Non-Executive Director on Other Governance information: a In this Governance Report, we report on 1 January 2019, in addition to his role chairing separate section contains other howwe ensured that the principles of good the Remuneration Committee, and Philip governance-related disclosures, governance applied to everything we did Broadley will become Chairman of the Audit including those required as a result of our listing on the NYSE, as well throughout the year and, where we found Committee.
Nazneen Rahman became asDirectors Report disclosures, challenges, how we addressed them.
We do Chairman of the Science Committee in July 2018. frompage 105. so mindful of the enhanced requirements of Committee Reports: from our four the UK Corporate Governance Code which This year, for the first time, and to enhance Board Committees, from page 107. wewill be reporting on in our next Annual ourreporting transparency, each of the Report.
The panel to the left indicates the Committee Chairmen is providing their enhancements we have made to the ownreport on their activities during 2018 AnnualReport in respect of 2018. which you can read in this Annual Report.
A strong Board Good governance requires a strong board which we are fortunate to have at AstraZeneca.
On 1 January 2019, we welcomed Professor Tony Mok to the Board.
Tony is a leading Leif Johansson clinical oncologist and world-renowned Chairman expertin precision medicine for lung cancer.
He will make a significant contribution to AstraZenecas science-led transformation.
92 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Corporate Governance
