Governance overview A robust framework of governance underpinned by a culture of openness and transparency I am pleased to introduce our corporate governance statement which incorporates reports from the Chairmen of each of our Board Committees.
These reports explain our governance policies and procedures in detail and describe how we have applied the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code.
Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code The Company complied with all provisions set out in the Code for the period.
Directors Sean Glithero stepped down as Chief Financial Officer on 21 September 2017 after 11years with AutoTrader.
Sean made a significant contribution to the success of AutoTraders transformation from a print to adigital business and was instrumental in taking our Company from private ownership to a listed UK plc.
We would like to thank him Ed Williams for his tremendous contribution and wish him Chairman well in his next venture.
Nathan Coe, Chief Operating Officer, took on the additional role of Chief Financial Officer from that date.
The composition of the Board is kept under continual review to ensure that it has the The Company skills, experience and balance required for the proper stewardship of the business.
Wehave three independent Non-Executive Directors, who bring with them significant complied with all commercial and financial expertise and are well placed to support the Executive Team in implementing our strategy.
We have two provisions set out Executive Directors and therefore comply with the relevant provision of the Code for at least half of the Board to be independent, excluding myself.
in the Corporate All Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election by the shareholders atthe forthcoming AGM.
Governance Code Board effectiveness In our third year as a premium listed business, we engaged an external company, for the period.
Independent Audit Limited, to facilitate our Board evaluation process.
A comprehensive review process was carried out, including a review of Board and Committee papers and observation of meetings as well as interviews with every Board member.
Corporate governance statement page 54 50 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Committees of the Board The Board has established the following Committees and has The membership of each Committee and a summary of its role is delegated certain functions and tasks within their approved Terms below.
The full Terms of Reference of each Committee are published of Reference.
This allows the Board to operate efficiently and focus on the Companys website at plc.
co. uk investors on relevant areas of its responsibilities.
Board Nomination Audit Remuneration Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Members Members Members Members Ed Williams Chairman David Keens Chairman Jill Easterbrook Chairman Trevor Mather David Keens Jill Easterbrook David Keens Nathan Coe Jill Easterbrook Jeni Mundy Jeni Mundy Claire Baty Jeni Mundy Role and Terms Role and Terms Role and Terms Role and Terms of Reference of Reference of Reference of Reference Reviews the structure, Reviews and reports to the Responsible for all elements Assists the Board in discharging size and composition of Board on the Groups financial of the remuneration of the its responsibilities relating to the Board and its Committees, reporting, internal control, Executive Directors, the monitoring the existence of and makes recommendations whistleblowing, internal Chairman and senior Inside Information and its to the Board.
Also covers audit and the independence employees.
diversity, talent development and effectiveness of the and succession planning.
Read more Read more Read more plc.
co. uk investors page 60 page 62 page 66 The review demonstrated that our Board Remuneration Policy review Annual General Meeting and each Committee continue to function We also carried out a review of our Our Annual General Meeting AGM will be well, with only minor recommendations Remuneration Policy during the year, and held at 10.00 am on Thursday 20 September for improving effectiveness further.
having consulted widely with shareholders 2018 at 4th Floor, 1 Tony Wilson Place, and governance advisory agencies, we will Manchester, M154FN and we expect that The performance of every Director also be proposing some changes to our policy for all Directors will be in attendance.
More detail can be found approval at the 2018 AGM.
Ed Williams the changes being proposed will result in a Chairman policy which will serve to attract, retain and 7 June 2018 motivate our executive colleagues, without being excessive.
More details can be found in the Remuneration Policy on pages68.
Auto Trader Group plc 51 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
