AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 46 Chairman's Introduction to Corporate Governance The Company is committed to robust principles of corporate governance and risk management.
I am pleased to introduce the 2018 In accordance with the UK Corporate Corporate Governance statement.
The Governance Code, the duties of the three merger with the Schneider Electric Committees are set out in formal terms of Industrial Software Business has been a reference.
They are available on request central area of focus for the Board this year.
from the Companys registered office This year has seen considerable changes during normal business hours and are in the composition of the Board and we are available on the Companys website at grateful for the tremendous contribution of www.
Each Committee has its the retiring Directors and, equally, look own report on its activities in the year, and forward to the valued contributions that the I encourage you to refer to these for a experience and skills of the newly more comprehensive review of each appointed Directors bring to the Company.
Committees activities in the year.
The Nomination Committee led the The Company is committed to the nomination, selection and appointment of principles of Corporate Governance the Executive and Non-Executive contained in the April 2016 UK Corporate Directors made within the year, and the Governance Code the Code provided Remuneration Committee ensured that by the Financial Reporting Council and for appropriate levels of reward were set to which the Board is accountable to attract and retain top talent.
As detailed in the Committee has also been heavily Prospectus issued in September, there involved in identifying risks and managing are some provisions of the Code that Company advisers to ensure risks were have not been complied with.
Further identified and mitigated or managed.
explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out here and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 56 to 77.
In compliance with the provisions of the Code, specifically where a listed company has a controlling shareholder, we have put in place a Relationship Agreement with Schneider Electric SE, our new majority shareholder.
This is a legally binding agreement to ensure Schneider Electric allows AVEVA to act in compliance with the provisions of the Code, and a constitution that allows for the election and re-election of independent Directors.
The provisions of the Code which have not been complied with and which were stated in the Prospectus, Part XII, paragraph 3.6.
3 are a that the Remuneration Committee will not consist This year has seen considerable changes of solely independent Non-Executive Directors: b after the initial period of two in composition of the Board.
The Boards years following the completion of the Nomination Committee led the nomination, merger, the Chairman may not be selection and appointment of the Executive independent upon replacement: and c until the Company appoints an Directors and Non-Executive Directors made additional independent Non-Executive within the year.
We are grateful for the tremendous Director, at least half the Board excluding the Chairman shall not be represented by contribution of the retiring Directors and, equally, independent Non-Executive Directors.
look forward to the valued contributions that the experience and skills of the newly appointed Directors bring to the Company.
