Governance statement Chairmans introduction Mike Turner CBE, Chairman and were satisfied that any existing Board effectiveness The Board is committed relationships or circumstances did not I described key developments in to working in an affect his judgement or independence.
governance during the year in my The Committee believes that the review on page 12.
To help us meet our effective, transparent Company and the Board benefit from commitment to good governance, we and ethical manner Sir Davids specific skills and experience.
undertake an annual evaluation ofthe Accordingly, the Committee extended performance of the Board and its so that it can set and Sir Davids appointment for a further committees to allow the Board to test implement strategy three years until the Companys AGM whether it has the appropriate balance in July 2021.
He will continue in his ofskills, experience, independence and in a way it believes will role as Senior Independent Nonknowledge of the Company.
This year, benefit Shareholders Executive Director and will continue this evaluation exercise was carried out to be a member of the Audit and Risk internally.
Nosignificant concerns were by promoting and Committee, Remuneration Committee highlighted as aresult of this process and and Nominations Committee.
The maintaining the a summary of the evaluations review is Remuneration Committee will review described on page 91. long-term success of Sir Davids membership on an annual We are satisfied as a Board that allour basis to ensure that it continues to remain the Company while Non-Executive Directors are independent appropriate.
In addition, Myles Lee will having regard to other for UK Corporate Governance Code have served for three years at the time purposes and have thenecessary time of the Companys AGM in July 2018 and stakeholders.
to devote to their duties.
the Committee has decided to extend his appointment for a further three years In July 2018, Sir David Omand will have to the Companys AGM in 2021.
We, served nine years as an Independent therefore, recommend to Shareholders Non-Executive Director.
The Nominations that they reappoint each ofour NonCommittee carefully considered whether Executive Directors at the forthcoming Sir David remained independent.
They Annual General Meeting in July.
decided that Sir David remained independent in character and judgement, Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 82 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Accountability Compliance with the UK Structure of the Governance Corporate Governance Code statement The Board, principally acting through the Audit and Risk Committee, which reviews This year the Company is required to We have structured our Governance the effectiveness of the risk management report on how ithas applied the UK statement to align with the principles systems and internal controls in place, Corporate Governance Code published set out in the Code: believes thatit has presented a fair, in June 2016 the Code.
The Code balanced and understandable assessment Leadership contains broad principles and specific of the Companys position and prospects provisions which set out standards of The Board, led by the Chairman, sets throughout this Annual Report.
Principal good governance practice in relation to the strategic direction for the Company, risks and management controls are leadership, effectiveness, remuneration, providing leadership within a framework described in the Strategic report pages accountability and relations with of prudent and effective controls, which 68 to 79, where the Board also makes its Shareholders.
enable risk to beassessed and managed.
Internal controls and This section details the governance The Board considers that the Company risk management are further discussed in framework, the composition of the Board complied with all the provisions of the Audit and Risk Committee report and its committees, how responsibilities the Code throughout the year to pages 94 to 97. are divided, and the key areas of focus for 31 March 2018. the Board during the year.
The required governance and regulatory Remuneration assurances are provided throughout this Effectiveness The Remuneration Committee has Governance statement and in some cases principal responsibility for determining, The Board and its committees review in other parts ofthe Annual Report.
The in agreement with the Board, the overall their skills, experience, independence Additional Statutory Information section remuneration of the Executive Directors.
and knowledge to enable the discharge on page 133 provides further cross The Directors Remuneration report on of their duties and responsibilities references towhere in this Annual Report pages 98 and 99 details the Companys effectively.
This section provides details disclosures under the Disclosure and Remuneration policyand how it is applied.
of the 2018 Board evaluation process, Transparency Rules and Listing Rules can including the progress made since the be found.
Relations with Shareholders 2017 Board evaluation, and sets out The Board recognises the importance the induction process for new Directors.
of maintaining open dialogue with The Nominations Committee report its Shareholders.
Throughout the on pages 92 and 93 expands on year, the Company undertook a wide theprocess for Board appointments, variety of presentations, meetings and including our diversity policy.
This section on pages 131 and 132 outlines how the Board has communicated with Shareholders and how the Shareholders can engage with the Company.
Mike Turner CBE Chairman Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 83
