Chairmans governanceletter Dear Shareholders, Contents It is clear from conversations with all Stakeholder engagement ourstakeholders that board governance, We seek to maintain an open dialogue with Chairmans governance letter 72 corporate behaviour, stakeholder engagement allstakeholders including shareholders, key Directors duties 74 and environmental sustainability are all suppliers, customers and our employees.
becoming increasingly important when Board governance 76 Shareholders considering the activities of any company.
Board of directors 78 Our day-to-day shareholder contact is largely I would like to address each of these conducted by our investor relations team, Board information 80 important areas in this review.
andis supplemented by regular meetings with Governance disclosures 81 our Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Board governance Audit Committee report 83 and President and Chief Executive Officer of Details of our governance processes and Corporate Responsibility ourUS business.
procedures are given on pages 76 and 77.
Committee report 87 Insummary, however, we havea balanced I visit a number of major shareholders each Nominations Committee report 90 Board with a good mix of gender, skills and year and the Chair of theRemuneration experience with effective committees to Committee also engages with shareholders Remuneration Committee report 92 oversee our financial, corporate responsibility, todiscuss remuneration policies andpractice.
executive remuneration and board member Last year, we arranged a separate governance nomination practices.
event with major shareholders and investors.
A comprehensive Board evaluation is conducted Attended by myself, the Chief Executive each year with an external advisor employed andnon-executive directors, the meeting every other year to facilitate the process.
allowed us to discuss openly our governance Following the evaluation, I hold one-to-one arrangements, corporate culture and meetings with individual directors to provide committee work.
The feedback we received feedback and our Senior Independent Director was positive and we have decided to continue leads a Board appraisal of my performance.
this practice at regular intervals or when there We have found the evaluation process to be is a major change in Board membership.
helpful in ensuring that an open dialogue Employees delivers good practice and establishes a The Company has well-established links culture of continuous improvement.
withthe principal tradesunions representing Each year we use the evaluation to agree a members of our workforce in the UK which, number of objectives for the Board to progress atsix-monthly intervals, bring together union over the year ahead.
Amongst other things, officials with the Chief Executive for an open in2018 we agreed that we should continue discussion onthe business and matters todevelop what we do to engage directly concerning employees.
with stakeholders, and thereby look to learn In 2018, the Board decided that it would more about the Companys performance behelpful if the Chief Executive was andthe quality of key relationships from their accompanied by the Chair of the Corporate perspective.
We also agreed to ensure that Responsibility Committee, Ian Tyler, in order wemade time to have a more open-ended toprovide wider Board engagement with dialogue on matters such as corporate theunions and our workforce.
Progress was made against these and the other objectives the Board agreed last year.
BAE Systems 72 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements This has been welcomed by all parties and, Suppliers Conclusion inaddition, Ian Tyler will, from time to time, The appointment of a senior supply chain I am confident that both Board and accompany the Chief Executive on his site management team is starting to deliver a management believe in the values and visitsin the normal course of business.
much closer working relationship with our benefits of frequent and open dialogue with major suppliers.
This has been achieved stakeholders.
We are consistently reviewing In addition, as Chairman, I continue to visit through supplier conferences, strategic how we communicate and engage, including sites across the world and encourage open partnerships and clearer communication how we use technology to broaden our reach town hall sessions with the employees as a onthe ambition and expectation we have and assess the feedback we obtain, to ensure matter of course.
Similar events are conducted inbuilding long-term supplier partnerships.
that our messages are well received, when all Board members attend operational appropriately directed and our responses sites as part of the Boards annual programme, We have found that this increase in helpful and valued.
As a Board we are clear and in 2018 we held such meetings in professionalism has delivered a mutual benefit that it is not simply how much money the Rochester, UK and San Diego, US.
reflected in improved commercial terms and Company makes but how it makes money higher commitment to quality.
The Board will Employee engagement is also developed thatis important to all our stakeholders.
continue to focus on supplier management through surveys, podcasts and informal and we will report further on this in next breakfast and dinner meetings withmembers years Annual Report.
of the management team anddirectors.
Community investment A new provision in the recently revised andtheenvironment UKCorporate Governance Code requires The Board recognises the importance of companies to have an effective means of leading a company that not only generates engaging with their workforce.
The Board value for shareholders but also contributes hasagreed that our Corporate Responsibility Sir Roger Carr Chairman towider society.
As a major employer that Committee which has a membership develops and trains a highly-skilled workforce, comprising only independent non-executive principally in manufacture and engineering directors will be responsible for discharging roles, we make an important economic this role, and in doing so will build on the contribution to the communities in which range of employee engagement opportunities weoperate.
In addition, through our Global we have been undertaking to date.
The Community Investment Strategy we build Committee took on this responsibility from andnurture mutually beneficial relationships thestart of 2019, and therefore we will between our business, our people and bewell placed to comply with this new localstakeholders.
requirement and report further on it in nextyears Annual Report.
I have been fortunate to see at first-hand how this is being put into action, with initiatives Customers focused on our support for the armed forces, The nature of our business and the culture education and skills, and the support we ofthe Company encourages thedevelopment provide for the communities in which we of deep, transparent and constructive operate.
Well-managed companies are an relationships with our customers.
It recognises essential part of society but in order to succeed that, whilst on occasion we may have business needs strong, vibrant and prosperous competing commercial objectives, we are communities.
united in our mutual commitment to serve and protect those that serve and protect us.
Recognition of our wider impacts is also animportant part of our environmental Customer contact involving relevant commitments.
As a major manufacturing management personnel, the Chief Executive company, we recognise that environmental and also myself, is with governments, officials and climate riskscould impact us directly.
We and military personnel across the world on are committed to reducing the environmental aregular basis.
During the course of the year, impact of our operations and products, and weinvited the Chief of the Royal AirForce minimising our environmental footprint.
This andthe Permanent Under Secretary of the isimportant to our role in wider society and Foreign and Commonwealth Office to meet in2019 we will develop our environmental the Boardfor an open discussion on the policy further and progress our alignment valueof our relationship andways to tothe UN Sustainable Development Goals.
The Board and the Corporate Responsibility We will continue this practice in the years Committee will provide oversight of this tocome.
