GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS LETTER ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS LETTER ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD CHANGES GOVERNANCE AND RISK There have been a number of changes to During the year the Board was kept up the Board during the year.
I am delighted to todate on the developments and changes welcome Jane Lodge, who joined the Board tothe corporate governance landscape as an Independent Non-executive Director andthe Governance Code.
In July 2018, in April 2018 and has assumed the role of theFinancial Reporting Council FRC Chair ofthe Audit and Risk Committee.
published its new Governance Code which Janes extensive experience of the food will apply to financial periods commencing industry asan Audit Partner and a on or after 1 January 2019.
For Bakkavor, Non-executive Director will be of significant this will therefore not formally apply until benefit to theBoard and equips her well to our financial year ending December 2020, guide theAudit and Risk Committee in the but this will be an area of focus for the yearsahead.
Board and its Committees over the next year and we will endeavour to meet the In July 2018, Bob Berlin informed us of his requirements during 2019. decision to stand down from the Board.
Iwould like to thank Bob for his contribution As a Company, we have a long-standing DEAR SHAREHOLDER as a Board member and for his support for commitment to high standards of corporate Bakkavor through its journey to becoming a responsibility, which includes considering I am delighted to present public listed company.
He was replaced as the interests of a broad stakeholder group toyou our second Annual the representative of BP-PE5 L. L. C the in making business decisions.
The Board Report and Accounts Baupost Group on the Board by Patrick remains focused on all Bakkavors Cook, who joined as a Non-executive stakeholders, including its employees, sincewe listed on the Director.
I welcome Patrick, who is a customers, shareholders and the LondonStock Exchange Principal at the Baupost Group and has communities it is part of.
You can read inNovember 2017. significant investment experience across about our stakeholder engagement on the food sector.
page10 and also in the CR section.
In this section, which forms part of the The Governance Code recommends that We continue to develop and embed our risk Directors Report, we provide details of atleast half the board of directors of a UK function, and appointed a Head of Risk howthe Company has applied the principles listed company, excluding the Chairman, during the year, who is responsible for of, and complied with, the UK Corporate should comprise Non-executive Directors making risk consideration an important part Governance Code 2016 the Governance determined by the board to be independent.
of daily decision-making, and improving the Code during the year.
Bakkavor is now fully compliant in identification, mitigation and reporting of Strengthening Bakkavors corporate thisrespect.
risk to the business and the Board.
governance framework was a key focus in2018, following our Initial Public BOARD EVALUATION LOOKING AHEAD Offering IPO in November 2017.
One of my responsibilities is to ensure We are making good progress to develop thatthe Board is performing effectively, our governance processes.
They provide an Good corporate governance makes andwe carry out an annual review of this, appropriate platform from which to manage apositive contribution to the growth facilitated internally, and an external review the business.
I am confident this will help andlong-term success of any business.
The review in 2018 was to improve performance and enable us to Providing appropriate support, focused conducted internally, with a positive outcome.
stay aligned with best practice over the oversight and constructive challenge are There were some constructive suggestions coming years.
critical elements of a well-functioning board.
and these will be implemented in 2019.
I would like to thank the Senior Alongside this is the important role of Youcan read more about the evaluation Management team and the many theBoard in establishing and promoting process on page 60.
I am satisfied that our colleagues who havesupported the Bakkavors values, by creating the necessary governance structures remain effective Board in this work.
internal culture to enable us to meet the andsupport the business.
requirements of our customers, employees, shareholders and wider stakeholders, and deliver long-term sustainable growth.
SIMON BURKE Chairman 5 April 2019 www.
