68 Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance Embedding governance practices in our culturetosupportthe Companys purpose I believe that good standardsof corporate governance are critical to thelong-term sustainability of our business.
Philip Aiken AM Chairman Corporate Governance reporting On the pages that follow, we have set out the Companys compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Where practical we have aligned some content to recognise  Governance Code the 2018 code.
We will report against the 2018 Code in fullinthe2019 Annual Report.
Board leadership including relations Division of Composition, succession with stakeholders responsibilities andevaluation The Board is responsible for leading the The Board has a collective responsibility We aim to ensure we have abalanced business in the way it believes leads to the to lead but each member of the Board Board with the appropriate skillstogovern Companys long-term sustainable success.
has a clearly defined role to ensure the business, and an effectiveevaluation This includes effective engagement with noindividual or group of individuals and succession plan.
Committee is appointed tolead on composition and succession matters onbehalf of the Board.
70 74 75 Read more Read more Read more Board Committees Audit, risk and internal control and Remuneration The Board is supported in its work Audit and Risk Committee Our remuneration policy aims to attract, through the Safety and Sustainability The Board defines Balfour Beattys retain and motivate the right calibre of Committee, the Nomination Committee strategy, taking care to avoid unnecessary people to drive the performance of the and also the Group Tender and or unacceptable risks.
The Audit and Risk business.
We aim to operate this policy Investment Committee and Finance Committee is appointed to oversee this in a transparent manner.
The Board has andGeneral Purposes Committee.
process on behalf of the Board.
delegated this responsibility to the Remuneration Committee.
Boththe 2016 and 2018 UK Corporate Governance Codes can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website: www.
77 80 88 Read more Read more Read more Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 69 Safety and sustainability As is our usual practice, all Directors will Dear Shareholder The Board has continued to oversee our standfor re-election, or election in the case I am pleased to introduce this years Companys approach to sustainability and ofAnne Drinkwater, by shareholders at the Corporate Governance report and to health and safety.
Although this work is led AGM in May 2019 with the exception of havetheopportunity to share with you byour Safety and Sustainability Committee, IainFerguson.
Iain will be retiring from the theactivities of the Board during 2018. the full Board receives a briefing paper on Board after the 2019 AGM and therefore I believe that good standards of corporate keymetrics inthisarea at each meeting.
governance are critical to the long-term More details oftheCommittees work Further information on these matters sustainability of our business.
In shaping the thisyear can be foundon page 78. issetout in the Nomination Committee Groups strategic direction, we have sought Tragically during 2018, there were two report on page 77. toensure that good governance practices separate fatalities suffered by our areembedded in our culture and support our subcontractor partners, both resulting from Independence of Directors purpose of creating infrastructure, supporting third party incursions into our work sites.
As is our usual practice, we carefully communities and enabling growth.
The Safety and Sustainability Committee considered the independence of all Board received full briefings on these incidents members during the year taking account Succession planning andreviewed innovations and additional ofthe criteria set by the 2016 UK Corporate In 2018, the full Board reviewed succession mitigations that could be undertaken to avoid Governance Code and reviewing the planning for our senior leaders including such events in future.
Such incidents are a conflictsof interest register, further details keyroles below the Executive Committee.
sad reminder ofthe risk that our colleagues ofwhich can be found on page 75.
During the Boards scheduled annual visit and partners face in delivering projects for tothe US, we had the opportunity to meet ourcustomers.
The Board remains Evaluation with a range of senior colleagues and determined to drive industry-wide An externally facilitated evaluation was undertook a detailed review of succession improvements in such areas to better conducted this year for which full details are plans focusing on the US.
Directors make protectour workforce across our operations.
In consideration of what anumber of visits to sites and offices in we had learnt in our internal reviews over the theUKand also the US specifically to meet Remuneration past two years that the Board and as many of our colleagues as possible.
Our remuneration policy was last approved Committees were functioning in accordance The views of colleagues are then discussed byshareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Details of with their respective charters I decided to with the rest oftheBoard.
To enable Board how we intend to operate thatpolicy in 2019 adopt an approach which focused on the members todirectly support our pipeline of can be found in the Remuneration report on interpersonal effectiveness and performance future leaders, individual mentoring pages 88 to 103.
We will be conducting a of each Board member inthe context of his or relationships have been established.
fullreview of our remuneration policy in 2019 her personality profile andhow thisaligned At Board level, the Nomination Committee with the profilesof otherBoard members.
and will then ask shareholders to approve oversees all new appointments.
ourrevised policy at the 2020 AGM.
Candidates are assessed against objective Relations with stakeholders criteria through a rigorous selection process.
The Board and I recognise the responsibility UK Corporate Governance Code We make appointments based on merit we have to a range of stakeholders including During the year, the Board received anddo not believe in setting gender quotas.
our customers, employees, key apresentation on thenew 2018 UK We adopted this approach in appointing subcontractors, suppliers, the environment CorporateGovernance Code.
AnneDrinkwater to our Board: who was and the communities we operate in.
Processes andprocedures including all judged to be the strongest candidate Committee terms of reference and the We are committed to open and fromthose we considered.
Boards matters reserved are being effectivedialogue with shareholders and reviewedin light of the changes brought We welcomed Anne as a non-executive meetings have been held with a range of inbythe 2018 Code.
We will report against Director to the Board in December 2018. institutional shareholders and also proxy the 2018 Code in the 2019 Annual Report.
Anne brings a wealth of experience ofleading advisory firms in order to directly discuss on large complex projects across multiple ourstrategic objectives and governance For the current reporting period, we have jurisdictions including the US from her practices.
In addition, meetings have been applied the 2016 UK Corporate Governance longcareer at BP.
With effect from held with the UK Shareholders Association Code the 2016 Code, being the standard 1 January2019, Anne has joined the which represents retail shareholders.
thatapplies to good corporate governance Safetyand Sustainability Committee practice in the UK.
The Company has The AGM is an important opportunity for andtheRemuneration Committee.
complied fully with the requirements of private investors to engage with the Board and the2016 Code throughout the accounting The Board undertakes a formal review all shareholders are encouraged to attend.
period and to the date of this report.
ofCommittee composition each year and During the year, in addition to the informal decided that no additional changes were meetings of individual Directors during site required to the main Board Committees.
and office visits referred to above, all Board During 2018, terms of appointment members met witha range of colleagues at a formyself, Stuart Doughty and Stephen Meet the Board event at our Canary Wharf Billingham were reviewed in light of office.
Further details of this can be found on Philip Aiken AM thecontribution made by each of us to page 73.
Work is underway to develop and Chairman theeffective operation of the Board.
enhance the Boards formal approach to After consideration, the Board renewed engagement withemployees and we will eachof our appointments for a further report on thisfurther in the 2019 three-year term.
