EXECUTIVE CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Governance within BCA is central to the environment within which the Board operates.
I have held the role of Executive Chairman since July 2014.
The Board has discussed my combined role and it remains satisfied, as set out on pages 55 and 57, that it is appropriate for me to continue to hold this combined role.
Apart from this provision of the Code, I am pleased to confirm that, for the period under review, we complied with the remaining provisions of the Code.
The Code recommends that an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is conducted annually and that this process is facilitated externally at least every third year.
This year the evaluation process was carried out internally and required each Director to respond to a series of questions and to add comments where they considered them to add clarity and be helpful.
The process considered the Board and its Committees composition, strengths and weaknesses, range and balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company, diversity including gender diversity, how the Board works together as a unit, the effectiveness of the Chairman of the Board and of each Committee, risk management, succession planning and any training issues.
The Board has considered the results of these evaluations and noted that there is a high degree of confidence across the Board and its Committees in the practices and procedures currently in use whilst Good governance remains a priority acknowledging the ongoing need to focus on communication and for the Board the provision of information to the Board as the business continues to grow and develop.
Avril Palmer-Baunack Executive Chairman As referred to in my statement on page 2, in December 2017 Mark Brangstrup Watts and James Corsellis resigned as Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
As described in the Dear Stakeholder Nomination Committees report on page 57, the Committee and On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Board as a whole, discussed whether additional Independent our Governance report for the financial year ended Non-Executive Directors should be added to the Board following 1 April 2018.
As Executive Chairman, it is my these resignations.
After due consideration, the Directors concluded responsibility to ensure that the Group is, and that the Board continued to display a well-balanced array of skills continues to be, governed and managed with and remains well-attuned to the Groups requirements and therefore, transparency and in the best interests of stakeholders.
at this stage, no additional Independent Non-Executive Directors would be sought.
This decision will be reviewed from time to time Prior to the Companys move to the Premium Listing should the Groups requirements change.
I confirm that following a it was not formally required to comply or explain any formal performance evaluation of the Independent Non-Executive non-compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Directors performance, I am satisfied that their individual Code April 2016 the Code.
Notwithstanding, performance continues to be effective and demonstrates the Company has always been committed to, and commitment to the role.
recognised the value and importance of, high standards of corporate governance and complied as We are committed to maintaining an active dialogue with our far as appropriate with the Code.
In the past 12 months shareholders and will hold our AGM on 6 September 2018 at the the Board has continued its drive to improve the offices of Bryan Cave Leighton Paisner LLP, Adelaide House, existing governance structures and to enhance its London Bridge, London EC4R 9HA.
internal control systems, policies and procedures to ensure they are appropriate for a company of our size and complexity.
In October 2017 the Company moved from the Avril Palmer-Baunack Standard to the Premium Listing of the Official List Executive Chairman and qualified for inclusion in the FTSE 250 from 27 June 2018 18 December 2017.
Accordingly, whilst the Company has a Premium Listing it is required to comply or explain any non-compliance with the Code as amended from time to time.
A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website frc.
54 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
