com Letter from the chairmanof our remuneration committee Dear shareholder The basis of the remuneration policy remains to attract and keep those who are among the best in the world in specialist insurance, rewarding sustained performance and keeping the company competitive.
Business performance and incentive out-turns The commercial background to this years remuneration report is, as you will have seen from the results, strong premium growth .
Executive salaries for 2019 ,  see below, was 3.0%, less than the average salary increase for the rest of the organisation.
, Adrians salary was increased by 8.3%.
Sallys compensation will be in line with our remuneration policy and will be announced when she takes up her appointment.
There have been no special remuneration arrangements for the retirements of Neil Maidment and Martin Bride.
Corporate Governance Developments ,  Beazley is aligned with best practice.
A number of changes have already been made and taking into account the new Code, the 2019 LTIP awards will be awarded with .
In addition, the recovery provisions have been strengthened and an additional clause has been introduced to the LTIP to enable the committee to apply independent judgement and discretion to out-turns taking into account wider company and individual performance.
The committee is also mindful of evolving market practice in relation to post-employment shareholding guidelines.
Currently on cessation, in the case of a good leaver, all outstanding share awards subsist to their normal release vesting dates providing considerable alignment with shareholders post-employment.
The committee will be considering other matters, including the remuneration reporting requirements and the approach to post-employment shareholding guidelines.
There will be an opportunity to vote on a revised remuneration policy at the 2020 Annual General Meeting.
Gender pay During the year Beazley published its second gender pay gap report.
While we were pleased to see a minor improvement, we are determinedtodomore.
Shareholders In light of our shareholders feedback this year we have provided more detail of the corporate performance and individual contributions .
%onlastyears directors remuneration report and look forward to receiving our shareholders support for this years report.
Sir Andrew Likierman Remuneration committee chairman
