com Annual report 2018 Beazley 79 Letter from our chairman On behalf of the board of directors, I am pleased to present the governance report in which we describe our governance arrangements, the operation of the board and its committees and how the board discharged its responsibilities throughout the year.
Board changes I am pleased to report that your board remains highly engaged in fulfilling its principal tasks of leading the company and overseeing the governance of the group.
As mentioned on page 87, the board has continued to evolve with a number of changes during the year and further developments planned for the forthcoming year.
Neil Maidment retired from the board on 31 December 2018 after having served as an executive director since 2001.
We also announced that Martin Bride, the group finance director, will retire from the board in May 2019 following the finalisation of the 2018 accounting year.
We were delighted to announce that Martin will be succeeded on the board by Sally Lake.
The board would like to express their thanks to Neil and Martin for the immense contribution they have made to the development of the group.
The board is looking forward to welcoming Sally to her new role.
In accordance with the groups policy on Director independence and rotation, non-executive directors George Blunden senior independent director and Angela Crawford-Ingle chair of the audit and risk committee will be stepping down from the board during 2019.
George will stand down at the conclusion of the AGM in March 2019 and Angela will stand down following the conclusion of the 2018 accounting year and following a handover to her successor.
The board is immensely grateful to both George and Angela for being such tremendous servants to the company during their tenure.
A search for a successor to chair the audit and risk committee is well progressed and the board expects to make an appointment in due course.
As previously reported, Dennis Holt, our previous chairman stepped down following the conclusion of the 2018 AGM and I took up the role of board chairman.
Christine LaSala will succeed George Blunden and will assume the role of senior independent director following the AGM.
Christine will also join the nomination and remuneration committees from the same date.
Catherine Woods joined both the nomination and remuneration committees with effect from 1 October 2018.
We have increased diversity across all of the boards subcommittees during the year.
In line with the boards commitment to ensuring it has the skills necessary to support and challenge management on the areas central to the groups strategy, a search is underway for a non-executive director with expertise in technology, operations and data and it is anticipated that an appointment will be made during the first half of 2019.
The board is well supported through continuous group development and training as well as individual development programs.
The board continues to devote significant attention to developing robust succession plans for both the board and senior management.
This will be increasingly important to ensure the optimum balance of expertise, skills and experience is available across the group in a fast changing marketplace.
Board evaluation This year, we appointed Boardroom Review Limited to undertake the triennial externally facilitated board evaluation.
I am pleased to report that the review concluded that the board, its committees and its individual members continue to operate effectively.
The review highlighted the following key areas that the board will focus on in the coming year: reviewing the governance structure and information flows between our regulated subsidiary boards in light of the changing business and political landscape: considering whether a risk committee should be established, separating out the risk and audit agendas and continued development of the role of internal audit: and continuing monitoring of corporate culture, and board engagement with executive development, diversity and talent.
We will report on the progress in implementing the recommendations made in the 2020 annual report.
Governance The company continues to be committed to the highest standards of governance and I am pleased to confirm that the company has complied with the principles and provisions that are set out in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2018.
The board has also considered the changes introduced in the 2018 UK Governance Code the Code and it is pleasing to note that the company had a number of processes already in place to assist compliance with the principles and provisions of the Code and we will report fully on our compliance in the 2019 annual report.
Details of the activities of the board and its committees are also set out on pages 86 to 99.
All directors will attend this years AGM, either in person or via teleconference, which will again provide an opportunity for all shareholders to hear more about our performance and to ask questions of the board.
I would like to thank all of my colleagues on the board for their contribution during the year.
