Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance W e are striving to achieve a balance between growingadisciplined, well governed, controlled listedcompany, whilst retaining an entrepreneurial spiritwithin our divisions.
John Watson Chairman Dear Shareholder Changes to the Board Our culture retaining an entrepreneurial spirit The changes to the Board that have taken place during the The Board has discussed the core principles of the year and will take place over the coming months are set out Companys culture that exist within the business and will in the Nomination Committee report.
I would, however, like develop these further during the year before formally to place on record my thanks to Ted Ayres for the valuable communicating them to staff.
The Board reinforces our contribution he has made to Bellway over his 16 years with culture and the focus on health and safety and customer the Company, and who, for health reasons, stepped down care throughout the Group through divisional visits and from the Board on 31 July 2018. informal board dinners to which senior managers are invited.
John Cuthbert will step down from the Board on 31 October Board effectiveness and evaluation 2018 after nine years as a non-executive director and we would like to place on record our thanks to John for his hard During the year the evaluation of the Board and its work and commitment both as a non-executive director and committees was conducted with the assistance of the Group Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Finally, after 40 years with Bellway, I will be retiring at the Each director completed a questionnaire in relation to the conclusion of the AGM and handing the baton of Chairman performance of the Board and any committees of which over to Paul Hampden Smith.
This was followed by the Chairman discussing individually with each director and the Group Diversity General Counsel and Company Secretary the points raised.
The Board is committed to making appointments on merit, The Chairmans performance was assessed by the senior against objective criteria and the Board strongly supports the independent non-executive director, who considered the principle of boardroom diversity in all its aspects.
During the views of the other directors and the Group General Counsel year the Board approved a Board Diversity Policy, which is and Company Secretary as part of that process.
available to view on our website.
The Chairman evaluated the performance and effectiveness The appointment of the two new non-executive directors of each of the directors.
Each committee chairman reviewed and the new executive director during the year was the responses to the committee questionnaires before described in last years Nomination Committee report.
reaching their conclusions on how the committees had This resulted in women making up 22% of our Board.
As at performed during the year.
The Board, led by the Chairman, the date of this report women make up 25% of the Board evaluated its own performance.
and this will increase to 33% after the 2018 AGM.
These evaluations concluded that the Board and committees As at 31 July 2018 our female employees made up 28% 2017 were well run and continued to be operating effectively.
29% of our total workforce, while 22% 2017 14% of the The main areas highlighted for further development or Board and 14% 2017 14% of our senior management were improvement were: women.
Of our Head Office executive team, 25% are women and 16% of their direct reports are also women.
how to further improve the use of Board papers to ensure that the right balance is achieved in terms of content and Being cognisant of the benefits of diversity and the time spent on the most important issues.
recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander review, the Board is directing its attention to increasing the number how to further improve presentations to the Board.
of women in its senior management team and will report continue to focus on strategy as a top priority.
on performance against this new KPI in next years annual report.
Bellway p. l. c. 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance The Board and the Group General Counsel and Company present.
We also consulted with a number of shareholders Secretary will work with senior management to develop and on our CR strategy.
The Board receives regular updates improve these areas during the year and the progress made from our advisers on investors and analysts views on will be reported on in next years annual report.
The areas highlighted for improvement in last years Board Shareholders are also kept up-to-date with our progress evaluation and progress made are set out in the table at the throughout the year through the annual report and bottom of this page.
announcements to the Stock Exchange for the full year and half year results and trading updates.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance The whole Board is available for questions at the AGM, Code the Code to which institutional and private investors are invited to attend.
I am pleased to report that at the last AGM over 91% I am pleased to confirm that the Board considers that it has of the votes cast were cast in favour of the resolutions put to complied throughout the year with the detailed provisions shareholders by the Board.
The Code is available, free of charge, from the Financial Reporting Council, online at The Chairman and senior independent non-executive www.
The revised director are always available to discuss issues with current Code published in July 2018 will apply to the Company from and prospective shareholders and institutions, as and 1 August 2019 and over the coming months we will review when required.
In addition, the whole Board is regularly and adopt any changes required to enable us to report on updated at Board meetings on shareholder and investor our compliance in due course.
views and activities by the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Shareholder engagement Further information for shareholders is available on our The Company encourages active dialogue with its website at www.
private and institutional shareholders, and the directors communicate with both existing and prospective institutional shareholders on a regular basis and as requested.
John Watson In addition to the financial results presentations, during the Chairman year our executive directors hosted further presentations 15 October 2018 attended by institutional investors, analysts and shareholders, with other members of the senior management team being Board evaluation 2016 17 update Action Progress Succession planning at and Work continues on the detailed longer term succession plan at and below Board level.
A number of planned and unforeseen changes at Board and senior management level have taken place during the 2017 18 year and in the 2018 19 year to date, and the plan was an important tool in ensuring smooth transitions.
The plan will continue to be updated and developed.
Continue to focus on strategy Strategy is discussed regularly at Board meetings and at our annual strategy day.
This work continues to be a top priority for the Board.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45
