3.1 Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman Our shareholders will see that our business performance drives our remuneration outcomes.
Carolyn Hewson Chairman, Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to introduce BHPs Remuneration Report for the We are aware of various proposals put forward by some shareholders financial year to 30 June 2018.
During the year, the Committee and other groups to consider alternative remuneration arrangements, has continued its work to achieve remuneration outcomes that and while there is not yet a fully aligned view on the way forward, fairly reflect the performance of BHP, its businesses and individuals.
positive steps have been observed in the last 12 months.
We will FY2018 has seen continued improvement in performance in continue to monitor the debate, as our shareholders would expect.
comparison with recent years, and the remuneration outcomes We are keen to consider any alternate arrangements that simplify for FY2018 reflect this.
remuneration, drive a balanced shortand long-term focus, align outcomes and business performance, limit the potential for The Board and Committee believe our remuneration policy has extreme and or excessive outcomes, and yet still deliver on the served stakeholders well over prior years, a view supported by primary purpose: to attract, retain and appropriately reward discussions with shareholders and reflected in the voting outcomes talented executives.
We will continue to have discussions with at our AGMs.
However, we also believe it is appropriate we remain our shareholders and assess these matters.
open to arrangements that differ from ours, provided that they support the attraction and motivation of talented executives Remuneration outcomes for the CEO and, at the same time, align business performance and Since his appointment as CEO in 2013, Andrew Mackenzie has remuneration outcomes.
not received a base salary increase and, after review in 2018, the Committee has again determined his salary will remain unchanged Link to strategy at US$1.700 million per annum.
In addition, the other components Our Charter sets out our values, placing health and safety first, of his total target remuneration pension contributions, benefits and upon which the Remuneration Committee places great weight in the short-term and long-term incentive targets also remain unchanged determination of performance-based remuneration outcomes for since 2013.
Mr Mackenzie is BHPs only Executive Director.
Our Charter also sets out our purpose, our strategy and how we measure success.
The Committee is guided by Our Mr Mackenzies annual STI is focussed on motivating high levels Charter and aims to support our executives in taking a long-term of performance during the financial year and is at-risk.
The target approach to decision-making in order to build a sustainable and level of STI is worth 160 per cent of base salary but, importantly, value-adding business.
there is a significant amount of stretch incorporated into the levels of performance required for a target outcome.
The maximum Our approach STI is worth 240 per cent of base salary but is only realisable Our policy and approach to remuneration remains unchanged: in circumstances of significant outperformance.
The minimum however, we continue to strive for simplification in our programs.
We were pleased to again receive strong support for our The scorecard against which Mr Mackenzies short-term performance remuneration policy at the 2017 AGMs, with over 97 per cent voting is assessed comprises stretching performance measures, including for the Remuneration Report, and over 96 per cent support in HSEC, financial and individual performance elements.
For FY2018, each of the prior five years.
The Committee and the Board continue the Remuneration Committee has assessed Mr Mackenzies to incorporate shareholder feedback into our deliberations on pay performance and determined an STI outcome of 90 per cent to ensure it supports the Companys strategy.
against the target of 100 per cent which represents an The Committee strives to implement the remuneration policy in outcome of 60 per cent against the maximum STI opportunity a considered way.
The exercise of reasonable downward discretion available to him or 144 per cent of base salary.
has been a feature of BHPs approach over many years where the status quo or a formulaic outcome does not align with the overall shareholder experience, and this remains unchanged.
As a result, remuneration outcomes for our executives continue to appropriately reflect Company, business and individual performance.
128 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information This outcome took into account HSEC performance, which primarily Mr Mackenzies LTI is also at-risk, and forms an important part reflected the tragic fatalities that occurred at the Goonyella of recognising long-term performance, including the impacts of Riverside mine in August 2017 and at our Permian Basin Shale long-dated capital allocation and portfolio decisions.
In relation operations in November 2017, with the Committee, after taking to the LTI awards granted in 2013, BHPs TSR performance was advice from the Sustainability Committee, giving the Groups safety negative 9.3 per cent over the five-year period from 1 July 2013 performance the greatest weighting in the HSEC category.
This is below the weighted median TSR of peer companies of positive 9.6 per cent and below the TSR Controllable financial performance was below the stretching of the MSCI World index of positive 67.6 per cent.
This level financial target set at the commencement of the year, mainly of performance results in zero vesting for the 2013 LTIP awards, due to variable production performance across the Group, with and accordingly the awards have lapsed.
overall volumes of coal, iron ore and copper being lower than expectations, partly offset by higher than expected production Overall, Mr Mackenzies actual total remuneration for FY2018 was of petroleum products.
US$4.657 million, compared with US$4.554 million for FY2017, with the slight increase due to a marginally higher STI outcome this The Committee also considered the CEOs strong performance year compared to FY2017.
The LTI outcome was zero in both years.
against individual objectives, including significant work to finalise the divestment of Onshore US assets, the Board approvals of In line with the approach for Mr Mackenzie, the base salaries and the Spence copper growth option and South Flank iron ore project, total target remuneration packages for all other Executive KMP a continued strong focus on safety and productivity across the will also be held constant in FY2019.
Company, progress on BHPs Capital Allocation Framework, and further advancement against BHPs inclusion and diversity objectives.
Target STI of 160 per cent of base salary The normal LTI grant is based on a face maximum 240 per cent of base salary.
value of 400 per cent of base salary.
Pension contributions of 25 per cent of base salary.
No change to either target or maximum Our LTI awards have rigorous relative percentages for FY2019.
TSR performance hurdles measured No change to either base salary or over five years.
Three performance categories: HSEC 25 per cent Financial 45 per cent Individual performance 30 per cent Remuneration outcomes for the Chairman and In recognition of the increasing workload of BHPs Nomination and Governance Committee, a fee for members of that Committee was Non-executive Directors introduced with effect from 1 July 2018.
The fee is US$18,000 per Fee levels for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors are annum.
There is no fee for the role of Chairman of the Nomination reviewed annually, including benchmarking against peer companies.
and Governance Committee as the Group Chairman fills that role No changes to the Chairmans fee will be made for FY2019.
and his fee is all-inclusive.
This follows a review in 2017, where a decision was made to reduce the Chairmans annual fee by approximately eight per cent Summary from US$0.960 million to US$0.880 million with effect from 1 July The remuneration outcomes for FY2018 reflect an appropriate 2017, which followed an earlier reduction, effective 1 July 2015, alignment between pay and performance during the year.
We remain of approximately 13 per cent from US$1.100 million to confident our philosophy, framework and remuneration policy can US$0.960 million.
continue to support long-term value creation: however, we continue Base fee levels for Non-executive Directors will also remain to look for opportunities to improve our approach.
We look forward to ongoing dialogue with, and the support of, our shareholders, and unchanged, after they were also reduced effective 1 July 2015 by approximately six per cent, from US$0.170 million to welcome your feedback and comments on any aspect of this Report.
Prior to the above reductions in fee levels for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors, their fees had remained unchanged since 2011.
Carolyn Hewson Chairman, Remuneration Committee 6 September 2018 BHP Annual Report 2018 129 3.2 Remuneration policy report BHP has an overarching remuneration policy that guides the Remuneration Committees decisions.
Under UK legislation, shareholders have the opportunity to vote on our remuneration policy every three years, with binding effect in regard to the Directors including the CEO.
Our remuneration policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGMs, has not changed and is repeated below.
Under Australian legislation, shareholders also have the opportunity to vote on our remuneration policy, in conjunction with the broader Remuneration Report, each year at the AGMs as it applies to all KMP under a non-binding advisory vote.
1 Framework BHPs remuneration policy is designed to reward and recognise the delivery of our strategy, promote long-term success, align management and shareholder interests and encourage behaviours to be aligned to the values in Our Charter, as set out in the framework below.
Strategic driver Remuneration principles Mechanisms Provide competitive rewards to attract and retain highly skilled executives.
Salary and benefits positioned competitively against key global markets and peer comparator companies.
Productivity: Reflect the level of responsibility operational excellence for delivering business strategy STIP and LITP performance measures support operational and results.
excellence, risk management and strategy execution.
Sustainable HSEC and financial performance measures Balance performance and risk.
are built into incentive plans.
STIP awards delivered half in cash and half in deferred equity.
Significant portion of pay at-risk.
Sustainability: long-term Long-term strategic plans and market expectations are taken Encourage long-term, sustainable growth and success into account when setting performance criteria and goals.
growth aligned to the interests of shareholders.
Five-year performance period of LTI and use of relative TSR performance condition.
Retention through long-term share exposure over five-year performance period.
Align performance-related pay to delivery of shareholder value.
Stretch goals, balance business objectives and market Corporate planning: conditions, and align performance and shareholder experience.
Ensure appropriate executive, shareholder value creation Non-executive Director and Relative TSR performance condition.
Prohibition on hedging of incentive instruments.
Ensure rewards are appropriate Annual review of remuneration against relevant markets.
for actual performance and Board discretion to reduce incentive outcomes.
capital discipline Deferred STI equity component.
Control cost to shareholders and governance Malus and clawback provisions.
by paying competitive but not Severance payments limited to contractual agreements.
Our Charter values: Sustainability, Integrity, Respect, Performance, Simplicity, Accountability.
2 How remuneration policy is set The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration policy for the CEO and other Executive KMP based on the principles and framework outlined above.
The Committee is briefed on and considers prevailing market conditions, the competitive environment and the positioning and relativities of pay and employment conditions across the wider BHP workforce.
The Committee takes into account the annual base salary increases for our employee population when determining any change in the CEOs base salary.
Salary increases in Australia, where the CEO is located, are particularly relevant, as they reflect the local economic conditions.
Although BHP does not consult directly with employees on CEO and other Executive KMP remuneration, the Group conducts regular employee engagement surveys that give employees an opportunity to provide feedback on a wide range of employee matters.
Further, many employees are ordinary shareholders through our all-employee share purchase plan, Shareplus, and therefore have the opportunity to vote on AGM resolutions.
As part of the Boards commitment to good governance, the Committee also considers shareholder views when setting the remuneration policy for the CEO and other Executive KMP.
We are committed to engaging and communicating with shareholders regularly and, as our shareholders are spread across the globe, we are proactive with our engagement on remuneration and governance matters with institutional shareholders and investor representative organisations.
Feedback from shareholders and investors is shared with, and used as input into decision-making by, the Board and Remuneration Committee in respect of our remuneration policy and its application.
The Committee considers that this approach provides a robust mechanism to ensure Directors are aware of matters raised, have a good understanding of current shareholder views, and can formulate policy and make decisions as appropriate.
We encourage shareholders to always make their views known to us by directly contacting our Investor Relations team contact details available on our website at bhp.
130 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Remuneration policy for the Executive Director This section only refers to the remuneration policy for our CEO, who is our sole Executive Director.
If any other executive were to be appointed an Executive Director, this remuneration policy would apply to that new role.
The principles that underpin the remuneration policy for the CEO are the same as those that apply to other employees, although the CEOs arrangements have a greater emphasis on, and a higher proportion of remuneration in the form of, performance-related variable pay.
Similarly, the performance measures used to determine STI outcomes for the CEO and all other employees are linked to the delivery of our strategy and behaviours that are aligned to the values in Our Charter.
3 Components of remuneration The following table shows the components of total remuneration, the link to strategy, the applicable operation and performance frameworks, and the maximum opportunity for each component.
The Remuneration Committees discretion in respect of each remuneration component applies up to the maximum shown.
Any remuneration elements awarded or granted under the previous remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2014, but which have not yet vested or been paid, shall continue to be capable of vesting and payment on their existing terms.
Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum Base salary Base salary, denominated in US dollars, is broadly aligned with salaries for 8% increase per comparable roles in global companies of similar global complexity, size, reach annum annualised, A competitive base salary is and industry, and reflects the CEOs responsibilities, location, skills, performance, or inflation if higher paid in order to attract and retain qualifications and experience.
a high-quality and experienced 3 CEO, and to provide appropriate Base salary is reviewed annually with effect from 1 September.
Reviews remuneration for this important are informed, but not led, by benchmarking to comparable roles as above, role in the Group.
changes in responsibility and general economic conditions.
Substantial weight is also given to the general base salary increases for employees.
Base salary is not subject to separate performance conditions.
Pension contributions Pension contributions are benchmarked to comparable roles in global companies 25% of base salary.
and have been determined after considering the pension contributions provided Provides a market-competitive to the wider workforce.
level of post-employment benefits provided to attract A choice of funding vehicles is offered, including a defined contribution and retain a high-quality plan, an unfunded retirement savings plan, an international retirement plan and experienced CEO.
Alternatively, a cash payment may be provided in lieu.
Benefits Benefits may be provided, as determined by the Committee, and currently Benefits as include costs of private family health insurance, death and disability insurance, determined by the Provides personal insurances, car parking, and personal tax return preparation in the required countries Committee but to a relocation benefits and tax where BHP has requested the CEO relocate internationally, or where BHPs limit not exceeding assistance where BHPs structure DLC structure requires personal tax returns in multiple jurisdictions.
10% of base salary gives rise to tax obligations across and if applicable multiple jurisdictions, Costs associated with business-related travel for the CEOs spouse partner, a one-off taxable and a market-competitive including for Board meetings, may be covered.
Where these costs are relocation allowance level of benefits to attract deemed to be taxable benefits for the CEO, BHP may reimburse the CEO up to US$700,000.
and retain a high-quality for these tax costs.
The CEO is eligible to participate in Shareplus, BHPs all-employee share purchase plan.
A relocation allowance and assistance is provided only where a change of location is made at BHPs request.
The Groups mobility policies provide one-off payments with no trailing entitlements.
STI Setting performance measures and targets Maximum award The purpose of STI is to The Committee sets a balanced scorecard of HSEC, financial and individual 240% of base salary encourage and focus the CEOs performance measures, with targets and relative weightings, at the beginning cash 120% and 120% efforts on the delivery of the of the financial year in order to appropriately motivate the CEO to achieve in deferred equity.
Groups strategic priorities outperformance that contributes to the long-term sustainability of the Group Target performance for the relevant financial year, and shareholder wealth creation.
160% of base salary and to motivate the CEO to Specific financial measures will constitute the largest weighting and are derived cash 80% and 80% strive to achieve stretch from the annual budget as approved by the Board for the relevant financial year.
Appropriate HSEC measures and weightings are determined by the Remuneration Threshold The performance measures Committee with the assistance of the Sustainability Committee.
performance for each year are chosen on For HSEC and for individual measures the target is ordinarily expressed in narrative the basis that they are expected 80% of base salary form and will be disclosed near the beginning of the performance period.
to have a significant shortand cash 40% and 40% However, the target for each financial measure will be disclosed retrospectively.
long-term impact on the success in deferred equity.
In the rare instances where this may not be prudent on grounds of commercial of the Group.
sensitivity, we will seek to explain why and give an indication of when the target Minimum award Deferral of a portion of STI awards may be disclosed.
in deferred equity over BHP shares Should any other performance measures be added at the discretion of the encourages a longer-term focus Committee, we will determine the timing of disclosure of the relevant target aligned to that of shareholders.
with due consideration of commercial sensitivity.
Assessment of performance At the conclusion of the financial year, the CEOs achievement against each measure is assessed by the Remuneration Committee and the Board, with guidance provided by other relevant Board Committees in respect of HSEC and other measures, and an STI award determined.
If performance is below the Threshold level for any measure, no STI will be provided in respect of that portion of the STI opportunity.
The Board believes this method of assessment is transparent, rigorous and balanced, and provides an appropriate, objective and comprehensive assessment of performance.
In the event that the Remuneration Committee does not consider the outcome that would otherwise apply to be a true reflection of the performance of the Group or should it consider that individual performance or other circumstances makes this an inappropriate outcome, it retains the discretion to not provide all or a part of any STI award.
This is an important mitigation against the risk of unintended award outcomes.
BHP Annual Report 2018 131 Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum Delivery of award STI awards are provided under the STIP and the value is delivered half in cash and half in an award of the equivalent value of BHP equity, which is deferred for two years and may be forfeited if the CEO leaves the Group within the deferral period.
The award of deferred equity comprises rights to receive ordinary BHP shares in the future at the end of the deferral period.
Before the awards vest or are exercised, these rights are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder rights: however, a DEP is provided on vested awards.
The Committee also has a discretion to settle STI awards in cash.
Both cash and equity STI awards are subject to malus and clawback as described below.
LTI Relative TSR performance condition Normal Maximum 2 Award The purpose of the LTI is to The LTIP award is conditional on achieving five-year relative TSR performance focus the CEOs efforts on the conditions as set out below.
Face value of 400% achievement of sustainable of base salary.
The relevant comparator group s and the weighting between relevant comparator long-term value creation and group s will be determined by the Committee in relation to each LTIP grant.
Exceptional success of the Group including 3 Maximum Award Level of performance required for vesting appropriate management Face value of 488% Vesting of the award is dependent on BHPs TSR relative to the TSR of relevant of business risks.
comparator group s over a five-year performance period.
It also encourages retention 25% of the award will vest where BHPs TSR is equal to the median TSR of through long-term share exposure the relevant comparator group s, as measured over the performance period.
for the CEO over the five-year Where TSR is below the median, awards will not vest.
performance period consistent with the long-term nature Vesting occurs on a sliding scale between the median TSR of the relevant 4 of resources, and aligns the comparator group s up to a nominated level of TSR outperformance over the long-term interests of the relevant comparator group s, as determined by the Committee, above which CEO and shareholders.
The LTI aligns the CEOs reward Where the TSR performance condition is not met, there is no retesting and with sustained shareholder wealth awards will lapse.
The Committee also retains discretion to lapse any portion creation in excess of that of or all of the award where it considers the vesting outcome is not appropriate relevant comparator group s, given Group or individual performance.
This is an important mitigation against through the relative TSR the risk of unintended outcomes.
Further performance measures Relative TSR has been chosen The Committee may add further performance conditions, in which case the as an appropriate measure as vesting of a portion of any LTI award may instead be linked to performance it allows for an objective external against the new condition s. However, the Committee expects that in the event assessment over a sustained of introducing an additional performance condition s, the weighting on relative period on a basis that is familiar TSR would remain the majority weighting.
Delivery of award LTI awards are provided under the LTIP approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs.
When considering the value of the award to be provided, the Committee primarily considers the face value of the award, and also considers its fair value 5 which includes consideration of the performance conditions.
LTI awards consist of rights to receive ordinary BHP shares in the future if the performance and service conditions are met.
Before vesting or exercise, these rights are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder rights: however, a DEP is provided on vested awards.
The Committee has a discretion to settle LTI awards in cash.
LTI awards are subject to malus and clawback as described below.
1 UK regulations require the disclosure of the maximum that may be paid in respect of each remuneration component.
Where that is expressed as a maximum annual percentage increase which is annualised it should not be interpreted that it is BHPs current intention to award an increase of that size in total in any one year, or in each year, and instead it is a maximum required to be disclosed under the regulations.
2 BHPs TSR is a weighted average of the TSRs of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
3 The Exceptional Maximum Award permitted under the LTIP rules is expressed as a fair value equal to 200 per cent of base salary which represents 41 per cent of face value 200 per cent divided by 41 per cent 488 per cent.
All LTI awards to the CEO will only be provided with prior approval by shareholders in the relevant AGMs.
4 Maximum vesting is determined with reference to a position against each comparator group.
5 Fair value is calculated by the Committees independent adviser and is different to fair value used for IFRS disclosures which do not take into account forfeiture conditions on the awards.
It reflects outcomes weighted by probability, taking into account the difficulty of achieving the performance conditions and the correlation between these and share price appreciation, together with other factors, including volatility and forfeiture risks.
The current fair value is 41 per cent of the face value of an award, which may change should the Committee vary elements such as adding a performance measure or altering the level of relative TSR outperformance.
4 Malus and clawback The STIP and LTIP provisions allow the Committee to reduce or clawback awards in the following circumstances: the participant acting fraudulently or dishonestly or being in material breach of their obligations to the Group: where BHP becomes aware of a material misstatement or omission in the Financial Statements of a Group company or the Group: or any circumstances occur that the Committee determines in good faith to have resulted in an unfair benefit to the participant.
These malus and clawback provisions apply whether or not awards are made in the form of cash or equity, and whether or not the equity has vested.
132 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.2.
5 Potential remuneration outcomes The Remuneration Committee recognises that market forces necessarily influence remuneration practices and it strongly believes the fundamental driver of remuneration outcomes should be business performance.
It also believes that overall remuneration should be both fair to the individual, such that remuneration levels accurately reflect the CEOs responsibilities and contributions, and align with the expectations of our shareholders, while considering the positioning and relativities of pay and employment conditions across the wider BHP workforce.
The amount of remuneration actually received each year depends on the achievement of superior business and individual performance generating sustained shareholder value.
Before deciding on the final incentive outcomes for the CEO, the Committee first considers the achievement against the pre-determined performance conditions.
The Committee then applies its overarching discretion on the basis of what it considers to be a fair and commensurate remuneration level to decide if the outcome should be reduced.
When the CEO was appointed in May 2013, the Board advised him that the Committee would exercise its discretion on the basis of what it considered to be a fair and commensurate remuneration level to decide if the outcome should be reduced.
In this way, the Committee believes it can set a remuneration level for the CEO that is sufficient to incentivise him and that is also fair to him and commensurate with shareholder expectations and prevailing market conditions.
The diagram below provides the scenario for the potential total remuneration of the CEO at different levels of performance.
Remuneration mix for the CEO Minimum 100% 2,209 3 Target 29% 35% 36% 7,717 Maximum 17% 31% 52% 13,089 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 10,000 11,000 12,000 13,000 14,000 Total remuneration US$000 Fixed remuneration STI LTI Minimum: consists of fixed remuneration, which comprises base salary US$1.700 million, pension contributions 25 per cent of base salary and other benefits US$0.084 million.
Target: consists of fixed remuneration, target STI 160 per cent of base salary and target LTI.
The LTI target value is based on the fair value of the award, which is 41 per cent of the face value of 400 per cent of base salary.
The potential impact of future share price movements is not included in the value of deferred STI awards or LTI awards.
Maximum: consists of fixed remuneration, maximum STI 240 per cent of base salary, and maximum LTI face value of 400 per cent of base salary.
This is lower than the maximum permissible award size under the plan rules.
The maximum opportunity represented above is the most that could potentially be paid of each remuneration component, as required by UK regulations.
It does not reflect any intention by the Group to award that amount.
The Remuneration Committee reviews relevant benchmarking data and industry practices, and believes the maximum remuneration opportunity is appropriate and in line with our remuneration principles.
6 Approach to recruitment and promotion remuneration The remuneration policy as set out in section 3.2 of this Report will apply to the remuneration arrangements for a newly recruited or promoted CEO, or for another Executive Director should one be appointed.
A market-competitive level of remuneration comprising base salary, pension contributions, benefits, STI and LTI will be provided.
Having considered views expressed by shareholders, the Committee has determined it will review the maximum pension contributions for any newly recruited or promoted CEO, or for another Executive Director should one be appointed, based on market practice at the time.
The same maximum STI and LTI opportunity will continue to apply as detailed in the remuneration policy.
For external appointments, the Remuneration Committee may determine that it is appropriate to provide additional cash and or equity components to replace any remuneration forfeited from a former employer.
It is anticipated that any foregone equity awards would be replaced by equity.
The value of the replacement remuneration would not be any greater than the fair value of the awards foregone as determined by the Committees independent adviser.
The Committee would determine appropriate service conditions and performance conditions within BHPs framework, taking into account the conditions attached to the foregone awards.
The Committee is mindful of limiting such payments and not providing any more compensation than is necessary.
For any internal CEO or another Executive Director appointment, any entitlements provided under former arrangements will be honoured according to their existing terms.
7 Service contracts and policy on loss of office The terms of employment for the CEO are formalised in his employment contract.
Key terms of the current contract and relevant payments on loss of office are shown below.
If a new CEO or another Executive Director was appointed, similar contractual terms would apply, other than where the Remuneration Committee determines that different terms should apply for reasons specific to the individual.
The CEOs current contract has no fixed term.
It can be terminated by BHP on 12 months notice.
BHP can terminate the contract immediately by paying base salary plus pension contributions for the notice period.
The CEO must give six months notice for voluntary resignation.
The table below sets out the basis on which payments on loss of office may be made.
1 2 Leaving reason Death, serious injury, illness, disability or total and permanent Cessation of employment 3 Voluntary resignation Termination for cause disablement as agreed with the Board Base salary Paid as a lump sum for the No payment will be made.
Paid for a period of up to Paid as a lump sum for the notice period or progressively four months, after which time notice period or progressively over the notice period.
Pension Paid as a lump sum for the No contributions will Paid for a period of up to Paid as a lump sum for the contributions notice period or progressively be provided.
four months, after which time notice period or progressively over the notice period.
Benefits May continue to be provided No benefits will be provided.
May continue to be provided May continue to be during the notice period.
provided for year in which Accumulated annual leave employment ceases.
Accumulated annual leave entitlements and any Accumulated annual leave entitlements and any statutory payments will entitlements and any Accumulated annual leave statutory payments will be paid.
statutory payments will entitlements and any statutory be paid.
May pay repatriation May pay repatriation expenses to the home May pay repatriation May pay repatriation expenses expenses to the home location where a relocation expenses to the home to the home location where location where a relocation was at the request of BHP.
location where a relocation a relocation was at the request was at the request of BHP.
Any unvested Shareplus Any unvested Shareplus Matched Shares held Any unvested Shareplus Any unvested Shareplus Matched Shares held will lapse.
Matched Shares held will Matched Shares held will will lapse.
STI cash and No cash STI will be paid.
The Committee has discretion The Committee has discretion deferred equity to pay and or award an to pay and or award an amount Unvested STIP will lapse.
amount in respect of the in respect of the CEOs Where CEO leaves Vested but unexercised STIP Vested but unexercised STIP CEOs performance for performance for that year.
either during or will remain exercisable for will remain exercisable for that year.
after the end of Unvested STIP continue to the remaining exercise period the remaining exercise period the financial year, Unvested STIP will vest in be held on the existing terms unless the Committee unless the Committee but before an full and, where applicable for the deferral period before determines they will lapse.
vesting subject to Committee discretion to lapse some or Vested but unexercised STIP all of the award.
will remain exercisable for the remaining exercise period.
Vested but unexercised STIP remain exercisable for the remaining exercise period, or a reduced period, or may lapse, as determined by the Committee.
Unvested and vested but unexercised awards remain subject to malus and clawback.
LTI unvested Unvested awards will lapse.
Unvested awards will vest A pro-rata portion of unvested and vested but in full.
awards based on the proportion Vested but unexercised Vested but unexercised unexercised of the performance period awards will remain awards will remain Vested but unexercised awards served will continue to be exercisable for the remaining exercisable for the remaining awards will remain held subject to the LTIP rules exercise period, or for exercise period, or for exercisable for remaining and terms of grant.
The balance a reduced period, or a reduced period, or exercise period.
may lapse, as determined may lapse, as determined by the Committee.
Vested but unexercised awards will remain exercisable for the remaining exercise period, or for a reduced period, or may lapse, as determined by the Committee.
1 If the Committee deems it necessary, BHP may enter into agreements with a CEO, which may include the settlement of liabilities in return for payment s, including reimbursement of legal fees subject to appropriate conditions: or to enter into new arrangements with the departing CEO for example, entering into consultancy arrangements.
2 In the event of a change in control event for example, takeover, compromise or arrangement, winding up of the Group as defined in the STIP and LTIP rules: base salary, pension contributions and benefits will be paid until the date of the change of control event: the Committee may determine that a cash payment be made in respect of performance during the current financial year and all unvested STI equity awards would vest in full: the Committee may determine that unvested LTI awards will either i be pro-rated based on the proportion of the performance period served up to the date of the change of control event and vest to the extent the Committee determines appropriate with reference to performance against the performance condition up to the date of the change of control event and expectations regarding future performance or ii be lapsed if the Committee determines the holders will participate in an acceptable alternative employee equity plan as a term of the change of control event.
3 Defined as occurring when a participant leaves BHP due to forced early retirement, retrenchment or redundancy, termination by mutual agreement or retirement with the agreement of the Group, or such other circumstances that do not constitute resignation or termination for cause.
134 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors Our Non-executive Directors are paid in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016 and the Australian Securities Exchange Corporate Governance Councils Principles and Recommendations 3rd Edition.
8 Components of remuneration The following table shows the components of total remuneration, the link to strategy, the applicable operation and performance frameworks, and the maximum opportunity for each component.
Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum Fees The Chairman is paid a single fee for all responsibilities.
8% increase per annum annualised, or inflation if higher in the location in Competitive base fees are paid Non-executive Directors are paid a base fee and relevant committee which duties are primarily performed, in order to attract and retain membership fees.
high-quality individuals, and to Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director are paid provide appropriate remuneration an additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
All fee levels are reviewed annually and any changes are effective Committee fees are provided from 1 July.
to recognise the additional Fees are set at a competitive level based on benchmarks and advice responsibilities, time and provided by external advisers.
Fee levels reflect the size and complexity commitment required.
of the Group, the multi-jurisdictional environment arising from the DLC structure, the multiple stock exchange listings and the geographies in which the Group operates.
The economic environment and the financial performance of the Group are taken into account.
Consideration is also 3 given to salary reviews across the rest of the Group.
Where the payment of pension contributions is required by law, these contributions are deducted from the Directors overall fee entitlements.
Benefits Travel allowances are paid on a per-trip basis reflecting the considerable 8% increase per annum annualised, travel burden imposed on members of the Board as a consequence of or inflation if higher in the location in Competitive benefits are paid the global nature of the organisation and apply when a Director needs which duties are primarily performed, in order to attract and retain to travel internationally to attend a Board meeting or site visits at our on a per-trip basis.
high-quality individuals and multiple geographic locations.
adequately remunerate them for the role undertaken, including As a consequence of the DLC structure, Non-executive Directors are Up to a limit not exceeding 20% of fees.
required to prepare personal tax returns in both Australia and the UK, regardless of whether they reside in one or neither of those countries.
They are accordingly reimbursed for the costs of personal tax return preparation in whichever of the UK and or Australia is not their place of residence including payment of the tax cost associated with the provision of the benefit.
STI and LTI Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any STI or LTI arrangements.
Payments on early termination There are no provisions in any of the Non-executive Directors appointment arrangements for compensation payable on early termination of their directorship.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The ongoing remuneration arrangements for a newly recruited Non-executive Director will reflect the remuneration policy in place for other Non-executive Directors, comprising fees and benefits as set out in the table above.
No variable remuneration STI and LTI will be provided to newly recruited Non-executive Directors.
Letters of appointment and policy on loss of office The standard letter of appointment for Non-executive Directors is available on our website.
The Board has adopted a policy consistent with the UK Corporate Governance Code, under which all Non-executive Directors must seek re-election by shareholders annually if they wish to remain on the Board.
As such, no Non-executive Directors seeking re-election have an unexpired term in their letter of appointment.
A Non-executive Director may resign on reasonable notice.
No payments are made to Non-executive Directors on loss of office.
BHP Annual Report 2018 135 3.3 Annual report on remuneration This section of the Report shows the impact of the remuneration policy in FY2018 and how remuneration outcomes are linked to actual performance.
Remuneration for the Executive Director the CEO 3.3.
1 Single total figure of remuneration This section shows a single total figure of remuneration as prescribed under UK requirements.
It is a measure of actual remuneration, rather than a figure calculated in accordance with IFRS which is detailed in section 5.1.
The components of remuneration are detailed in the remuneration policy table in section 3.2.
1 2 US$ 000 Base salary Benefits STI LTI Pension Total Andrew Mackenzie FY2018 1,700 84 2,448 0 425 4,657 FY2017 1,700 90 2,339 0 425 4,554 1 Includes private family health insurance, spouse business-related travel, car parking and personal tax return preparation in required countries.
2 Provided half in cash and half in deferred equity on the terms set out in section 3.2.
3 as shown in the table below.
For the CEO, the single total figure of remuneration is calculated on the same basis as at his appointment in 2013.
There have been no changes to his base salary, benefit entitlements or pension since that date.
Changes from prior year outcomes of STI and LTI are set out below.
FY2018 FY2017 STI STI awarded for FY2018 performance.
Half was provided in cash STI awarded for FY2017 performance.
Half was provided in cash in September 2018, and half deferred in an equity award that is due in September 2017, and half deferred in an equity award that is due to vest in FY2021.
LTI Based on performance during the five-year period to 30 June 2018, Based on performance during the five-year period to 30 June 2017, all of Andrew Mackenzies 213,701 awards from the 2013 LTIP did not all of Andrew Mackenzies 151,609 awards from the 2012 LTIP did not vest and have lapsed.
The value of the awards is zero and no DEP has vest and have lapsed.
The value of the awards is zero and no DEP has been paid in respect of these awards.
been paid in respect of these awards.
2 FY2018 STI performance outcomes The Board and Remuneration Committee assessed the CEOs STI outcome in light of the Groups performance in FY2018, taking into account the CEOs performance against the KPIs in his STI scorecard.
The Board and Committee determined that the STI outcome for the CEO for FY2018 is 90 per cent against the target of 100 per cent which represents an outcome of 60 per cent against maximum, and believe this outcome is appropriately aligned with the shareholder experience and the interests of the Groups other stakeholders.
The CEOs STI scorecard outcomes for FY2018 are summarised in the following tables, including a narrative description of each performance measure and the CEOs level of achievement, as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The level of performance for each measure is determined based on a range of threshold the minimum necessary to qualify for any reward outcome, target where the performance requirements are met, and stretch where the performance requirements are significantly exceeded.
Weighting for Percentage STI Performance measure FY2018 Threshold Target Stretch Outcome US$ 000 HSEC 25% 16% 436 UAP 45% 37% 1,006 Individual Measures 30% 37% 1,006 Total 100% 90% 2,448 HSEC The HSEC targets for the CEO are aligned to the Groups suite of HSEC five-year public targets as set out in BHPs Sustainability Report.
As it has done for several years, the Remuneration Committee seeks guidance each year from the Sustainability Committee when assessing HSEC performance against scorecard targets.
The Remuneration Committee has taken a holistic view of Group performance in critical areas, including any matters outside the scorecard targets which the Sustainability Committee considers relevant.
The performance commentary below is provided against the scorecard targets, which were set on the basis of operated assets only.
HSEC Scorecard Targets Performance against Scorecard Targets Fatalities, environmental and community incidents: Fatalities, environmental and community incidents: In what is clearly a tragic and unacceptable Nil fatalities and nil actual significant environmental outcome, we lost two of our colleagues during FY2018, one in August 2017 at Goonyella Riverside, and community incidents at operated assets.
Year-onand another in November 2017 at Permian Basin Operations.
These events have the greatest weighting year improvement in trends for events with potential for and impact when determining the performance outcomes under the HSEC category.
as a Company is to continue to build our focus on fatality prevention and safety through leadership, verification and effective risk management.
No significant environment or community incidents TRIF and occupational illness: Improved performance occurred during FY2018.
compared with FY2017 results, with severity and trends to be considered as a moderating influence on the TRIF and occupational illness: Our TRIF performance in FY2018 including Onshore US of 4.4 is overall HSEC assessment.
slightly higher than the 4.2 recorded in FY2017, following an improvement of 2% in the prior year.
Importantly, we have continued to significantly reduce the number of high potential injury events, Risk management: For all material risks, operated assets which is a critical element of fatality prevention.
While we have experienced an increase in to have all critical control execution and critical control occupational illnesses during FY2018, this will be a continuing key focus area for improvement verification tasks evaluated and recorded with controls in future years.
in place as part of Field Leadership activities.
Year-on-year improvement in trends for potential events associated Risk management: All operated assets completed reviews of critical control execution and verification with identified material risks.
tasks for all material HSEC risks and met, or exceeded, targets for compliance of critical control execution and verification tasks, and deployment and improvement of Field Leadership activities.
Health, environmental and community initiatives: All assets to achieve 100% of planned targets in Health, environmental and community initiatives: Greenhouse gas reduction targets set at the respect of occupational exposure reduction, water commencement of the year were met at all operated assets.
Water management projects were and greenhouse gas, social investment, quality of life, completed and fresh water usage reduction achievements from projects implemented were on target.
community perceptions and community complaints.
In addition, the assets met or exceeded all occupational exposure reduction and community targets.
The outcome against the HSEC KPI for FY2018 was 16 per cent against the target of 25 per cent.
136 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Underlying attributable profit UAP is the profit after taxation attributable to members of the Group, excluding exceptional items see section 1.11.5 for a more detailed explanation of UAP.
UAP is the key KPI against which STI outcomes for our senior executives are measured and is, in our view, the most relevant measure to assess the financial performance of the Group for this purpose.
At the commencement of the financial year when the target is approved, attributable profit is usually equal to UAP as there are usually no exceptional items.
During the assessment of managements performance, adjustments to the UAP result are made to allow for changes in commodity prices, foreign exchange movements and other material items to ensure the assessment appropriately measures outcomes that are within the control and influence of the Group and its executives.
Of these, changes in commodity prices has historically been the most material due to volatility in prices and the impact on Group revenue.
The Remuneration Committee reviews each exceptional item to assess if it should be included in the result for the purposes of deriving the UAP STI outcome.
Financial Scorecard Targets Performance against Scorecard Targets In respect of FY2018, the Board determined a Target for UAP of UAP of US$8.9 billion was reported by BHP for FY2018.
Adjusted for the factors US$5.4 billion, with a Threshold of US$4.0 billion and a Stretch outlined below, UAP is US$4.9 billion, which is between Threshold and Target of US$5.7 billion.
as determined by the Board.
The following adjustments were made to ensure the outcomes appropriately reflect the performance of management for the year: The Target UAP is based on the Groups approved annual budget.
It is the Groups practice to build a material element of stretch performance Adjustments for movements in prices of commodities and exchange rates into the budget, to include a high level of operational integrity with for operated assets reduced UAP by US$3.9 billion.
assets typically assumed to run at full design capacity, and to not make Adjustments for other material items ordinarily made to ensure the outcomes allowance for material unforeseen downside events.
Achievement of this reflect the performance of management for the year reduced UAP by stretching UAP budget will result in a target STI outcome.
The Threshold US$0.1 billion, mainly due to the exclusion of the commodity price impacts and Stretch are a fair range of UAP outcomes which represent a lower on non-controlled equity accounted investments.
limit of underperformance below which no STI award should be made, Having reviewed the FY2018 exceptional items as described in section 5.1.
6 note 2, and an upper limit of outperformance which would represent the the Committee determined that they should not be considered for the purposes maximum STI award.
3 of determining the UAP STI outcome.
One item given particular consideration was For the reasons set out above, the performance range around Target the impairment related to Onshore US.
The Committee noted that this was triggered is subject to a greater level of downside risk than there is upside by a successful divestment process for those assets that maximises value, returns opportunity, and accordingly, the range between Threshold and Target and certainty for shareholders, and also that action has already been taken by is greater than that between Target and Stretch.
For Stretch, the the Committee in prior periods in relation to managerial accountability for the Committee takes care not to create leveraged incentives that encourage acquisitions and investments in Onshore US.
The Committee concluded that executives to push for short-term performance that goes beyond our no further action was appropriate.
risk appetite and current operational capacity.
Using the mid-point of The key driver of the UAP performance being below Target at US$4.9 billion the Threshold and Stretch range as Target would provide a symmetrical was variable production performance across the different operated assets, with distribution: however, this would not provide sufficient stretch for volumes of coal, iron ore and copper being lower than expectations, partly offset management to achieve a target STI outcome.
The Committee retains, by higher than expected production of petroleum products.
Cost performance, and has a track record of applying, downward discretion to ensure that excluding the impact of exchange rates, was generally aligned with the targets the STI outcome is appropriately aligned with the overall performance set for the Group at the commencement of the year.
of the Group for the year, and is fair to management and shareholders.
The outcome against the UAP KPI for FY2018 was 37 per cent against the target of 45 per cent.
Individual performance measures for the CEO Individual measures for the CEO are determined at the commencement of the financial year.
The application of personal, qualitative measures remains an important element of effective performance management.
These measures seek to provide a balance between the financial and non-financial performance requirements that maintain our position as a leader in our industry.
The CEOs individual measures for FY2018 included contribution to BHPs overall performance and the management team, and also the delivery of projects and initiatives within the scope of the CEO role as specified by the Board, as set out in the table below.
Measures Individual Scorecard Targets Performance against Scorecard Targets Assessment Strategy Strategy Strategic initiatives on track, including the future Petroleum strategy: advancement of the Between implementation.
Olympic Dam expansion: and the review of Potash and Coal strategies.
Target and Stretch, with Execution of growth Successful development of the Spence copper growth option saw the Board approve the project.
Significant work on the divestment of Onshore US assets will result in a transaction that maximises the latter.
value and returns for shareholders, and provides certainty to investors and our employees.
Delivery of latent The Board approved the South Flank iron ore project, which will replace production from the capacity enhancement Yandi mine that is reaching the end of its economic life.
Continued progress on BHPs rigorous Capital Allocation Framework.
Latent capacity projects on track to meet expected milestones and benefits.
BHPs value increased consistent with the plan outlined previously, driven not only by commodity price appreciation, but also by management actions on strategic initiatives.
Productivity Delivery of productivity Delivered a strategy for a step change in safety and productivity outcomes and culture, within Marginally initiatives.
which the BHP Operating System will standardise work to increase safety and efficiency at above Target.
Achieved lower functional costs than targeted, with plans developed to realise more cost reductions in future years.
Plans developed to target circa US$1 billion in productivity gains in FY2019, on top of the more than US$12 billion achieved since 2012.
Sustainability Positive progress on the Fundao Renova activity and spend has met the defined schedule.
Midway Samarco Framework between Continued strong representation on key issues such as inclusion and diversity, transparency, Agreement.
Target and taxation, and Samarco.
Enhanced reputation Shareholder engagement strengthened through close communication, regular updates and of BHP.
Global brand strategy has enhanced BHPs reputation in key markets, with the next phase of global brand positioning underway.
People and Achievement of culture Year-on-year improvement in workforce leadership capabilities, employee engagement and the Marginally culture initiatives improvement inclusion index, as measured by the annual employee perception survey, with improvement in above Target.
in Company-wide nine of the 10 broad categories, with one unchanged.
leadership capabilities, Strong leadership on inclusion and diversity, with solid progress on the goal to increase female employee engagement, representation in the workforce globally, and increased uptake of flexible working arrangements diversity and inclusion.
ELT member Development and implementation of a Company-wide culture plan led to significant development and improvement in trust and teamwork, which has supported the success of Field Leadership, the succession.
Maintenance Centre of Excellence and our General Manager Leadership programs.
Continued focus on development of a strong long-term talent pool of candidates for Asset President and ELT roles, including additional coaching and development opportunities.
It was considered that the performance of the CEO against the personal measures KPI has been strong and warranted an outcome for FY2018 of 37 per cent against the target of 30 per cent.
4 LTI allocated during FY2018 LTI vesting based on performance to June 2018 Following shareholder approval at the 2017 AGMs, an LTI award in the form of performance rights was granted to the CEO The five-year performance period for the 2013 LTIP ended on on 24 November 2017.
The face value and fair value of the award 30 June 2018.
The CEOs 2013 LTI comprised 213,701 awards are shown in the table below.
inclusive of an uplift of 15,187 awards due to the demerger of South32, subject to achievement of the relative TSR The face value of the award is ordinarily determined as 400 per cent performance conditions and any discretion applied by the of the CEOs base salary of US$1.700 million.
The fair value of the Remuneration Committee.
award is ordinarily calculated by multiplying the face value of the award by the fair value factor of 41 per cent for the current plan Testing the performance condition design, as determined by the independent adviser to the Committee.
For the award to vest in full, TSR must exceed the Peer Group TSR Using the average share price and US$ A$ exchange rate over for 67 per cent of the award and the Index TSR for 33 per cent the 12 months up to and including 30 June 2017, the number of the award by an average of 5.5 per cent per year for five years, of LTI awards derived from a grant of 400 per cent of base salary being 30.7 per cent in total compounded over the performance with a face value of US$6.800 million was 385,075 LTI awards.
TSR includes returns to BHP shareholders in the form of share price movements along Number of Face value Face value Fair value Fair value % of 1 with dividends paid and reinvested in BHP including cash and LTI awards US$ 000 % of salary US$ 000 % of salary max in-specie dividends.
385,075 6,800 400 2,788 164 82 BHPs TSR performance was negative 9.3 per cent over the five-year 1 The allocation is 82 per cent of the maximum award that may be provided under period from 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2018.
This is below the weighted the LTIP rules.
The maximum is a fair value of 200 per cent of base salary or face median Peer Group TSR of positive 9.6 per cent and below the Index value of 488 per cent of base salary, based on the fair value of 41 per cent for the current plan design 488 per cent x 41 per cent 200 per cent.
TSR of positive 67.6 per cent over the same period.
This level of performance results in zero vesting for the 2013 LTIP awards, and Terms of the LTI award accordingly all of the CEOs awards have lapsed.
No compensation or DEP was paid in relation to the lapsed awards.
In addition to those LTI terms set in the remuneration policy for the CEO, the Remuneration Committee has determined: The graph below shows BHPs performance relative to comparator groups.
Performance 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2022. period Performance An averaging period of six months will be used in the BHP vs.
Peer Group and Index TSR conditions TSR calculations.
BHPs TSR relative to the weighted median TSR of TSR since 1 July 2013 % sector peer companies selected by the Committee Peer Group TSR and the MSCI World index Index TSR 80 BHP will determine the vesting of 67% and 33% of the Peer Group award, respectively.
60 Index Each company in the peer group is weighted by market MSCI capitalisation.
The maximum weighting for any one 40 company is 20% and the minimum is set at 0.67% to reduce sensitivity to any single peer company.
For the whole of either portion of the award to vest, 20 BHPs TSR must be at or exceed the weighted 80th percentile of the Peer Group TSR or the Index TSR 0 as applicable.
Threshold vesting 25% of each portion of the award occurs where BHPs TSR equals the weighted 50th percentile of the Peer Group TSR -20 or the Index TSR as applicable.
Sector Peer Resources 75% : Anglo American, CONSOL Energy -40 Group and Fortescue Metals from December 2013, 1 2 3 Companies Freeport-McMoRan, Glencore, Rio Tinto, Southern -60 Copper, Teck Resources, Vale.
Oil and Gas 25% : Apache, BP, Devon Energy, -80 ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch Shell, Woodside Petroleum, June 13 June 14 June 15 June 16 June 17 June 18 and from December 2013, Anadarko Petroleum, Canadian Natural Res.
Chevron, ConocoPhillips, Years ended 30 June EOG Resources, Occidental Petroleum.
1 From December 2016, BG Group and Peabody Energy were removed from the comparator group.
BG Group was acquired by Royal Dutch Shell and Peabody Energy has become a significantly less comparable peer.
Overarching discretion 2 From December 2015, Alcoa, Cameco and MMC Norilsk Nickel were removed from the sector peer group following the demerger of South32 as they are less The rules of the LTIP and the terms and conditions of the award relevant comparator companies.
give the Committee an overarching discretion to reduce the 3 Glencore Xstrata was included in the sector peer group for grants made from number of awards that will vest, notwithstanding the fact that the December 2013 onwards and was renamed Glencore in May 2014. performance condition for partial or full vesting, as tested following the end of the performance period, has been met.
This qualitative judgement, which is applied before final vesting is confirmed, is an important risk management aspect to ensure that vesting is not simply driven by a formula that may give unexpected or unintended remuneration outcomes.
The Committee considers its discretion carefully each year.
It considers performance holistically over the five-year period, including a five-year view on HSEC statistics, profitability, cash flow, balance sheet health, returns to shareholders, production volumes and unit costs.
The Committee believes that this is the most appropriate process of measurement for the LTI performance condition.
As the formulaic outcome of the 2013 LTIP was a zero vesting, there is no discretion available to the Remuneration Committee, as the overarching discretion may only reduce the number of awards that may vest.
138 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.3.
5 CEO remuneration and returns to shareholders Nine-year CEO remuneration The table below shows the total remuneration earned by Andrew Mackenzie and Marius Kloppers over the last nine years along with the proportion of maximum opportunity earned for each type of incentive.
1 Financial year FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Andrew Mackenzie Total single figure remuneration, US$ 000 2,468 7,988 4,582 2,241 4,554 4,657 STI % of maximum 47 77 57 0 57 60 LTI % of maximum 65 58000 0 Marius Kloppers Total single figure remuneration, US$ 000 14,789 15,755 16,092 15,991 STI % of maximum 71 69 0 47 LTI % of maximum 100 100 100 65 1 As Mr Mackenzie assumed the role of CEO in May 2013, the FY2013 total remuneration shown relates only to the period 10 May to 30 June 2013.
The FY2013 total remuneration for Mr Kloppers relates only to the period 1 July 2012 to 10 May 2013.
Nine-year TSR The graph below shows BHPs TSR against the performance of relevant indices over the same nine-year period.
The indices shown in the 3 graph were chosen as being broad market indices, which include companies of a comparable size and complexity to BHP.
Value of US$100 invested over the nine-year period to 30 June 2018 with dividends reinvested Value of investment US$ $250 BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc FTSE 100 $200 ASX 100 $150 $100 $50 $0 June 09 June 10 June 11 June 12 June 13 June 14 June 15 June 16 June 17 June 18 Years ended 30 June 3.3.
6 Changes in the CEOs remuneration in FY2018 The table below sets out the CEOs base salary, benefits and STI amounts earned in respect of FY2018, with the percentage change from FY2017.
The table also shows the average change in each element for current employees in Australia being approximately 16,500 employees during FY2018.
This has been chosen by the Committee as the most appropriate comparison, as the CEO is located in Australia.
Base salary Benefits STI CEO US$ 000 1,700 84 2,448 % change 0.0 6.7 4.7 Australian employees % change average 2.6 9.9 7.0 The ratio of the total remuneration of the CEO to the median total remuneration of all BHP employees for FY2018 was 37:1 2017: 38:1.
7 Remuneration for the CEO in FY2019 The remuneration for the CEO in FY2019 will be set in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the AGMs in 2017.
Base salary review Base salary is reviewed annually and increases are applicable from 1 September.
The CEO will not receive a base salary increase in September 2018 and it will remain unchanged at US$1.700 million per annum for FY2019.
FY2019 STI performance measures For FY2019, the Remuneration Committee has set the following STI scorecard performance measures: Performance measure Weighting Target performance HSEC 25% Fatalities, environmental and community incidents: Nil fatalities and nil actual significant environmental and community incidents.
Year-on-year improvement in trends for events with potential for such outcomes.
Significant safety events, TRIF and occupational illness: Improved performance compared with FY2018 results, with severity and trends to also be considered as a moderating influence on the overall HSEC assessment.
Risk management: Operated assets to have controls for fatal risks verified as part of Field Leadership activities with fatal risk control improvement plans developed and executed and increased levels of in-field coaching.
Achieve 90% compliance for critical control verification and execution tasks.
Health, environmental and community initiatives: All operated assets to achieve 100% of planned targets in respect of occupational exposure reduction, water and greenhouse gas, social investment, quality of life, community perceptions and community complaints.
UAP 45% UAP is profit after taxation attributable to members of the BHP Group, excluding exceptional items.
When we are assessing managements performance, we make adjustments to the UAP result to allow for changes in commodity prices, foreign exchange movements and other material items to ensure the assessment appropriately measures outcomes that are within the control and influence of the Group and its executives.
For reasons of commercial sensitivity, the target for UAP will not be disclosed in advance: however, we plan to disclose targets and outcomes retrospectively in our next Remuneration Report, following the end of each performance year.
In the rare instances where this may not be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will explain why and give an indication of when they will be disclosed.
Individual performance 30% The CEOs individual measures for FY2019 comprise contribution to BHPs overall performance and the management team and the delivery of projects and initiatives within the scope of the CEO role as set out by the Board.
These include strategy, productivity initiatives, transformation programs, latent capacity enhancement projects, focus on the returns of BHP and those expected of future major capital projects, exploration, continued enhancement of BHPs global brand, culture initiatives including improvement in Group-wide leadership capabilities, employee engagement, diversity and inclusion and ELT member development and succession.
FY2019 LTI award The normal maximum face value of the CEOs award is US$6.800 million, being 400 per cent of the CEOs base salary.
The number of LTI awards in FY2019 has been determined using the share price and US$ A$ exchange rate over the 12 months up to and including 30 June 2018.
Based on this, an FY2019 grant of 304,523 LTI awards is proposed and approval for this LTI grant will be sought from shareholders at the 2018 AGMs.
If approved, the award will be granted following the AGMs i. e. in or around November December 2018.
The FY2019 LTI award will use the same performance, service conditions and peer groups as the FY2018 LTI award except that CONSOL Energy has been removed from the sector peer group of companies due to the demerger of CONSOL Energy and CNX Resources resulting in two significantly smaller companies, and the split between Resources and Oil and Gas peers has been adjusted from 75 per cent 25 per cent to 85 per cent 15 per cent to reflect the continuing shift in the future commodity mix of BHP, mainly as a consequence of the exit from Onshore US.
Remuneration for other Executive KMP excluding the CEO The information in this section contains details of the remuneration policy that guided the Remuneration Committees decisions and resulted in the remuneration outcomes for other Executive KMP excluding the CEO.
The remuneration policy and structures for other Executive KMP are essentially the same as those already described for the CEO in previous sections of the Remuneration Report, including the treatment of remuneration on loss of office as detailed in section 3.2.
8 Components of remuneration The components of remuneration for other Executive KMP are the same as for the CEO, with any differences described below.
STI STI performance measures for other Executive KMP are similar to those of the CEO which are outlined at section 3.3.
2: however, the weighting of each performance measure will vary to reflect the focus required from each Executive KMP role.
Individual performance measures are determined at the start of the financial year.
These include the other Executive KMPs contribution to the delivery of projects and initiatives within the scope of their role and the overall performance of the Group.
Individual performance of other Executive KMP was reviewed against these measures by the Committee and, on average, was considered slightly above target.
140 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Base salary The diagram below represents the STI outcomes against the original scorecard.
Other Executive Other Executive KMP without KMP with region region Performance measure responsibility responsibility Threshold Target Stretch HSEC Group 12.5% 25% Region 12.5% 0% UAP Group, adjusted for commodity 22.5% 45% prices and foreign exchange movements Underlying EBITDA Region, adjusted for commodity 22.5% 0% prices and foreign exchange movements Individual performance measures 30% 30% BHP Group Minerals Australia Minerals Americas Petroleum LTI Equity awards provided for pre-KMP service LTI awards granted to other Executive KMP have a maximum Other Executive KMP who were promoted from executive roles face value of 350 per cent of base salary, which is a fair value within BHP may hold GSTIP and MAP awards that were granted of 143.5 per cent of base salary under the current plan design to them in respect of their service in non-Executive KMP roles.
with a fair value of 41 per cent, taking into account the performance Shareplus condition: 350 per cent x 41 per cent 143.5 per cent.
Other Executive KMP are eligible to participate in Shareplus.
3 Transitional Executive KMP awards For administrative simplicity, Executive KMP, including the CEO, Transitional Executive KMP awards were granted to certain new do not currently participate in Shareplus.
No Executive KMP, Executive KMP recruited from within BHP to bridge the gap created including the CEO, had any holdings under the Shareplus by the different timeframes of BHPs LTIP, for Executive KMP, and program during FY2018.
Peter Beaven and Daniel Malchuk are the only Executive KMP who held Transitional Executive KMP awards at the commencement of FY2018, as set out in section 3.3.
9 Remuneration mix A significant portion of other Executive KMP remuneration is at-risk, in order to provide strong alignment between remuneration outcomes and the interests of BHP shareholders.
The diagram below sets out the relative mix of each remuneration component for the other Executive KMP.
Each component is determined as a percentage of base salary at the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance-based remuneration.
Remuneration mix for other Executive KMP The percentage numbers in the bars represent the percentage of base salary Minimum Base salary 25% 10% Target Base salary 25% 10% 80% 80% 143% Maximum 25% 10% 120% 120% 350% 0 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% % share of total remuneration 1 3 4 Base salary Other benefits Deferred STI 2 4 5 Retirement benefits Cash STI LTI 1 Base salary earned by each Executive KMP is set out in section 3.3.
2 Retirement benefits are 25 per cent of base salary.
3 Other benefits is based on a notional 10 per cent of base salary.
4 As for the CEO, the minimum STI award is zero, with an award of 80 per cent of base salary in cash and 80 per cent of salary in deferred equity for target performance, and a maximum award of 120 per cent cash and 120 per cent deferred equity for exceptional performance against KPIs.
5 Other Executive KMP have a maximum LTI award with a face value of 350 per cent of base salary as shown in the chart.
10 Employment contracts The terms of employment for other Executive KMP are formalised in employment contracts, which have no fixed term.
They typically outline the components of remuneration paid to the individual, but do not prescribe how remuneration levels are to be modified from year-to-year.
An Executive KMP employment contract may be terminated by BHP on up to 12 months notice or can be terminated immediately by BHP making a payment of up to 12 months base salary plus pension contributions for the relevant period.
An Executive KMP must give six months notice for voluntary resignation.
BHP Annual Report 2018 141 Remuneration for Non-executive Directors The remuneration outcomes described below have been provided in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGMs.
The maximum aggregate fees payable to Non-executive Directors including the Chairman were approved by shareholders at the 2008 AGMs at US$3.800 million per annum.
This sum includes base fees, Committee fees and pension contributions.
Travel allowances and non-monetary benefits are not included in this limit.
11 Single total figure of remuneration This section shows a single total figure of remuneration as prescribed under UK requirements.
It is a measure of actual remuneration.
Fees include the annual base fee, plus additional fees as applicable for the Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairmen and Committee memberships.
Non-executive Directors do not have any at-risk remuneration or receive any equity awards as part of their remuneration.
This table also meets the requirements of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and relevant accounting standards.
In addition, amounts of between US$ nil and US$3,000 are included in respect of tax return preparation: and amounts of between US$ nil and US$2,000 are included in respect of reimbursement of the tax cost associated with the provision of taxable benefits.
2 BHP Billiton Limited made minimum superannuation contributions of 9.5 per cent of fees for FY2018 in accordance with Australian superannuation legislation.
3 The FY2018 remuneration for Terry Bowen and John Mogford relates to part of the year only, as they both joined the Board on 1 October 2017.
4 The FY2018 remuneration for Jac Nasser, Malcolm Brinded and Grant King relates to part of the year only as they each retired from the Board during FY2018.
Jac Nasser retired from the Board as Non-executive Director and Chairman on 31 August 2017.
Grant King retired from the Board on 31 August 2017.
Malcolm Brinded retired from the Board on 18 October 2017.
5 The FY2017 remuneration for Ken MacKenzie and Grant King relates to part of the year only, as they joined the Board on 22 September 2016 and 1 March 2017, respectively.
Ken MacKenzie became Chairman on 1 September 2017.
12 Non-executive Directors remuneration in FY2019 In FY2019, the remuneration for the Non-executive Directors will Levels of fees and travel allowances From 1 July be paid in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by for Non-executive Directors in US$ 2018 shareholders at the 2017 AGMs.
Fee levels for the Non-executive Base annual fee 160,000 Directors and the Chairman are reviewed annually.
The review Plus additional fees for: includes benchmarking, with the assistance of external advisers, against peer companies.
Senior Independent Director 48,000 of BHP Billiton Plc From 1 July 2017, the Chairmans annual fee was reduced Committee Chair: by approximately eight per cent from US$0.960 million to 60,000 Risk and Audit US$0.880 million and will remain at that level for FY2019.
This 45,000 Remuneration fee reduction was in addition to the reduction of approximately 45,000 Sustainability 13 per cent from US$1.100 million to US$0.960 million effective No additional fee Nomination and Governance 1 July 2015.
Base fee levels for Non-executive Directors will Committee membership: remain at the reduced levels that took effect from 1 July 2015, 32,500 Risk and Audit at which time they were reduced by approximately six per cent 27,500 Remuneration from US$0.170 million to US$0.160 million per annum.
27,500 Sustainability 18,000 Nomination and Governance In recognition of the increasing workload of BHPs Nomination and 1 Governance Committee, a fee for members of that Committee Travel allowance: Greater than 3 but less than 10 hours 7,000 was introduced with effect from 1 July 2018.
The fee is US$18,000 10 hours or more 15,000 per annum.
There is no additional fee for the Chairman of that Committee as the role is performed by the Board Chairman who Chairmans fee 880,000 is paid a single fee for all responsibilities.
1 In relation to travel for Board business, the time thresholds relate to the flight The adjacent table sets out the annualised fee levels for FY2019.
time to travel to the meeting location i. e. one way flight time.
142 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Remuneration governance 3.3.
13 Board oversight and the Remuneration Committee Board Engagement of independent remuneration advisers The Board is responsible for ensuring the Groups remuneration The Committee seeks and considers advice from independent arrangements are equitable and aligned with the long-term remuneration advisers where appropriate.
Remuneration consultants interests of BHP and its shareholders.
In performing this function, are engaged by, and report directly to, the Committee.
Potential it is critical that the Board is independent of management when conflicts of interest are taken into account when remuneration making decisions affecting remuneration of the CEO, other consultants are selected and their terms of engagement regulate Executive KMP and the Groups employees.
their level of access to, and require their independence from, BHPs management.
The Board has therefore established a Remuneration Committee to assist it in making such decisions.
The Committee is comprised  was appointed by the Committee in solely of Non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
March 2016 to act as an independent remuneration adviser.
To ensure that it is fully informed, the Committee regularly invites The  team that advises the Remuneration members of management to attend meetings to provide reports Committee does not provide any other services to the Group.
The Committee can draw on services from a range Other parts of  provide services to the of external sources, including remuneration advisers.
Group in the areas of forensic and general technology, internal Remuneration Committee audit and international assignment solutions.
Processes and arrangements are in place to protect independence for example, The activities of the Remuneration Committee are governed ring-fencing of teams and to manage any conflicts of interest by Terms of Reference approved by the Board in June 2018, 3 that may arise.
which are available on our website.
The current members of the Remuneration Committee are Carolyn Hewson Chairman, Anita  is currently the only remuneration adviser Frew, Wayne Murdy and Shriti Vadera.
The role and focus of the appointed by the Committee.
In that capacity, they may provide Committee and details of meeting attendances can be found remuneration recommendations in relation to KMP, however, they in section 2.13.2.
Other Directors and employees who regularly did not do so in FY2018.
attended meetings were: Ken MacKenzie Chairman from Total fees paid to the  team advising 1 September 2017 : Jac Nasser Chairman to 31 August 2017 : the Committee on remuneration-related matters for FY2018 were Andrew Mackenzie CEO : Athalie Williams Chief People Officer : 128,100.
These fees are based on an agreed fee for regular items Andrew Fitzgerald Vice President Reward : Margaret Taylor with additional work charged at agreed rates.
Total fees paid Group Company Secretary : and Geof Stapledon Vice President to  for other services rendered to the Governance.
These individuals were not present when matters Group for FY2018 were approximately US$19 million.
associated with their own remuneration were considered.
14 Statement of voting at the 2017 AGMs BHPs remuneration resolutions have attracted a high level of support by shareholders.
Voting in regard to those resolutions put to shareholders at the 2017 AGMs is shown below.
Votes 1 AGM resolution Requirement % vote for % vote against withheld Remuneration Report remuneration policy UK 97.1 2.9 9,658,674 Remuneration Report excluding remuneration policy UK 97.7 2.3 8,163,117 Remuneration Report whole report Australia 96.9 3.1 8,442,607 Leaving entitlements Australia 98.4 1.6 8,153,740 Approval of grants to Executive Director Australia 95.7 4.3 74,099,923 1 The sum of votes marked Vote Withheld at BHP Billiton Plcs AGM and votes marked Abstain at BHP Billiton Limiteds AGM.
BHP Annual Report 2018 143 Other statutory disclosures This section provides details of any additional statutory disclosures required by Australian or UK regulations that have not been included in the previous sections of the Remuneration Report.
15 Executive KMP remuneration table The table below has been prepared in accordance with relevant accounting standards and remuneration data for Executive KMP are for the periods of FY2017 and FY2018 that they were KMP.
More information on the policy and operation of each element of remuneration is provided in prior sections of this Report.
Share-based payments The figures included in the shaded columns of the statutory table below for share-based payments were not actually provided to the KMP during FY2017 or FY2018.
These amounts are calculated in accordance with accounting standards and are the amortised IFRS fair values of equity and equity-related instruments that have been granted to the executives.
For information on awards that were allocated and vested during FY2017 and FY2018, refer to section 3.3.
There were no changes to Executive KMP base salaries during the year.
2 Annual cash incentive is the cash portion of STI awards earned in respect of performance during each financial year for each executive.
STI is provided half in cash and half in deferred equity which are included in the share-based payments columns of the table.
The cash portion of STI awards is paid to Executive KMP in September of the year following the relevant financial year.
The minimum possible value awarded to each individual is nil and the maximum is 240 per cent of base salary 120 per cent in cash and 120 per cent in deferred equity.
For FY2018, Executive KMP earned the following STI awards as a percentage of the maximum the remaining portion has been forfeited : Andrew Mackenzie 60 per cent, Peter Beaven 61 per cent, Mike Henry 55 per cent, Daniel Malchuk 66 per cent and Steve Pastor 60 per cent.
3 Non-monetary benefits are non-pensionable and include such items as health and other insurances, fees for tax return preparation if required in multiple jurisdictions, car parking and travel costs.
4 Other benefits are non-pensionable and for FY2018 include an international relocation benefit for Daniel Malchuk and an encashment of annual leave entitlements under the US Annual Leave policy for Steve Pastor.
5 Retirement benefits are 25 per cent of base salary for each Executive KMP.
6 The IFRS fair value of both STI and LTI awards is estimated at grant date.
The FY2018 LTI amount for Andrew Mackenzie includes a DEP and any change in fair value associated with FY2008 phantom LTI awards that vested in FY2013 and were cash settled in FY2018.
Full details of the award were provided in the FY2013 Remuneration Report.
7 Following the dissolution of the OMC in FY2018, the Committee re-examined the classification of KMP for FY2018 and determined that the roles that have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of BHP include all Non-executive Directors, the CEO, the Chief Financial Officer, the President Operations, Minerals Australia, the President Operations, Minerals Americas, and the President Operations, Petroleum.
The Committee also determined that, effective 1 July 2017, the Chief External Affairs Officer and Chief People Officer roles held by Geoff Healy and Athalie Williams respectively were no longer considered KMP and therefore, there is no requirement to disclose their remuneration for FY2017 or FY2018.
16 Equity awards The interests held by Executive KMP under the Groups employee Equity awards provided for Executive KMP service equity plans are set out below.
Each equity award is a right to STI awards under the STIP acquire one ordinary share in BHP Billiton Limited or in BHP Billiton Executive KMP receive their STI awards under the STIP.
The terms Plc upon satisfaction of the vesting conditions.
BHP Billiton Limited and conditions of STIP awards, including the performance conditions, share awards are shown in Australian dollars.
BHP Billiton Plc are described in sections 3.2.
awards are shown in Pounds Sterling.
The Our Requirements for Securities Dealing standard governs and restricts dealing LTI awards under the LTIP arrangements and the provision of shares on vesting or exercise Executive KMP receive their LTI awards under the LTIP.
No interests under the Groups employee equity and conditions of LTIP awards, including the performance plans are held by related parties of Executive KMP.
conditions, are described in sections 3.2.
7 of this Report and the LTIP rules are available on our website.
Dividend Equivalent Payments DEP applies to awards provided to Executive KMP under the STIP and LTIP as detailed in section 3.2.
No DEP is payable on Transitional Executive KMP awards, GSTIP awards or MAP awards.
144 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Transitional Executive KMP awards Equity awards provided for pre-Executive KMP service The Remuneration Committee is able to determine that new STI awards under the GSTIP and LTI awards under the MAP Executive KMP members recruited from within BHP receive BHP senior management who are not KMP receive their STI awards Transitional Executive KMP awards to bridge the gap between under the GSTIP and their LTI awards under the MAP.
While no MAP awards, which ordinarily have a three-year service GSTIP or MAP awards were granted to Executive KMP during condition and the LTIP awards, which have a five-year service FY2018, Steve Pastor still holds GSTIP and MAP awards that and performance condition.
were allocated to him prior to his Executive KMP service.
No Transitional Executive KMP awards were granted to Executive KMP in FY2018.
Peter Beaven and Daniel Malchuk are the only Executive KMP who held Transitional Executive KMP awards at the commencement of FY2018.
Where awards lapse, the lapse date is shown.
If the vesting conditions are met, awards will vest on, or as soon as practicable after, the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June of the preceding year of vest.
The year of vest is the second STIP and GSTIP, third MAP, fourth Transitional or fifth LTIP financial year after grant.
Except for the LTIP awards granted on 5 December 2012, all awards are conditional awards and have no exercise period, exercise price or expiry date: instead ordinary fully paid shares are automatically delivered upon the vesting conditions being met.
Where vesting conditions are not met, the conditional awards will immediately lapse.
The LTIP awards granted on 5 December 2012 were non-conditional awards which had an exercise period and an expiry date of the day prior to the fifth anniversary of the vesting date, but have now lapsed in full.
None of these awards had vested and were exercisable or had vested but were not exercisable at the end of the reporting period.
2 The market price shown is the closing price of BHP shares on the relevant date of grant.
No price is payable by the individual to receive a grant of awards.
The IFRS fair value of the STIP and LTIP awards granted in FY2018 is at the grant date of 24 November 2017, and are as follows: STIP A$27.97 and LTIP A$17.21.
3 The market price shown is the closing price of BHP shares on the relevant date of vest.
4 The gain on awards is calculated using the market price on date of vesting or exercise as applicable less any exercise price payable.
The amounts that vested and were lapsed for the awards during FY2018 are as follows: STIP 100 per cent vested: LTIP 100 per cent lapsed: Transitional Peter Beaven 69 per cent vested, 31 per cent lapsed: Transitional Daniel Malchuk 69 per cent vested, 31 per cent lapsed: GSTIP 100 per cent vested: MAP 100 per cent vested.
17 Estimated value range of equity awards The current face value and estimate of the maximum possible total value of equity awards allocated during FY2018 and yet to vest are the awards as set out in the previous table multiplied by the current share price of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc as applicable.
The minimum possible total value of the awards is nil.
The actual value that may be received by participants in the future cannot be determined as it is dependent on and therefore fluctuates with the share prices of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc at the date that any particular award vests or is exercised.
The table below provides five-year share price history for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, history of dividends paid and the Groups earnings.
Five-year share price, dividend and earnings history FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 FY2014 BHP Billiton Limited Share price at beginning of year A$23.23 A$19.09 A$26.58 A$36.00 A$30.94 Share price at end of year A$33.91 A$23.28 A$18.65 A$27.05 A$35.90 1 Dividends paid A$1.24 A$0.72 A$1.09 A$3.72 A$1.29 BHP Billiton Plc Share price at beginning of year 12.15 9.40 12.58 19.45 17.15 Share price at end of year 17.06 11.76 9.43 12.49 18.90 1 Dividends paid 0.72 0.44 0.51 1.95 0.73 BHP Attributable profit loss US$M, as reported 3,705 5,890 6,385 1,910 13,832 1 The FY2015 dividends paid includes A$2.25 or 1.15 in respect of the in-specie dividend associated with the demerger of South32.
The highest share prices during FY2018 were A$34.44 for BHP Billiton Limited shares and 17.79 for BHP Billiton Plc shares.
The lowest share prices during FY2018 were A$23.23 and 12.15, respectively.
18 Ordinary share holdings and transactions The number of ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Limited or in BHP Billiton Plc held directly, indirectly or beneficially, by each individual including shares held in the name of all close members of the Directors or Executive KMPs family and entities over which either the Director or Executive KMP or the family member has, directly or indirectly, control, joint control or significant influence are shown below.
In addition, there have been no changes in the interests of any Directors in the period to 6 September 2018 being not less than one month prior to the date of the notice of the 2018 AGMs.
These are ordinary shares held without performance conditions or restrictions and are included in MSR calculations for each individual.
The interests of Directors and Executive KMP in the ordinary shares of each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc as at 30 June 2018 did not exceed on an individual basis or in the aggregate one per cent of BHP Billiton Limiteds or BHP Billiton Plcs issued ordinary shares.
2 The following BHP Billiton Limited shares and BHP Billiton Plc shares are held in the form of American Depositary Shares: Wayne Murdy 4,000 BHP Billiton Limited: 12,000 BHP Billiton Plc, Jac Nasser 5,200 BHP Billiton Limited: 40,600 BHP Billiton Plc and Steve Pastor 1,574 BHP Billiton Limited.
3 The opening balances for Terry Bowen and John Mogford reflect their shareholdings on the date that each became KMP being 1 October 2017 for both.
4 The closing balances for Malcolm Brinded, Grant King and Jac Nasser reflect their shareholdings on the date that each ceased being KMP being 18 October 2017, 31 August 2017 and 31 August 2017, respectively.
146 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.3.
19 Prohibition on hedging of shares 3.3.
22 Relative importance of spend on pay and equity instruments The table below sets out the total spend for continuing operations on employee remuneration during FY2018 and the prior year The CEO and other Executive KMP may not use unvested BHP compared with other significant expenditure items, and includes equity awards as collateral, or protect the value of any unvested items as prescribed in the UK requirements.
BHP has included tax BHP equity awards or the value of shares and securities held payments and purchases of property, plant and equipment being as part of meeting the MSR.
the most significant other outgoings in monetary terms.
Any securities that have vested and are no longer subject to 1 restrictions may be subject to hedging arrangements or used US$ million FY2018 FY2017 as collateral, provided that prior consent is obtained.
Aggregate employee benefits expense 4,072 3,773 Dividends paid to BHP shareholders 5,220 2,921 3.3.
20 Share ownership guidelines Share buy-backs and the MSR Income tax paid and royalty-related taxation 4,918 2,248 paid net of refunds The share ownership guidelines and the MSR help to ensure the Purchases of property, plant and equipment 4,979 3,697 interests of Directors, executives and shareholders remain aligned.
1 The financial information for FY2017 has been restated for the effects of the The CEO and other Executive KMP are expected to grow their application of IFRS 5 AASB 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued holdings to the MSR from the scheduled vesting of their employee Operations following the announcement of the agreements for the sale of the Onshore US oil and gas assets.
The MSR is tested at the time that shares are to be sold.
Shares may be sold to satisfy tax obligations arising from the granting, holding, vesting, exercise or sale of the employee 3.3.
23 Transactions with KMP 3 awards or the underlying shares whether the MSR is satisfied During the financial year, there were no transactions between at that time or not.
the Group and its subsidiaries and KMP including their related For FY2018: parties 2017: US$ nil: 2016: US$ nil.
There were no amounts the MSR for the CEO was five times annual pre-tax base salary payable at 30 June 2018 2017: US$ nil.
There were US$ nil loans and while he has met this requirement in the past, subsequent 2017: US$ nil with KMP including their related parties.
movements in foreign exchange rates and share prices have A number of KMP hold or have held positions in other companies resulted in Andrew Mackenzies shareholding being 4.3 times i. e. personally related entities, where it is considered they control his annual pre-tax base salary at the end of FY2018: or significantly influence the financial or operating policies of those the MSR for other Executive KMP was three times annual pre-tax entities.
There have been no transactions with those entities and base salary.
At the end of FY2018, Peter Beaven, Mike Henry and no amounts were owed by the Group to personally related entities Daniel Malchuk met the MSR, while Steve Pastor did not.
or any other related parties 2017: US$ nil.
Subject to securities dealing constraints, Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent of their remuneration This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on base fees plus Committee fees to the purchase of BHP shares until 6 September 2018 and signed on its behalf by: they achieve an MSR equivalent in value to one years remuneration base fees plus Committee fees.
Thereafter, they must maintain at least that level of shareholding throughout their tenure.
At the end of FY2018, each Non-executive Director met the MSR.
Carolyn Hewson Chairman, Remuneration Committee 3.3.
21 Payments to past Directors and 6 September 2018 for loss of office UK regulations require the inclusion in the Remuneration Report of certain payments to past Directors and payments made for loss of office.
There is nothing to disclose for these payments for FY2018.
The Remuneration Committee has adopted a fide minimis threshold of US$7,500 for disclosure of payments to past Directors under UK requirements.
BHP Annual Report 2018 147 Section 4 Directors Report In this section 4.1 Review of operations, principal activities and state of aff airs 4.2 Share capital and buy-back programs 4.3 Results, financial instruments and going concern 4.4 Directors 4.5 Remuneration and share interests 4.6 Secretaries 4.7 Indemnities and insurance 4.8 Employee policies 4.9 Corporate governance 4.10 Dividends 4.11 Auditors 4.12 Non-audit services 4.13 Political donations 4.14 Exploration, research and development 4.15 ASIC Instrument 2016 191 4.16 Proceedings on behalf of BHP Billiton Limited 4.17 Performance in relation to environmental regulation 4.18 Share capital, restrictions on transfer of shares and other additional information 148 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information The information presented by the Directors in this Directors Report 4.1 Review of operations, principal relates to BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective activities and state of affairs subsidiaries.
Section 1 Strategic Report which includes the Chairmans Review in section 1.1 and the Chief Executive Officers A review of the operations of BHP during FY2018, the results Report in section 1.2, and incorporates the operating and financial of those operations during FY2018 and the expected results of review, section 2 Governance at BHP, section 3 Remuneration those operations in future financial years are set out in section 1, Report, section 5.5 Lead Auditors Independence Declaration in particular in 1.1 to 1.8, 1.11 and 1.12 and in other material in this and section 7 Shareholder information are each incorporated by Annual Report.
Information on the development of BHP and likely reference into, and form part of, this Directors Report.
In addition, developments in future years also appears in those sections.
for the purposes of UK law, the Strategic Report in section 1 and We have excluded certain information from the Strategic Report the Remuneration Report in section 3 form separate reports and in section 1 which forms part of this Directors Report, to the have been separately approved by the Board for that purpose.
extent permitted by UK and Australian law, on the basis that such For the purpose of the UK Listing Authoritys UKLA Listing Rule information relates to impending developments or matters in the 9.8.
4C R, the applicable information required to be disclosed course of negotiation and disclosure would be seriously prejudicial in accordance with UKLA Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R is set out in the to the interests of BHP.
This is because such disclosure could be sections below.
misleading due to the fact it is premature or preliminary in nature, relates to commercially sensitive contracts, would undermine Applicable information required by UKLA Section in this confidentiality between BHP and our suppliers and clients, Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R Annual Report or would otherwise unreasonably damage BHP.
The categories 1 Interest capitalised by the Group Section 5, note 19 of information omitted include forward looking estimates 6 Waiver of future emoluments Section 3.3.
1 and projections prepared for internal management purposes, information regarding BHPs assets and projects, which is 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Section 5, note 22 developing and susceptible to change, and information relating 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Section 5, note 22 to commercial contracts and pricing modules.
Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 14 of Listing Rule Our principal activities during FY2018 are disclosed in section 1.
We are among the worlds top producers of major commodities, including iron ore, metallurgical coal and copper.
We also have The Directors confirm, on the advice of the Risk and Audit substantial interests in oil, gas and energy coal.
No significant Committee, that they consider the Annual Report including changes in the nature of BHPs principal activities occurred the Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced during FY2018 other than as disclosed in section 1. and understandable, and provides the information necessary There were no significant changes in BHPs state of affairs that for shareholders to assess BHPs position, performance, occurred during FY2018 and no significant post balance date business model and strategy.
4 events other than as disclosed in section 1.
No other matter or circumstance has arisen since the end of FY2018 that has significantly affected or is expected to significantly affect the operations, the results of operations or state of affairs of BHP in future years.
BHP Annual Report 2018 149 4.2 Share capital and buy-back programs At the Annual General Meetings held in 2016 and 2017, and timing of that return to be confirmed at the time of completion shareholders authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market of the sale.
If shareholders renew the buy-back authority, it is purchases of up to 211,207,180 of its ordinary shares, representing possible that the Directors may use the authority in connection 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued share capital at that time.
with the return of the Onshore US sale proceeds to shareholders.
During FY2018, we did not make any on-market or off-market Some of our executives receive rights over BHP shares as part purchases of BHP Billiton Limited shares or BHP Billiton Plc shares of their remuneration arrangements.
Entitlements may be satisfied under any share buy-back program.
As at the date of this Directors by the transfer of existing shares, which are acquired on-market Report, there were no current on-market buy-backs.
Shareholders by the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trusts or, in respect will be asked at the 2018 Annual General Meetings to renew this of some entitlements, by the issue of shares.
As at the date of this Directors Report, there is currently The number of shares referred to in column A below were purchased no intention to exercise this authority.
However, as advised to the to satisfy awards made under the various BHP Billiton Limited and market on 27 July 2018, BHP expects to return to shareholders the BHP Billiton Plc employee share schemes during FY2018.
2 BHP Billiton Limited is able to buy-back and cancel BHP Billiton Limited shares within the 10 12 limit without shareholder approval in accordance with section 257B of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Any future on-market share buy-back program would be conducted in accordance with the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and with the ASX Listing Rules.
3 At the Annual General Meetings held during 2016 and 2017, shareholders authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up to 211,207,180 of its ordinary shares, representing 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued capital at the time.
4.3 Results, financial instruments 4.4 Directors and going concern The Directors who served at any time during FY2018 or up until the date of this Directors Report were Jac Nasser, Andrew Mackenzie, Information about the Groups financial position and financial Terry Bowen, Malcolm Brinded, Malcolm Broomhead, Anita Frew, results is included in the Financial Statements in this Annual Report.
Carolyn Hewson, Grant King, Ken MacKenzie, Lindsay Maxsted, The Consolidated Income Statement shows profit attributable to John Mogford, Wayne Murdy and Shriti Vadera.
Further details BHP members of US$3.7 billion in FY2018, compared with a profit of the current Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc of US$5.9 billion in FY2017.
These details include the period for which BHPs business activities, together with the factors likely to affect each Director held office up to the date of this Directors Report, its future development, performance and position, are discussed their qualifications, experience and particular responsibilities, the in section 1.
In addition, sections 1.3 to 1.6 and 2.14, and note 20 directorships held in other listed companies since 1 July 2015 and Financial risk management in section 5 outline BHPs capital the period for which each directorship has been held.
management objectives, its approach to financial risk management Grant King was appointed as a Non-executive Director of BHP Billiton and exposure to financial risks, liquidity and borrowing facilities.
Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 1 March 2017.
Mr King decided not to stand for election at the 2017 Annual General Meetings The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that BHP has adequate resources to continue in and retired as a Non-executive Director on 31 August 2017. operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, they Jac Nasser retired as Chairman and a Director of BHP Billiton Limited continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in and BHP Billiton Plc on 31 August 2017, having been a Director preparing the annual Financial Statements.
of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2006 and Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since March 2010.
Ken MacKenzie assumed the role of Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc from 1 September 2017.
Malcolm Brinded served as a Non-executive Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc from April 2014.
Mr Brinded decided not to stand for re-election at the 2017 Annual General Meetings and retired as a Non-executive Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on 18 October 2017.
150 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Terry Bowen was appointed as a Non-executive Director of BHP 4.5.
3 Key Management Personnel Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 1 October 2017.
18 sets out the relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton In accordance with the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Limited and BHP Billiton Plc held directly, indirectly or beneficially BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association, he stood for election at the beginning and end of FY2018 by those senior executives and was elected at the 2017 Annual General Meetings.
who were Executive KMP other than the Executive Director John Mogford was appointed as a Non-executive Director of during FY2018.
Where applicable, the information includes shares BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 1 October held in the name of a spouse, superannuation fund, nominee 2017.
In accordance with the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and or other controlled entities.
Interests held by members of and BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association, he stood for election the Executive KMP under employee equity plans as at 30 June 2018 and was elected at the 2017 Annual General Meetings.
are set out in the tables contained in section 3.3.
Wayne Murdy has announced that he will retire as a Non-executive The table below sets out the relevant interests in shares in Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc at the BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc held directly, indirectly conclusion of the BHP Billiton Limited Annual General Meeting or beneficially, as at the date of this Directors Report by those in November 2018. senior executives who were Executive KMP other than the The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held Executive Director on that date.
Where applicable, the information during the year and each Directors attendance at those meetings also includes shares held in the name of a spouse, superannuation are set out in section 2.12. fund, nominee and or other controlled entities.
As at date of Executive KMP member BHP Billiton entity Directors Report 4.5 Remuneration and share interests Peter Beaven BHP Billiton Limited 240,262 BHP Billiton Plc 4.5.
1 Remuneration Mike Henry BHP Billiton Limited 98,062 BHP Billiton Plc 196,262 The policy for determining the nature and amount of emoluments of the Executive Key Management Personnel KMP including Daniel Malchuk BHP Billiton Limited 174,355 the Executive Director and the Non-executive Directors, and BHP Billiton Plc information about the relationship between that policy and BHPs Steve Pastor BHP Billiton Limited 70,795 performance, are set out in sections 3.2 and 3.3.
BHP Billiton Plc The remuneration tables contained in section 3.3 set out the remuneration of members of the Executive KMP including the Executive Director and the Non-executive Directors.
4.6 Secretaries 4 Margaret Taylor is the Group Company Secretary.
2 Directors qualifications and experience are set out in section 2.2.
The following people also act, or have acted during FY2018, as company Section 3.3.
18 sets out the relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc or both Limited and BHP Billiton Plc of the Directors who held office during as indicated : Rachel Agnew, BComm Economics, LLB Hons FY2018, at the beginning and end of FY2018.
No rights or options BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, Kathryn Griffiths, BA, over shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are held by LLB Hons, GDipACG, FCIS, FGIA, GAICD BHP Billiton Limited, any of the Non-executive Directors.
Interests held by the Executive Megan Pepper, BA Hons, LLB Hons, GDipACG, FCIS, FGIA, Director under employee equity plans as at 30 June 2018 are set GAICD BHP Billiton Limited and Geof Stapledon, BEc, LLB Hons, out in the tables showing interests in incentive plans contained DPhil, FCIS BHP Billiton Plc.
Each such individual has experience in section 3.3.
Except for Andrew Mackenzie, as at the date of in a company secretariat role or other relevant fields arising this Directors Report, the information pertaining to shares in BHP from time spent in such roles within BHP, other large listed Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc held directly, indirectly or companies or other relevant entities.
beneficially by Directors is the same as set out in the table in section 3.3.
Where applicable, the information includes shares held in the name of a spouse, superannuation fund, nominee 4.7 Indemnities and insurance and or other controlled entities.
As at the date of this Directors Report, Andrew Mackenzie holds: Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146 of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each Company either directly, indirectly or beneficially 266,205 shares in to indemnify, to the extent permitted by law, each Officer of BHP BHP Billiton Plc and 93,051 shares in BHP Billiton Limited: Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, respectively, against liability rights and options over nil shares in BHP Billiton Plc incurred in, or arising out of, the conduct of the business of and 1,345,657 shares in BHP Billiton Limited.
BHP or the discharge of the duties of the Officer.
The Directors We have not made available to any Director any interest named in section 2.2, the Company Secretaries and other in a registered scheme.
Officers of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have the benefit of this requirement, as do individuals who formerly held one of those positions.
In accordance with this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Access and Insurance Deeds of Indemnity with each of their respective Directors.
The Deeds of Indemnity are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006 and each of these qualifying third party indemnities was in force as at the date of this Directors Report.
We have a policy that BHP will, as a general rule, support and hold harmless an employee, including an employee appointed as a Director of a subsidiary who, while acting in good faith, incurs personal liability to others as a result of working for BHP.
In addition, as part of the arrangements to effect the demerger of South32, we agreed to indemnify certain former Officers of BHP who transitioned to South32 from certain claims and liabilities incurred in their capacity as Directors or Officers of South32.
BHP Annual Report 2018 151 From time to time, we engage our External Auditor, KPMG, to 4.9 Corporate governance conduct non-statutory audit work and provide other services The UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency in accordance with our policy on the provision of other services by the External Auditor.
The terms of engagement in the United Rules DTR 7.2 require that certain information be included in a corporate governance statement.
BHP has an existing practice Kingdom include that we must compensate and reimburse KPMG LLP for, and protect KPMG LLP against, any loss, damage, expense, of issuing a corporate governance statement as part of our Annual Report that is incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
or liability incurred by KPMG LLP in respect of third party claims arising from a breach by BHP of any obligation under the The information required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
is located in section 2, with the exception of the information We have insured against amounts that we may be liable to pay referred to in LR 9.8.
6, which is to Directors, Company Secretaries or certain employees including located in sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.5.
2 and 4.18. former Officers pursuant to Rule 146 of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and Article 146 of the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc or that we otherwise agree to pay by way of indemnity.
4.10 Dividends The insurance policy also insures Directors, Company Secretaries and some employees including former Officers against certain A final dividend of 63 US cents per share will be paid on liabilities including legal costs they may incur in carrying out their 25September 2018, resulting in total dividends determined duties.
For this Directors and Officers insurance, we paid premiums in respect of FY2018 of 118 US cents per share.
Details of the of US$3,197,137 net during FY2018.
dividends paid are set out in notes 14 Share capital and 16 Dividends in section 5, and details of the Groups dividend policy During FY2018, BHP paid defence costs for: are set out in sections 1.4.
1 and 7.7. certain employees and former employees of BHP Billiton Brasil Affected Individuals in relation to the charges filed by the Federal Prosecutors Office against BHP Billiton Brasil and the 4.11 Auditors Affected Individuals: A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as the auditor of BHP Billiton certain employees and former employees of BHP in relation Plc will be proposed at the 2018 Annual General Meetings in to the putative class action complaint that was filed in the accordance with section 489 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
US District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of purchasers of American Depositary Receipts of BHP Billiton A copy of the declaration given by our External Auditor to the Limited and BHP Billiton Plc between 25 September 2014 and Directors in relation to the auditors compliance with the 30 November 2015: independence requirements of the Australian Corporations Act certain employees and former employees of BHP in relation to 2001 and the Professional Code of Conduct for External Auditors a putative class action complaint filed in the US District Court is set out in section 5.5. for the Southern District of New York on behalf of all purchasers Consistent with the UK and EU requirements in regard to audit of Samarcos ten-year bond notes due 20222024 between firm tender and rotation, BHP conducted an audit tender during 31 October 2012 and 30 November 2015.
After a comprehensive tender process, the Board selected Other than as set out above, no indemnity in favour of a current or EY to be appointed as the Groups auditor from the financial year former officer of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, or in favour beginning 1 July 2019, subject to shareholder approval.
The Board of the External Auditor, was called on during FY2018.
intends to seek shareholder approval at the Annual General Meetings in 2019 for the appointment of EY as the auditor for BHP Billiton Plc.
KPMG, BHPs current External Auditor, did not 4.8 Employee policies participate in the tender due to UK and EU requirements which require a new External Auditor to be in place by 1 July 2023.
Our people are fundamental to our success.
We are committed KPMG will continue in its role and will undertake the audit of BHP to shaping a culture where our employees are provided with for the 2018 and 2019 financial years, subject to reappointment opportunities to develop, are valued and are encouraged to by shareholders at the 2018 Annual General Meetings.
contribute towards making work safer, simpler and more productive.
We strongly believe that having employees who are engaged During FY2018, Lindsay Maxsted was the only officer of BHP and connected to BHP reinforces our shared purpose aligned who previously held the role of director or partner of the Groups to Our Charter and will result in a more productive workplace.
External Auditor at a time when the Groups External Auditor conducted an audit of BHP.
His prior relationship with KPMG is For more information on employee engagement and employee outlined in section 2.10.
Lindsay Maxsted was not part of the KPMG policies, including communications and regarding disabilities, audit practice after 1980 and, while at KPMG, was not in any way refer to section 1.7. involved in, or able to influence, any audit activity associated with BHP.
Each person who held the office of Director at the date the Board approved this Directors Report made the following statements: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which BHPs External Auditor is unaware: the Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that BHPs External Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given pursuant to section 418 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance with, and subject to, those provisions.
152 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Fines and prosecutions 4.12 Non-audit services For the purposes of section 299 1 f of the Australian Corporations Details of the non-audit services undertaken by BHPs External Act 2001, in FY2018 BHP received eight fines in relation to Australian Auditor, including the amounts paid for non-audit services, are set environmental laws and regulations at our operated assets, the out in 35 Auditors remuneration in section 5.
All non-audit services total amount payable being US$68,186.
Three fines were received were approved in accordance with the process set out in the Policy at Saraji: unauthorised release of mine affected water US$9,021, on Provision of Audit and Other Services by the External Auditor.
maintenance of hydrocarbon measures US$9,020 and failure No non-audit services were carried out that were specifically to comply with Plan of Operations Hakea Diversion US$2,333.
excluded by the Policy on Provision of Audit and Other Services Three fines were received at Caval Ridge: contaminated release by the External Auditor.
Based on advice provided by the Risk of water US$9,335, unauthorised release point $9,335 and and Audit Committee, the Directors have formed the view that lack of monitoring data to show compliance with site erosion the provision of non-audit services is compatible with the general and sediment control plan US$9,021.
One fine was received standard of independence for auditors, and that the nature of at Daunia: unauthorised release point US$9,021, and one fine non-audit services means that auditor independence was not was received at Mt Arthur Coal: failing to comply with an compromised.
For more information about our policy in relation environmental protection notice US$11,100.
to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor, refer to Greenhouse gas emissions section 2.13.1.
The UK Companies Act 2006 requires BHP, to the extent practicable, to obtain relevant information on the Groups annual quantity of 4.13 Political donations greenhouse gas emissions, which is reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
In accordance with those UK requirements, No political contributions donations for political purposes were information on BHPs total FY2018 greenhouse gas emissions made by BHP to any political party, politician, elected official and intensity has been included in sections 1.5.
1 or candidate for public office during FY2018.
For more information on environmental performance, including environmental regulation, refer to section 1.9 and the Sustainability 4.14 Exploration, research Report 2018, which is available online at bhp.
and development 4.18 Share capital, restrictions Companies within the Group carry out exploration and research and development necessary to support their activities.
Details are on transfer of shares and other provided in sections 1.6.
3, 1.10 to 1.12 and 6.3. additional information Information relating to BHP Billiton Plcs share capital structure, 4 4.15 ASIC Instrument 2016 191 restrictions on the holding or transfer of its securities or on the BHP Billiton Limited is an entity to which Australian Securities and exercise of voting rights attaching to such securities, certain Investments Commission ASIC Corporations Rounding in agreements triggered on a change of control and the existence Financial Directors Reports Instrument 2016 191 dated 24 March of branches of BHP outside of the United Kingdom, is set out 2016 applies.
Amounts in this Directors Report and the Financial in the following sections: Statements, except estimates of future expenditure or where Section 1.4.
4 Our locations otherwise indicated, have been rounded to the nearest million Section 4.2 Share capital and buy-back programs dollars in accordance with ASIC Instrument 2016 191.
Section 7.3 Organisational structure Section 7.4 Material contracts Section 7.5 Constitution 4.16 Proceedings on behalf Section 7.6 Share ownership of BHP Billiton Limited Section 7.10 Government regulations No proceedings have been brought on behalf of BHP Billiton Note 14 Share capital and note 22 Employee share ownership Limited, nor has any application been made, under section 237 plans in section 5. of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
As at the date of this Directors Report, there were 19,935,506 unvested equity awards outstanding in relation to BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares and 536,077 unvested equity awards 4.17 Performance in relation outstanding in relation to BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
to environmental regulation The expiry dates of these unvested equity awards range between August 2019 and August 2022 and there is no exercise price.
BHP seeks to be compliant with all applicable environmental laws No options over unissued shares or unissued interests in BHP and regulations relevant to its operations.
We monitor compliance have been granted since the end of FY2018 and no shares or on a regular basis, including through external and internal means, interests were issued as a result of the exercise of an option to minimise the risk of non-compliance.
For more information on over unissued shares or interests since the end of FY2018.
Further BHPs performance in relation to health, safety and the environment, details are set out in note 22 Employee share ownership plans refer to section 1.9. in section 5.
Details of movements in share capital during and since the end of FY2018 are set out in note 14 Share capital in section 5.
The Directors Report is approved in accordance with a resolution of the Board.
Ken MacKenzie Andrew Mackenzie Chairman Chief Executive Officer Dated: 6 September 2018 1 Note that Australian Electoral Commission AEC disclosure requirements are broad, such that amounts that are not political donations can be reportable for AEC purposes.
For example, where a political party or organisation owns shares in BHP, the AEC filing requires the political party or organisation to disclose the dividend payments received in respect of their shareholding.
BHP Annual Report 2018 153 In this section Section 5 Financial Statements 5.1 Consolidated Financial Statements 5.1.
2 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 5.1.
5 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 5.1.
6 Notes to the Financial Statements Statements 5.2 BHP Billiton Plc 5.3 Directors declaration 5.4 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements 5.5 Lead Auditors Independence Declaration under Section 307C of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 5.6 Independent Auditors reports 5.7 Supplementary oil and gas information unaudited Notes to Financial Statements Performance 1 Segment reporting 2 Exceptional items About these Financial Statements 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure Reporting entity 4 Expenses and other income 5 Income tax expense In 2001, BHP Billiton Limited previously known as BHP Limited, 6 Earnings per share an Australian-listed company, and BHP Billiton Plc previously known as Billiton Plc, a UK listed company, entered into Working capital a Dual Listed Company DLC merger.
These entities and their 7 Trade and other receivables 8 Trade and other payables subsidiaries operate together as a single for-profit economic 9 Inventories entity referred to as BHP or the Group with a common Board of Directors, unified management structure and joint Resource assets objectives.
In effect, the DLC structure provides the same 10 Property, plant and equipment 11 Intangible assets voting rights and dividend entitlements from BHP Billiton 12 Deferred tax balances Limited and BHP Billiton Plc irrespective of whether investors 13 Closure and rehabilitation provisions hold shares in BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
Capital structure Group and related party information is presented in note 30 14 Share capital Related party transactions in section 5.1.
This details the 15 Other equity Groups subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and the 16 Dividends nature of transactions between these and other related parties.
17 Provisions for dividends and other liabilities The nature of the operations and principal activities of the Financial management Group are described in the segment information refer to note 1 18 Net debt Segment reporting in section 5.1.
19 Net finance costs 20 Financial risk management Presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements Employee matters BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Directors have 21 Key management personnel included information in this report they deem to be material 22 Employee share ownership plans and relevant to the understanding of the Consolidated 23 Employee benefits, restructuring and Financial Statements the Financial Statements.
Disclosure post-retirement employee benefits provisions may be considered material and relevant if the dollar amount 24 Pension and other post-retirement obligations is significant due to its size or nature, or the information is 25 Employees important to understand the: Group and related party information 26 Discontinued operations Groups current year results: 27 Subsidiaries impact of significant changes in the Groups business: or 28 Investments accounted for using the equity method aspects of the Groups operations that are important to 29 Interests in joint operations future performance.
30 Related party transactions These Financial Statements were approved by the Board Unrecognised items and uncertain events of Directors on 6 September 2018.
The Directors have the 31 Commitments 32 Contingent liabilities authority to amend the Financial Statements after issuance.
33 Subsequent events Other items 34 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries, operations, joint operations and equity accounted investments 35 Auditors remuneration 36 BHP Billiton Limited 37 Deed of Cross Guarantee 38 New and amended accounting standards and interpretations 154 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 5.1 Consolidated Financial Statements 5.1.
1 Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 30 June 2018 2017 2016 2018 US$M US$M Notes US$M Restated Restated Continuing operations Revenue 1 43,638 36,135 28,567 Other income 4 247 662 432 Expenses excluding net finance costs 4 28,036 24,515 24,091 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 28 147 272 2,104 Profit from operations 15,996 12,554 2,804 Financial expenses 1,567 1,560 1,150 Financial income 322 143 137 Net finance costs 19 1,245 1,417 1,013 Profit before taxation 14,751 11,137 1,791 Income tax expense 6,879 4,276 1,858 Royalty-related taxation net of income tax benefit 128 167 245 Total taxation expense 5 7,007 4,443 2,103 Profit loss after taxation from Continuing operations 7,744 6,694 312 Discontinued operations Loss after taxation from Discontinued operations 26 2,921 472 5,895 Profit loss after taxation from Continuing and Discontinued operations 4,823 6,222 6,207 Attributable to non-controlling interests 1,118 332 178 Attributable to BHP shareholders 3,705 5,890 6,385 Basic earnings loss per ordinary share cents 6 69.6 110.7 120.0 Diluted earnings loss per ordinary share cents 6 69.4 110.4 120.0 Basic earnings loss from Continuing operations per ordinary share cents 6 125.0 119.8 10.2 Diluted earnings loss from Continuing operations per ordinary share cents 6 124.6 119.5 10.2 The accompanying notes form part of these Financial Statements.
2 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 30 June 2018 2018 2017 2016 Notes US$M US$M US$M 5 Profit loss after taxation from Continuing and Discontinued operations 4,823 6,222 6,207 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement: Available for sale investments: Net valuation gains losses taken to equity 11 1 2 Net valuation losses transferred to the income statement 1 Cash flow hedges: Gains losses taken to equity 82 351 566 Gains losses transferred to the income statement 215 432 664 Exchange fluctuations on translation of foreign operations taken to equity 2 1 1 Exchange fluctuations on translation of foreign operations transferred to income statement 10 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income 5 36 24 30 Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement 84 59 60 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement: Remeasurement gains losses on pension and medical schemes 1 36 20 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income 5 14 26 17 Total items that will not be reclassified to the income statement 13 10 37 Total other comprehensive loss income 97 49 23 Total comprehensive income loss 4,726 6,173 6,184 Attributable to non-controlling interests 1,118 332 176 Attributable to BHP shareholders 3,608 5,841 6,360 The accompanying notes form part of these Financial Statements.
3 Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2018 2018 2017 Notes US$M US$M ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 18 15,871 14,153 Trade and other receivables 7 3,096 2,836 Other financial assets 20 200 72 Inventories 9 3,764 3,673 Assets held for sale 26 11,939 Current tax assets 106 195 Other 154 127 Total current assets 35,130 21,056 Non-current assets Trade and other receivables 7 180 803 Other financial assets 20 999 1,281 Inventories 9 1,141 1,095 Property, plant and equipment 10 67,182 80,497 Intangible assets 11 778 3,968 Investments accounted for using the equity method 28 2,473 2,448 Deferred tax assets 12 4,041 5,788 Other 69 70 Total non-current assets 76,863 95,950 Total assets 111,993 117,006 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables 8 5,977 5,551 Interest bearing liabilities 18 2,736 1,241 Liabilities held for sale 26 1,222 Other financial liabilities 20 138 394 Current tax payable 1,773 2,119 Provisions 3, 13, 17, 23 2,025 1,959 Deferred income 118 102 Total current liabilities 13,989 11,366 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 8 3 5 Interest bearing liabilities 18 24,069 29,233 Other financial liabilities 20 1,093 1,106 Non-current tax payable 137 Deferred tax liabilities 12 3,472 3,765 Provisions 3, 13, 17, 23 8,223 8,445 Deferred income 337 360 Total non-current liabilities 37,334 42,914 Total liabilities 51,323 54,280 Net assets 60,670 62,726 EQUITY Share capital BHP Billiton Limited 1,186 1,186 Share capital BHP Billiton Plc 1,057 1,057 Treasury shares 5 3 Reserves 15 2,290 2,400 Retained earnings 51,064 52,618 Total equity attributable to BHP shareholders 55,592 57,258 Non-controlling interests 15 5,078 5,468 Total equity 60,670 62,726 The accompanying notes form part of these Financial Statements.
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 6 September 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Ken MacKenzie Andrew Mackenzie Chairman Chief Executive Officer 156 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 5.1.
4 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June 2018 2017 2016 2018 US$M US$M Notes US$M Restated Restated Operating activities Profit before taxation 14,751 11,137 1,791 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation expense 6,288 6,184 6,210 Impairments of property, plant and equipment, financial assets and intangibles 333 193 186 Net finance costs 1,245 1,417 1,013 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 147 272 2,104 Other 597 194 467 Changes in assets and liabilities: Trade and other receivables 662 267 1,387 Inventories 182 687 521 Trade and other payables 719 512 1,272 Provisions and other assets and liabilities 7 333 316 Cash generated from operations 22,949 18,612 12,091 Dividends received 709 636 301 Interest received 290 164 128 Interest paid 1,177 1,148 829 Settlement of cash management related instruments 292 140 Net income tax and royalty-related taxation refunded 17 337 435 Net income tax and royalty-related taxation paid 4,935 2,585 2,286 Net operating cash flows from Continuing operations 17,561 15,876 9,840 Net operating cash flows from Discontinued operations 900 928 785 Net operating cash flows 18,461 16,804 10,625 Investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment 4,979 3,697 5,707 Exploration expenditure 874 966 752 Exploration expenditure expensed and included in operating cash flows 641 610 419 Net investment and funding of equity accounted investments 204 234 217 Proceeds from sale of assets 89 529 93 Proceeds from divestment of subsidiaries, operations and joint operations, net of their cash 34 187 166 Other investing 141 153 20 Net investing cash flows from Continuing operations 5,060 3,724 6,018 Net investing cash flows from Discontinued operations 861 437 1,227 Net investing cash flows 5,921 4,161 7,245 Financing activities Proceeds from interest bearing liabilities 528 1,577 7,239 Settlements proceeds from debt related instruments 218 36 156 Repayment of interest bearing liabilities 4,188 7,114 2,781 5 Purchase of shares by Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trusts 171 108 106 Dividends paid 5,220 2,921 4,130 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 1,582 575 62 Net financing cash flows from Continuing operations 10,851 9,105 316 Net financing cash flows from Discontinued operations 40 28 32 Net financing cash flows 10,891 9,133 284 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents from Continuing operations 1,650 3,047 4,138 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents from Discontinued operations 1 463 474 Cash and cash equivalents, net of overdrafts, at the beginning of the financial year 14,108 10,276 6,613 Foreign currency exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 56 322 1 Cash and cash equivalents, net of overdrafts, at the end of the financial year 18 15,813 14,108 10,276 The accompanying notes form part of these Financial Statements.
5 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 30 June 2018 Attributable to BHP shareholders Share capital Treasury shares Total equity BHP BHP BHP BHP attributable NonBilliton Billiton Billiton Billiton Retained to BHP controlling Total US$M Limited Plc Limited Plc Reserves earnings shareholders interests equity Balance as at 1 July 2017 1,186 1,057 2 1 2,400 52,618 57,258 5,468 62,726 Total comprehensive income 87 3,695 3,608 1,118 4,726 Transactions with owners: Purchase of shares by ESOP Trusts 159 12 171 171 Employee share awards exercised net of employee contributions 156 13 139 30 Employee share awards forfeited 2 2 Accrued employee entitlement for unexercised awards 123 123 123 Distribution to non-controlling interests 14 14 Dividends 5,221 5,221 1,499 6,720 Transfer to non-controlling interests 5 5 5 Balance as at 30 June 2018 1,186 1,057 5 2,290 51,064 55,592 5,078 60,670 Balance as at 1 July 2016 1,186 1,057 7 26 2,538 49,542 54,290 5,781 60,071 Total comprehensive income 59 5,900 5,841 332 6,173 Transactions with owners: Purchase of shares by ESOP Trusts 105 3 108 108 Employee share awards exercised net of employee contributions 110 28 167 29 Employee share awards forfeited 18 18 Accrued employee entitlement for unexercised awards 106 106 106 Distribution to non-controlling interests 16 16 Dividends 2,871 2,871 601 3,472 Divestment of subsidiaries, operations and joint operations 28 28 Balance as at 30 June 2017 1,186 1,057 2 1 2,400 52,618 57,258 5,468 62,726 Balance as at 1 July 2015 1,186 1,057 19 57 2,557 60,044 64,768 5,777 70,545 Total comprehensive loss 60 6,420 6,360 176 6,184 Transactions with owners: Purchase of shares by ESOP Trusts 106 106 106 Employee share awards exercised net of employee contributions 118 31 193 46 2 2 Employee share awards forfeited 26 26 Accrued employee entitlement for unexercised awards 140 140 140 Dividends 4,154 4,154 172 4,326 Balance as at 30 June 2016 1,186 1,057 7 26 2,538 49,542 54,290 5,781 60,071 The accompanying notes form part of these Financial Statements.
158 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Basis of preparation Principles of consolidation The Groups Financial Statements as at and for the year ended In preparing the Financial Statements the effects of all intragroup 30 June 2018: balances and transactions have been eliminated.
is a consolidated general purpose financial report: A list of significant entities in the Group, including subsidiaries, joint has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the: arrangements and associates at year-end is contained in note 27 Australian Corporations Act 2001: Subsidiaries, note 28 Investments accounted for using the equity method and note 29 Interests in joint operations.
UK Companies Act 2006: has been prepared in accordance with accounting standards and Subsidiaries: The Financial Statements of the Group include the interpretations collectively referred to as IFRS in this report, which consolidation of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their encompass the: respective subsidiaries being the entities controlled by the parent International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations entities during the year.
Control exists where the Group is: as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board: exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement Australian Accounting Standards, being Australian equivalents with the entity: to International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct as issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board AASB : the activities of the entity.
International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations The ability to approve the operating and capital budget of a subsidiary adopted by the European Union EU : and the ability to appoint key management personnel are decisions is prepared on a going concern basis: that demonstrate that the Group has the existing rights to direct the measures items on the basis of historical cost principles, except for relevant activities of a subsidiary.
Where the Groups interest is less the following items: than 100 per cent, the interest attributable to outside shareholders derivative financial instruments and certain other financial assets, is reflected in non-controlling interests.
The financial statements of which are carried at fair value: subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group, using consistent accounting policies.
The acquisition method of non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as accounting is used to account for the Groups business combinations.
held-for-sale or , which are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost to dispose: Joint arrangements: The Group undertakes a number of business includes significant accounting policies in the notes to the activities through joint arrangements, which exist when two or more Financial Statements that summarise the recognition and parties have joint control.
Joint arrangements are classified as either measurement basis used and are relevant to an understanding joint operations or joint ventures, based on the contractual rights of the Financial Statements: and obligations between the parties to the arrangement.
includes selected financial information of the BHP Billiton Limited The Group has two types of joint arrangements: parent entity in note 36 BHP Billiton Limited.
Financial Statements Joint operations: A joint operation is an arrangement in which the of the BHP Billiton Plc parent entity are presented in section 5.2 Group shares joint control, primarily via contractual arrangements BHP Billiton Plc: with other parties.
In a joint operation, the Group has rights to the applies a presentation currency of US dollars, consistent with the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
predominant functional currency of the Groups operations.
Amounts This includes situations where the parties benefit from the joint are rounded to the nearest million dollars, unless otherwise stated, activity through a share of the output, rather than by receiving in accordance with ASIC Rounding in Financial Directors Reports a share of the results of trading.
In relation to the Groups interest Instrument 2016 191: in a joint operation, the Group recognises: its share of assets and presents reclassified comparative information where required for liabilities: revenue from the sale of its share of the output and its consistency with the current years presentation: share of any revenue generated from the sale of the output by the adopts all new and amended standards and interpretations under joint operation: and its share of expenses.
All such amounts are IFRS issued by the relevant bodies listed above, that are mandatory measured in accordance with the terms of the arrangement, which for application beginning on or after 1 July 2017.
None had a is usually in proportion to the Groups interest in the joint operation.
significant impact on the Financial Statements: Joint ventures: A joint venture is a joint arrangement in which 5 has not early adopted any standards and interpretations that have the parties that share joint control have rights to the net assets been issued or amended but are not yet effective.
A separate vehicle, not the parties, will have the rights to the assets and obligations to the liabilities relating The accounting policies have been consistently applied by all entities to the arrangement.
More than an insignificant share of output included in the Financial Statements and are consistent with those from a joint venture is sold to third parties, which indicates the applied in all prior years presented.
joint venture is not dependent on the parties to the arrangement for funding, nor do the parties have an obligation for the liabilities of the arrangement.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
Associates: The Group accounts for investments in associates using the equity accounting method.
An entity is considered an associate where the Group is deemed to have significant influence but not control or joint control.
Significant influence is presumed to exist where the Group: has over 20 per cent but less than 50 per cent of the voting rights of an entity, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the case: or holds less than 20 per cent of the voting rights of an entity: however, has the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions affecting the entity.
The Group uses the term equity accounted investments to refer to joint ventures and associates collectively.
BHP Annual Report 2018 159 Foreign currencies Critical accounting policies, judgements Transactions related to the Groups worldwide operations are and estimates conducted in a number of foreign currencies.
The majority of operations have assessed US dollars as the functional currency, The Group has identified a number of critical accounting however, some subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates policies under which significant judgements, estimates have functional currencies other than US dollars.
Actual results may differ for these estimates under different assumptions and Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated conditions.
This may materially affect financial results into US dollars as follows: and the carrying amount of assets and liabilities to be reported in the next and future periods.
Foreign currency item Applicable exchange rate Additional information relating to these critical accounting Transactions Date of underlying transaction policies is embedded within the following notes: Monetary assets and liabilities Period-end rate Note Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from translation are 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure recognised in the income statement, except for qualifying cash 5 Taxation flow hedges which are deferred to equity and foreign exchange 9 Inventories gains or losses on foreign currency provisions for site closure and rehabilitation costs which are capitalised in property, plant and 10 and 11 Exploration and evaluation equipment for operating sites.
10 Development expenditure On consolidation, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses 10 Overburden removal costs of non-US dollar denominated functional operations are translated 10 Depreciation of property, plant and into US dollars using the following applicable exchange rates: equipment 10 and 11 Impairments of non-current assets Foreign currency amount Applicable exchange rate recoverable amount Income and expenses Date of underlying transaction 13 Closure and rehabilitation provisions Assets and liabilities Period-end rate Equity Historical rate Reserve estimates Reserves Historical and period-end rate Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the Groups properties.
In order to estimate reserves, estimates Foreign exchange differences resulting from translation are initially are required for a range of geological, technical and recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve and economic factors, including quantities, grades, production subsequently transferred to the income statement on disposal techniques, recovery rates, production costs, transport of a foreign operation.
costs, commodity demand, commodity prices and exchange rates.
Estimating the quantity and or grade of reserves requires the size, shape and depth of ore bodies or fields to be determined by analysing geological data such as drilling samples.
This process may require complex and difficult geological judgements to interpret the data.
Additional information on the Groups mineral and oil and gas reserves and resources can be viewed within section 6.3.
Section 6.3 is unaudited and does not form part of these Financial Statements.
Reserve impact on financial reporting Estimates of reserves may change from period-to-period as the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change and additional geological data is generated during the course of operations.
Changes in reserves may affect the Groups financial results and financial position in a number of ways, including: asset carrying values may be affected due to changes in estimated future production levels: depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged in the income statement may change where such charges are determined on the units of production basis, or where the useful economic lives of assets change: overburden removal costs recorded on the balance sheet or charged to the income statement may change due to changes in stripping ratios or the units of production basis of depreciation: decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions may change where changes in estimated reserves affect expectations about the timing or cost of these activities: the carrying amount of deferred tax assets may change due to changes in estimates of the likely recovery of the tax benefits.
160 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 5.1.
6 Notes to the Financial Statements Performance 1 Segment reporting Reportable segments The Group operated four reportable segments during FY2018, which are aligned with the commodities that are extracted and marketed and reflect the structure used by the Groups management to assess the performance of the Group.
Reportable segment Principal activities Petroleum Exploration, development and production of oil and gas Copper Mining of copper, silver, lead, zinc, molybdenum, uranium and gold Iron Ore Mining of iron ore Coal Mining of metallurgical coal and energy coal Unless otherwise noted, the segment reporting information excludes Discontinued operations, being the Petroleum Onshore US operations comprising the Eagle Ford, Haynesville, Permian and Fayetteville oil and gas assets.
Group and unallocated items includes functions and other unallocated operations, including Potash, Nickel West and consolidation adjustments.
Revenue not attributable to reportable segments comprises the sale of freight and fuel to third parties, as well as revenues from unallocated operations.
Exploration and technology activities are recognised within relevant segments.
2 Impairment losses excludes exceptional items of US$ nil FY2017: US$5 million: FY2016: US$ nil.
3 Exceptional items reported in Group and unallocated include Samarco dam failure costs of US$ 27 million FY2017: US$ 51 million: FY2016: US$ 62 million.
Refer to note 2 Exceptional items for further information.
4 Total assets and total liabilities include balances for the years ended 30 June 2018, 2017 and 2016 relating to Onshore US assets.
162 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Segment reporting continued Geographical information Revenue by location of customer 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Australia 2,304 2,037 1,846 Europe 1,886 1,641 1,141 China 22,935 18,875 13,177 Japan 4,709 3,086 2,941 India 2,484 1,938 1,478 South Korea 2,639 2,296 1,919 Rest of Asia 2,620 3,157 2,623 North America 2,715 2,233 2,355 South America 1,106 681 899 Rest of world 240 191 188 43,638 36,135 28,567 Non-current assets by location of assets 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Australia 45,157 46,949 49,465 1 North America 8,246 22,860 23,943 2 South America 18,267 18,899 18,614 2 Rest of world 154 173 389 3 Unallocated assets 5,039 7,069 8,828 76,863 95,950 101,239 1 Balances for the years ended 30 June 2017 and 2016 include non-current assets relating to Onshore US assets.
2 Prior periods have been restated to reflect the location of equity accounted investments operations rather than the location of the holding company.
3 Unallocated assets comprise deferred tax assets and other financial assets.
Underlying EBITDA Recognition and measurement Underlying EBITDA is earnings before net finance costs, depreciation, Revenue amortisation and impairments, taxation expense, Discontinued Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received operations and any exceptional items.
Underlying EBITDA includes or receivable.
BHPs share of profit loss from investments accounted for using the Sale of products equity method including net finance costs, depreciation, amortisation Revenue is recognised when the risk and rewards of ownership of the and impairments and taxation expense.
goods have passed to the buyer based on agreed delivery terms and Underlying EBITDA is the key alternative performance measure that it can be measured reliably.
Depending on customer terms this can management uses internally to assess the performance of the Groups be based on issuance of a bill of lading or when delivery is completed segments and make decisions on the allocation of resources and, as per the agreement with the customer.
in the Groups view, is more relevant to capital intensive industries 5 Provisionally priced sales with long-life assets.
Revenue on provisionally priced sales is initially recognised at the We exclude exceptional items from Underlying EBITDA in order to estimated fair value of consideration receivable with reference to the enhance the comparability of such measures from period-to-period relevant forward and or contractual price and the determined mineral and provide our investors with further clarity in order to assess the or hydrocarbon specifications.
Subsequently, provisionally priced underlying performance of our operations.
Management monitors sales are marked to market at each reporting period up until when exceptional items separately.
Refer to note 2 Exceptional items for final pricing and settlement is confirmed with the fair value adjustment additional detail.
recognised in revenue in the period identified.
Refer to note 20 Financial risk management for details of provisionally priced sales Segment assets and liabilities open at reporting period-end.
The period between provisional pricing Total segment assets and liabilities of reportable segments represents and final invoicing is typically between 60 and 120 days.
operating assets and operating liabilities, including the carrying amount of equity accounted investments and predominantly excludes cash balances, loans to associates, interest bearing liabilities and deferred tax balances.
The carrying value of investments accounted for using the equity method represents the balance of the Groups investment in equity accounted investments, with no adjustment for any cash balances, interest bearing liabilities or deferred tax balances of the equity accounted investment.
BHP Annual Report 2018 163 2 Exceptional items Exceptional items are those gains or losses where their nature, including the expected frequency of the events giving rise to them, and amount is considered material to the Financial Statements.
Such items included within the Groups profit from Continuing operations for the year are detailed below.
Exceptional items attributable to Discontinued operations are detailed in note 26 Discontinued operations: Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2018 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category Samarco dam failure 650 650 US tax reform 2,320 2,320 Total 650 2,320 2,970 Attributable to non-controlling interests Attributable to BHP shareholders 650 2,320 2,970 Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco dam failure The FY2018 exceptional loss of US$650 million related to the Samarco dam failure in November 2015 comprises the following: Year ended 30 June 2018 US$M Expenses excluding net finance costs: Costs incurred directly by BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda and other BHP entities in relation to the Samarco dam failure 57 Loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses: Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 80 Samarco dam failure provision 429 Net finance costs 84 1 Total 650 1 Refer to note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure for further information.
US tax reform On 22 December 2017, the US President signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act the TCJA into law.
The TCJA effective 1 January 2018 includes a broad range of tax reforms affecting the Group, including, but not limited to, a reduction in the US corporate tax rate from 35 per cent to 21 per cent and changes to international tax provisions.
Following enactment of the TCJA, the Group has recognised an exceptional income tax charge of US$2,320 million, primarily relating to the reduced US corporate income tax rate, which resulted in re-measurement of the Groups deferred tax position and impairment of foreign tax credits due to reduced forecast utilisation, together with tax charges on the deemed repatriation of accumulated earnings of non-US subsidiaries.
Year ended 30 June 2018 US$M Re-measurement of deferred taxes as a result of reduced US corporate income tax rate 1,390 Impairment of foreign tax credits 834 1 Net impact of tax charges on deemed repatriation of accumulated earnings of non-US subsidiaries 194 Recognition of Alternative Minimum Tax Credits 95 Other impacts 3 2 Total 2,320 1 Includes US$ 134 million to be settled over a period greater than 12 months and classified as a non-current tax payable on the face of the balance sheet.
2 Refer to note 5 Income tax expense for further information.
Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2017 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category Samarco dam failure 381 381 Escondida industrial action 546 179 367 Cancellation of the Caroona exploration licence 164 49 115 Withholding tax on Chilean dividends 373 373 Total 763 243 1,006 Attributable to non-controlling interests Escondida industrial action 232 68 164 Attributable to BHP shareholders 531 311 842 Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco dam failure The FY2017 exceptional loss of US$381 million related to the Samarco dam failure in November 2015 comprises the following: Year ended 30 June 2017 US$M Expenses excluding net finance costs: Costs incurred directly by BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda and other BHP entities in relation to the Samarco dam failure 82 Loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses: Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 134 Samarco dam failure provision 38 Net finance costs 127 1 Total 381 1 Refer to note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure for further information.
164 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 2 Exceptional items continued Escondida industrial action Our Escondida asset in Chile began negotiations with Union N1 on a new collective agreement in December 2016, as the existing agreement was expiring on 31 January 2017.
Negotiations, including government-led mediation, failed and the union commenced strike action on 9 February 2017 resulting in a total shutdown of operations, including work on the expansion of key projects.
On 24 March 2017, following a 44-day strike and a revised offer being presented to union members, Union N1 exercised its rights under Article 369 of the Chilean Labour Code to extend the existing collective agreement for 18 months.
Industrial action through this period resulted in a reduction to FY2017 copper production of 214 kt and gave rise to idle capacity charges of US$546 million, including depreciation of US$212 million.
Cancellation of the Caroona exploration licence Following the Groups agreement with the New South Wales Government in August 2016 to cancel the exploration licence of the Caroona Coal project, a net gain of US$115 million after tax expense has been recognised.
Withholding tax on Chilean dividends BHP Billiton Chile Inversiones Limitada paid a one-off US$2.3 billion dividend to its parent in April 2017 while a concessional tax rate was available, resulting in withholding tax of US$373 million.
Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2016 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category Samarco dam failure 2,450 253 2,197 Global taxation matters 70 500 570 Total 2,520 247 2,767 Attributable to non-controlling interests Attributable to BHP shareholders 2,520 247 2,767 Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco dam failure The FY2016 exceptional loss of US$2,450 million before tax related to the Samarco dam failure in November 2015 comprises the following: Year ended 30 June 2016 US$M Expenses excluding net finance costs: Costs incurred directly by BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda and other BHP entities in relation to the Samarco dam failure 70 Loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses: Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 655 Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 Samarco dam failure provision 1,200 1 Total 2,450 1 BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda has adjusted its investment in Samarco to US$ nil resulting from US$ 655 million share of loss from Samarco and US$ 525 million impairment, recognised a provision of US$ 1,200 million for potential obligations under the Framework Agreement and together with other BHP entities incurred US$ 70 million of direct costs in relation to the Samarco dam failure.
US$ 572 million of the US$ 1,200 million provision represents an additional share of loss from Samarco with the remaining US$ 628 million recognised as provision expense.
Refer to note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure for further information.
Global taxation matters 5 Global taxation matters include amounts provided for unresolved tax matters and other claims for which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow are uncertain.
3 Significant events Samarco dam failure On 5 November 2015, the Samarco Minerao S. A. Samarco iron ore operation in Minas Gerais, Brazil, experienced a tailings dam failure that resulted in a release of mine tailings, flooding the communities of Bento Rodrigues, Gesteira and Paracatu and impacting other communities downstream the Samarco dam failure.
Samarco is jointly owned by BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale S. A. Vale.
BHP Billiton Brasils 50 per cent interest is accounted for as an equity accounted joint venture investment.
BHP Billiton Brasil does not separately recognise its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of Samarco, but instead records the investment as one line on the balance sheet.
Each period, BHP Billiton Brasil recognises its 50 per cent share of Samarcos profit or loss and adjusts the carrying value of the investment in Samarco accordingly.
Such adjustment continues until the investment carrying value is reduced to US$ nil, with any additional share of Samarco losses only recognised to the extent that BHP Billiton Brasil has an obligation to fund the losses, or when future investment funding is provided.
After applying equity accounting, any remaining carrying value of the investment is tested for impairment.
Any charges relating to the Samarco dam failure incurred directly by BHP Billiton Brasil or other BHP entities are recognised 100 per cent in the Groups results.
The financial impacts of the Samarco dam failure on the Groups income statement, balance sheet and cash flow statement for the year ended 30 June 2018 are shown in the table below and have been treated as an exceptional item.
The table below does not include BHP Billiton Brasils share of the results of Samarco prior to the Samarco dam failure, which is disclosed in note 28 Investments accounted for using the equity method, along with the summary financial information related to Samarco as at 30 June 2018.
BHP Annual Report 2018 165 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure continued 2018 2017 2016 Financial impacts of Samarco dam failure US$M US$M US$M Income statement Expenses excluding net finance costs: Costs incurred directly by BHP Billiton Brasil and other BHP entities in relation to the 1 2 Samarco dam failure 57 82 70 Loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses: 2 3 Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 80 134 655 3 Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 2 3 Samarco dam failure provision 429 38 1,200 Loss from operations 566 254 2,450 Net finance costs 84 127 Loss before taxation 650 381 2,450 Income tax benefit 253 Loss after taxation 650 381 2,197 Balance sheet movement Trade and other payables 4 3 11 Investments accounted for using the equity method 1,180 Deferred tax assets 158 Provisions 228 143 1,200 Deferred tax liabilities 411 Net liabilities assets 224 140 2,138 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Cash flow statement Loss before taxation 650 381 2,450 Adjustments for: 2 3 Share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure 80 134 655 3 Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 2 3 Samarco dam failure provision 429 38 1,200 2 Net finance costs 84 127 Changes in assets and liabilities: Trade and other payables 4 311 Net operating cash flows 61 79 59 4 Net investment and funding of equity accounted investments 365 442 Net investing cash flows 365 442 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 426 521 59 1 Includes legal and advisor costs incurred.
2 Financial impacts of US$ 650 million from the Samarco dam failure relates to US$ 80 million share of loss from US$ 80 million funding provided during the period, US$ 57 million direct costs incurred by BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda and other BHP entities, US$ 84 million amortisation of discounting impacting net finance costs, US$ 560 million change in estimate and US$131 million exchange translation.
3 At 30 June 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda adjusted its investment in Samarco to US$ nil resulting from US$ 655 million share of loss from Samarco and US$ 525 million impairment and recognised a provision of US$ 1,200 million for obligations under the Framework Agreement.
4 Includes US$ 80 million funding provided during the period and US$ 285 million utilisation of the Samarco dam failure provision, of which US$ 281 million allowed for the continuation of reparatory and compensatory programs in relation to the Framework Agreement and a further US$ 4 million for dam stabilisation and expert costs.
166 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure continued Equity accounted investment in Samarco BHP Billiton Brasils investment in Samarco remains at US$ nil.
BHP Billiton Brasil provided US$80 million funding under a working capital facility during the period and recognised additional share of losses of US$80 million.
No dividends have been received by BHP Billiton Brasil from Samarco during the period.
Samarco currently does not have profits available for distribution and is legally prevented from paying previously declared and unpaid dividends.
Provision for Samarco dam failure 2018 2017 US$M US$M At the beginning of the financial year 1,057 1,200 Movement in provision 228 143 Comprising: Utilised 285 308 Adjustments charged to the income statement: Change in estimate 560 60 Amortisation of discounting impacting net finance costs 84 127 Exchange translation 131 22 At the end of the financial year 1,285 1,057 Comprising: Current 313 310 Non-current 972 747 At the end of the financial year 1,285 1,057 On 29 June 2018, BHP Billiton Brasil announced funding of Dam failure provisions and contingencies US$158 million to support Fundao Renova for the six months As at 30 June 2018, BHP Billiton Brasil has identified provisions and to 31 December 2018, in the event Samarco does not meet its contingent liabilities arising as a consequence of the Samarco dam funding obligations under the Framework Agreement.
Any support failure as follows: to Fundao Renova provided by BHP Billiton Brasil will be offset Environment and socio-economic remediation against the provision for the Samarco dam failure.
Framework Agreement On 25 June 2018 a Governance Agreement defined below was On 2 March 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil, together with Samarco and Vale, entered into providing for the settlement of the R$20 billion entered into a Framework Agreement with the Federal Government approximately US$5.2 billion public civil claim, suspension of the of Brazil, the states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais and certain R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion Federal Public Prosecution other public authorities to establish a foundation Fundao Renova Office claim for 24 months, partial ratification of the Framework that will develop and execute environmental and socio-economic Agreement and a formal declaration that the Framework Agreement programs Programs to remediate and provide compensation remains valid for the signing parties.
On 8 August 2018 the 12th for damage caused by the Samarco dam failure.
A committee Federal Court of Minas Gerais ratified the Governance Agreement.
Interfederative Committee comprising representatives from Mining and processing operations remain suspended following the Brazilian Federal and State Governments, local municipalities, the dam failure.
Samarco is currently progressing plans to resume environmental agencies, impacted communities and Public operations, however significant uncertainties surrounding the Defence Office oversees the activities of the Fundao Renova nature and timing of ongoing future operations remain.
In light in order to monitor, guide and assess the progress of actions 5 of these uncertainties and based on currently available information, agreed in the Framework Agreement.
at 30 June 2018, BHP Billiton Brasils provision for its obligations The term of the Framework Agreement is 15 years, renewable for under the Framework Agreement is US$1.3 billion before tax periods of one year successively until all obligations under the and after discounting 30 June 2017: US$1.1 billion.
Framework Agreement have been performed.
Under the Framework Agreement, Samarco is responsible for funding Fundao Renovas annual calendar year budget for the duration of the Framework Agreement.
The funding amounts for each calendar year will be dependent on the remediation and compensation projects to be undertaken in a particular year.
Annual contributions may be reviewed under the Framework Agreement.
To the extent that Samarco does not meet its funding obligations under the Framework Agreement, each of Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil has funding obligations under the Framework Agreement in proportion to its 50 per cent shareholding in Samarco.
BHP Annual Report 2018 167 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure continued Governance Agreement On 25 June 2018, BHP Billiton Brasil, Samarco, Vale, the other parties Key judgements and estimates to the Framework Agreement, the Public Prosecutors Office and The measurement of the provision requires the use the Public Defence Office agreed an arrangement which settles of significant judgements, estimates and assumptions.
the R$20 billion approximately US$5.2 billion public civil claim, The provision reflects the estimated remaining costs enhances community participation in decisions related to Programs to complete Programs under the Framework Agreement, under the Framework Agreement and establishes a process to of which 65 per cent are expected to be incurred by renegotiate the Programs over two years to progress settlement December 2020. of the R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion Federal Public Prosecution Office claim Governance Agreement.
The provision may be affected by factors including, but not limited to: Renegotiation of the Programs will be based on certain agreed principles such as full reparation consistent with Brazilian law, potential changes in scope of work and funding the requirement for a technical basis for any proposed changes, amounts required under the Framework Agreement consideration of findings from experts appointed by BHP Billiton including the impact of the decisions of the Brasil, Samarco and Vale, consideration of findings from experts Interfederative Committee along with further technical appointed by Prosecutors and consideration of feedback from analysis and community participation required under impacted communities.
During the renegotiation period and up the Preliminary Agreement and Governance Agreement: until revisions to the Programs are agreed, the Fundao Renova the outcome of ongoing negotiations with State and will continue to implement the Programs in accordance with the Federal Prosecutors: terms of the Framework Agreement and the Governance Agreement.
actual costs incurred: The Governance Agreement was ratified by the 12th Federal Court resolution of uncertainty in respect of operational restart: of Minas Gerais on 8 August 2018 settling the R$20 billion updates to discount and foreign exchange rates: approximately US$5.2 billion public civil claim and suspending resolution of existing and potential legal claims: the R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion Federal Public the status of the Framework Agreement and Prosecution Office claim for a period of two years from the date the renegotiation process established in the of ratification.
Interim Security provided under the Preliminary Agreement Given these factors, future actual expenditures may differ is maintained for a period of 30 months under the Governance from the amounts currently provided and changes to key Agreement, after which BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco assumptions and estimates could result in a material will be required to provide security of an amount equal to the impact to the provision in future reporting periods.
Fundao Renovas annual budget up to a limit of R$2.2 billion approximately US$570 million.
Legal Preliminary Agreement The following matters are disclosed as contingent liabilities and On 18 January 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil, together with Samarco given the status of proceedings it is not possible to provide a range and Vale, entered into a Preliminary Agreement with the Federal of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future Prosecutors Office in Brazil, which outlines the process and exposures for BHP, unless otherwise stated.
Ultimately, all the legal timeline for further negotiation towards a settlement regarding matters disclosed as contingent liabilities could have a material the R$20 billion approximately US$5.2 billion public civil claim adverse impact on BHPs business, competitive position, cash flows, and R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion Federal Public prospects, liquidity and shareholder returns.
Prosecution Office claim relating to the dam failure.
Public civil claim The Preliminary Agreement provides for the appointment of experts Among the claims brought against BHP Billiton Brasil was a public to advise the Federal Prosecutors in relation to social and environmental civil claim commenced by the Federal Government of Brazil, states remediation and the assessment and monitoring of programs under of Esprito Santo, Minas Gerais and other public authorities on the Framework Agreement.
The expert advisors conclusions are not 30 November 2015, seeking the establishment of a fund of up binding on BHP Billiton Brasil, Samarco or Vale but will be considered to R$20 billion approximately US$5.2 billion in aggregate for in the negotiation of a final settlement arrangement with the clean-up costs and damages.
Ratification of the Governance Agreement on 8 August 2018 settled Under the Preliminary Agreement, BHP Billiton Brasil, Samarco and this public civil claim, including a R$1.2 billion approximately Vale agreed interim security Interim Security comprising R$1.3 billion US$310 million injunction order.
approximately US$335 million in insurance bonds, R$100 million approximately US$25 million in liquid assets, a charge of Federal Public Prosecution Off ice claim R$800 million approximately US$210 million over Samarcos assets, BHP Billiton Brasil is among the defendants named in a claim and R$200 million approximately US$50 million to be allocated brought by the Federal Public Prosecution Office on 3 May 2016, within the next four years through existing Framework Agreement seeking R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion for reparation, programs in the Municipalities of Barra Longa, Rio Doce, Santa Cruz compensation and moral damages in relation to the Samarco do Escalvado and Ponte Nova.
On 24 January 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil, Samarco and Vale provided The 12th Federal Court previously suspended the Federal Public the Interim Security to the Court, which was to remain in place Prosecution Office claim, including a R$7.7 billion approximately until the earlier of 30 June 2017 and the date that a final settlement US$2 billion injunction request.
Suspension of the claim arrangement was agreed between the Federal Prosecutors, continues for a period of two years from the date of ratification and BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco.
Following a series of of the Governance Agreement on 8 August 2018. extensions, on 25 June 2018, the parties reached an agreement in the form of the Governance Agreement summarised below.
168 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure continued United States class action complaint Other claims In February 2016, a putative class action complaint Complaint The civil public actions filed by State Prosecutors in Minas Gerais was filed in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of claiming damages of approximately R$7.5 billion, US$2 billion, State New York on behalf of purchasers of American Depositary Receipts Prosecutors in Esprito Santo claiming damages of approximately Plaintiffs of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Defendants R$2 billion, US$520 million, and public defenders in Minas Gerais between 25 September 2014 and 30 November 2015 against claiming damages of approximately R$10 billion, US$2.6 billion, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and certain of its current have been consolidated before the 12th Federal Court and suspended.
and former executive officers and directors.
The Governance Agreement provides for a process to review whether these civil public claims should be terminated or suspended.
Claims against current and former executive officers were subsequently dismissed.
On 6 August 2018 the parties reached an in-principle BHP Billiton Brasil is among the companies named as defendants in a settlement agreement of US$50 million to resolve all claims with number of legal proceedings initiated by individuals, non-governmental no admission of liability by the Defendants.
The agreement is organisations NGOs, corporations and governmental entities in subject to Court approval.
BHP expects to recover the majority Brazilian Federal and State courts following the Samarco dam failure.
of the settlement payment under its external insurance The other defendants include Vale, Samarco and Fundao Renova.
arrangements refer BHP Insurance below.
The lawsuits include claims for compensation, environmental rehabilitation and violations of Brazilian environmental and other United States class action complaint Samarco bond holders laws, among other matters.
The lawsuits seek various remedies On 14 November 2016, a putative class action complaint Complaint including rehabilitation costs, compensation to injured individuals was filed in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of New and families of the deceased, recovery of personal and property York on behalf of all purchasers of Samarcos ten-year bond notes losses, moral damages and injunctive relief.
In addition, government Plaintiff due 20222024 between 31 October 2012 and 30 November inquiries and investigations relating to the Samarco dam failure 2015 against Samarco and the former chief executive officer of have been commenced by numerous agencies of the Brazilian Samarco Defendants.
The Complaint was subsequently amended to include BHP Billiton Additional lawsuits and government investigations relating to the Limited, BHP Billiton Plc, BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda, Vale S. A. and officers Samarco dam failure could be brought against BHP Billiton Brasil of Samarco, including four of Vale S. A. and BHP Billiton Brasil Ltdas and possibly other BHP entities in Brazil or other jurisdictions.
nominees to the Samarco Board Defendants.
On 5 April 2017, the Plaintiff dismissed the claims against the individuals.
The remaining BHP insurance corporate defendants filed a joint motion to dismiss the Plaintiffs BHP has various third party liability insurances for claims related Complaint on 26 June 2017. to the Samarco dam failure made directly against BHP Billiton Brasil or other BHP entities, their directors and officers, including class On 7 March 2018, the District Court granted the Defendants motion actions.
External insurers have been advised of the Samarco dam to dismiss the Complaint, however, the District Court granted the failure, the third party claims and the class actions referred to above Plaintiff leave to file a second amended Complaint, which it did and formal claims have been prepared and submitted.
On 21 May 2018, the Defendants moved to above, BHP expects to recover the majority of the settlement dismiss the Complaint.
The Defendants motion is pending before payment relating to the United States class action complaint the District Court.
The amount of damages sought by the Plaintiff under its external insurance arrangements.
on behalf of the putative class is unspecified.
At 30 June 2018, an insurance receivable has not been recognised Australian class action complaint for any potential recoveries in respect of ongoing matters.
On 31 May 2018, a shareholder class action was filed in the Federal Court of Australia against BHP Billiton Ltd on behalf of persons who, Commitments during the period from 21 October 2013 to 9 November 2015, acquired Under the terms of the Samarco joint venture agreement, BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Ltd shares on the Australian Securities Exchange or Brasil does not have an existing obligation to fund Samarco.
For the BHP Billiton Plc shares on the London Stock Exchange or year ended 30 June 2018, BHP Billiton Brasil has provided US$80 million 5 Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
funding to support Samarcos operations and a further US$4 million for dam stabilisation and prosecutor experts costs, with undrawn On 31 August 2018, an additional shareholder class action that makes amounts of US$16 million expiring as at 30 June 2018.
On 29 June similar allegations was filed in the Federal Court of Australia against 2018, BHP Billiton Brasil made available a new short-term facility BHP Billiton Ltd on behalf of persons who, during the period from of up to US$53 million to carry out remediation and stabilisation 27 August 2014 to 9 November 2015, entered into a contract to work and support Samarcos operations.
Funds will be released acquire BHP Billiton Ltd shares on the Australian Securities Exchange to Samarco only as required and subject to the achievement of key or BHP Billiton Plc shares on the London Stock Exchange or milestones with amounts undrawn expiring at 31 December 2018.
Orders have been made for the Court to consider how to manage the Any additional requests for funding or future investment provided competing shareholder class actions on 29 October 2018. would be subject to a future decision, accounted for at that time.
The amount of damages sought in both class actions is unspecified.
Criminal charges The Federal Prosecutors Office has filed criminal charges against BHP Billiton Brasil, Samarco and Vale and certain employees and former employees of BHP Billiton Brasil Affected Individuals in the Federal Court of Ponte Nova, Minas Gerais.
On 3 March 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil filed its preliminary defences.
BHP Billiton Brasil rejects outright the charges against the company and the Affected Individuals and will defend the charges and fully support each of the Affected Individuals in their defence of the charges.
BHP Annual Report 2018 169 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure continued The following section includes disclosure required by IFRS of Preliminary Agreement Samarco Minerao S. A. s provisions, contingencies and other On 18 January 2017, Samarco, together with Vale and BHP Billiton matters arising from the dam failure.
Brasil, entered into a Preliminary Agreement with the Federal Prosecutors Office in Brazil, which outlines the process and Samarco timeline for further negotiation towards a settlement regarding Dam failure related provisions and contingencies the R$20 billion approximately US$5.2 billion public civil claim As at 30 June 2018, Samarco has identified provisions and and R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion Federal Public contingent liabilities arising as a consequence of the Samarco Prosecution Office claim relating to the dam failure.
dam failure as follows: The Preliminary Agreement provides for the appointment of Environment and socio-economic remediation experts to advise the Federal Prosecutors in relation to social and Framework Agreement environmental remediation and the assessment and monitoring of programs under the Framework Agreement.
The expert advisors On 2 March 2016, Samarco, together with Vale and BHP Billiton conclusions are not binding on Samarco, Vale or BHP Billiton Brasil Brasil, entered into a Framework Agreement with the Federal but will be considered in the negotiation of a final settlement Government of Brazil, the states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais arrangement with the Federal Prosecutors.
and certain other public authorities to establish a foundation Fundao Renova that will develop and execute environmental Under the Preliminary Agreement, Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton and socio-economic programs Programs to remediate and Brasil agreed interim security Interim Security comprising provide compensation for damage caused by the Samarco dam R$1.3 billion approximately US$335 million in insurance bonds, failure.
A committee Interfederative Committee comprising R$100 million approximately US$25 million in liquid assets, a charge representatives of the Brazilian Federal and State Governments, of R$800 million approximately US$210 million over Samarcos assets, local municipalities, environmental agencies, impacted and R$200 million approximately US$50 million to be allocated communities and Public Defence Office oversees the activities within the next four years through existing Framework Agreement of the Fundao Renova in order to monitor, guide and assess programs in the Municipalities of Barra Longa, Rio Doce, Santa Cruz the progress of actions agreed in the Framework Agreement.
do Escalvado and Ponte Nova.
The term of the Framework Agreement is 15 years, renewable On 24 January 2017, Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil provided for periods of one year successively until all obligations under the the Interim Security to the Court which was to remain in place Framework Agreement have been performed.
Under the Framework until the earlier of 30 June 2017 and the date that a final settlement Agreement, Samarco is responsible for funding Fundao Renovas arrangement was agreed between the Federal Prosecutors, and annual calendar year budget for the duration of the Framework Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil.
Following a series of extensions, Agreement.
The funding amounts for each calendar year will on 25 June 2018, the parties reached an agreement in the form be dependent on the remediation and compensation projects of the Governance Agreement summarised below.
to be undertaken in a particular year.
Annual contributions may Governance Agreement be reviewed under the Framework Agreement.
It is expected On 25 June 2018 Samarco, Vale, BHP Billiton Brasil, the other parties that approximately 65 per cent of the remaining estimated total to the Framework Agreement, the Public Prosecutors Office and costs to complete Programs under the Framework Agreement the Public Defence Office agreed an arrangement which settles will be incurred by December 2020. the R$20 billion approximately US$5.2 billion public civil claim, On 25 June 2018 a Governance Agreement defined below, enhances community participation in decisions related to Programs was entered into providing for the settlement of the R$20 billion under the Framework Agreement and establishes a process to approximately US$5.2 billion public civil claim, suspension of the renegotiate the Programs over two years to progress settlement R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion Federal Public Prosecution of the R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion Federal Public Office claim for 24 months, partial ratification of the Framework Prosecution Office claim Governance Agreement.
Agreement and a formal declaration that the Framework Agreement remains valid for the signing parties.
On 8 August 2018 the 12th Renegotiation of the Programs will be based on certain agreed Federal Court of Minas Gerais ratified the Governance Agreement.
principles such as full reparation consistent with Brazilian law, the requirement for a technical basis for any proposed changes, As at 30 June 2018, Samarco has a provision of US$2.6 billion consideration of findings from experts appointed by Samarco, before tax and after discounting 30 June 2017: US$2.1 billion, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil, consideration of findings from experts in relation to its obligations under the Framework Agreement appointed by Prosecutors and consideration of feedback from based on currently available information.
During the renegotiation period and up The measurement of the provision requires the use of significant until revisions to the Programs are agreed, the Fundao Renova judgements, estimates and assumptions which may be affected will continue to implement the Programs in accordance with the by factors including, but not limited to: terms of the Framework Agreement and the Governance Agreement.
potential changes in scope of work and funding amounts The Governance Agreement was ratified by the 12th Federal Court required under the Framework Agreement including the impact of Minas Gerais on 8 August 2018 settling the R$20 billion of the decisions of the Interfederative Committee along with approximately US$5.2 billion public civil claim and suspending further technical analysis and community participation required the R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion Federal Public under the Preliminary Agreement and Governance Agreement: Prosecution Office claim for a period of two years from the date the outcome of ongoing negotiations with State and of ratification.
Federal Prosecutors: Interim Security provided under the Preliminary Agreement actual costs incurred: is maintained for a period of 30 months under the Governance updates to discount and foreign exchange rates: Agreement, after which Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil resolution of existing and potential legal claims: will be required to provide security of an amount equal to the the status of the Framework Agreement and the renegotiation Fundao Renovas annual budget up to a limit of R$2.2 billion process established in the Governance Agreement.
Given these factors, future actual expenditures may differ from the amounts currently provided and changes to key assumptions and estimates could result in a material impact to the provision in future reporting periods.
170 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure continued Other Other claims As at 30 June 2018, Samarco has recognised provisions of The civil public actions filed by State Prosecutors in Minas Gerais US$0.2 billion 30 June 2017: US$0.3 billion, in addition to its claiming damages of approximately R$7.5 billion, US$2 billion, obligations under the Framework Agreement, based on currently State Prosecutors in Esprito Santo claiming damages of available information.
The magnitude, scope and timing of these approximately R$2 billion, US$520 million, and public defenders additional costs are subject to a high degree of uncertainty and in Minas Gerais claiming damages of approximately R$10 billion, Samarco has indicated that it anticipates that it will incur future US$2.6 billion, have been consolidated before the 12th Federal costs beyond those provided.
These uncertainties are likely to Court and suspended.
The Governance Agreement provides continue for a significant period and changes to key assumptions for a process to review whether these civil public claims should could result in a material change to the amount of the provision in be terminated or suspended.
Any such unrecognised obligations are Samarco is among the companies named as defendants in a number therefore contingent liabilities and, at present, it is not practicable to of legal proceedings initiated by individuals, non-governmental estimate their magnitude or possible timing of payment.
Accordingly, organisations NGOs, corporations and governmental entities in it is also not possible to provide a range of possible outcomes or a Brazilian Federal and State courts following the Samarco dam failure.
reliable estimate of total potential future exposures at this time.
The lawsuits include claims for compensation, environmental Legal rehabilitation and violations of Brazilian environmental and other laws, among other matters.
The lawsuits seek various remedies The following matters are disclosed as contingent liabilities and including rehabilitation costs, compensation to injured individuals given the status of proceedings it is not possible to provide a range and families of the deceased, recovery of personal and property of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future losses, moral damages and injunctive relief.
In addition, government exposures for Samarco, unless otherwise stated.
Ultimately, all the inquiries and investigations relating to the Samarco dam failure legal matters disclosed as contingent liabilities could have a material have been commenced by numerous agencies of the Brazilian adverse impact on Samarcos business, competitive position, cash government and are ongoing.
flows, prospects, liquidity and shareholder returns.
Additional lawsuits and government investigations relating to the Public civil claim Samarco dam failure could be brought against Samarco.
Among the claims brought against Samarco, was a public civil claim commenced by the Federal Government of Brazil, states of Esprito Samarco insurance Santo, Minas Gerais and other public authorities on 30 November Samarco has standalone insurance policies in place with Brazilian 2015, seeking the establishment of a fund of up to R$20 billion and global insurers.
Samarco has notified insurers, including those approximately US$5.2 billion in aggregate for clean-up costs covering Samarcos property, project and liability risks.
loss adjusters or claims representatives continue to investigate Ratification of the Governance Agreement on 8 August 2018 settled and assist with the claims process.
An insurance receivable has this public civil claim, including a R$1.2 billion approximately not been recognised by Samarco for any recoveries under US$310 million injunction order.
Federal Public Prosecution Off ice claim Samarco commitments Samarco is among the defendants named in a claim brought by the At 30 June 2018, Samarco has commitments of US$1.1 billion Federal Public Prosecution Office on 3 May 2016, seeking R$155 billion 30 June 2017: US$1.5 billion.
Following the dam failure approximately US$40 billion for reparation, compensation and Samarco invoked force majeure clauses in a number of long-term moral damages in relation to the Samarco dam failure.
contracts with suppliers and service providers to suspend contractual obligations.
The 12th Federal Court previously suspended the Federal Public Prosecution Office claim, including a R$7.7 billion approximately Samarco non-dam failure related contingent liabilities US$2 billion injunction request.
Suspension of the claim continues The following non-dam failure related contingent liabilities pre-date for a period of two years from the date of ratification of the 5 and are unrelated to the Samarco dam failure.
Samarco is currently Governance Agreement on 8 August 2018. contesting both of these matters in the Brazilian courts.
Given the United Stated class action complaint Samarco bond holders status of these tax matters, the timing of resolution and potential On 14 November 2016, a putative class action complaint Complaint economic outflow for Samarco is uncertain.
was filed in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of New York Brazilian Social Contribution Levy on behalf of all purchasers of Samarcos ten-year bond notes Plaintiff Samarco has received tax assessments for the alleged non-payment due 20222024 between 31 October 2012 and 30 November 2015 of Brazilian Social Contribution Levy for the calendar years against Samarco and the former chief executive officer of 20072014 totalling approximately R$5.4 billion approximately Samarco Defendants.
The Complaint was subsequently amended to include BHP Billiton Brazilian corporate income tax rate Limited, BHP Billiton Plc, BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda and Vale S. A. and Samarco has received tax assessments for alleged incorrect officers of Samarco, including four of Vale S. A. and BHP Billiton Brasil calculation of Corporate Income Tax IRPJ in respect of the Ltdas nominees to the Samarco Board Defendants.
On 5 April 2017, 20002003 and 20072014 income years totalling approximately the Plaintiff dismissed the claims against the individuals.
The remaining R$4.2 billion approximately US$1.1 billion.
corporate defendants filed a joint motion to dismiss the Plaintiffs Complaint on 26 June 2017.
On 7 March 2018, the District Court granted the Defendants motion to dismiss the Complaint, however, the District Court granted the Plaintiff leave to file a second amended Complaint, which it did on 21 March 2018.
On 21 May 2018, the Defendants moved to dismiss the Complaint.
The Defendants motion is pending before the District Court.
Criminal charges The Federal Prosecutors Office has filed criminal charges against Samarco, Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil and certain employees and former employees of Samarco Affected Individuals in the Federal Court of Ponte Nova, Minas Gerais.
On 2 March 2017, Samarco filed its preliminary defences.
Samarco rejects outright the charges against the company and the Affected Individuals and will defend the charges.
BHP Annual Report 2018 171 4 Expenses and other income 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Employee benefits expense: Wages, salaries and redundancies 3,653 3,392 3,324 Employee share awards 123 105 140 Social security costs 4 32 Pension and other post-retirement obligations 292 273 221 Less employee benefits expense classified as exploration and evaluation expenditure 82 79 82 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 142 743 287 Raw materials and consumables used 4,389 3,830 3,985 Freight and transportation 2,294 1,786 1,648 External services 5,217 4,341 4,370 Third party commodity purchases 1,452 1,151 994 Net foreign exchange gains losses 93 103 153 Government royalties paid and payable 2,168 1,986 1,349 Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred and expensed in the current period 641 610 419 Depreciation and amortisation expense 6,288 6,184 6,210 Net impairments: Property, plant and equipment 318 160 170 Goodwill and other intangible assets 14 33 16 Available for sale financial assets 1 Operating lease rentals 421 391 372 All other operating expenses 1,078 989 819 Total expenses 28,036 24,515 24,091 Losses Gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment 10 286 20 Other income 257 376 452 Total other income 247 662 432 Other income is generally income earned from transactions outside the course of the Groups ordinary activities and may include certain management fees from non-controlling interests and joint venture arrangements, dividend income, royalties, commission income and gains or losses on divestment of subsidiaries or operations.
Recognition and measurement Income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to the Group and they can be reliably measured.
Dividends are recognised upon declaration.
5 Income tax expense 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Total taxation expense comprises: Current tax expense 5,052 4,412 2,621 Deferred tax expense benefit 1,955 31 518 7,007 4,443 2,103 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Factors affecting income tax expense for the year Income tax expense differs to the standard rate of corporation tax as follows: Profit before taxation 14,751 11,137 1,791 Tax on profit at Australian prima facie tax rate of 30 per cent 4,425 3,341 537 Impact of US tax reform 1 Tax on remitted and unremitted foreign earnings 194 Non-tax effected operating losses and capital gains 834 Tax rate changes 1,390 Recognition of previously unrecognised tax assets 95 Other 3 Subtotal 2,320 Other items not related to US tax reform Tax on remitted and unremitted foreign earnings 401 478 376 Non-tax effected operating losses and capital gains 721 242 457 Tax rate changes 79 25 14 Amounts over under provided in prior years 51 175 4 Foreign exchange adjustments 152 88 125 Investment and development allowance 180 53 36 2 Tax effect of profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 44 82 631 Recognition of previously unrecognised tax assets 170 21 36 Impact of tax rates applicable outside of Australia 484 136 5 Other 172 219 541 Income tax expense 6,879 4,276 1,858 Royalty-related taxation net of income tax benefit 128 167 245 Total taxation expense 7,007 4,443 2,103 1 Comprising US$797 million repatriation tax and US$603 million of previously unrecognised tax credits.
2 The profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses is net of income tax.
This item removes the prima facie tax effect on such profits, related impairments and expenses.
172 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 5 Income tax expense continued Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income is as follows: 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Income tax effect of: Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement: Available for sale investments: Net valuation gains losses taken to equity 3 1 Cash flow hedges: Gains losses taken to equity 25 105 170 Gains losses transferred to the income statement 64 129 199 Income tax credit charge relating to items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement 36 24 30 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement: Remeasurement gains losses on pension and medical schemes 22 12 5 Employee share awards transferred to retained earnings on exercise 8 14 22 Income tax charge relating to items that will not be reclassified to the income statement 14 26 17 1 Total income tax credit charge relating to components of other comprehensive income 22 2 47 1 Included within total income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income is US$17 million relating to deferred taxes and US$5 million relating to current taxes 2017: US$12 million and US$ 14 million: 2016: US$ 25 million and US$ 22 million.
Recognition and measurement Taxation on the profit loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the tax effect is also recognised in equity.
Current tax Deferred tax Royalty-related taxation Current tax is the expected tax Deferred tax is provided in full, on temporary differences Royalties and resource rent taxes are treated as taxation on the taxable income for the arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities arrangements impacting income tax expense benefit year, using tax rates and laws and their carrying amounts in the Financial Statements.
when they are imposed under government authority enacted or substantively Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that and the amount payable is calculated by reference enacted at the reporting it is probable that future taxable profits will be to revenue derived net of any allowable deductions date, and any adjustments available against which the temporary differences after adjustment for temporary differences.
Obligations to tax payable in respect can be utilised.
arising from royalty arrangements that do not satisfy of previous years.
these criteria are recognised as current provisions Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences and included in expenses.
relating to: initial recognition of goodwill: initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit: investment in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
5 Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset and when the tax balances are related to taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Uncertain tax and royalty matters The Group operates across many tax jurisdictions.
Application of tax law can be complex and requires judgement to assess risk and estimate outcomes, particularly in relation to the Groups cross-border operations and transactions.
The evaluation of tax risks considers both amended assessments received and potential sources of challenge from tax authorities.
The status of proceedings for these matters will impact the ability to determine the potential exposure and in some cases, it may not be possible to determine a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of the potential exposure.
The Group has unresolved tax and royalty matters for which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow are uncertain.
Tax and royalty matters with uncertain outcomes arise in the normal course of business and occur due to changes in tax law, changes in interpretation of tax law, periodic challenges and disagreements with tax authorities and legal proceedings.
BHP Annual Report 2018 173 5 Income tax expense continued Tax and royalty obligations assessed as having probable future economic outflows capable of reliable measurement are provided for at 30 June 2018.
Matters with a possible economic outflow and or presently incapable of being measured reliably are contingent liabilities and disclosed in note 32 Contingent liabilities.
Irrespective of whether the potential economic outflow of the matter has been assessed as probable or possible, individually significant matters are included below, to the extent that disclosure does not prejudice the Group.
Transfer pricing Sales of The Group is currently in dispute with the Australian Taxation Office ATO regarding the price at which the Groups commodities to BHP Billiton Australian entities sell commodities to the Groups principal marketing entity in Singapore, BHP Billiton Marketing AG.
Marketing AG in Singapore In April 2014, the Group received amended assessments for 2003-2008 totalling US$267 million A$362 million inclusive of interest and penalties.
In May 2016, the Group received further amended assessments totalling US$396 million A$537 million inclusive of interest and penalties for 20092013.
The ATO is currently auditing the 20142016 income years.
The Group has formally objected to the amended assessments.
The ATO has yet to advise its decision on the objections to these amended assessments.
The Group has made payments of approximately US$221 million A$276 million to the ATO in relation to the assessments under dispute pending resolution of the matter.
As a consequence of the completion of the transfer pricing audit for 2009-2013, in June 2016, the Group also received an amended assessment in relation to its 2013 MRRT return totalling US$105 million A$143 million inclusive of interest and penalties.
The Group has formally objected to the amended assessment and has made a partial payment of US$39 million A$52 million in respect of the MRRT amended assessment.
Controlled Foreign The Group is currently in dispute with the ATO regarding whether profits earned globally by the Groups marketing Companies dispute organisation from the on-sale of commodities acquired from Australian subsidiaries of BHP Billiton Plc are subject to top-up tax in Australia under the Controlled Foreign Companies rules.
In June 2011 and December 2014, the Group received amended assessments relating to the 2006-2010 income years.
The Group has objected to these amended assessments.
On 30 June 2016, the Group received the ATOs decision relating to the Groups objection against these amended assessments.
The objections were allowed in part by the ATO.
The ATO also determined that the Group was not liable for any penalties.
The dispute concerning the disallowed objections was heard before the full Federal Court in May 2018 and we are awaiting judgement.
It is estimated the primary tax subject to dispute for the 20062010 income years will total US$32 million A$43 million.
Between May 2016 and May 2017, the Group received amended assessments for primary tax of US$29 million A$39 million relating to the 20122015 income years.
Samarco tax assessments Details of uncertain tax and royalty matters relating to Samarco are disclosed in note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure.
Key judgements and estimates Income tax classification US tax reform The Groups accounting policy for taxation, including As per note 2 Exceptional items, the impact of the TCJA has royalty-related taxation, requires managements judgement been included in the Financial Statements.
The TCJA includes as to the types of arrangements considered to be a tax on a number of complex provisions, the application of which are income in contrast to an operating cost.
potentially subject to further implementation and regulatory guidance, and possible elections.
Judgements are required Deferred tax about the application of the TCJA and its interaction with Judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred income tax accounting principles.
tax assets that are recognised based on the likely timing and The Group has made preliminary determinations, based the level of future taxable profits.
The Group assesses the on currently available implementation guidance.
However, recoverability of recognised and unrecognised deferred taxes, judgements made are subject to risk and uncertainty, hence including losses in Australia, the United States and Canada there is a possibility that changes in circumstances or future on a consistent basis, using assumptions and projected cash regulatory guidance may alter the judgements made, which flows as applied in the Group impairment process for may potentially impact the amount of deferred or current taxes associated operations.
recognised on the balance sheet and the amount of other Deferred tax liabilities arising from temporary differences tax balances not yet recognised.
in investments, caused principally by retained earnings held The significant judgements and estimates include: in foreign tax jurisdictions, are recognised unless repatriation The TCJA requires mandatory deemed repatriation of of retained earnings can be controlled and is not expected post-1986 undistributed earnings and profits from specific to occur in the foreseeable future.
In assessing the potential tax charge, Uncertain tax matters the Group has made certain assumptions as to offsets Judgements are required about the application of income available under the TCJA, including the use of available tax legislation and its interaction with income tax accounting foreign tax credits to partially offset the deemed repatriation principles.
These judgements are subject to risk and uncertainty, tax liability.
hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will The US will continue to tax foreign income from partnerships alter expectations, which may impact the amount of deferred on a worldwide basis with the ability to offset US tax liabilities tax assets and deferred tax liabilities recognised on the balance on foreign earnings with a credit for taxes paid in foreign sheet and the amount of other tax losses and temporary jurisdictions.
The reduction in the US corporate tax rate and differences not yet recognised.
the revised differential in tax rates with other jurisdictions impacts the forecasted utilisation of these foreign tax credits.
Where the final tax outcomes are different from the amounts The Group has made certain assumptions as to the utilisation that were initially recorded, these differences impact the of available foreign tax credits based on an assessment current and deferred tax provisions in the period in which of probable future US income tax.
Where further clarifying regulatory guidance is issued, Measurement of uncertain tax and royalty matters considers this may potentially impact the assumptions made and a range of possible outcomes, including assessments received result in a different outcome.
Where management is of the view that potential liabilities have a low probability of crystallising, or it is not possible to quantify them reliably, they are disclosed as contingent liabilities refer to note 32 Contingent liabilities.
174 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 6 Earnings per share 2018 2017 2016 Earnings loss attributable to BHP shareholders US$M Continuing operations 6,652 6,375 539 Total 3,705 5,890 6,385 Weighted average number of shares Million Basic 5,323 5,323 5,322 Diluted 5,337 5,336 5,322 Basic earnings loss per ordinary share US cents Continuing operations 125.0 119.8 10.2 Total 69.6 110.7 120.0 Diluted earnings loss per ordinary share US cents Continuing operations 124.6 119.5 10.2 Total 69.4 110.4 120.0 Refer to note 26 Discontinued operations for basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share for Discontinued operations.
Earnings on American Depositary Shares represent twice the earnings for BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
Recognition and measurement Diluted earnings attributable to BHP shareholders are equal to the earnings attributable to BHP shareholders.
The calculation of the number of ordinary shares used in the computation of basic earnings per share is the aggregate of the weighted average number of ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc outstanding during the period after deduction of the number of shares held by the Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust and the BHP Billiton Limited Employee Equity Trust.
For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of 14 million dilutive shares has been taken into account for the year ended 30 June 2018 2017: 13 million shares: 2016: nil.
The Groups only potential dilutive ordinary shares are share awards granted under the employee share ownership plans for which terms and conditions are described in note 22 Employee share ownership plans.
Diluted earnings per share calculation excludes instruments which are considered antidilutive.
The conversion of options and share rights would decrease the loss per share for the year ended 30 June 2016 and therefore its impact has been excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
At 30 June 2018, there are no instruments which are considered antidilutive 2017: nil.
Working capital 7 Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 US$M US$M Trade receivables 1,857 1,855 Loans to equity accounted investments 13 644 5 Other receivables 1,406 1,140 Total 3,276 3,639 Comprising: Current 3,096 2,836 Non-current 180 803 Recognition and measurement Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less an allowance for impairment.
The collectability of trade receivables is assessed continuously.
At the reporting date, specific allowances are made for any doubtful receivables based on a review of all outstanding amounts at reporting period-end.
Individual receivables are written off when management deems them unrecoverable.
The net carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair values.
Credit risk Trade receivables generally have terms of less than 30 days.
The Group has no material concentration of credit risk with any single counterparty and is not dominantly exposed to any individual industry.
Credit risk can arise from the non-performance by counterparties of their contractual financial obligations towards the Group.
To manage credit risk, the Group maintains Group-wide procedures covering the application for credit approvals, granting and renewal of counterparty limits, proactive monitoring of exposures against these limits and requirements triggering secured payment terms.
As part of these processes, the credit exposures with all counterparties are regularly monitored and assessed on a timely basis.
The credit quality of the Groups customers is reviewed and the solvency of each debtor and their ability to pay on the receivable is considered in assessing receivables for impairment.
Receivables are deemed to be past due or impaired in accordance with the Groups terms and conditions.
These terms and conditions are determined on a case-by-case basis with reference to the customers credit quality, payment performance and prevailing market conditions.
At 30 June 2018, trade receivables are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts of US$1 million 2017: US$ nil.
As of 30 June 2018, trade receivables of US$32 million 2017: US$19 million were past due but not impaired.
The majority of these receivables were less than 30 days overdue.
As at the reporting date, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
BHP Annual Report 2018 175 8 Trade and other payables 2018 2017 US$M US$M Trade creditors 4,574 3,996 Other creditors 1,406 1,560 Total 5,980 5,556 Comprising: Current 5,977 5,551 Non-current 3 5 9 Inventories 2018 2017 US$M US$M Definitions Raw materials and consumables 1,266 1,241 Spares, consumables and other supplies yet to be utilised in the production process or in the rendering of services.
Work in progress 2,965 2,852 Commodities currently in the production process that require further processing by the Group to a saleable form.
Finished goods 674 675 Commodities held-for-sale and not requiring further processing by the Group.
1 Total 4,905 4,768 Comprising: Inventories classified as non-current are not expected to be utilised or sold within 12 months after the reporting date.
Current 3,764 3,673 Non-current 1,141 1,095 1 Inventory write-downs of US$18 million were recognised during the year 2017: US$112 million: 2016: US$118 million.
Inventory write-downs of US$2 million made in previous periods were reversed during the year 2017: US$19 million: 2016: US$118 million.
Recognition and measurement Regardless of the type of inventory and its stage in the production process, inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined primarily on the basis of average costs.
For processed inventories, cost is derived on an absorption costing basis.
Cost comprises costs of purchasing raw materials and costs of production, including attributable mining and manufacturing overheads taking into consideration normal operating capacity.
Minerals inventory quantities are assessed primarily through surveys and assays, while petroleum inventory quantities are derived through flow rate or tank volume measurement and the composition is derived via sample analysis.
Key judgements and estimates Accounting for inventory involves the use of judgements and estimates, particularly related to the measurement and valuation of inventory on hand within the production process.
Certain estimates, including expected metal recoveries and work in progress volumes, are calculated by engineers using available industry, engineering and scientific data.
Estimates used are periodically reassessed by the Group taking into account technical analysis and historical performance.
Changes in estimates are adjusted for on a prospective basis.
176 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Resource assets 10 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Other mineral Assets under Exploration buildings equipment assets construction and evaluation Total US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Net book value 30 June 2018 At the beginning of the financial year 8,547 49,427 15,557 5,536 1,430 80,497 1 2 Additions 20 110 873 5,423 258 6,644 Depreciation for the year 548 6,467 730 7,745 3 Impairments, net of reversals 9 507 260 62 838 Disposals 7 26 36 1 9 79 Transferred to assets held for sale 21 4,426 5,563 662 10,672 Exchange variations taken to reserve 1 1 Transfers and other movements 210 2,773 867 2,742 626 At the end of the financial year 8,152 40,885 8,974 7,554 1,617 67,182 Cost 12,525 91,037 13,212 7,554 2,400 126,728 Accumulated depreciation and impairments 4,373 50,152 4,238 783 59,546 Net book value 30 June 2017 At the beginning of the financial year 9,005 47,766 15,942 9,561 1,701 83,975 1 2 Additions 809 416 3,773 314 5,312 Depreciation for the year 552 6,419 765 7,736 Impairments, net of reversals 8 83 69 160 Disposals 27 56 25 1 152 261 Divestment and demerger of subsidiaries and operations 47 105 42 194 Exchange variations taken to reserve 1 1 Transfers and other movements 176 7,515 10 7,755 364 438 At the end of the financial year 8,547 49,427 15,557 5,536 1,430 80,497 Cost 12,387 106,332 31,196 5,538 2,213 157,666 Accumulated depreciation and impairments 3,840 56,905 15,639 2 783 77,169 1 Includes net foreign exchange gains losses related to the closure and rehabilitation provisions.
Refer to note 13 Closure and rehabilitation provisions.
2 Property, plant and equipment of US$3 million 2017: US$593 million: 2016: US$ nil was acquired under finance lease.
This is a non-cash investing transaction that has been excluded from the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
3 Includes impairment charges related to Onshore US assets of US$520 million 2017: US$ nil.
Refer to note 26 Discontinued operations.
In respect of petroleum activities: Recognition and measurement the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of interest Property, plant and equipment for which it is expected that the expenditure will be recouped Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated by future exploitation or sale: or depreciation and impairment charges.
Cost is the fair value of exploration and evaluation activity has not reached a stage that consideration given to acquire the asset at the time of its acquisition permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially or construction and includes the direct costs of bringing the asset recoverable reserves.
to the location and the condition necessary for operation and the 5 estimated future costs of closure and rehabilitation of the facility.
A regular review of each area of interest is undertaken to determine the appropriateness of continuing to carry forward costs in relation Equipment leases to that area.
Capitalised costs are only carried forward to the extent Assets held under lease, which result in the Group receiving that they are expected to be recovered through the successful substantially all of the risk and rewards of ownership are capitalised exploitation of the area of interest or alternatively by its sale.
To the as property, plant and equipment at the lower of the fair value of the extent that capitalised expenditure is no longer expected to be leased assets or the estimated present value of the minimum lease recovered, it is charged to the income statement.
Leased assets are depreciated on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the lease term.
The corresponding finance lease obligation is included within interest bearing liabilities.
The interest component is charged to the income statement over the Key judgements and estimates lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest over the remaining Exploration and evaluation expenditure results in certain balance of the obligation.
items of expenditure being capitalised for an area of Operating leases are not capitalised and rental payments are interest where it is considered likely to be recoverable included in the income statement on a straight-line basis over by future exploitation or sale, or where the activities have the lease term.
Ongoing contracted commitments under finance not reached a stage that permits a reasonable assessment and operating leases are disclosed within note 31 Commitments.
of the existence of reserves.
This policy requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions Exploration and evaluation as to future events and circumstances, in particular Exploration costs are incurred to discover mineral and petroleum whether an economically viable extraction operation resources.
Evaluation costs are incurred to assess the technical can be established.
These estimates and assumptions feasibility and commercial viability of resources found.
may change as new information becomes available.
If, after having capitalised the expenditure under Exploration and evaluation expenditure is charged to the income the policy, a judgement is made that recovery of the statement as incurred, except in the following circumstances in expenditure is unlikely, the relevant capitalised amount which case the expenditure may be capitalised: will be written off to the income statement.
In respect of minerals activities: the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of interest that was previously acquired as an asset acquisition or in a business combination and measured at fair value on acquisition: or the existence of a commercially viable mineral deposit has been established.
BHP Annual Report 2018 177 10 Property, plant and equipment continued Development expenditure Other mineral assets When proven mineral reserves are determined and development Other mineral assets comprise: is sanctioned, capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure capitalised exploration, evaluation and development expenditure is reclassified as assets under construction within property, plant for assets in production: and equipment.
All subsequent development expenditure is mineral rights and petroleum interests acquired: capitalised and classified as assets under construction, provided capitalised development and production stripping costs.
commercial viability conditions continue to be satisfied.
Overburden removal costs The Group may use funds sourced from external parties to finance The process of removing overburden and other waste materials the acquisition and development of assets and operations.
Finance to access mineral deposits is referred to as stripping.
Stripping costs are expensed as incurred, except where they relate to the is necessary to obtain access to mineral deposits and occurs financing of construction or development of qualifying assets.
throughout the life of an open-pit mine.
Development and Borrowing costs directly attributable to acquiring or constructing production stripping costs are classified as other mineral assets a qualifying asset are capitalised during the development phase.
in property, plant and equipment.
Development expenditure is net of proceeds from the saleable material extracted during the development phase.
On completion Stripping costs are accounted for separately for individual of development, all assets included in assets under construction components of an ore body.
The determination of components is are reclassified as either plant and equipment or other mineral dependent on the mine plan and other factors, including the assets and depreciation commences.
size, shape and geotechnical aspects of an ore body.
The Group accounts for stripping activities as follows: Development stripping costs Key judgements and estimates These are initial overburden removal costs incurred to obtain access to mineral deposits that will be commercially produced.
These costs Development activities commence after project sanctioning are capitalised when it is probable that future economic benefits by the appropriate level of management.
Judgement is access to mineral ores will flow to the Group and costs can be applied by management in determining when a project measured reliably.
In exercising this judgement, management is required to make certain estimates and Once the production phase begins, capitalised development assumptions as to future events and circumstances, stripping costs are depreciated using the units of production including reserve estimates, existence of an accessible method based on the proven and probable reserves of the market and forecast prices and cash flows.
Estimates and relevant identified component of the ore body to which the assumptions may change as new information becomes initial stripping activity benefits.
If, after having commenced the development Production stripping costs activity, a judgement is made that a development asset These are post initial overburden removal costs incurred during is impaired, the appropriate amount will be written off the normal course of production activity, which commences to the income statement.
after the first saleable minerals have been extracted from the component.
Production stripping costs can give rise to two benefits, the accounting for which is outlined below: Production stripping activity Benefits of stripping activity Extraction of ore inventory in current period.
Improved access to future ore extraction.
Period benefited Current period Future period s Recognition and When the benefits of stripping activities are realised When the benefits of stripping activities are improved measurement criteria in the form of inventory produced: the associated access to future ore: production costs are capitalised costs are recorded in accordance with the Groups when all the following criteria are met: inventory accounting policy.
the production stripping activity improves access to a specific component of the ore body and it is probable that economic benefits arising from the improved access to future ore production will be realised: the component of the ore body for which access has been improved can be identified: costs associated with that component can be measured reliably.
Allocation of costs Production stripping costs are allocated between the inventory produced and the production stripping asset using a life-of-component waste-to-ore or mineral contained strip ratio.
When the current strip ratio is greater than the estimated life-of-component ratio a portion of the stripping costs is capitalised to the production stripping asset.
Asset recognised from Inventory Other mineral assets within property, plant and equipment.
stripping activity Depreciation basis Not applicable On a  basis using the units of production method based on proven and probable reserves.
Key judgements and estimates The identification of components of an ore body, as well as estimation of stripping ratios and mineral reserves by component require critical accounting judgements and estimates to be made by management.
Changes to estimates related to life-of-component waste-to-ore or mineral contained strip ratios and the expected ore production from identified components are accounted for prospectively and may affect depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
178 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 10 Property, plant and equipment continued Depreciation Depreciation of assets, other than land, assets under construction and capitalised exploration and evaluation that are not depreciated, is calculated using either the straight-line SL method or units of production UoP method, net of residual values, over the estimated useful lives of specific assets.
The depreciation method and rates applied to specific assets reflect the pattern in which the assets benefits are expected to be used by the Group.
The Groups reported reserves are used to determine UoP depreciation unless doing so results in depreciation charges that do not reflect the assets useful life.
Where this occurs, alternative approaches to determining reserves are applied, such as using managements expectations of future oil and gas prices rather than yearly average prices, to provide a phasing of periodic depreciation charges that better reflects the assets expected useful life.
Where assets are dedicated to a mine or petroleum lease, the below useful lives are subject to the lesser of the asset categorys useful life and the life of the mine or petroleum lease, unless those assets are readily transferable to another productive mine or lease.
Key judgements and estimates The estimation of useful lives, residual values and depreciation methods requires significant management judgement and is reviewed annually.
Any changes to useful lives may affect prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
The table below summarises the principal depreciation methods and rates applied to major asset categories by the Group.
Mineral rights and Capitalised exploration, evaluation Category Buildings Plant and equipment petroleum interests and development expenditure Typical depreciation methodology SL SL UoP UoP Depreciation rate 2550 years 330 years Based on the rate of Based on the rate of depletion depletion of reserves of reserves disposal where a market participant may take a consistent view.
Impairment of non-current assets Cash flows are discounted using an appropriate post-tax market discount rate to arrive at a net present value of the asset, which Recognition and measurement is compared against the assets carrying value.
Impairment tests for all assets are performed when there is an Value in use indication of impairment, although goodwill is tested at least annually.
If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable VIU is determined as the present value of the estimated future cash amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset in its to the income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount present form and its eventual disposal.
VIU is determined by applying in the balance sheet to its recoverable amount.
assumptions specific to the Groups continued use and cannot take into account future development.
These assumptions are different Previously impaired assets excluding goodwill are reviewed for to those used in calculating FVLCD and consequently the VIU possible reversal of previous impairment at each reporting date.
calculation is likely to give a different result usually lower to Impairment reversal cannot exceed the carrying amount that would a FVLCD calculation.
have been determined net of depreciation had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash generating units CGUs.
There were no reversals of impairment in the current or prior year.
5 Key judgements and estimates How recoverable amount is calculated In determining the recoverable amount of assets, in the The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less absence of quoted market prices, estimates are made cost of disposal FVLCD and its value in use VIU.
For the purposes regarding the present value of future post-tax cash flows.
of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels These estimates require significant management judgement for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
and are subject to risk and uncertainty that may be beyond Valuation methods the control of the Group: hence, there is a possibility that Fair value less cost of disposal changes in circumstances will materially alter projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of assets at FVLCD is an estimate of the amount that a market participant would each reporting date.
The estimates are made from the pay for an asset or CGU, less the cost of disposal.
Fair value for mineral perspective of a market participant and include prices, and petroleum assets is generally determined using independent future production volumes, operating costs, tax attributes market assumptions to calculate the present value of the estimated and discount rates.
future post-tax cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, including the anticipated cash flow effects of any capital expenditure to enhance production or reduce cost, and its eventual BHP Annual Report 2018 179 11 Intangible assets 2018 2017 Other Other Goodwill intangibles Total Goodwill intangibles Total US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Net book value At the beginning of the financial year 3,269 699 3,968 3,273 846 4,119 Additions 5050 8181 Amortisation for the year 197 197 195 195 1 Impairments for the year 2,339 14 2,353 33 33 Disposals 16 7 23 4 4 Transferred to assets held for sale 667 667 2 At the end of the financial year 247 531 778 3,269 699 3,968 Cost 247 1,665 1,912 3,269 1,722 4,991 Accumulated amortisation and impairments 1,134 1,134 1,023 1,023 1 Includes impairment charges related to Onshore US assets of US$2,339 million 2017: US$ nil.
2 The Groups aggregate net carrying value of goodwill for Continuing operations is US$247 million 2017: US$247 million, representing less than one per cent of net equity at 30 June 2018 2017: less than one per cent.
The goodwill is allocated across a number of cash-generating units CGUs.
Recognition and measurement Goodwill Where the fair value of the consideration paid for a business acquisition exceeds the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as goodwill.
Where consideration is less than the fair value of acquired net assets, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is not amortised and is measured at cost less any impairment losses.
Other intangibles The Group capitalises amounts paid for the acquisition of identifiable intangible assets, such as software, licences and initial payments for the acquisition of mineral lease assets, where it is considered that they will contribute to future periods through revenue generation or reductions in cost.
These assets, classified as finite life intangible assets, are carried in the balance sheet at the fair value of consideration paid less accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives.
The estimated useful lives are generally no greater than eight years.
Initial payments for the acquisition of intangible mineral lease assets are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
A regular review is undertaken of each area of interest to determine the appropriateness of continuing to carry forward costs in relation to that area.
Capitalised costs are only carried forward to the extent that they are expected to be recovered through the successful exploitation of the area of interest or alternatively by its sale.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is no longer expected to be recovered, it is charged to the income statement.
Key judgements and estimates Determining the recoverable amount of intangible assets may require significant management judgement.
If a judgement is made that recovery of previously capitalised intangible mineral lease assets is unlikely, the relevant amount will be written off to the income statement.
This requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, in particular whether an economically viable extraction operation can be established.
Where indicators of impairment exist for intangible assets, in the absence of quoted market prices, estimates are made regarding the present value of future post-tax cash flows.
These estimates require significant management judgement and are subject to risk and uncertainty that may be beyond the control of the Group: hence, there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will materially alter projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of assets at each reporting date.
The estimates are made from the perspective of a market participant and include prices, future production volumes, operating costs, tax attributes and discount rates.
12 Deferred tax balances The movement for the year in the Groups net deferred tax position is as follows: 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Net deferred tax asset liability At the beginning of the financial year 2,023 1,823 1,681 1 Income tax charge credit recorded in the income statement 1,445 188 3,508 Income tax credit charge recorded directly in equity 17 12 25 Other movements 26 21 At the end of the financial year 569 2,023 1,823 1 Includes Discontinued operations income tax credit to the income statement of US$510 million 2017: US$219 million: 2016: US$2,990 million.
For recognition and measurement refer to note 5 Income tax expense.
180 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 12 Deferred tax balances continued The composition of the Groups net deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet and the deferred tax expense charged credited to the income statement is as follows: Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Charged credited to the income statement 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Type of temporary difference Depreciation 2,756 3,454 1,356 1,411 752 391 2,282 Exploration expenditure 492 543 51 22 3 Employee benefits 321 379 2 3 31 37 56 Closure and rehabilitation 1,627 1,809 194 230 218 151 36 Resource rent tax 468 559 1,328 1,614 194 189 8 Other provisions 141 131 2 1 11 14 8 Deferred income 21 2 10 13 3 49 Deferred charges 374 443 272 322 119 77 62 Investments, including foreign tax credits 546 1,145 691 648 615 17 284 Foreign exchange gains and losses 120 87 16 69 20 77 310 Tax losses 3,758 5,352 1,595 381 809 Other 83 144 7 61 44 355 75 Total 4,041 5,788 3,472 3,765 1,445 188 3,508 The Group recognises the benefit of tax losses amounting to US$3,758 million 2017: US$5,352 million only to the extent of anticipated future taxable income or gains in relevant jurisdictions.
The amounts recognised in the Financial Statements in respect of each matter are derived from the Groups best judgements and estimates as described in note 5 Income tax expense.
The composition of the Groups unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities is as follows: 2018 2017 US$M US$M Unrecognised deferred tax assets 1 Tax losses and tax credits 3,028 2,687 2 Investments in subsidiaries 1,659 856 3 Deductible temporary differences relating to PRRT 2,282 2,293 4 Mineral rights 2,263 2,293 5 Other deductible temporary differences 437 478 Total unrecognised deferred tax assets 9,669 8,607 Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities 2 Investments in subsidiaries 2,216 2,500 3 Taxable temporary differences relating to unrecognised deferred tax asset for PRRT 685 694 Total unrecognised deferred tax liabilities 2,901 3,194 1 At 30 June 2018, the Group had income and capital tax losses with a tax benefit of US$1,946 million 2017: US$1,844 million and tax credits of US$1,082 million 2017: US$843 million, which are not recognised as deferred tax assets, because it is not probable that future taxable profits or capital gains will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
5 The gross amount of tax losses carried forward that have not been recognised are as follows: Total Year of expiry US$M Income tax losses Not later than one year 363 Later than one year and not later than two years 402 Later than two years and not later than five years 897 Later than five years and not later than 10 years 398 Later than 10 years and not later than 20 years 2,446 Unlimited 1,734 6,240 Capital tax losses Not later than one year Later than two years and not later than five years 144 Unlimited 3,471 Gross amount of tax losses not recognised 9,855 Tax effect of total losses not recognised 1,946 Of the US$1,082 million of tax credits, US$831 million expires not later than 10 years and US$251 million expires later than 10 years and not later than 20 years.
2 The Group had deferred tax assets of US$1,659 million at 30 June 2018 2017: US$856 million and deferred tax liabilities of US$2,216 million 2017: US$2,500 million associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries that have not been recognised because the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is not probable that these differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
3 The Group had US$2,282 million of unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to Australian Petroleum Resource Rent Tax PRRT at 30 June 2018 2017: US$2,293 million relating to Australian PRRT, with a corresponding unrecognised deferred tax liability for income tax purposes of US$685 million 2017: US$694 million.
Recognition of a deferred tax asset for PRRT depends on benefits expected to be obtained from the deduction against PRRT liabilities.
4 The Group had deductible temporary differences relating to mineral rights for which deferred tax assets of US$2,263 million at 30 June 2018 2017: US$2,293 million had not been recognised because it is not probable that future capital gains will be available, against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
The deductible temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
5 The Group had deductible temporary differences for which deferred tax assets of US$437 million at 30 June 2018 2017: US$478 million had not been recognised because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits.
BHP Annual Report 2018 181 13 Closure and rehabilitation provisions 2018 2017 US$M US$M At the beginning of the financial year 6,738 6,502 Capitalised amounts for operating sites: Change in estimate 35 71 Exchange translation 122 99 Adjustments charged credited to the income statement: Increases to existing and new provisions 132 127 Exchange translation 11 9 Released during the year 165 120 Other adjustments to the provision: Amortisation of discounting impacting net finance costs 352 330 Expenditure on closure and rehabilitation activities 178 132 Exchange variations impacting foreign currency translation reserve 1 Divestment and demerger of subsidiaries and operations 146 Transferred to liabilities held for sale 450 Other movements 1 1 At the end of the financial year 6,330 6,738 Comprising: Current 274 255 Non-current 6,056 6,483 Operating sites 5,120 5,462 Closed sites 1,210 1,276 The Group is required to rehabilitate sites and associated facilities at the end of, or in some cases, during the course of production, to a condition acceptable to the relevant authorities, as specified in licence requirements and the Groups environmental performance requirements as set out within Our Charter.
The key components of closure and rehabilitation activities are: the removal of all unwanted infrastructure associated with an operation: the return of disturbed areas to a safe, stable, productive and self-sustaining condition, consistent with the agreed end land use.
Recognition and measurement Provisions for closure and rehabilitation are recognised by the Group when: it has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: the amount can be reliably estimated.
Initial recognition Subsequent remeasurement Closure and rehabilitation provisions are initially The closure and rehabilitation asset, recognised within property, plant and equipment, is recognised when an environmental disturbance depreciated over the life of the operations.
The value of the provision is progressively increased first occurs.
The individual site provisions are over time as the effect of discounting unwinds, resulting in an expense recognised in net an estimate of the expected value of future finance costs.
cash flows required to rehabilitate the relevant The closure and rehabilitation liability is reviewed at each reporting date to assess if the estimate site using current restoration standards and continues to reflect the best estimate of the obligation.
If necessary, the provision is remeasured techniques and taking into account risks and to account for factors, including: uncertainties.
Individual site provisions are revisions to estimated reserves, resources and lives of operations: discounted to their present value using country developments in technology: specific discount rates aligned to the estimated regulatory requirements and environmental management strategies: timing of cash outflows.
changes in the estimated extent and costs of anticipated activities, including the effects When provisions for closure and rehabilitation of inflation and movements in foreign exchange rates: are initially recognised, the corresponding movements in interest rates affecting the discount rate applied.
cost is capitalised as an asset, representing part of the cost of acquiring the future economic Changes to the closure and rehabilitation estimate are added to, or deducted from, the related benefits of the operation.
asset and amortised on a prospective basis accordingly over the remaining life of the operation, generally applying the units of production method.
Costs arising from unforeseen circumstances, such as the contamination caused by unplanned discharges, are recognised as an expense and liability when the event gives rise to an obligation that is probable and capable of reliable estimation.
Closed sites Where future economic benefits are no longer expected to be derived through operation, changes to the associated closure and remediation costs are credited charged to the income statement in the period identified.
This amounted to a credit of US$ 21 million in the year ended 30 June 2018 2017: charge of US$33 million: 2016: charge of US$18 million.
182 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 13 Closure and rehabilitation provisions continued Key judgements and estimates The recognition and measurement of closure and rehabilitation provisions requires the use of significant judgements and estimates, including, but not limited to: the extent due to legal or constructive obligations of potential activities required for the removal of infrastructure and rehabilitation activities: costs associated with future rehabilitation activities: applicable real discount rates: the timing of cash flows and ultimate closure of operations.
Rehabilitation activities are generally undertaken at the end of the production life at the individual sites.
Remaining production lives range from 2127 years with an average for all sites, weighted by current closure provision, of approximately 29 years.
A 0.5 per cent decrease in the real discount rates applied at 30 June 2018 would result in an increase to the closure and rehabilitation provision of US$604 million, an increase in property, plant and equipment of US$524 million in relation to operating sites and an income statement charge of US$80 million in respect of closed sites.
In addition, the change would result in an increase of approximately US$46 million to depreciation expense and an immaterial reduction in net finance costs for the year ending 30 June 2019.
Estimates can also be impacted by the emergence of new restoration techniques and experience at other operations.
These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided for in the balance sheet.
Recognition and measurement Share capital of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc is composed of the following classes of shares: Ordinary shares fully paid Special Voting shares Preference shares BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Preference shares have the right to repayment of ordinary shares fully paid of US$0.50 par value Plc issued one Special Voting share to facilitate the amount paid up on the nominal value and any represent 99.99 per cent of the total number joint voting by shareholders of BHP Billiton unpaid dividends in priority to the holders of any of shares.
Any profit remaining after payment Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on Joint Electorate other class of shares in BHP Billiton Plc on a return of preferred distributions is available for Actions.
There has been no movement in of capital or winding up.
The holders of preference distribution to the holders of BHP Billiton these shares.
shares have limited voting rights if payment of the Limited and BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares preference dividends are six months or more in in equal amounts per share.
arrears or a resolution is passed changing the rights of the preference shareholders.
There has been no movement in these shares, all of which are held by JP Morgan Limited.
DLC Dividend share Treasury shares The DLC Dividend share supports the Dual Treasury shares are shares of BHP Billiton Limited Listed Company DLC equalisation principles and BHP Billiton Plc and are held by the ESOP in place since the merger in 2001, including Trusts for the purpose of issuing shares to the requirement that ordinary shareholders employees under the Groups Employee Share of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited are Plans.
Treasury shares are recognised at cost paid equal cash dividends per share.
This share and deducted from equity, net of any income enables efficient and flexible capital management tax effects.
When the treasury shares are across the DLC and was issued on 23 February subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration 2016 at par value of US$10.
On 20 September received, net of any directly attributable costs 2017 and on 21 March 2018, BHP Billiton Limited and income tax effects, is recognised as an paid dividends of US$1,280 million and increase in equity.
Any difference between US$1,380 million, respectively to BHP Billiton the carrying amount and the consideration, AUS DDS Pty Ltd under the DLC dividend if reissued, is recognised in retained earnings.
These dividends are eliminated on consolidation.
BHP Annual Report 2018 183 15 Other equity 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Recognition and measurement Share premium 518 518 518 The share premium account represents the premium paid on the issue account of BHP Billiton Plc shares recognised in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
Foreign currency 42 40 41 The foreign currency translation reserve represents exchange differences translation reserve arising from the translation of non-US dollar functional currency operations within the Group into US dollars.
Employee share 196 214 293 The employee share awards reserve represents the accrued employee awards reserve entitlements to share awards that have been charged to the income statement and have not yet been exercised.
Once exercised, the difference between the accumulated fair value of the awards and their historical on-market purchase price is recognised in retained earnings.
Hedging reserve 58 153 210 The hedging reserve represents hedging gains and losses recognised on the effective portion of cash flow hedges.
The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the income statement when the hedged transaction impacts the income statement, or is recognised as an adjustment to the cost of non-financial hedged items.
The hedging reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge relationship.
Financial assets 16 10 11 The financial assets reserve represents the revaluation of available for sale reserve financial assets.
Where a revalued financial asset is sold or impaired, the relevant portion of the reserve is transferred to the income statement.
Share buy-back 177 177 177 The share buy-back reserve represents the par value of BHP Billiton Plc reserve shares that were purchased and subsequently cancelled.
The cancellation of the shares creates a non-distributable capital redemption reserve.
Non-controlling interest 1,283 1,288 1,288 The non-controlling interest contribution reserve represents the excess contribution reserve of consideration received over the book value of net assets attributable to equity instruments when acquired by non-controlling interests.
Total reserves 2,290 2,400 2,538 Summarised financial information relating to each of the Groups subsidiaries with non-controlling interests NCI that are material to the Group before any intra-group eliminations is shown below: 2018 2017 Other individually Other individually immaterial immaterial Minera subsidiaries incl.
Escondida intra-group Escondida intra-group US$M Limitada eliminations Total Limitada eliminations Total Group share per cent 57.5 57.5 Current assets 2,751 2,107 Non-current assets 13,389 14,528 Current liabilities 1,781 1,339 Non-current liabilities 4,352 4,300 Net assets 10,007 10,996 Net assets attributable to NCI 4,253 825 5,078 4,673 795 5,468 Revenue 8,775 4,576 Profit after taxation 2,221 516 Other comprehensive income 2 Total comprehensive income 2,219 516 Profit after taxation attributable to NCI 944 174 1,118 219 113 332 Other comprehensive income attributable to NCI 1 1 Net operating cash flow 5,041 1,964 Net investing cash flow 997 999 Net financing cash flow 3,392 968 1 Dividends paid to NCI 1,469 135 1,604 507 74 581 1 Includes dividends paid to non-controlling interests related to Onshore US of US$22 million 2017: US$6 million.
While the Group controls Minera Escondida Limitada, the non-controlling interests hold certain protective rights that restrict the Groups ability to sell assets held by Minera Escondida Limitada, or use the assets in other subsidiaries and operations owned by the Group.
Minera Escondida Limitada is also restricted from paying dividends without the approval of the non-controlling interests.
184 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 16 Dividends Year ended 30 June 2018 Year ended 30 June 2017 Year ended 30 June 2016 Per share Total Per share Total Per share Total US cents US$M US cents US$M US cents US$M 1 Dividends paid during the period Prior year final dividend 43 2,291 14 746 62 3,299 Interim dividend 55 2,930 40 2,125 16 855 98 5,221 54 2,871 78 4,154 1 5.5 per cent dividend on 50,000 preference shares of 1 each determined and paid annually 2017: 5.5 per cent: 2016: 5.5 per cent.
Dividends paid during the period differs from the amount of dividends paid in the Cash Flow Statement as a result of foreign exchange gains and losses relating to the timing of equity distributions between the record date and the payment date.
The Dual Listed Company merger terms require that ordinary shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are paid equal cash dividends on a per share basis.
Each American Depositary Share ADS represents two ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
Dividends determined on each ADS represent twice the dividend determined on BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
Dividends are determined after period-end and announced with the results for the period.
Interim dividends are determined in February and paid in March.
Final dividends are determined in August and paid in September.
Dividends determined are not recorded as a liability at the end of the period to which they relate.
Subsequent to year-end, on 21 August 2018, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc determined a final dividend of 63 US cents per share US$3,354 million, which will be paid on 25 September 2018 30 June 2017: final dividend of 43 US cents per share US$2,289 million: 30 June 2016: final dividend of 14 US cents per share US$746 million.
BHP Billiton Limited dividends for all periods presented are, or will be, fully franked based on a tax rate of 30 per cent.
2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Franking credits as at 30 June 10,400 10,155 9,640 Franking credits arising from the payment of current tax 1,330 1,239 81 1 Total franking credits available 11,730 11,394 9,721 1 The payment of the final 2018 dividend determined after 30 June 2018 will reduce the franking account balance by US$867 million.
17 Provisions for dividends and other liabilities The disclosure below excludes closure and rehabilitation provisions refer to note 13 Closure and rehabilitation provisions, employee benefits, restructuring and post-retirement employee benefits provisions refer to note 23 Employee benefits, restructuring and post-retirement employee benefits provisions and the Samarco dam failure provision refer to note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure.
2018 2017 US$M US$M Movement in provision for dividends and other liabilities At the beginning of the financial year 984 930 Dividends determined 5,221 2,871 5 Charge credit for the year: Underlying 337 316 Discounting 4 5 Exchange variations 3 53 Released during the year 78 122 Utilisation 150 223 Dividends paid 5,325 2,921 Transferred to liabilities held for sale 39 Transfers and other movements 13 75 1 At the end of the financial year 944 984 Comprising: Current 290 332 Non-current 654 652 1 Includes unpaid dividend determined to non-controlling interest of US$ nil 2017: US$105 million.
BHP Annual Report 2018 185 Financial management 18 Net debt The Groups corporate purpose is to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
The Group will invest capital in assets where they fit its strategy.
The Group monitors capital using the net debt balance and the gearing ratio, being the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets.
2018 2017 US$M Current Non-current Current Non-current Interest bearing liabilities Bank loans 308 2,247 192 2,089 Notes and debentures 2,228 21,070 771 26,270 Finance leases 77 725 82 815 Bank overdraft and short-term borrowings 58 45 Other 65 27 151 59 Total interest bearing liabilities 2,736 24,069 1,241 29,233 Less cash and cash equivalents Cash 1,065 882 Short-term deposits 14,806 13,271 Total cash and cash equivalents 15,871 14,153 Net debt 10,934 16,321 Net assets 60,670 62,726 Gearing 15.3% 20.6% Cash and short-term deposits are disclosed in the cash flow statement net of bank overdrafts and interest bearing liabilities at call.
2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Total cash and cash equivalents 15,871 14,153 10,319 Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowing 58 45 43 Total cash and cash equivalents, net of overdrafts 15,813 14,108 10,276 Recognition and measurement Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and on hand and highly liquid cash deposits with short-term maturities and are readily convertible to known amounts of cash with insignificant risk of change in value.
The Group considers that the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximate fair value due to their short term to maturity.
Cash and cash equivalents includes US$98 million 2017: US$180 million restricted by legal or contractual arrangements.
Interest bearing liabilities and cash and cash equivalents include balances denominated in the following currencies: Interest bearing liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$M US$M US$M US$M USD 12,981 14,035 7,024 7,980 EUR 9,070 10,324 5,845 4,663 GBP 3,104 3,520 1,560 1,318 AUD 1,077 1,987 9 9 CAD 573 608 1,301 77 Other 132 106 Total 26,805 30,474 15,871 14,153 Liquidity risk The Groups liquidity risk arises from the possibility that it may not be able to settle or meet its obligations as they fall due and is managed as part of the portfolio risk management strategy.
Operational, capital and regulatory requirements are considered in the management of liquidity risk, in conjunction with short-term and long-term forecast information.
Recognising the cyclical volatility of operating cash flows, the Group has defined minimum target cash and liquidity buffers to be maintained to mitigate liquidity risk and support operations through the cycle.
The Groups strong credit profile, diversified funding sources, its minimum cash buffer and its committed credit facilities ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its daily cash requirements.
The Groups policy on counterparty credit exposure ensures that only counterparties of an investment grade standing are used for the investment of any excess cash.
Standard & Poors credit rating of the Group remained at the A level with stable outlook throughout FY2018.
Moodys maintained their credit rating for the Group of A3 with positive outlook throughout FY2018.
There were no defaults on loans payable during the period.
186 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 18 Net debt continued Counterparty risk The Group is exposed to credit risk from its financing activities, including short-term cash deposits with banks and derivative contracts.
This risk is managed by Group Treasury in line with the counterparty risk framework, which aims to minimise the exposure to a counterparty and mitigate the risk of financial loss through counterparty failure.
Exposure to counterparties is monitored at a Group level across all products and includes exposure with derivatives and short-term cash deposits.
Short-term cash deposits and derivatives are transacted with approved counterparties who have been assigned specific limits based on a quantitative credit risk model.
The policy is reviewed annually and limits are updated at least bi-annually.
Derivatives must be transacted with approved counterparties and are subject to tenor limits.
Standby arrangements and unused credit facilities The Groups committed revolving credit facility operates as a back-stop to the Groups uncommitted commercial paper program.
The combined amount drawn under the facility or as commercial paper will not exceed US$6.0 billion.
As at 30 June 2018, US$ nil commercial paper was drawn 2017: US$ nil.
The revolving credit facility has a five-year maturity ending 7 May 2021.
A commitment fee is payable on the undrawn balance and an interest rate comprising an interbank rate plus a margin applies to any drawn balance.
The agreed margins are typical for a credit facility extended to a company with the Groups credit rating.
Maturity profile of financial liabilities The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on the contractual amounts, taking into account the derivatives related to debt, is as follows: Bank loans, Expected Obligations debentures future Derivatives under Trade and 2018 and other interest related to Other finance other US$M loans payments net debt derivatives leases payables Total Due for payment: In one year or less or on demand 2,647 682 302 17 127 5,788 9,563 In more than one year but not more than two years 1,545 957 188 1 113 3 2,807 In more than two years but not more than five years 8,019 2,203 823 335 11,380 In more than five years 13,287 5,519 1,191 590 20,587 Total 25,498 9,361 2,504 18 1,165 5,791 44,337 Carrying amount 26,003 1,213 18 802 5,791 33,827 Bank loans, Expected Obligations debentures future Derivatives under Trade and 2017 and other interest related to net Other finance other US$M loans payments debt derivatives leases payables Total Due for payment: In one year or less or on demand 1,157 686 267 144 135 5,417 7,806 In more than one year but not more than two years 2,471 1,022 245 4 132 5 3,879 In more than two years but not more than five years 8,279 2,611 503 7 343 11,743 In more than five years 16,706 6,248 1,975 705 25,634 Total 28,613 10,567 2,990 155 1,315 5,422 49,062 5 Carrying amount 29,577 1,345 155 897 5,422 37,396 19 Net finance costs 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Financial expenses Interest on bank loans, overdrafts and all other borrowings 1,168 1,130 969 1 Interest capitalised at 4.24% 2017: 3.25%: 2016: 2.61% 139 113 123 Discounting on provisions and other liabilities 414 450 304 Fair value change on hedged loans 265 1,185 1,444 Fair value change on hedging derivatives 329 1,244 1,448 Exchange variations on net debt 19 23 24 Other financial expenses 79 57 28 1,567 1,560 1,150 Financial income Interest income 322 143 137 Net finance costs 1,245 1,417 1,013 1 Interest has been capitalised at the rate of interest applicable to the specific borrowings financing the assets under construction or, where financed through general borrowings, at a capitalisation rate representing the average interest rate on such borrowings.
Tax relief for capitalised interest is approximately US$42 million 2017: US$34 million: 2016: US$37 million.
Recognition and measurement Interest income is accrued using the effective interest rate method.
Finance costs are expensed as incurred, except where they relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying assets.
BHP Annual Report 2018 187 20 Financial risk management Financial and capital risk management strategy The financial risks arising from the Groups operations comprise market, liquidity and credit risk.
These risks arise in the normal course of business and the Group manages its exposure to them in accordance with the Groups portfolio risk management strategy.
The objective of the strategy is to support the delivery of the Groups financial targets, while protecting its future financial security and flexibility by taking advantage of the natural diversification provided by the scale, diversity and flexibility of the Groups operations and activities.
A Cash Flow at Risk CFaR framework is used to measure the aggregate and diversified impact of financial risks upon the Groups financial targets.
The principal measurement of risk is CFaR measured on a portfolio basis, which is defined as the worst expected loss relative to projected business plan cash flows over a one-year horizon under normal market conditions at a confidence level of 90 per cent.
Market risk The Groups activities expose it to market risks associated with movements in interest rates, foreign currencies and commodity prices.
Under the strategy outlined above, the Group seeks to achieve financing costs, currency impacts, input costs and commodity prices on a floating or index basis.
This strategy gives rise to a risk of variability in earnings, which is measured under the CFaR framework.
In executing the strategy, financial instruments are potentially employed in three distinct but related activities.
The following table summarises these activities and the key risk management processes: Activity Key risk management processes 1 Risk mitigation On an exception basis, hedging for the purposes of mitigating risk related to specific Execution of transactions within approved mandates.
and significant expenditure on investments or capital projects will be executed if necessary to support the Groups strategic objectives.
2 Economic hedging of commodity sales, operating costs, short-term cash deposits and debt instruments Measuring and reporting the exposure in customer Where Group commodity production is sold to customers on pricing terms that commodity contracts and issued debt instruments.
deviate from the relevant index target and where a relevant derivatives market exists, Executing hedging derivatives to align the total group financial instruments may be executed as an economic hedge to align the revenue exposure to the index target.
price exposure with the index target.
Execution of transactions within approved mandates.
Where debt is issued in a currency other than the US dollar and or at a fixed interest rate, fair value and cash flow hedges may be executed to align the debt exposure with the Groups functional currency of US dollars and or to swap to a floating interest rate.
Where short-term cash deposits are held in a currency other than US dollars, derivative financial instruments may be executed to align the foreign exchange exposure to the Groups functional currency of US dollars.
3 Strategic financial transactions Opportunistic transactions may be executed with financial instruments to capture Execution of transactions within approved mandates.
value from perceived market over under valuations.
Primary responsibility for the identification and control of financial transactional exposure in respect of non-functional currency risks, including authorising and monitoring the use of financial expenditure and revenues.
instruments for the above activities and stipulating policy thereon, The Groups foreign currency risk is managed as part of the portfolio rests with the Financial Risk Management Committee under authority risk management strategy.
delegated by the Chief Executive Officer.
Translational exposure in respect of non-functional currency Interest rate risk monetary items The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding Monetary items, including financial assets and liabilities, borrowings and short-term cash deposits from the possibility that denominated in currencies other than the functional currency changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair of an operation are periodically restated to US dollar equivalents value of fixed interest rate financial instruments.
Interest rate risk and the associated gain or loss is taken to the income statement.
is managed as part of the portfolio risk management strategy.
The exception is foreign exchange gains or losses on foreign currency denominated provisions for closure and rehabilitation The majority of the Groups debt is issued at fixed interest rates.
at operating sites, which are capitalised in property, plant The Group has entered into interest rate swaps and cross currency and equipment.
interest rate swaps to convert most of its fixed interest rate exposure to floating US dollar interest rate exposure.
As at 30 June 2018, The principal non-functional currencies to which the Group is 89 per cent of the Groups borrowings were exposed to floating exposed are the Australian dollar, the Euro, the Pound sterling and interest rates inclusive of the effect of swaps 2017: 90 per cent.
the Chilean peso: however, 88 per cent 2017: 86 per cent of the Groups net financial liabilities are denominated in US dollars.
Based The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate on the Groups net financial assets and liabilities as at 30 June 2018, swaps in hedge relationships used to hedge both interest rate and a weakening of the US dollar against these currencies one cent foreign currency risks are shown in the valuation hierarchy section strengthening in Australian dollar, one cent strengthening in Euro, of this note.
one penny strengthening in Pound sterling and 10 pesos strengthening Based on the net debt position as at 30 June 2018, taking into in Chilean peso, with all other variables held constant, would account interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, decrease the Groups equity and profit after taxation by US$10 million it is estimated that a one percentage point increase in the US LIBOR 2017: decrease of US$16 million.
interest rate will decrease the Groups equity and profit after taxation Transactional exposure in respect of non-functional currency by US$54 million 2017: decrease of US$92 million.
This assumes expenditure and revenues the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the Certain operating and capital expenditure is incurred in currencies financial year and the fixed floating mix and balances are constant other than their functional currency.
To a lesser extent, certain sales over the year.
However, interest rates and the net debt profile of the revenue is earned in currencies other than the functional currency Group may not remain constant over the coming financial year and of operations and certain exchange control restrictions may require therefore such sensitivity analysis should be used with care.
that funds be maintained in currencies other than the functional Currency risk currency of the operation.
These currency risks are managed as part The US dollar is the predominant functional currency within the of the portfolio risk management strategy.
The Group enters into Group and as a result, currency exposures arise from transactions forward exchange contracts when required under this strategy.
and balances in currencies other than the US dollar.
The Groups potential currency exposures comprise: translational exposure in respect of non-functional currency monetary items: 188 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 20 Financial risk management continued Commodity price risk The Group had 356 thousand tonnes of copper exposure at 30 June 2018 2017: 213 thousand tonnes that was provisionally Contracts for the sale and physical delivery of commodities are priced.
The final price of these sales or purchases will be determined executed whenever possible on a pricing basis intended to during the first half of FY2019.
A 10 per cent change in the price achieve a relevant index target.
While the Group has succeeded in of copper realised on the provisionally priced sales, with all other transitioning substantially all of the Group commodity production sales factors held constant, would increase or decrease profit after to market-based index pricing terms, derivative commodity contracts taxation by US$178 million 2017: US$90 million.
The relationship may from time to time be used to align realised prices with the between commodity prices and foreign currencies is complex relevant index.
Contracts for the physical delivery of commodities are and movements in foreign exchange rates can impact commodity not typically financial instruments and are carried in the balance prices.
The sensitivities should therefore be used with care.
sheet at cost typically at US$ nil : they are therefore excluded from the fair value and sensitivity analysis.
Accordingly, the financial Liquidity risk instrument exposures set out below do not represent all of the Refer to note 18 Net debt for details on the Group liquidity risk.
commodity price risks managed according to the Groups objectives.
Movements in the fair value of contracts included are offset by Credit risk movements in the fair value of the physical contracts: however, only Refer to note 7 Trade and other receivables and note 18 Net debt the former movement is recognised in the Groups income statement for details on the Group credit risk.
The risk associated with commodity prices is Financial assets and liabilities managed as part of the portfolio risk management strategy.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables Financial instruments with commodity price risk comprise forward on page 191 at their carrying amounts, which generally approximate commodity and other derivative contracts with a net assets fair to fair value.
value of US$210 million 2017: US$358 million.
Significant commodity price risk instruments within other derivative balances include Recognition and measurement derivatives embedded in physical commodity purchase and sales All financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, are initially contracts of gas in Trinidad and Tobago with a net assets fair value recognised at the fair value of consideration paid or received, net of US$216 million 2017: US$370 million.
of transaction costs as appropriate, and subsequently carried at fair value or amortised cost.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair The potential effect of using reasonably possible alternative value on the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently assumptions in these models, based on a change in the most remeasured at their fair value.
significant input, such as commodity prices, by an increase decrease of 10 per cent while holding all other variables The Group classifies its financial assets and liabilities into: constant will increase decrease profit after taxation by loans and receivables: US$9 million 2017: US$62 million.
available for sale securities: Provisionally priced commodity sales and purchases contracts held at fair value through profit or loss: Provisionally priced sales or purchases volumes are those for which cash flow hedges: price finalisation, referenced to the relevant index, is outstanding at financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost.
Provisional pricing mechanisms embedded within these sales and purchases arrangements have the character of a The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial commodity derivative and are carried at fair value through profit and assets and liabilities are held.
Management determines the loss as part of trade receivables or trade payables.
The Groups classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
exposure at 30 June 2018 to the impact of movements in commodity prices upon provisionally invoiced sales and purchases volumes was predominately around copper.
Loans and receivables Available for sale shares and other investments 5 Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Available for sale shares and other investments are measured at fair or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market value.
Gains and losses on the remeasurement of other investments and include cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables.
They are are recognised directly in the income statement.
Gains and losses on included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than the remeasurement of available for sale shares are recognised directly 12 months after the reporting date, which are classified as non-current in equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement when assets.
Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value of realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair value is consideration paid and subsequently carried at either fair value or judged to represent an impairment.
At the end of each reporting period, loans and receivables are assessed for objective evidence that they are impaired.
The amount of loss is measured as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of its estimated future cash flows.
The loss is recognised in the income statement.
Other financial liabilities at amortised cost Trade and other payables represents amounts that are non-interest bearing.
The carrying value approximates their fair value, which represents liabilities for goods and services provided to the Group prior to the end of the reporting period that are unpaid.
Interest bearing liabilities are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of transaction costs.
Interest bearing liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest bearing liabilities are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired.
The difference between the carrying amount of an interest bearing liability that has been extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement as other income or finance costs.
The Group has finance lease liabilities in relation to certain items of property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the underlying assets or, if lower, the estimated present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance cost, and the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period to reflect a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Derivatives and hedging Derivatives, including embedded derivatives separated from the host contracts, are included within financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Financial instruments in this category are classified as current if they are expected to be settled within 12 months: otherwise they are classified as non-current.
The Group uses financial instruments to hedge its exposure to certain market risks arising from operational, financing and investing activities.
At the start of the transaction, the Group documents: the type of hedge: the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged items: its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The documentation also demonstrates, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, that the hedge is expected to continue to be highly effective.
BHP Annual Report 2018 189 20 Financial risk management continued The Group has two types of hedges: Fair value hedges Cash flow hedges Exposure As the majority of the Groups debt is issued at fixed interest As a portion of the Groups debt is denominated in currencies rates, the Group has entered into interest rate swaps and other than US dollars, the Group has entered into cross cross currency interest rate swaps to mitigate its exposure currency interest rate swaps to mitigate currency exposures.
to changes in the fair value of borrowings.
Recognition date At the date the instrument is entered into.
Measurement Measured at fair value.
Fair value approach Based on internal valuations using standard valuation techniques with current market inputs, including interest rates and forward commodity prices: and exchange rates.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt instruments held.
How are changes The following changes in the fair value are recognised Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash in fair value immediately in the income statement: flow hedges are recognised directly in other comprehensive accounted for?
income and accumulated in equity in the hedging reserve the gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest to the extent that the hedge is highly effective.
rate swaps, hedging fixed rate borrowings, together with the gain or loss in the fair value of the hedged fixed rate To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair borrowings attributable to interest rate risk: value are recognised immediately in the income statement.
the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to the of the hedge.
income statement or the balance sheet for a non-financial asset at the same time as the hedged item is recognised.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount or exercised, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria of a hedged item for which the effective interest method for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing is used is amortised to the income statement over in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised the period to maturity using a recalculated effective when the underlying forecast transaction occurs.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The inputs used in fair value calculations are determined by the Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not relevant segment or function.
The functions support the assets and qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the operate under a defined set of accountabilities authorised by the income statement.
Movements in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities may be recognised through the income Valuation hierarchy statement or in other comprehensive income.
The carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value is principally calculated based on inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for these financial assets or liabilities, either directly i. e. as unquoted prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Where no price information is available from a quoted market source, alternative market mechanisms or recent comparable transactions, fair value is estimated based on the Groups views on relevant future prices, net of valuation allowances to accommodate liquidity, modelling and other risks implicit in such estimates.
190 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 20 Financial risk management continued For financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value, the Group uses the following to categorise the method used: Fair value hierarchy Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Valuation method Based on quoted prices unadjusted Based on inputs other than quoted prices Based on inputs not observable in active markets for identical included within Level 1 that are observable in the market using appropriate financial assets and liabilities.
for the financial asset or liability, either valuation models, including directly i. e. as unquoted prices or discounted cash flow modelling.
indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying amounts, which generally approximate to fair value.
In the case of US$3,019 million 2017: US$3,019 million of fixed rate debt not swapped to floating rate, the fair value at 30 June 2018 was US$3,434 million 2017: US$3,523 million.
Other financial Held at fair assets and 2018 Loans and Available for value through Cash flow liabilities at US$M receivables sale securities profit or loss hedges amortised cost Total 1 Fair value hierarchy Level 3 Levels 1, 2 & 3 Level 2 Current cross currency and interest rate swaps 12 12 2 Current other derivative contracts 170 170 3 4 Current available for sale shares and other investments 18 18 Non-current cross currency and interest rate swaps 423 27 396 2 Non-current other derivative contracts 195 195 Non-current available for sale shares and other 3 4 5 investments 80 328 408 Total other financial assets 80 1,146 27 1,199 Cash and cash equivalents 15,871 15,871 6 Trade and other receivables 1,799 1,126 2,925 Loans to equity accounted investments 13 13 Total financial assets 17,683 80 2,272 27 20,008 Non-financial assets 91,985 Total assets 111,993 Current cross currency and interest rate swaps 171 50 121 2 7 Current other derivative contracts 17 17 Non-current cross currency and interest rate swaps 298 794 1,092 2 7 Non-current other derivative contracts 1 1 Total other financial liabilities 487 744 1,231 8 Trade and other payables 377 5,414 5,791 9 Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings 58 58 9 Bank loans 2,555 2,555 9 Notes and debentures 23,298 23,298 5 Finance leases 802 802 9 Other 92 92 Total financial liabilities 864 744 32,219 33,827 Non-financial liabilities 17,496 Total liabilities 51,323 BHP Annual Report 2018 191 20 Financial risk management continued Other financial Held at fair assets and 2017 Loans and Available for value through Cash flow liabilities at US$M receivables sale securities profit or loss hedges amortised cost Total 1 Fair value hierarchy Level 3 Levels 1, 2 & 3 Level 2 2 Current other derivative contracts 41 41 3 4 Current available for sale shares and other investments 31 31 Non-current cross currency and interest rate swaps 578 27 605 2 Non-current other derivative contracts 332 332 Non-current available for sale shares and other 3 4 5 investments 70 274 344 Total other financial assets 70 1,256 27 1,353 Cash and cash equivalents 14,153 14,153 6 Trade and other receivables 1,813 920 2,733 Loans to equity accounted investments 644 644 Total financial assets 16,610 70 2,176 27 18,883 Non-financial assets 98,123 Total assets 117,006 Current cross currency and interest rate swaps 4 254 250 2 7 Current other derivative contracts 144 144 Non-current cross currency and interest rate swaps 42 1,053 1,095 2 7 Non-current other derivative contracts 4 7 11 Total other financial liabilities 186 1,314 1,500 8 Trade and other payables 502 4,920 5,422 9 Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings 45 45 9 Bank loans 2,281 2,281 9 Notes and debentures 27,041 27,041 Finance leases 897 897 9 Other 210 210 Total financial liabilities 688 1,314 35,394 37,396 Non-financial liabilities 16,884 Total liabilities 54,280 1 All of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities recognised at fair value were valued using market observable inputs categorised as Level 2 with the exception of the specified items in the following footnotes.
2 Includes other derivative contracts of US$213 million 2017: US$365 million categorised as Level 3.
3 Includes investments held by BHP Billiton Foundation which are restricted and not available for general use by the Group of US$343 million 2017: US$304 million.
4 Includes other investments held at fair value through profit or loss US Treasury Notes of US$108 million categorised as Level 1 2017: US$97 million.
5 Includes shares and other investments available for sale of US$80 million 2017: US$70 million categorised as Level 3.
6 Excludes input taxes of US$338 million 2017: US$262 million included in other receivables.
Refer to note 7 Trade and other receivables.
7 Includes US$ nil 2017: US$7 million natural gas futures contracts used by the Group to mitigate price risk designated as cash flow hedges.
8 Excludes input taxes of US$189 million 2017: US$134 million included in other payables.
Refer to note 8 Trade and other payables.
9 All interest bearing liabilities, excluding finance leases, are unsecured.
For financial instruments that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
There were no transfers between categories during the period.
For financial instruments not valued at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group uses a method that can be categorised as Level 2.
Offsetting financial assets and liabilities The Group enters into derivative transactions under International Swaps and Derivatives Association Master Agreements that do not meet the criteria for offsetting, but allow for the related amounts to be set-off in certain circumstances.
The amounts set out as cross currency and interest rate swaps in the table above represent the derivative financial assets and liabilities of the Group that may be subject to the above arrangements and are presented on a gross basis.
192 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 20 Financial risk management continued Interest bearing liabilities and related derivatives The movement in the year in the Groups interest bearing liabilities and related derivatives is as follows: Derivatives assets Interest bearing liabilities liabilities Bank Cross overdraft and currency and 2018 Notes and Finance short-term interest rate US$M Bank loans debentures leases borrowings Other swaps Total At the beginning of the financial year 2,281 27,041 897 45 210 740 Proceeds from interest bearing liabilities 500 28 528 Settlements of debt related instruments 218 218 Repayment of interest bearing liabilities 221 3,736 81 150 4,188 Change from Net financing cash flows 279 3,736 81 122 218 3,878 Other movements: Interest rate impacts 353 329 Foreign exchange impacts 245 9 254 Other interest bearing liabilities derivative related changes 5 101 13 4 208 Liabilities transferred to held for sale 5 At the end of the financial year 2,555 23,298 802 58 92 805 Recognition and measurement Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Employee matters 21 Key management personnel Key management personnel compensation comprises: 2018 2017 2016 US$ US$ US$ Short-term employee benefits 13,190,838 16,439,948 14,979,983 Post-employment benefits 1,506,108 1,895,828 2,356,594 Share-based payments 13,356,657 13,747,355 16,837,179 Total 28,053,603 32,083,131 34,173,756 5 Following the dissolution of the Operations Management Committee OMC in FY2018, the Remuneration Committee re-examined the classification of Key Management Personnel KMP for FY2018 and determined that the roles which have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of BHP are Non-executive Directors, the CEO, the Chief Financial Officer, the President Operations, Minerals Australia, the President Operations, Minerals Americas, and the President Operations, Petroleum.
The Remuneration Committee also determined that, effective 1 July 2017 the Chief External Affairs Officer and Chief People Officer roles are no longer considered KMP.
Transactions and outstanding loans amounts with key management personnel There were no purchases by key management personnel from the Group during the financial year 2017: US$ nil: 2016: US$ nil.
There were no amounts payable by key management personnel at 30 June 2018 2017: US$ nil: 2016: US$ nil.
There were no loans receivable from or payable to key management personnel at 30 June 2018 2017: US$ nil: 2016: US$ nil.
Transactions with personally related entities A number of Directors of the Group hold or have held positions in other companies personally related entities where it is considered they control or significantly influence the financial or operating policies of those entities.
There were no transactions with those entities and no amounts were owed by the Group to personally related entities at 30 June 2018 2017: US$ nil: 2016: US$ nil.
For more information on remuneration and transactions with key management personnel, refer to section 3.
BHP Annual Report 2018 193 22 Employee share ownership plans Awards, in the form of the right to receive ordinary shares in either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, have been granted under the following employee share ownership plans: Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Short-Term Incentive Plan STIP, Management Award Plan MAP, Group Short-Term Incentive Plan GSTIP, Transitional Executive KMP awards and the all-employee share plan, Shareplus.
Some awards are eligible to receive a cash payment, or the equivalent value in shares, equal to the dividend amount that would have been earned on the underlying shares awarded to those participants the Dividend Equivalent Payment, or DEP.
The DEP is provided to the participants once the underlying shares are allocated or transferred to them.
Awards under the plans do not confer any rights to participate in a share issue: however, there is discretion under each of the plans to adjust the awards in response to a variation in the share capital of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
The table below provides a description of each of the plans.
Plan STIP and GSTIP LTIP and MAP Transitional Executive KMP awards Shareplus Type Short-term incentive Long-term incentive Long-term incentive All-employee share purchase plan Overview The STIP is a plan for the The LTIP is a plan for Executive KMP Awards may be granted to new Employees may Executive KMP and the and awards are granted annually.
Executive KMP recruited from contribute up GSTIP is a plan for BHP within the Group to bridge the to US$5,000 to The MAP is a plan for BHP senior senior management who gap created by the different acquire shares management who are not KMP.
timeframes of the vesting of in any plan year.
The number of share rights awarded MAP awards, granted in their On the third Under both plans, half of is determined by a participants role non-KMP role, and LTIP awards, anniversary of the the value of a participants and grade.
start of a plan year, short-term incentive amount No Transitional awards were the Group will is awarded as rights to granted to Executive KMP match the number receive BHP Billiton Limited in FY2018.
or BHP Billiton Plc shares at the end of the vesting period.
LTIP: Service and performance conditions.
Service conditions and Service conditions performance conditions.
For awards granted from December 2013 onwards, BHPs Total Shareholder Return The Remuneration Committee 1 TSR performance relative to the Peer has absolute discretion to Group TSR over a five-year performance determine if the performance period determines the vesting of condition has been met and 67 per cent of the awards, while whether any, all or part of the performance relative to the Index award will vest or otherwise TSR being the index value where the lapse, having regard to but 1 comparator group is a market index not limited to the BHPs TSR determines the vesting of 33 per cent over the threeor four-year of the awards.
For the awards to vest in performance period 1 full, BHPs TSR must exceed the Peer respectively, the participants Group TSR and Index TSR if applicable contribution to Group by a specified percentage per year, outcomes and the participants determined for each grant by the personal performance with Remuneration Committee.
Since the guidance on this assessment establishment of the LTIP in 2004, from the CEO.
this percentage has been set at 5.5 per cent per year.
Vesting 2 years LTIP 5 years 3 years or 4 years 3 years period MAP 1 to 5 years Dividend Yes, except GSTIP awards Yes, except MAP granted after 1 July 2011 No No Equivalent granted after 1 July 2011 Payment Exercise None LTIP None None None period MAP None 1 BHPs TSR is the weighted average of the TSRs of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
194 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 22 Employee share ownership plans continued Employee share awards Number of Weighted Number of Number of Number of awards vested average awards at the Number of awards Number of awards at the and exercisable remaining beginning of the awards issued vested and awards end of the at the end of the contractual life 2018 financial year during the year exercised lapsed financial year financial year years BHP Billiton Limited STIP awards 497,634 274,743 464,349 308,028 1.0 GSTIP awards 2,001,583 1,422,338 1,383,656 31,810 2,008,455 28,981 0.8 LTIP awards 4,679,513 1,523,309 65,247 156,600 5,980,975 2.5 Transitional OMC awards 137,194 61,485 28,869 46,840 0.7 MAP awards 7,348,428 5,731,891 2,185,614 515,442 10,379,263 60,134 1.5 Shareplus 5,998,517 2,483,091 3,184,545 521,984 4,775,079 1.2 Employee Share Plan shares legacy plan 338,883 338,883 n a BHP Billiton Plc GSTIP awards 84,250 40,957 59,577 1,762 63,868 0.8 LTIP awards 386,912 74,988 311,924 n a MAP awards 596,443 133,926 406,783 8,135 315,451 1.3 Shareplus 336,108 137,832 165,450 26,331 282,159 1.2 Fair value and assumptions in the calculation of fair value for awards issued Weighted average fair value of awards Estimated granted during Risk-free Estimated life Share price at volatility of 2018 the year US$ interest rate of awards grant date share price Dividend yield BHP Billiton Limited STIP awards 20.65 n a 3 years A$27.97 n a n a GSTIP awards 18.83 n a 3 years A$25.98 n a 4.30% LTIP awards 13.11 2.08% 5 years A$27.97 33.0% n a MAP awards 18.37 n a 1-2-3 years A$25.98 n a 4.30% Shareplus 18.12 1.85% 3 years A$24.00 n a 4.33% BHP Billiton Plc GSTIP awards 16.48 n a 3 years 13.29 n a 5.10% MAP awards 15.62 n a 1-2-3 years 13.29 n a 5.10% Shareplus 13.48 0.17% 3 years 12.34 n a 5.10% 1 Employee share awards expense is US$123.313 million 2017: US$106.214 million: 2016: US$140.445 million.
1 Total employee share awards expense includes Onshore US.
Refer to note 4 Expenses and other income employee share awards for continuing operations.
Recognition and measurement The fair value at grant date of equity-settled share awards is charged Where awards are forfeited because non-market-based vesting 5 to the income statement over the period for which the benefits conditions are not satisfied, the expense previously recognised of employee services are expected to be derived.
The fair values is proportionately reversed.
of awards granted were estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation The tax effect of awards granted is recognised in income tax methodology and Black-Scholes option pricing technique and expense, except to the extent that the total tax deductions are consider the following factors: expected to exceed the cumulative remuneration expense.
In this exercise price: situation, the excess of the associated current or deferred tax is expected life of the award: recognised in other comprehensive income and forms part of the current market price of the underlying shares: employee share awards reserve.
The fair value of awards as presented in the tables above represents the fair value at grant date.
expected volatility using an analysis of historic volatility over different rolling periods.
For the LTIP, it is calculated for all sector In respect of employee share awards, the Group utilises the Billiton comparators and the published MSCI World index: Employee Share Ownership Trust and the BHP Billiton Limited expected dividends: Employee Equity Trust.
The trustees of these trusts are independent risk-free interest rate, which is an applicable government bond rate: companies, resident in Jersey.
The trusts use funds provided by the Group to acquire ordinary shares to enable awards to be made market-based performance hurdles: or satisfied.
The ordinary shares may be acquired by purchase non-vesting conditions.
in the market or by subscription at not less than nominal value.
The BHP Billiton Limited Employee Equity Trust has waived its rights to current and future dividends on shares held to meet future awards under the plans.
BHP Annual Report 2018 195 23 Employee benefits, restructuring and post-retirement employee benefits provisions 2018 2017 US$M US$M 1 Employee benefits 1,232 1,177 2 Restructuring 8 10 Post-retirement employee benefits 449 438 Total provisions 1,689 1,625 Comprising: Current 1,148 1,062 Non-current 541 563 Post-retirement Employee employee 3 benefits Restructuring benefits Total 2018 US$M US$M US$M US$M At the beginning of the financial year 1,177 10 438 1,625 Charge credit for the year: Underlying 1,073 6 22 1,101 Discounting 3434 Net interest expense 15 15 Exchange variations 29 5 24 Released during the year 31 1 32 Remeasurement gains taken to retained earnings 1 1 Utilisation 958 7 34 999 At the end of the financial year 1,232 8 449 1,689 1 The expenditure associated with total employee benefits will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise their entitlement to benefits.
2 Total restructuring provisions include provisions for terminations and office closures.
3 Refer to note 24 Pension and other post-retirement obligations.
Recognition and measurement Provisions are recognised by the Group when: there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that a permanent outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: the amount can be reliably estimated and measured at the present value of managements best estimate of the cash outflow required to settle the obligation at reporting date.
Provision Description Employee benefits Liabilities for annual leave and any accumulating sick leave accrued up until the reporting date that are expected to be settled within 12 months are measured at the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled.
Liabilities for long service leave are measured as the present value of estimated future payments for the services provided by employees up to the reporting date and disclosed within employee benefits.
Liabilities that are not expected to be settled within 12 months are discounted at the reporting date using market yields of high-quality corporate bonds or government bonds for countries where there is no deep market for corporate bonds.
The rates used reflect the terms to maturity and currency that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows.
In relation to industry-based long service leave funds, the Groups liability, including obligations for funding shortfalls, is determined after deducting the fair value of dedicated assets of such funds.
Liabilities for unpaid wages and salaries are recognised in other creditors.
Restructuring Restructuring provisions are recognised when: the Group has a detailed formal plan identifying the business or part of the business concerned, the location and approximate number of employees affected, a detailed estimate of the associated costs, and an appropriate timeline: the restructuring has either commenced or been publicly announced and can no longer be withdrawn.
Payments falling due greater than 12 months after the reporting date are discounted to present value.
196 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 24 Pension and other post-retirement obligations The Group operates or participates in a number of pension including superannuation schemes throughout the world.
The funding of the schemes complies with local regulations.
The assets of the schemes are generally held separately from those of the Group and are administered by trustees or management boards.
Schemes Obligations Description Defined contribution For defined contribution schemes or schemes operated on an industry-wide basis where it is not possible to identify assets pension schemes and attributable to the participation by the Groups employees, the pension charge is calculated on the basis of contributions multi-employer payable.
The Group contributed US$277 million during the financial year 2017: US$247 million: 2016: US$232 million to pension schemes defined contribution plans and multi-employer defined contribution plans.
These contributions are expensed as incurred.
Defined benefit For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing pensions is charged to the income statement so as to pension schemes recognise current and past service costs, net interest cost on the net defined benefit obligations plan assets and the effect of any curtailments or settlements.
Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
An asset or liability is consequently recognised in the balance sheet based on the present value of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets, except that any such asset cannot exceed the present value of expected refunds from and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined benefit obligations are estimated by discounting expected future payments using market yields at the reporting date on high-quality corporate bonds in countries that have developed corporate bond markets.
However, where developed corporate bond markets do not exist, the discount rates are selected by reference to national government bonds.
In both instances, the bonds are selected with terms to maturity and currency that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash flows.
The Group has closed all defined benefit pension schemes to new entrants.
Defined benefit pension schemes remain operating in Australia, the United States, Canada and Europe for existing members.
Full actuarial valuations are prepared and updated annually to 30 June by local actuaries for all schemes.
The Group operates final salary schemes that provide final salary benefits only, non-salary related schemes that provide flat dollar benefits and mixed benefit schemes that consist of a final salary defined benefit portion and a defined contribution portion.
Defined benefit The Group operates a number of post-retirement medical schemes in the United States, Canada and Europe and certain post-retirement Group companies provide post-retirement medical benefits to qualifying retirees.
In some cases, the benefits are provided medical schemes through medical care schemes to which the Group, the employees, the retirees and covered family members contribute.
Full actuarial valuations are prepared by local actuaries for all schemes.
These schemes are recognised on the same basis as described for defined benefit pension schemes.
All of the post-retirement medical schemes in the Group are unfunded.
Defined benefit The Group has a legal obligation to provide post-employment benefits to employees in Chile.
The benefit is a function of post-employment an employees final salary and years of service.
These obligations are recognised on the same basis as described for defined obligations benefit pension schemes.
Full actuarial valuations are prepared by local actuaries.
These post-employment obligations are unfunded.
Risk The Groups defined benefit schemes obligations expose the Group to a number of risks, including asset value volatility, interest rate variations, inflation, longevity and medical expense inflation risk.
Recognising this, the Group has adopted an approach of moving away from providing defined benefit pensions.
The majority of Group-sponsored defined benefit pension schemes have been closed to new entrants for many years.
Existing benefit schemes and the terms of employee participation in these schemes are reviewed on a regular basis.
Fund assets The Group follows a coordinated strategy for the funding and investment of its defined benefit pension schemes subject to meeting all local requirements.
The Groups aim is for the value of defined benefit pension scheme assets to be maintained at close to the value of the corresponding benefit obligations, allowing for some short-term volatility.
5 Scheme assets are invested in a diversified range of asset classes, predominantly comprising bonds and equities.
The Groups aim is to progressively shift defined benefit pension scheme assets towards investments that match the anticipated profile of the benefit obligations, as funding levels improve and benefit obligations mature.
Over time, this is expected to result in a further reduction in the total exposure of pension scheme assets to equity markets.
For pension schemes that pay lifetime benefits, the Group may consider and support the purchase of annuities to back these benefit obligations if it is commercially sensible to do so.
Net liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet The net liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet is as follows: Defined benefit pension schemes post-employment obligations Post-retirement medical schemes 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$M US$M US$M US$M Present value of funded defined benefit obligation 616 665 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation 274 256 192 204 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 633 687 Scheme deficit 257 234 192 204 Unrecognised surplus Unrecognised past service credits Adjustment for employer contributions tax Net liability recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet 257 234 192 204 The Group has no legal obligation to settle these liabilities with any immediate contributions or additional one-off contributions.
The Group intends to continue to contribute to each defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical scheme in accordance with the latest recommendations of each scheme actuary.
BHP Annual Report 2018 197 25 Employees 2018 2017 2016 Number Number Number 1 Average number of employees Australia 16,504 15,906 15,834 South America 6,729 6,361 6,509 North America 1,839 2,072 2,748 Asia 1,368 1,019 822 Europe 70 74 61 Total average number of employees from Continuing operations 26,510 25,432 25,974 Total average number of employees from Discontinued operations 651 714 853 Total average number of employees 27,161 26,146 26,827 1 Average employee numbers include the Executive Director, 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies and our share of employees of joint operations.
Employees of equity accounted investments are not included.
Part-time employees are included on a full-time equivalent basis.
Employees of businesses disposed of during the year are included for the period of ownership.
Group and related party information 26 Discontinued operations On 27 July 2018 BHP announced that it had entered into agreements for the sale of its entire interests in its Eagle Ford, Haynesville, Permian and Fayetteville Onshore US oil and gas assets for a combined base consideration of US$10.8 billion, payable in cash.
BP American Production Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of BP Plc, has agreed to acquire 100 per cent of the issued share capital of Petrohawk Energy Corporation, the BHP subsidiary which holds the Eagle Ford being Black Hawk and Hawkville, Haynesville and Permian assets, for a consideration of US$10.5 billion less customary completion adjustments, comprising 50 per cent paid in cash at completion and 50 per cent in deferred consideration, payable in cash over a six month period.
MMGJ Hugoton III, LLC, a company owned by Merit Energy Company, has agreed to acquire 100 per cent of the issued share capital of BHP Billiton Petroleum Arkansas Inc. and 100 per cent of the membership interests in BHP Billiton Petroleum Fayetteville LLC, which hold the Fayetteville assets, for a total consideration of US$0.3 billion less customary completion adjustments, paid in cash at completion.
Both sales are subject to the satisfaction of customary regulatory approvals and conditions precedent and are expected to complete by the end of October 2018.
Significant joint operations that have been classified as assets and liabilities held for sale are listed below: 1 Group interest Country of 2018 2017 Significant joint operations operation Principal activity % % Eagle Ford US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 1100 1100 Fayetteville US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 1100 1100 Haynesville US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 1100 1100 Permian US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 1100 1100 1 Ranges reflect the Groups interest in multiple joint arrangements within the joint operation.
The contribution of Discontinued operations included within the Groups profit and cash flows are detailed below: Income statement Discontinued operations 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Revenue 2,171 2,150 2,345 Other income 34 74 12 Expenses excluding net finance costs 5,790 3,025 11,396 Loss from operations 3,585 801 9,039 Financial expenses 22 14 11 Net finance costs 22 14 11 Loss before taxation 3,607 815 9,050 Income tax benefit 686 343 3,155 Loss after taxation 2,921 472 5,895 Attributable to non-controlling interests 26 13 49 Attributable to BHP shareholders 2,947 485 5,846 Basic loss per ordinary share cents 55.4 9.1 109.8 Diluted loss per ordinary share cents 55.4 9.1 109.8 The total comprehensive income attributable to BHP shareholders from Discontinued operations was a loss of US$2,943 million 2017: loss of US$489 million: 2016: loss of US$5,846 million.
The conversion of options and share rights would decrease the loss per share for the years ended 30 June 2018, 2017 and 2016 and therefore its impact has been excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
198 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 26 Discontinued operations continued Cash flows from Discontinued operations 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Net operating cash flows 900 928 785 1 Net investing cash flows 861 437 1,227 2 Net financing cash flows 40 28 32 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents from Discontinued operations 1 463 474 1 Includes purchases of property, plant and equipment of US$900 million 2017: US$555 million: 2016: US$1,239 million, capitalised exploration of US$ nil 2017: US$ nil: 2016: US$2 million less proceeds from sale of assets of US$39 million 2017: US$118 million: 2016: US$14 million.
2 Includes net repayment of interest bearing liabilities of US$4 million 2017: US$6 million: 2016: US$7 million, distribution contribution to non-controlling interests of US$14 million 2017: US$16 million: 2016: US$ 1 million and dividends paid to non-controlling interests of US$22 million 2017: US$6 million: 2016: US$26 million.
Assets and liabilities held for sale The assets and liabilities classified as current assets and liabilities held for sale are presented in the table below: 2018 US$M Assets Trade and other receivables 529 Other financial assets 2 Inventories 36 Property, plant and equipment 10,672 Intangible assets 667 Other 33 Total assets 11,939 Liabilities Trade and other payables 725 Interest bearing liabilities 5 Other financial liabilities 3 Provisions 489 Total liabilities 1,222 Net assets 10,717 Exceptional items Discontinued operations Exceptional items are those gains or losses where their nature, including the expected frequency of the events giving rise to them, and amount is considered material to the Financial Statements.
Such items related to Discontinued operations included within the Groups profit for the year are detailed below: Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2018 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category 5 US tax reform 492 492 Impairment of Onshore US assets 2,859 109 2,750 Total 2,859 601 2,258 Attributable to non-controlling interests Attributable to BHP shareholders 2,859 601 2,258 US tax reform On 22 December 2017, the US President signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act TCJA into law.
As a result of the TCJA, the Group has recognised an exceptional income tax benefit of US$492 million relating to the re-measurement of the Onshore US deferred tax positions arising from temporary differences.
Impairment of Onshore US assets For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
At 30 June 2018, the Onshore US assets, including goodwill, have been allocated to two CGUs reflecting the separately identifiable cash flows expected from the divestment of the assets.
The Group recognised impairment charges as follows: Property, plant and equipment Goodwill Total Cash generating unit US$M US$M US$M Petrohawk 2,253 2,253 Fayetteville 520 86 606 Total impairment of non-current assets 520 2,339 2,859 The charges reflect a robust and competitive exit process with fair value based on the agreed sales consideration Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy less expected costs of disposal.
In previous reporting periods the Group performed impairment testing of the five individual Onshore US assets as each asset had separately identifiable cash flows.
In addition, the goodwill attributable to the Onshore US group of CGUs 2017: US$3,022 million was tested for impairment after the assessment of the individual CGUs.
The recoverable amount determinations for the Onshore US CGUs were based on FVLCD using discounted cash flow techniques.
The FVLCD calculations were based primarily on Level 3 inputs and significant assumptions included managements assessment of a market participants perspective of crude oil and natural gas prices, production volumes and discount rates.
BHP Annual Report 2018 199 26 Discontinued operations continued Year ended 30 June 2017 There were no exceptional items related to Discontinued operations for the year ended 30 June 2017.
Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2016 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category Impairment of Onshore US assets 7,184 2,300 4,884 Total 7,184 2,300 4,884 Attributable to non-controlling interests 80 29 51 Attributable to BHP shareholders 7,104 2,271 4,833 Impairment of Onshore US assets The Group recognised an impairment charge of US$4,884 million after tax benefit against the carrying value of its Onshore US assets in the year ended 30 June 2016.
The impairment reflects changes to price assumptions, discount rates and development plans.
This follows significant volatility and much weaker prices experienced in the oil and gas industry, which have more than offset the Groups substantial productivity improvements.
27 Subsidiaries Significant subsidiaries of the Group are those with the most significant contribution to the Groups net profit or net assets.
The Groups interest in the subsidiaries results are listed in the table below.
For a complete list of the Groups subsidiaries, refer to note 13 Related undertakings of the Group in section 5.2.
Group interest Country of 2018 2017 Significant subsidiaries incorporation Principal activity % % Coal BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 80 80 Hunter Valley Energy Coal Pty Ltd Australia Coal mining 100 100 Copper BHP Billiton Olympic Dam Corporation Pty Ltd Australia Copper and uranium mining 100 100 Compaa Minera Cerro Colorado Limitada Chile Copper mining 100 100 1 Minera Escondida Limitada Chile Copper mining 57.5 57.5 Minera Spence S. A. Chile Copper mining 100 100 Iron Ore BHP Billiton Iron Ore Pty Ltd Australia Service company 100 100 BHP Billiton Minerals Pty Ltd Australia Iron ore and coal mining 100 100 2 BHP Iron Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd Australia Iron ore mining 85 85 BHP Billiton Towage Service Pty Ltd Australia Freight services 100 100 Marketing BHP Billiton Freight Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Freight services 100 100 BHP Billiton Marketing AG Switzerland Marketing and trading 100 100 BHP Billiton Marketing Asia Pte Ltd Singapore Marketing support and other services 100 100 Group and Unallocated BHP Billiton Canada Inc. Canada Potash development 100 100 BHP Billiton Finance BV The Netherlands Finance 100 100 BHP Billiton Finance Limited Australia Finance 100 100 BHP Billiton Finance USA Ltd Australia Finance 100 100 BHP Billiton Group Operations Pty Ltd Australia Administrative services 100 100 BHP Billiton International Services Ltd UK Service company 100 100 BHP Billiton Nickel West Pty Ltd Australia Nickel mining, smelting, refining and 100 100 administrative services WMC Finance USA Limited Australia Finance 100 100 1 As the Group has the ability to direct the relevant activities at Minera Escondida Limitada, it has control over the entity.
The assessment of the most relevant activity in this contractual arrangement is subject to judgement.
The Group establishes the mine plan and the operating budget and has the ability to appoint the key management personnel, demonstrating that the Group has the existing rights to direct the relevant activities of Minera Escondida Limitada.
2 The Group has an effective interest of 92.5 per cent in BHP Iron Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd: however, by virtue of the shareholder agreement with ITOCHU Minerals & Energy of Australia Pty Ltd and Mitsui & Co. Iron Ore Exploration & Mining Pty Ltd, the Groups interest in the Jimblebar mining operation is 85 per cent, which is consistent with the other respective contractual arrangements at Western Australia Iron Ore. 200 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 28 Investments accounted for using the equity method Significant interests in equity accounted investments of the Group are those with the most significant contribution to the Groups net profit or net assets.
The Groups ownership interest in equity accounted investments results are listed in the table below.
For a complete list of the Groups associates and joint ventures, refer to note 13 Related undertakings of the Group in section 5.2.
Ownership interest Significant associates Country of incorporation Associate or 2018 2017 and joint ventures principal place of business joint venture Principal activity Reporting date % % Cerrejn Anguilla Colombia Ireland Associate Coal mining in Colombia 31 December 33.33 33.33 Compaa Minera Antamina Peru Associate Copper and zinc mining 31 December 33.75 33.75 S. A. Antamina Samarco Minerao S. A. Brazil Joint venture Iron ore mining 31 December 50.00 50.00 Samarco Voting in relation to relevant activities in Antamina and Cerrejn, determined to be the approval of the operating and capital budgets, does not require unanimous consent of all participants to the arrangement, therefore joint control does not exist.
Instead, because the Group has the power to participate in the financial and operating policies of the investee, these investments are accounted for as associates.
Samarco is jointly owned by BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale.
As the Samarco entity has the rights to the assets and obligations to the liabilities relating to the joint arrangement and not its owners, this investment is accounted for as a joint venture.
The Group is restricted in its ability to make dividend payments from its investments in associates and joint ventures as any such payments require the approval of all investors in the associates and joint ventures.
The ownership interest at the Groups and the associates or joint ventures reporting dates are the same.
When the annual financial reporting date is different to the Groups, financial information is obtained as at 30 June in order to report on an annual basis consistent with the Groups reporting date.
The movement for the year in the Groups investments accounted for using the equity method is as follows: Total equity Year ended 30 June 2018 Investment in Investment in accounted US$M associates joint ventures investments At the beginning of the financial year 2,448 2,448 1 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 656 509 147 Investment in equity accounted investments 62 80 142 Dividends received from equity accounted investments 693 693 Other 429 429 At the end of the financial year 2,473 2,473 1 US$ 509 million represents US$ 80 million share of loss from US$ 80 million funding provided during the period and US$ 429 million movement in the Samarco dam failure provision including US$ 560 million change in estimate and US$131 million exchange translation.
The following table summarises the financial information relating to each of the Groups significant equity accounted investments.
BHP Billiton Brasils 50 per cent portion of Samarcos commitments, for which BHP Billiton Brasil has no funding obligation, is US$550 million 2017: US$750 million.
Associates Joint ventures 5 2018 Individually Individually 1 2 US$M Antamina Cerrejn immaterial Samarco immaterial Total 3 Current assets 1,099 1,187 79 Non-current assets 4,385 2,485 6,023 4 Current liabilities 532 585 5,811 5 Non-current liabilities 1,064 663 4,265 Net assets liabilities 100% 3,888 2,424 3,974 Net assets liabilities Group share 1,312 808 1,987 6 Adjustments to net assets related to accounting policy adjustments 175 357 7 Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 8 Additional share of Samarco losses 2,092 9 Unrecognised losses 63 Carrying amount of investments accounted for using the equity method 1,313 883 277 2,473 Revenue 100% 4,262 2,453 30 10 Profit loss from Continuing operations 100% 1,613 576 1,558 Share of operating profit loss of equity accounted investments 544 192 823 Additional share of Samarco losses 251 9 Unrecognised losses 63 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 544 192 80 509 147 Comprehensive income 100% 1,613 576 1,558 Share of comprehensive income loss Group share in equity accounted investments 544 192 80 509 147 Dividends received from equity accounted investments 496 181 16 693 BHP Annual Report 2018 201 28 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued Associates Joint ventures 2017 Individually Individually 1 2 US$M Antamina Cerrejn immaterial Samarco immaterial Total 3 Current assets 995 782 174 Non-current assets 4,273 2,540 6,128 4 Current liabilities 530 364 5,236 5 Non-current liabilities 993 621 3,482 Net assets liabilities 100% 3,745 2,337 2,416 Net assets liabilities Group share 1,264 779 1,208 6 Adjustments to net assets related to accounting policy adjustments 1 80 401 7 Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 Additional share of Samarco losses 1,332 Carrying amount of investments accounted for using the equity method 1,265 859 324 2,448 Revenue 100% 3,317 2,247 28 10 Profit loss from Continuing operations 100% 1,010 388 1,520 Share of operating profit loss of equity accounted investments 341 129 760 Additional share of Samarco losses 588 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 341 129 26 172 272 Comprehensive income 100% 1,010 388 1,520 Share of comprehensive income loss Group share in equity accounted investments 341 129 26 172 272 Dividends received from equity accounted investments 425 163 32 620 Associates Joint ventures 2016 Individually Individually 2 US$M Antamina Cerrejn immaterial Samarco immaterial Total Revenue 100% 2,639 1,575 937 Profit loss from Continuing operations 100% 606 73 2,182 11 Share of operating profit loss of equity accounted investments 203 24 39 1,091 951 7 Samarco dam failure provision expense 628 628 7 Impairment of the carrying value of the investment in Samarco 525 525 Profit loss from equity accounted investments, related impairments and expenses 203 24 39 2,244 2,104 Comprehensive income 100% 606 73 2,182 Share of comprehensive income loss Group share in equity accounted investments 203 24 39 2,244 2,104 Dividends received from equity accounted investments 233 29 31 293 1 The unrecognised share of losses for the period was US$56 million 2017: unrecognised share of profits for the period was US$21 million, which increased the cumulative losses to US$196 million 2017: decrease to US$140 million.
2 Refer to note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure for further information regarding the financial impact of the Samarco dam failure in November 2015 on BHP Billiton Brasils share of Samarcos losses.
3 Includes cash and cash equivalents of US$23 million 2017: US$29 million.
4 Includes current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions of US$5,066 million 2017: US$4,581 million.
5 Includes non-current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions of US$ nil 2017: US$1 million.
6 Relates mainly to dividends declared by Samarco that remain unpaid at balance date and which, in accordance with the Groups accounting policy, are recognised when received not receivable.
7 BHP Billiton Brasil has adjusted its investment in Samarco to US$ nil resulting from US$ 655 million share of loss from Samarco and US$ 525 million impairment and recognised a provision of US$ 1,200 million for obligations under the Framework Agreement.
8 BHP Billiton Brasil has recognised accumulated additional share of Samarco losses of US $2,092 million resulting from US$ 214 million share of loss from funding provided to Samarco and US$ 1,878 million relating to obligations under the Framework Agreement, including US$ 211 million recognised as net finance costs.
9 Share of Samarcos losses for which BHP Billiton Brasil does not have an obligation to fund.
10 Includes depreciation and amortisation of US$73 million 2017: US$88 million: 2016: US$148 million, interest income of US$31 million 2017: US$57 million: 2016: US$43 million, interest expense of US$385 million 2017: US$473 million: 2016: US$209 million and income tax expense benefit of US$ 154 million 2017: US$ 851 million: 2016: US$564 million.
11 US$ 1,091 million represents US$ 1,227 million share of loss relating to the Samarco dam failure exceptional item and US$136 million share of operating profit prior to the dam failure.
202 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 29 Interests in joint operations Significant joint operations of the Group are those with the most significant contributions to the Groups net profit or net assets.
The Groups interest in the joint operations results are listed in the table below.
For a list of significant joint operations of the Group classified as held for sale refer to note 26 Discontinued operations.
For a complete list of the Groups investments in joint operations, refer to note 13 Related undertakings of the Group in section 5.2.
Group interest 2018 2017 Significant joint operations Country of operation Principal activity % % Bass Strait Australia Hydrocarbons production 50 50 Greater Angostura Trinidad and Tobago Hydrocarbons production 45 45 Gulf of Mexico US Hydrocarbons exploration and production 23.944 23.944 1 Macedon Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production 71.43 71.43 North West Shelf Australia Hydrocarbons production 12.516.67 12.516.67 1 Pyrenees Australia Hydrocarbons exploration and production 4071.43 4071.43 2 ROD Integrated Development Algeria Hydrocarbons exploration and production 29.50 29.50 3 Mt Goldsworthy Australia Iron ore mining 85 85 3 Mt Newman Australia Iron ore mining 85 85 3 Yandi Australia Iron ore mining 85 85 Central Queensland Coal Associates Australia Coal mining 50 50 1 While the Group holds a greater than 50 per cent interest in these joint operations, all the participants in these joint operations approve the operating and capital budgets and therefore the Group has joint control over the relevant activities of these arrangements.
2 Group interest reflects the working interest and may vary year-on-year based on the Groups effective interest in producing wells.
3 These contractual arrangements are controlled by the Group and do not meet the definition of joint operations.
However, as they are formed by contractual arrangement and are not entities, the Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses arising from these arrangements.
Assets held in joint operations subject to significant restrictions are as follows: Group share 2018 2017 2 US$M US$M Current assets 2,445 2,755 Non-current assets 36,144 51,446 1 Total assets 38,589 54,201 1 While the Group is unrestricted in its ability to sell a share of its interest in these joint operations, it does not have the right to sell individual assets that are used in these joint operations without the unanimous consent of the other participants.
The assets in these joint operations are also restricted to the extent that they are only available to be used by the joint operation itself and not by other operations of the Group.
2 Includes US$14,408 million Onshore US assets.
30 Related party transactions The Groups related parties are predominantly subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures and associates and key management personnel of the Group.
Disclosures relating to key management personnel are set out in note 21 Key management personnel.
Transactions between each parent 5 company and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
All transactions to from related parties are made at arms length, i. e. at normal market prices and rates and on normal commercial terms.
Outstanding balances at year-end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
Loan amounts owing from related parties represent secured loans made to joint operations, associates and joint ventures under co-funding arrangements.
Such loans are made on an arms length basis with interest charged at market rates and are due to be repaid by 16 August 2022.
No guarantees are provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
No provision for doubtful debts has been recognised in relation to any outstanding balances and no expense has been recognised in respect of bad or doubtful debts due from related parties.
There were no other related party transactions in the year ended 30 June 2018 2017: US$ nil, other than those with post-employment benefit plans for the benefit of Group employees.
These are shown in note 24 Pension and other post-retirement obligations.
BHP Annual Report 2018 203 30 Related party transactions continued Transactions with related parties Further disclosures related to other related party transactions are as follows: Joint operations Joint ventures Associates 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Sales of goods services Purchases of goods services 1,358.016 1,052.885 Interest income 1.764 1.850 19.337 34.911 Interest expense 0.010 0.006 Dividends received 693.105 619.894 Net loans made to repayments from related parties 60.566 82.701 599.979 272.276 Outstanding balances with related parties Disclosures in respect of amounts owing to from joint operations represent the amount that does not eliminate on consolidation.
Joint operations Joint ventures Associates 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M Trade amounts owing to related parties 210.716 217.803 Loan amounts owing to related parties 55.667 118.288 4.097 39.097 Trade amounts owing from related parties 3.932 3.083 Loan amounts owing from related parties 18.089 20.144 12.939 647.918 Unrecognised items and uncertain events 31 Commitments The Groups commitments for capital expenditure were US$2,110 million as at 30 June 2018 2017: US$2,084 million.
The Groups other commitments are as follows: Commitments under Commitments under finance leases operating leases 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$M US$M US$M US$M Due not later than one year 127 135 388 420 Due later than one year and not later than five years 448 475 785 672 Due later than five years 590 705 839 660 Total 1,165 1,315 2,012 1,752 Future financing liability 363 418 Right to reimbursement from joint operations partner Finance lease liability 802 897 Finance leases include leases of power generation and transmission assets.
Certain lease payments may be subject to inflation escalation clauses on which contingent rentals are determined.
The leases contain extension and renewal options.
Operating leases include leases of property, plant and equipment.
Rental payments are generally fixed, but with inflation escalation clauses on which contingent rentals are determined.
Certain leases contain extension and renewal options.
204 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 32 Contingent liabilities 2018 2017 US$M US$M 1 Associates and joint ventures 1,588 1,784 1 Subsidiaries and joint operations 1,915 1,825 Total 3,503 3,609 1 There are a number of matters, for which it is not possible at this time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures, and for which no amounts have been included in the table above.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation arising from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group.
A contingent liability may also be a present obligation arising from past events but is not recognised on the basis that an outflow of economic resources to settle the obligation is not viewed as probable, or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
When the Group has a present obligation, an outflow of economic resources is assessed as probable and the Group can reliably measure the obligation, a provision is recognised.
The Group has entered into various counter-indemnities of bank and performance guarantees related to its own future performance, which are in the normal course of business.
The likelihood of these guarantees being called upon is considered remote.
The Group presently has tax matters, litigation and other claims, for which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow are uncertain.
Obligations assessed as having probable future economic outflows capable of reliable measurement are provided at reporting date and matters assessed as having possible future economic outflows capable of reliable measurement are included in the total amount of contingent liabilities above.
Individually significant matters, including narrative on potential future exposures incapable of reliable measurement, are disclosed below, to the extent that disclosure does not prejudice the Group.
Uncertain tax and The Group is subject to a range of taxes and royalties across many jurisdictions, the application of which is uncertain in some royalty matters regards.
Changes in tax law, changes in interpretation of tax law, periodic challenges and disagreements with tax authorities, and legal proceedings result in uncertainty of the outcome of the application of taxes and royalties to our business.
Areas of uncertainty at reporting date include the application of taxes and royalties including transfer pricing to the Groups cross-border operations and transactions.
Details of uncertain tax and royalty matters have been disclosed in note 5 Income tax expense.
To the extent uncertain tax and royalty matters give rise to a contingent liability, an estimate of the potential liability is included within the table above, where it is capable of reliable measurement.
Samarco The table above includes contingent liabilities related to the Groups equity accounting investment in Samarco to the extent contingent they are capable of reliable measurement.
Details of contingent liabilities related to Samarco are disclosed in note 3 Significant liabilities events Samarco dam failure.
Demerger of As part of the demerger of South32 Limited South32 in May 2015, certain indemnities were agreed under the Separation Deed.
South32 Subject to certain exceptions, BHP Billiton Limited indemnifies South32 against claims and liabilities relating to the Group Businesses and former Group Businesses prior to the demerger and South32 indemnifies the Group against all claims and liabilities relating to the South32 Businesses and former South32 Businesses.
No material claims have been made pursuant to the Separation Deed as at 30 June 2018.
33 Subsequent events Other than the matters outlined in the Financial Statements, no matters or circumstances have arisen since the end of the financial year that 5 have significantly affected, or may significantly affect, the operations, results of operations or state of affairs of the Group in subsequent accounting periods.
BHP Annual Report 2018 205 Other items 34 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries, operations, joint operations and equity accounted investments Acquisitions There were no material acquisitions made during the years ended 30 June 2018, 2017 and 2016.
Divestments The Group disposed of the following subsidiaries, operations, joint operations and equity accounted investments during the year ended: 30 June 2018 There were no divestments completed during the year ended 30 June 2018.
30 June 2017 BHP Navajo Coal Company IndoMet Coal 30 June 2016 Pakistan gas business San Juan Mine 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Net assets disposed 189 153 Gross cash consideration 187 168 Less cash and cash equivalents disposed 2 Total consideration 187 166 1 Other effects 1 Net loss gain on disposal recognised in other income 2 14 1 Other effects include deferred consideration of US$ nil for 30 June 2018 2017: US$ nil: 2016: US$1 million.
35 Auditors remuneration 2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Fees payable to the Groups auditors for assurance services Audit of the Groups Annual Report 3.909 3.381 3.126 Audit of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 13.902 7.040 7.715 Audit-related assurance services 4.039 3.597 3.493 Other assurance services 1.343 1.849 1.508 Total assurance services 23.193 15.867 15.842 Fees payable to the Groups auditors for other services Other services relating to corporate finance 0.104 0.042 0.276 All other services 0.553 0.589 0.815 Total other services 0.657 0.631 1.091 Total fees 23.850 16.498 16.933 All amounts were paid to KPMG or KPMG affiliated firms.
Fees are determined in local currencies and are predominantly billed in US dollars based on the exchange rate at the beginning of the relevant financial year.
Fees payable to the Groups auditors for assurance services For all periods disclosed, no fees are payable in respect of the audit of pension funds.
Audit of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates comprise audits of the Groups subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates including additional non-recurring audits fees in FY2018 in connection with the sale of the Onshore US oil and gas assets.
Audit-related assurance services comprise review of half-year reports and audit work in relation to compliance with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Other assurance services comprise assurance in respect of the Groups sustainability reporting.
Fees payable to the Groups auditors for other services Other services relating to corporate finance comprise services in connection with debt raising transactions.
All other services comprise non-statutory assurance based procedures, advice on accounting matters, as well as tax compliance services of US$ nil 2017: US$0.027 million: 2016: US$0.089 million.
206 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 36 BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Limited does not present unconsolidated parent company financial statements.
Selected financial information of the BHP Billiton Limited parent company is as follows: 2018 2017 US$M US$M Income statement information for the financial year Profit after taxation for the year 7,818 7,692 Total comprehensive income 7,830 7,676 Balance sheet information as at the end of the financial year Current assets 16,935 14,659 Total assets 56,448 54,689 Current liabilities 2,313 2,595 Total liabilities 2,805 3,028 Share capital 898 898 Treasury shares 5 1 Reserves 182 190 Retained earnings 52,568 50,574 Total equity 53,643 51,661 Parent company guarantees BHP Billiton Limited has guaranteed certain financing arrangements available to subsidiaries of US$13,108 million at 30 June 2018 2017: US$15,465 million.
Under the terms of a Deed Poll Guarantee, BHP Billiton Limited has guaranteed certain current and future liabilities of BHP Billiton Plc.
The guaranteed liabilities at 30 June 2018 amounted to US$11 million 2017: US$10 million.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment of the principal and premium, if any, and interest, including certain additional amounts that may be payable in respect of the notes issued by 100 per cent owned finance subsidiary, BHP Billiton Finance USA Ltd. BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have guaranteed the payment of such amounts when they become due and payable, whether on an interest payment date, at the stated maturity of the notes, by declaration or acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
The guaranteed liabilities at 30 June 2018 amounted to US$9,486 million 2017: US$10,410 million.
In addition, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have severally guaranteed a Group Revolving Credit Facility of US$6,000 million 2017: US$6,000 million, which remains undrawn.
37 Deed of Cross Guarantee BHP Billiton Limited together with wholly owned subsidiaries identified in note 13 Related undertakings of the Group in section 5.2 entered into a Deed of Cross Guarantee Deed on 6 June 2016.
The effect of the Deed is that BHP Billiton Limited has guaranteed to pay any outstanding liabilities upon the winding up of any wholly owned subsidiary that is party to the Deed.
Wholly owned subsidiaries that are party to the Deed have also given a similar guarantee in the event that BHP Billiton Limited or another party to the Deed is wound up.
The wholly owned Australian subsidiaries identified in note 13 Related undertakings of the Group in section 5.2 are relieved from the requirements to prepare and lodge audited financial reports.
A Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings and Consolidated Balance Sheet, comprising BHP Billiton Limited and the wholly owned subsidiaries that are party to the Deed for the year ended 30 June 2018 and 30 June 2017 are as follows: 5 2018 2017 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings US$M US$M Revenue 20,434 19,394 Other income 3,188 4,988 Expenses excluding net finance costs 12,693 12,085 Net finance costs 470 591 Income tax expense 2,218 2,351 Profit after taxation 8,241 9,355 Total other comprehensive income 12 18 Total comprehensive income 8,253 9,373 Retained earnings at the beginning of the financial year 45,979 40,462 Net effect on retained earnings of entities added to removed from the Deed 48 1,699 Profit after taxation for the year 8,241 9,355 Transfers to and from reserves 15 33 Dividends 5,811 2,172 Retained earnings at the end of the financial year 48,442 45,979 BHP Annual Report 2018 207 37 Deed of Cross Guarantee continued 2018 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet US$M US$M ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 2 1 Trade and other receivables 3,977 3,541 Loans to related parties 16,730 14,081 Inventories 1,649 1,536 Other 90 72 Total current assets 22,448 19,231 Non-current assets Trade and other receivables 73 76 Loans to related parties 151 335 Inventories 323 278 Property, plant and equipment 31,009 30,579 Intangible assets 444 550 Investments in Group companies 27,354 27,816 Deferred tax assets 329 402 Other 68 59 Total non-current assets 59,751 60,095 Total assets 82,199 79,326 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables 3,425 2,762 Loans from related parties 15,719 15,978 Interest bearing liabilities 115 202 Current tax payable 1,053 1,318 Provisions 952 683 Deferred income 6 8 Total current liabilities 21,270 20,951 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 3 3 Loans from related parties 7,870 7,660 Interest bearing liabilities 191 251 Deferred tax liabilities 573 613 Provisions 2,475 2,479 Deferred income 18 21 Total non-current liabilities 11,130 11,027 Total liabilities 32,400 31,978 Net assets 49,799 47,348 EQUITY Share capital BHP Billiton Limited 1,186 1,186 Treasury shares 5 1 Reserves 176 184 Retained earnings 48,442 45,979 Total equity 49,799 47,348 208 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 38 New and amended accounting standards and interpretations The Group adopted the amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: Disclosure Initiative in the current year.
This amendment requires disclosure about changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including changes arising from financing cash flows and non-cash changes such as foreign exchange gains or losses.
While having no impact on the primary financial statements, an additional reconciliation has been provided in note 20 Financial risk management to comply with this amendment.
This amendment has been endorsed by the EU.
There are no other new or amended accounting standards or interpretations adopted for the first time during the year that have a significant impact on these Financial Statements.
Issued but not yet effective The following new accounting standards and interpretations will become effective for future reporting periods and may have a significant impact on the income statement or net assets of the Group.
Applicable from 1 July 2018 The following accounting standards and interpretations are applicable to the Group from 1 July 2018.
The impacts of these are currently expected to be immaterial, although industry application of these standards continues to develop.
Title of standard interpretation Summary of impact on the Financial Statements IFRS 15 AASB 15 This standard modifies the determination of when to recognise revenue and how much revenue to recognise.
Revenue is Revenue from recognised when control of the promised goods or services pass to the customer.
The amount of revenue recognised should Contracts with reflect the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Customers The Group has undertaken a process of understanding the standard contractual arrangements across its principal revenue streams, particularly key terms and conditions which may impact revenue recognition.
In addition, detailed reviews of a representative sample of individual contracts across all the Groups revenue streams have been completed.
While no significant changes in accounting arising from the implementation of the new standard have been identified, the following points are noted.
Certain of the Groups sales are provisionally priced, where the final price depends on future index prices.
Any adjustments between the provisional and final price are accounted for under IFRS 9 AASB 9 Financial Instruments and will be recognised as other revenue.
Where applicable, system and process changes have been implemented to appropriately measure and capture this data for disclosure.
A significant proportion of the Groups products are sold on Cost, Insurance and Freight CIF or Cost and Freight CFR Incoterms, where the Group is required to provide freight and shipping services after the date at which the goods have transferred to the customer.
Revenue from freight and shipping services, currently recognised when the product is loaded onto the ship, should be treated as a separate performance obligation under the new standard and recognised over time.
The impact of this is immaterial at 30 June 2018.
Certain sales contracts require the Group to physically deliver unrefined concentrate.
Revenue is currently recognised at the gross value of the final refined metal content delivered with contractually agreed treatment costs and refining charges recorded as an expense.
While having no net income statement impact, under the new standard the treatment costs and refining charges must be recognised as a reduction to revenue.
The impact of applying this change during the year ended 30 June 2018 would have been to reduce revenue and expenses, respectively by US$509 million with no impact on profit.
The Group participates in certain arrangements which entitle it to a proportion of the physical output of an operation.
Currently, the Group recognises revenue to the extent of its entitlement.
Under the new standard, all product sold by the Group to third parties in a period will be recognised as revenue from contracts with customers.
Any difference to the Groups entitlement represents a form of revenue or is closely connected to revenue transactions and will therefore be recognised as other revenue.
Revenues from the sale of significant by-products are within the scope of the new standard and will continue to be included in revenue.
The Group expects to apply the full retrospective transition approach, resulting in the restatement of comparative information 5 where applicable.
IFRS 9 AASB 9 This standard revises the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, introduces a forward Financial looking expected credit loss impairment model and modifies the approach to hedge accounting.
Instruments The Group has undertaken a comprehensive analysis of the impact of the new standard based on the financial instruments it holds and the way in which they are used with no material impact on the face of balance sheet or in the income statement expected.
However, there will be presentational changes in some of our note disclosures, as well as additional disclosures around classification and measurement of financial instruments.
Adoption impacts include: The new standard requires classification and measurement of financial assets based on the business model in which they are managed and their cash flow characteristics.
Under the new standard, the Groups financial assets will be classified as measured at amortised cost, fair value through profit or loss, or fair value through equity.
No significant measurement impacts have been identified as a result of reclassifying financial assets into the categories required by the new standard.
Equity investments currently classified as available for sale are expected to be carried at fair value with revaluation gains and losses recognised directly in equity with future recycling through the income statement no longer permitted.
Gains and losses on this category of financial asset currently recognised in equity are immaterial.
Classification of future equity investments will be considered on an instrument by instrument basis.
For financial liabilities, the current classification and measurement requirements are largely retained.
Financial assets carried at amortised cost must be tested for impairment based on expected losses, as opposed to the current policy of recognising impairments only when there is objective evidence that a credit loss is present.
This is not expected to have a significant impact given the Groups counterparty risk framework.
The new standard amends the rules on hedge accounting to enable closer alignment between the Groups risk management strategy and the accounting outcomes.
The standard broadens the scope of arrangements that may qualify for hedge accounting and allows for simplification of hedge designations.
Certain of the Groups derivatives will be designated into simplified hedging relationships from 1 July 2018, with no material impact to net assets expected.
Other changes under the standard mean that hedge effectiveness is only considered on a prospective basis with no set quantitative thresholds, certain costs of hedging, previously taken to the income statement, will be recognised directly in equity and voluntary fide-designation of hedges is prohibited.
The Group will monitor increased opportunities to apply hedge accounting in the future.
The Group will adjust the opening balance sheet as of 1 July 2018, with no restatement of comparatives required.
IFRIC 22 This interpretation clarifies the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income when Foreign Currency an entity receives or pays advance consideration in a foreign currency.
The Group has made some minor changes to Transactions processes to comply with this interpretation.
and Advance Consideration BHP Annual Report 2018 209 38 New and amended accounting standards and interpretations continued Applicable from 1 July 2019 and beyond The following accounting standards and interpretations are applicable to the Group from 1 July 2019 and beyond.
Title of standard interpretation Summary of impact on the Financial Statements IFRS 16 AASB 16 This standard provides a new model for lessee accounting under which all leases with the exception of short-term under Leases 12 months and low-value leases, will be accounted for by the recognition on the balance sheet of a right of use asset and a corresponding lease liability.
Lease costs will be recognised in the income statement over the lease term in the form of depreciation on the right of use asset and finance charges representing the unwind of the discount on the lease liability.
The Group has progressed its implementation project, focusing on a review of contracts, aggregation of data to support the evaluation of the accounting impacts of applying the new standard and assessment of the need for changes to systems and processes.
While the Groups evaluation of the effect of adopting the standard is ongoing, it is expected that it will have a material effect on the Groups Financial Statements, significantly increasing the Groups recognised assets and liabilities.
Further, compared with the existing accounting for operating leases, the classification and timing of expenses will be impacted and consequently the classification between cash flow from operating activities and cash flow from financing activities.
Many commonly used financial ratios and performance metrics, using existing definitions, will also be impacted including net debt, gearing, EBITDA, unit costs and operating cash flows.
The Group is considering available options for transition, which include either retrospective with restatement of comparatives or the modified approach with the cumulative impact of application recognised as at 1 July 2019.
The Groups existing operating leases will be the main source of leases under the new standard.
The impact of the standard continues to be assessed as it will be impacted by the transition approach selected by the Group and the lease population at the point of transition.
Information on the undiscounted amount of the Groups operating lease commitments under IAS 17 AASB 117 Leases, the current leasing standard, is disclosed in note 31 Commitments.
IFRIC 23 This interpretation clarifies the application of the recognition and measurement requirements in IAS 12 AASB 112 Income Uncertainty over Taxes for calculating provisions for uncertain tax positions.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the interpretation Income Tax on its Financial Statements.
1 Treatments Conceptual The revised framework may affect the application of IFRS in situations where no standard applies to a specific transaction Framework for or event.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the revised framework on its Financial Statements.
1 Financial Reporting 1 IFRIC 23 and the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting have not been endorsed by the EU and hence are not available for early adoption in the EU.
210 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 5.2 BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Plc is required to present its unconsolidated parent company balance sheet and certain notes to the balance sheet on a stand-alone basis as at 30 June 2018 and 2017.
The BHP Billiton Plc Balance Sheet has been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
Refer to note 1 Principal accounting policies for information on the principal accounting policies.
BHP Billiton Plc is exempt from presenting an unconsolidated parent company profit and loss account and statement of comprehensive income in accordance with section 408 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
Parent company Financial Statements of BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Plc Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2018 2018 2017 Notes US$M US$M ASSETS Current assets Cash at bank and on hand 6 Debtors Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2 11,503 5,041 11,503 5,047 Non-current assets Fixed assets Investments in subsidiaries 3 3,131 3,131 Deferred tax assets 4 111 3,131 3,242 Total assets 14,634 8,289 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Creditors Amounts owed to Group undertakings 5 4 92 Provisions 6 1 1 5 93 Non-current liabilities Pension liabilities 6, 7 9 9 9 9 Total liabilities 14 102 Net assets 14,620 8,187 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 1,057 1,057 Treasury shares 1 Share premium account 518 518 Share buy-back reserve 177 177 Profit and loss account 12,868 6,436 5 Total equity 14,620 8,187 The accompanying notes form part of these Parent company Financial Statements.
The Parent company Financial Statements of BHP Billiton Plc, registration number 3196209, were approved by the Board of Directors on 6 September 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Ken MacKenzie Andrew Mackenzie Chairman Chief Executive Officer BHP Annual Report 2018 211 BHP Billiton Plc Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 30 June 2018 Share Share Treasury premium buy-back Profit and loss Total 1 US$M Share capital shares account reserve account equity Balance as at 1 July 2017 1,057 1 518 177 6,436 8,187 Profit for the year after taxation 8,512 8,512 Other comprehensive income for the year: Tax on employee entitlements taken to retained earnings Actuarial loss on pension scheme Total comprehensive income for the year 8,512 8,512 Transactions with owners: Purchase of shares by ESOP trusts 12 12 Employee share awards exercised net of employee contributions and forfeitures 13 13 Accrued employee entitlement for unexercised awards 3 3 Dividends 2,070 2,070 Balance as at 30 June 2018 1,057 518 177 12,868 14,620 Balance as at 1 July 2016 1,057 26 518 177 6,460 8,186 Profit for the year after taxation 1,137 1,137 Other comprehensive income for the year: Tax on employee entitlements taken to retained earnings 1 1 Actuarial loss on pension scheme 1 1 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,137 1,137 Transactions with owners: Purchase of shares by ESOP trusts 3 3 Employee share awards exercised net of employee contributions and forfeitures 28 28 Accrued employee entitlement for unexercised awards 6 6 Dividends 1,139 1,139 Balance as at 30 June 2017 1,057 1 518 177 6,436 8,187 1 Shares held by the Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust as at 30 June 2018 were 41,634 shares with a market value of US$1 million 2017: 74,116 shares with a market value of US$1 million.
The accompanying notes form part of these Parent company Financial Statements.
212 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Principal accounting policies BHP Billiton Plc company information Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainties BHP Billiton Plc is a public company limited by shares, registered in England and Wales and with a registered office located at Nova The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 South, 160 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5LB, United Kingdom.
requires the use of critical accounting estimates, and requires the BHP Billiton Plc has a premium listing on the UK Listing Authoritys application of judgement in applying BHP Billiton Plcs accounting Official List and its ordinary shares are admitted to trading on the policies.
Significant judgements and estimates applied in the London Stock Exchange in the United Kingdom and have a secondary preparation of these Parent company Financial Statements have listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in South Africa.
been identified and disclosed throughout.
Basis of preparation Foreign currencies BHP Billiton Plc meets the definition of a qualifying entity under The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy on Foreign Financial Reporting Standard 100 Application of Financial Reporting currencies as set out in section 5.1.
Requirements FRS 100 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Investments in subsidiaries Group undertakings The BHP Billiton Plc Parent company Financial Statements are: Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for unconsolidated Financial Statements of the stand-alone company.
Investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment BHP Billiton Plc is exempt from preparing consolidated accounts where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying by virtue of section 400 of the UK Companies Act 2006: amount of the investment may not be recoverable.
prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies If any such indication exists, BHP Billiton Plc makes an assessment Act 2006: of the recoverable amount.
If the asset is determined to be impaired, presented in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 an impairment loss will be recorded and the asset written down based Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 : on the amount by which the asset carrying amount exceeds the higher prepared on a going concern basis: of fair value less cost of disposal and value in use.
An impairment using historical cost principles as modified by the revaluation loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
of certain financial assets and liabilities in accordance with the Taxation UK Companies Act 2006: The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of in note 5 Income tax expense in section 5.1.
Amounts are rounded to the nearest million dollars, unless otherwise stated.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Key judgements and estimates Parent company Financial Statements are set out below.
These have been applied consistently to all periods presented.
The following Judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred disclosure exemptions have been applied under FRS 101: tax assets that are recognised based on the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits.
The Group assesses paragraphs 45 b and 46-52 of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment the recoverability of recognised and unrecognised details of number and weighted average exercise price of deferred taxes on a consistent basis, using assumptions share options, and how the fair value goods or services received and projected cash flows as applied in the Group was determined : impairment reviews for associated operations.
the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: paragraphs 9199 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities : paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements comparative financial information in respect of paragraph 79 a iv 5 of IAS 1 : disclosure of the following requirements of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: 10 d A statement of cash flows for the period: 16 A statement that the Financial Statements are in compliance with all IFRSs: 38A Requirement for a minimum of two primary statements including cash flow statements: 38 B-D Comparative information: 111 Cash flow statement information: 134-136 Capital management disclosures: IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies and Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued and is not yet effective : paragraphs 17 and 18A of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures key management compensation : the requirements of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures disclosure of related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group.
BHP Annual Report 2018 213 1 Principal accounting policies continued Share-based payments Treasury shares The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set The consideration paid for the repurchase of BHP Billiton Plc shares out in note 22 Employee share ownership plans in section 5.1 that are held as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in and is applied with respect to all rights and options granted over shareholders funds and represents a reduction in distributable BHP Billiton Plc shares, including those granted to employees of other reserves.
However, the cost of rights and options granted Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits is recovered from subsidiaries of the Group where the participants The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out in are employed.
note 24 Pension and other post-retirement obligations in section 5.1.
BHP Billiton Plc is the Trusts sponsoring company and so the Parent Financial guarantees company Financial Statements of BHP Billiton Plc represent the combined financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc and the Trust.
Financial guarantees issued by BHP Billiton Plc are contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss Revenue recognition it incurs because the specified debtor fails to comply with the Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective terms of the debt instrument.
Financial guarantees are recognised interest method.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to initially as a liability at fair value less transaction costs as appropriate.
receive payment is established, typically on declaration by subsidiaries.
Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date and the amount recognised less cumulative amortisation.
2 Debtors Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2018 2017 US$M US$M Amounts owed by Group undertakings 11,503 5,041 Total debtors 11,503 5,041 Comprising: Current 11,503 5,041 Non-current The amounts due from Group undertakings primarily relate to unsecured receivable balances that are at call.
3 Fixed assets Investments in subsidiaries 2018 2017 US$M US$M Investments in subsidiaries Group undertakings : At the beginning and the end of the financial year 3,131 3,131 BHP Billiton Plc had the following principal subsidiary undertakings as at 30 June 2018: Carrying value Percentage of investment Company Principal activity Country of incorporation shareholding US$M BHP Billiton Group Ltd Holding company UK 100% 3,131 BHP Billiton Finance Plc Finance company UK 99% 0.1 BHP Billiton AUS DDS Pty Ltd General finance Australia 100% BHP Billiton Group Ltd, BHP Billiton Finance Plc and BHP Billiton AUS DDS Pty Ltd are included in the consolidation of the Group.
During the year, BHP Billiton Plc received dividends of US$5,947 million 2017: US$770 million from BHP Billiton Group Ltd and dividends of US$2,660 million 2017: US$440 million were received from BHP Billiton AUS DDS Pty Ltd.
Refer to note 14 Share capital in section 5.1.
In accordance with section 409 of the UK Companies Act 2006, a full list of related undertakings is disclosed in note 13 Related undertakings of the Group in this section.
214 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 4 Deferred tax assets The movement for the year in BHP Billiton Plcs deferred tax position is as follows: 2018 2017 US$M US$M Deferred tax assets At the beginning of the financial year 111 137 Income tax charge recorded in the income statement 111 27 Income tax credit recorded directly to other comprehensive income 1 At the end of the financial year 111 The composition of BHP Billiton Plcs deferred tax asset recognised in the balance sheet and the deferred tax expense charged to the income statement is as follows: Deferred tax assets Charged to the income statement 2018 2017 2018 2017 US$M US$M US$M US$M Type of temporary difference Tax losses 105 105 23 Employee benefits 6 6 4 Total 111 111 27 As at 30 June 2018, BHP Billiton Plc had unused income tax losses of US$618 million income tax benefit of US$105 million and other deductible temporary differences of US$33 million income tax benefit of US$6 million on which a deferred tax asset had not been recognised as it is not probable that future taxable benefits will be available against which the benefits can be utilised.
As at 30 June 2017, BHP Billiton Plc had no unrecognised deferred tax assets.
5 Creditors Amounts owed to Group undertakings 2018 2017 US$M US$M Amounts owed to Group undertakings 4 92 Total creditors 4 92 Comprising: Current 4 92 Non-current The amounts due to Group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
6 Provisions 5 2018 2017 US$M US$M Employee benefits 1 1 Pension liabilities 9 9 Total provisions 10 10 Comprising: Current 1 1 Non-current 9 9 Employee Pension benefits liabilities Total US$M US$M US$M At the beginning of the financial year 19 10 Actuarial loss on pension scheme Charge for the year Utilisation At the end of the financial year 19 10 BHP Annual Report 2018 215 7 Pension liabilities The Group operates the UK Executive fund in the United Kingdom.
A full actuarial valuation is prepared by the independent actuary to the fund as at 30 June 2018.
The defined benefit pension scheme exposes BHP Billiton Plc to a number of risks, including asset value volatility, interest rate, inflation, longevity and medical expense inflation risk.
The Group follows a coordinated strategy for the funding and investment of its defined benefit pension schemes subject to meeting all local requirements.
Scheme assets are predominantly invested in bonds and equities.
Amounts recognised in the BHP Billiton Plc balance sheet are as follows: 2018 2017 US$M US$M Present value of funded defined benefit obligation 15 15 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 6 6 Scheme deficit 9 9 Net liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 9 9 8 Share capital BHP Billiton Plc 2018 2017 Shares Shares Share capital issued issued and fully paid Opening number of shares 2,112,071,796 2,112,071,796 Purchase of shares by ESOP Trusts 679,223 225,646 Employee share awards exercised following vesting 711,705 940,070 Movement in treasury shares under Employee Share Plans 32,482 714,424 1 Closing number of shares 2,112,071,796 2,112,071,796 Comprising: Shares held by the public 2,112,030,162 2,111,997,680 Treasury shares 41,634 74,116 Other share classes Special Voting Share of US$0.50 par value 1 1 5.5% Preference shares of 1 each 50,000 50,000 1 The total number of BHP Billiton Plc shares for all classes is 2,112,071,796 of which 99.99 per cent are ordinary shares with a par value of US$0.50.
Refer to note 14 Share capital in section 5.1 for descriptions of the nature of share capital held.
9 Employee numbers 2018 2017 Number Number Average number of employees during the year including Executive Directors 1 1 10 Financial guarantees Under the terms of a Deed Poll Guarantee, BHP Billiton Plc has guaranteed certain current and future liabilities of BHP Billiton Limited.
At 30 June 2018, the guaranteed liabilities amounted to US$15,908 million 2017: US$18,493 million.
BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed the payment of the principal and premium, if any, and interest, including certain additional amounts that may be payable in respect of the notes issued by 100 per cent owned finance subsidiary BHP Billiton Finance USA Ltd. BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have guaranteed the payment of such amounts when they become due and payable, whether on an interest payment date, at the stated maturity of the notes, by declaration or acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
At 30 June 2018, the guaranteed liabilities amounted to US$9,486 million 2017: US$10,410 million.
Further, BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited have severally guaranteed a Group Revolving Credit Facility of US$6,000 million 2017: US$6,000 million, which remains undrawn.
At 30 June 2018, the liability recognised for financial guarantees was US$ nil 2017: US$ nil.
11 Financing facilities BHP Billiton Plc is a party to a revolving credit facility.
Refer to note 20 Financial risk management in section 5.1.
216 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 12 Other matters Note 35 Auditors remuneration in section 5.1 provides details of the remuneration of BHP Billiton Plcs auditor on a Group basis.
The Directors are remunerated by BHP Billiton Plc for their services to the Group as a whole.
No remuneration was paid to them specifically in respect of their services to BHP Billiton Plc.
Details of the Directors remuneration are disclosed in section 3.3 Annual report on remuneration.
BHP Billiton Plc had no capital or operating finance lease commitments as at 30 June 2018 2017: US$ nil.
13 Related undertakings of the Group In accordance with Section 409 of the UK Companies Act 2006 the following tables disclose a full list of related undertakings, the country of incorporation, the registered office address and the effective percentage of equity owned as at 30 June 2018.
Unless otherwise stated, the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary or common shares which are held by subsidiaries of the Group.
Refer to note 27 Subsidiaries, 28 Investments accounted for using the equity method and 29 Interests in joint operations in section 5.1 for undertakings that have a significant contribution to the Groups net profit or net assets.
a Wholly owned subsidiaries Country of incorporation Australia Argentina Level 14, 480 Queen Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, Australia Registered office address BHP Billiton Energy Coal Australia Pty Ltd Sarmiento 580, piso 4 5, Buenos Aires, C1041AAL, Argentina u w x BHP Billiton MetCoal Holdings Pty Ltd Company Name w x BHP Coal Pty Ltd BHP Petroleum Argentina S. A. BHP Minerals Asia Pacific Pty Ltd y BHP Queensland Coal Investments Pty Ltd w x Broadmeadow Mine Services Pty Ltd Australia w x Central Queensland Services Pty Ltd 125 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA 6000, Australia Coal Mines Australia Pty Ltd x aa BHP Billiton Towage Services Pty Ltd x z Dampier Coal Queensland Proprietary Limited x z BHP Billiton Direct Reduced Iron Pty Limited w x Hay Point Services Pty Limited BHP Billiton IO Mining Pty Ltd Hunter Valley Energy Coal Pty Ltd BHP Billiton IO Pilbara Mining Pty Ltd Mt Arthur Coal Pty Limited BHP Billiton IO Workshop Pty Ltd Mt Arthur Underground Pty Ltd u BHP Billiton Iron Ore Holdings Pty Ltd x aa OS ACPM Pty Ltd u x z BHP Billiton Iron Ore Pty Limited OS MCAP Pty Ltd g u x z BHP Billiton Minerals Pty Ltd Red Mountain Infrastructure Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Petroleum Australia Pty Ltd x z UMAL Consolidated Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Petroleum Bass Strait Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Petroleum International Exploration Pty Ltd Level 15, 171 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia BHP Billiton Petroleum North West Shelf Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Petroleum Victoria Pty Ltd Agnew Pastoral Company Pty Ltd u BHP Billiton Petroleum International Pty Ltd Albion Downs Pty Limited v 5 BHP Billiton Petroleum Investments Great Britain Pty Ltd BHP Billiton AUS DDS Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Petroleum Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Aluminium Australia Pty Ltd u BHP Billiton Towage Services Boodarie Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Finance USA Limited u BHP Billiton Towage Services Iron Brolga Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Finance Limited w x BHP Billiton Towage Services Iron Corella Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Group Operations Pty Ltd u w x BHP Billiton Towage Services Iron Ibis Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Innovation Pty Ltd u w x BHP Billiton Towage Services Iron Kestrel Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Lonsdale Investments Pty Ltd u BHP Billiton Towage Services Iron Osprey Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Marine & General Insurances Pty Ltd w x BHP Billiton Towage Services Iron Whistler Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Nickel West Pty Ltd w x BHP Billiton Towage Services Mallina Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Olympic Dam Corporation Pty Ltd u BHP Billiton Towage Services Mount Florance Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Shared Business Services Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Atlantis Pty Ltd BHP Billiton SSM Development Pty Ltd u BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Darwin Pty Ltd BHP Billiton SSM Indonesia Holdings Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Discovery Pty Ltd BHP Billiton SSM International Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Eduard Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Western Mining Resources International Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Endeavour Pty Ltd BHP Billiton Yakabindie Nickel Pty Ltd u BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Enterprise Pty Ltd BHP Capital No.
20 Pty Limited BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Force Pty Ltd BHP Group Pty Ltd u x z BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Inspiration Pty Ltd BHP Minerals Holdings Proprietary Limited BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Rotation Pty Ltd BHP Pty Ltd q u BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Sensation Pty Ltd BHP Titanium Minerals Pty Ltd u w x BHP Billiton Towage Services RT Tough Pty Ltd BHPB Freight Pty Ltd x aa BHP Billiton WAIO Pty Ltd Billiton Australia Finance Pty Ltd BHP Group Resources Pty Ltd Billiton Manganese Australia Pty Ltd u w x BHP Petroleum Cambodia Pty Ltd The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Pty Ltd x z Pilbara Gas Pty Limited Weebo Pastoral Company Pty Ltd United Iron Pty Ltd WMC Finance USA Limited BHP Annual Report 2018 217 13 Related undertakings of the Group continued Bermuda Chile Victoria Place, 31 Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM 10, Bermuda Cerro El Plomo 6000, Piso 15, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile j BHP Petroleum Tankers Limited BHP Billiton Chile Inversiones Limitada BHP Billiton Explorations Chile SpA j Compaa Minera Cerro Colorado Limitada Brazil Kelti S. A. Avenida Rio Branco, 110, 9 andar, sala 901, Centro, Rio fide Janeiro, Minera Spence SA 20040-001, Brazil Tamakaya Energa SpA BHP Billiton Brasil Explorao e Produo fide Petrleo Limitada BHP Billiton Brasil Investimentos fide Petrleo Ltda China Xin Mao Mansion, South Taizhong Road, Free Trade Zone Waigaoqiao, Rua Paraba, 1122, 5 andar, Belo Horizonte, MG, 30130-918, Brazil Shanghai, 200131, China Araguaia Participaes Ltda BHP Billiton International Trading Shanghai Co. Ltd BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda BHP Internacional Participaes Ltda Suite 1209, Level 12, One Corporate Avenue, 222 Hubin Road, Jenipapo Recursos Naturais Ltda Shanghai, Huangpu, China WMC Minerao Ltda BHP Billiton Technology Shanghai Co Ltd British Virgin Islands Ecuador Akara Building, 24 fide Castro Street, Wickhams Cay I, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands Av.
Amazonas, Edificio Patria Piso 10, Pichincha, Quito, Ecuador BHP Billiton UK Holdings Limited Cerro-Quebrado S. A. BHP Billiton UK Investments Limited Guernsey Canada Heritage Hall, Le Marchant Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 4HY, 1959 Upper Water Street, Suite 900, Halifax NS B3J 3N2, Canada Channel Islands BHP Billiton Petroleum New Ventures Corporation Stein Insurance Company Limited BHP Billiton Petroleum Philippines Corporation India 2900 550 Burrard Street, Vancouver BC V6C 0A3, Canada 12th Floor, One Horizon Centre, Golf Course Road, DLF Phase V, BHP Billiton Canada Inc. Sector 43, Gurgaon, HR, 122002, India BHP Billiton World Exploration Inc. BHP Billiton Marketing Services India Pvt Ltd BHP Minerals India Private Limited 333 Bay Street, Suite 2400, Bay Adelaide Centre, Box 20, Toronto ON M5H2T6, Canada Indonesia Rio Algom Exploration Inc. Midplaza 1 Building, Level 17, Jl.
10-11, Rio Algom Investments Chile Inc. JKT, 10220, Indonesia Rio Algom Limited PT BHP Billiton Indonesia WMC Resources Marketing Limited PT Billiton Indonesia 4500 Bankers Hall East, 855-2nd Street S. W. Calgary, Alberta, T2P 4K7, Canada MidPlaza 2 Building, Level 3, Jl.
10-11, JKT, 10220, Indonesia BHP Billiton Trinidad-2C Ltd PT BHP Billiton Services Indonesia Cayman Islands Ireland 2nd Floor Building 3, Governors Square 23 Lime Three Bay Avenue, Grand Cayman, KY1-1205, BWI, Cayman Islands 1920 Seagrave House 1st Floor, Earlsfort Terrace, DUB 2, Ireland Billiton Investments Ireland Limited Global BHP Copper Ltd RAL Cayman Inc. Japan 238 North Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-1102, 183 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Cayman Islands BHP Billiton Japan Limited Riocerro Inc. Riochile Inc. Jersey 31 Esplanade, St Helier, JE1 1FT, Jersey BHP Billiton Services Jersey Limited Malaysia Level 191 Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara, 50490, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia BHP Billiton Shared Services Malaysia Sdn.
218 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 13 Related undertakings of the Group continued Mexico South Africa Bosque fide Ciruelos 180 PP 101, Bosques fide las Lomas, Miguel Hidalgo, 6 Hollard Street, Johannesburg, 2001, South Africa Mexico City, 11700, Mexico Consolidated Nominees Proprietary Limited l BHP Billiton Petrleo Servicios Administrativos S. fide R. L. fide C. V. l BHP Billiton Petrleo Servicios fide Mxico S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 6th Floor, 119 Hertzog Boulevard, Foreshore, Cape Town, 8001, l Operaciones Conjuntas S. fide R. L. fide C. V. South Africa Global Offshore Oil Exploration South Africa Proprietary Limited Guillermo Gonzalez Camarena No.
1600, Piso 6 B, Col. Santa Fe, Centro fide Ciuda, 01210, Mexico 7 West Street, Houghton, 2198, South Africa l BHP Billiton Petrleo Holdings fide Mxico S. fide R. L. fide C. V. l Phoenix Mining Finance Company Proprietary Limited BHP Billiton Petrleo Operaciones fide Mxico S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Switzerland Netherlands Joechlerweg 2, CH-6341, Baar, Switzerland Naritaweg 165, 1043 BW, AMS, Netherlands BHP Billiton Marketing AG BHP Billiton Company B. V. BHP Billiton International Metals B. V. Billiton Development B. V. Trinidad and Tobago Billiton Investment 3 B. V. Invaders Bay Tower, Invaders Bay, off Audrey Jeffers Highway, Billiton Investment 8 B. V. Port of Spain, Trinidad, Trinidad and Tobago Billiton Marketing Holding B. V. BHP Billiton Trinidad-3A Ltd Nova South, 160 Victoria Street, London, England, SW1E 5LB, United Kingdom United Kingdom 36 East Stockwell Street, Colchester, Essex, CO1 1ST, England, BHP Billiton Finance B. V. United Kingdom Billiton Guinea B. V. Billiton Executive Pension Scheme Trustee Limited Billiton Suriname Holdings B. V. 88 Leadenhall Street, London, England, EC3A 3BP, United Kingdom Panama u The World Marine & General Insurance Plc 33 Central Avenue, City of Panama, Republic of Panama h i Marcona International S. A. Nova South, 160 Victoria Street, London, England, SW1E 5LB, United Kingdom Papua New Guinea u BHP Billiton UK DDS Limited 4th Floor Mogoru Moto Building, Champion Parade, Port Moresby, BHP Billiton UK Limited Papua New Guinea v BHP Billiton Finance Plc u v BHP Billiton PNG Services Limited BHP Billiton Group Limited 5 BHP Billiton Holdings Limited BHP Billiton International Services Limited Saint Lucia u BHP Billiton Investment Holdings Limited Pointe Seraphine, Castries, St Lucia h BHP Billiton Marketing UK Limited BHP Billiton Trinidad Holdings Ltd BHP Billiton Petroleum Bimshire Limited BHP Billiton Petroleum Brazil Limited BHP Billiton Petroleum Carlisle Bay Limited Singapore BHP Billiton Petroleum Mexico Limited 10 Marina Boulevard, #50-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 2, 018983, Singapore BHP Billiton Petroleum Sarawak Limited g BHP Billiton Petroleum South Africa 3B 4B Limited BHP Billiton Freight Singapore Pte Limited BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 14 Limited BHP Billiton Marketing Asia Pte Ltd g BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 23A Limited g BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 23B Limited 8 Marina View #0905, Asia Square Tower 1, 018960, Singapore g BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 28 Limited m g Westminer Insurance Pte Ltd BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 29 Limited BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 3 Limited g BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 5 Limited 80 Robinson Road, #0200, 068898, Singapore g BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 6 Limited BHP Billiton SSM Indonesia Pte Ltd BHP Billiton Petroleum Trinidad Block 7 Limited BHP Billiton Petroleum Great Britain Limited BHP Billiton Petroleum Limited BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities BHP Group Limited BHP Minerals Europe Limited BHP Annual Report 2018 219 13 Related undertakings of the Group continued United States of America United States of America 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, Suite B, 1675 South State Street, Dover, fide, 19901, United States of America United States of America BHP Billiton Boliviana fide Petrleo Inc. 141 Union Company BHP Billiton Marketing Inc. BHP Billiton Capital Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Americas Inc. BHP Billiton Energy Coal Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Arkansas Holdings Inc. BHP Billiton Foreign Holdings Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Deepwater Inc. BHP Billiton New Mexico Coal Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Fayetteville L. L. C BHP Finance International Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Foreign Exploration Holdings L. L. C BHP Holdings International Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum GOM Inc. BHP Holdings Resources Inc. l n u BHP Billiton Petroleum KCS Resources L. L. C BHP Holdings USA Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Mexico Holdings L. L. C BHP International Finance Corp BHP Billiton Petroleum North America Inc. BHP Minerals Exploration Inc. h i BHP Billiton Petroleum Holdings USA Inc. BHP Minerals International Exploration Inc. BHP Billiton Petroleum Holdings L. L. C BHP Minerals International L. L. C l BHP Billiton Petroleum Properties LP L. L. C BHP Minerals Service Company BHP Chile Inc. BHP Resources Inc. BHP Copper Inc. WMC Argentina Inc. BHP Escondida Inc. WMC Corporate Services Inc. BHP Holdings International Investments Inc. BHP Mineral Resources Inc. 202 South Minnesota Street, Carson City, NV, 89703, BHP Peru Holdings Inc. United States of America BHPB Resolution Holdings L. L. C u y BHP Queensland Coal Limited Broken Hill Proprietary USA Inc. Hamilton Brothers Petroleum Corporation Zambia Hamilton Oil Company Inc. Unit B, Counting House Square, Thabo Mbeki Road, Lusaka, Zambia IPS USA Inc. Petrohawk Energy Corporation BHP Billiton Zambia Limited Rio Algom Mining L. L. C Billiton Development Zambia Limited South Texas Shale L. L. C b Subsidiaries where effective interest is less than 100 per cent 1500 Post Oak Boulevard, Houston, TX, 77056-3030, Country of incorporation United States of America Australia BHP Billiton Foundation Registered office address 125 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA 6000, Australia Company Name 1833 South Morgan Road, Oklahoma City, OK, 73128-7004, o t United States of America BHP Iron Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd 85% l BHP Billiton Petroleum Tx Gathering L. L. C Level 14, 480 Queen Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, Australia k 3867 Plaza Tower Drive, Baton Rouge, LA, 70816-4378, BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd 80% United States of America BHP Billiton Petroleum WSF Operating Inc Brazil l Winwell Resources L. L. C Rua Paraba, 1122, 5 andar, Belo Horizonte, MG, 30130-918, Brazil Consrcio Santos Luz fide Imveis Ltda 90% Suite 1900, 124 West Capitol Avenue, Little Rock, AR, 72201, United States of America BHP Billiton Petroleum Arkansas Inc. Chile Cerro El Plomo 6000, Piso 15, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile j Suite 301, 1136 Union Mall, Honolulu, HI, 96813, Minera Escondida Ltda 57.5% United States of America BHP Hawaii Inc. Philippines Pearlbank Centre, 20th Floor 146 Valero Street, Salcedo Village, Suite 500, 6100 Neil Road, Reno, NV, 89511, Makati City, 1227, Philippines United States of America BHP Billiton Philippines Inc. 99.99% Carson Hill Gold Mining Corporation QNI Philippines Inc. 99.99% Suite 900, 1999 Bryan Street, Dallas, TX, 75201-3136, The Curve, Level 9 32nd St Corner 3rd Avenue, Bonifacio United States of America Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines BHP Billiton Petroleum TxLa Operating Company BHP Shared Services Philippines Inc. 99.99% l BHP Billiton Petroleum Properties GP L. L. C r BHP Billiton Petroleum Properties N. A. LP 220 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 13 Related undertakings of the Group continued The Democratic Republic of the Congo Liberia Siege social 87B, Boulevard du 30 juin, Kinshasa, Gombe, 80 Broad Street, Monrovia, Liberia The Democratic Republic of the Congo Blue Ocean Bulk Shipping Limited 50% Lubilanji Mining SPRL Lumi SPRL 51% Singapore United States of America 10 Marina Boulevard, #5001 Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 2, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States of America 018983, Singapore h BHP Billiton Petroleum Eagle Ford Gathering L. L. C 75% BM Alliance Marketing Pte Ltd 50% c Joint operations South Africa Country of incorporation Roger Dyason Road, Pretoria West, 0183, South Africa Algeria Thakweneng Mineral Resources Pty Ltd 50% Registered office address 125 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA 6000, Australia Company Name Trinidad and Tobago s ROD Integrated Development 29.50% 4850 Sackville Street, Port of Spain, Trinidad, Trinidad and Tobago s Greater Angostura 45% Australia 125 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA 6000, Australia United Kingdom s Bass Strait 50% Nova South, 160 Victoria Street, London, England, SW1E 5LB, s JW4 68% United Kingdom s s Macedon 71.43% Bruce 16% s Minerva 90% s Keith 31.83% s Mt Goldsworthy 85% s Mt Newman 85% United States of America s North West Shelf 12.516.67% s 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, Posmac 65% United States of America s Pyrenees 4071.43% s s Eagle Ford 1100% Stybarrow 50% s s Fayetteville 1100% Wheelarra 51% s s Gulf of Mexico 23.944% Yandi 85% s Haynesville 1100% ESSO House, 12 Riverside Quay, Southbank, VIC 3006, Australia 1833 South Morgan Road, Oklahoma City, OK, 73128-7004, Southern Natural Gas Development Pty Limited 50% United States of America s Permian 1100% 5 Level 14, 480 Queen Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, Australia d Joint ventures and associates BM Alliance Coal Marketing Pty Limited 50% BM Alliance Coal Operations Pty Limited 50% Country of incorporation Anguilla s Central Queensland Coal Associates 50% s Registered office address Gregory 50% Harlaw Chambers, The Valley, Anguilla South Blackwater Coal Pty Limited 50% Company Name Carbones del Cerrejn Limited 33.33% Level 16, Alluvion Building, 58 Mounts Bay Road, Perth, WA 6000, Australia North West Shelf Gas Pty Limited 16.67% Australia i North West Shelf Liaison Company Pty Ltd 16.67% 30 Raven St, Kooragang, NSW 2304, Australia h North West Shelf Lifting Coordinator Pty Ltd 16.67% NCIG Holdings Pty Ltd 35.47% North West Shelf Shipping Service Company Pty Ltd 16.67% Level 20, 500 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia Canada Rightship Pty Limited 33.33% Suite 1500, 1874 Scarth Street, Regina, SK, S4P 4E9, Canada BHP Billiton SaskPower Carbon Capture and Storage CCS l Brazil Knowledge Centre Inc. 50% Rua Paraba, 1122, 9o andar, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil Japan Samarco Minerao S. A.
50% 183 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Colombia BMA Japan KK 50% Calle 100 #1954, Bogota, Colombia Cerrejn Zona Norte S. A.
33.33% BHP Annual Report 2018 221 13 Related undertakings of the Group continued e Minority Investments Ireland Country of incorporation Furnbally Square, New Street, DUB 8, Ireland Australia CMC-Coal Marketing DAC 33.33% Registered office address 125 St Georges Terrace, Perth, WA 6000, Australia Netherlands Company Name Herikerbergweg 238, AMS, 1101 CM, The Netherlands Pilbara Pastoral Company Pty Limited 25% p Global HubCo B. V. 33.33% 727 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC 3008, Australia Peru Commonwealth Steamship Insurance Company Pty Limited 29.72% Interstate Steamship Insurance Company Pty Ltd 24.91% Av El Derby N 066 Torre 1 Of 801, Santiago del Surco, Lima, Peru Compaa Minera Antamina S. A.
33.75% Brazil Rodovia do Sol, S N, Ponta Ubu, Anchieta, ES, 29230-000, Brazil United States of America Ponta Ubu Agropecuria Ltda.
49% 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States of America l Caesar Oil Pipeline Company L. L. C 25% Jersey l Cleopatra Gas Gathering Company L. L. C 22% 13 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey Channel Islands, JE4 5UT, Jersey Euronimba Limited 45.2% 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington fide 19808, United States Resolution Copper Mining L. L. C 45% 9807 Katy Freeway, Suite 1200, Houston, TX, 77024, United States of America l Marine Well Containment Company L. L. C 10% a Wholly owned 100 per cent subsidiary consolidated by the Group.
b Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100 per cent but controlled by the Group.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Groups share of the assets in joint operations, together with its share of the liabilities, revenues and expenses arising jointly or otherwise from those operations and its revenue derived from the sale of its share of output from the joint operation.
d Investments accounted for using the equity method.
e Minority investments held by the Group in which there is a non-controlling interest.
f Ownership held in ordinary and deferred shares.
g Ownership held in ordinary and preference shares.
h Ownership held in class A shares.
i Ownership held in class B shares.
k Ownership held in redeemable preference, class A and class B shares.
m Ownership in ordinary redeemable preference shares.
n Ownership held in class A common shares.
o Ownership held in preference A and class B shares.
p Ownership in preference B. q Ownership in ordinary and special share classes L and M. r Partnership.
s Joint operation held by a subsidiary of the Group.
t The Group has an effective interest of 92.5 per cent in BHP Iron Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd, however by virtue of the shareholder agreement with ITOCHU Minerals & Energy of Australia Pty Ltd and Mitsui & Co. Iron Ore Exploration & Mining Pty Ltd, the Groups interest in the Jimblebar mining operation is 85 per cent which is consistent with the other respective contractual arrangements at Western Australia Iron Ore. u Directly held by BHP Billiton Ltd. v Directly held by BHP Billiton Plc.
w These companies are parties to the Limited Deed of Cross Guarantee, originally entered into on 6 June 2016, and members of the Closed Group, as at 30 June 2018. x These companies are parties to the Limited Deed of Cross Guarantee and are relieved from the Corporations Act 2001 requirements for preparation, audit and lodgement of financial reports and Directors reports.
y These companies were removed from the Limited Deed of Cross Guarantee based on the Revocation Deed executed on 20 December 2016. z These companies were added into the Limited Deed of Cross Guarantee based on the Assumption Deed executed on 29 June 2017 and are members of the Closed Group, as at 30 June 2017. aa These companies were added into the Limited Deed of Cross Guarantee based on the Assumption Deed executed on 26 June 2018 and are members of the Closed Group, as at 30 June 2018.
222 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 5.3 Directors declaration In accordance with a resolution of the Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, the Directors declare that: a in the Directors opinion and to the best of their knowledge the Financial Statements and notes, set out in sections 5.1 and 5.2, are in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 and the Australian Corporations Act 2001, including: i complying with the applicable Accounting Standards: ii giving a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of each of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc, the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole as at 30 June 2018 and of their performance for the year ended 30 June 2018: b the Financial Statements also comply with International Financial Reporting Standards, as disclosed in section 5.1: c to the best of the Directors knowledge, the management report comprising the Strategic Report and Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the financial position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces: d in the Directors opinion there are reasonable grounds to believe that each of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and the Group will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due and payable: e in the Directors opinion, as at the date of this declaration, there are reasonable grounds to believe that BHP Billiton Limited and each of the Closed Group entities identified in note 13 in section 5.2 will be able to meet any liabilities to which they are or may become subject to, because of the Deed of Cross Guarantee between BHP Billiton Limited and those group entities pursuant to ASIC Corporations Wholly-owned Companies Instrument 2016 785: f the Directors have been given the declarations required by Section 295A of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer for the financial year ended 30 June 2018.
Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors.
5 Ken MacKenzie Chairman Andrew Mackenzie Chief Executive Officer Dated this 6th day of September 2018 BHP Annual Report 2018 223 5.4 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Group and Parent company Financial Statements in accordance with that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial applicable law and regulations.
References to the Group and Parent position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that company Financial Statements are made in relation to the Group and its Financial Statements comply with the UK Companies Act 2006. individual Parent company Financial Statements of BHP Billiton Plc.
They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are UK company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and company Financial Statements for each financial year.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected and detect fraud and other irregularities.
to prepare the Parent company Financial Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Accepted Accounting Practice.
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance The Group Financial Statements must, in accordance with IFRS as Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
adopted by the EU and applicable law, present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: references in the UK The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companies Act 2006 to such Financial Statements giving a true corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation The Parent company Financial Statements must, in accordance in other jurisdictions.
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the parent company for the financial year.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the Parent company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent company Financial Statements: assess the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, related matters: use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
224 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 5.5 Lead Auditors Independence Declaration under Section 307C of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 To the Directors of BHP Billiton Limited: I declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, in relation to the audit of BHP Billiton Limited for the financial year ended 30 June 2018 there have been: i no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements as set out in the Australian Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit: and ii no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit.
This declaration is in respect of BHP Billiton Limited and the entities it controlled during the year.
KPMG Anthony Young Partner Melbourne 6 September 2018 KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative KPMG International, a Swiss entity.
KPMG Australias Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation.
5 BHP Annual Report 2018 225 5.6 Independent Auditors reports Independent auditors reports of KPMG LLP KPMG UK B. KPMG UKs additional opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB is unmodified to the members of BHP Billiton Plc and of KPMG KPMG Australia to the members of BHP Billiton Limited As explained in section 5.1 Basis of preparation to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its 1.
Opinions legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, has also applied For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion the Consolidated Financial KPMG UK in relation to UK responsibilities and reporting obligations Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs to the members of BHP Billiton Plc, and KPMG Australia in relation as issued by the IASB.
to Australian responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of BHP Billiton Limited.
BHP the Group consists of BHP Billiton Plc, C. KPMG Australias opinion on the Consolidated Financial BHP Billiton Limited and the entities they controlled during the Statements is unmodified financial year ended 30 June 2018.
In our opinion the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements, are in accordance with the Australian Corporations Act 2001, including: We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements which comprise the: Giving a true and fair view of the Groups financial position as at 30 June 2018 and of its financial performance for the year Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2018: ended on that date: and Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement Complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Changes Corporations Regulations 2001. in Equity and Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: and 2.
Basis for opinions Notes to the Financial Statements including a summary of significant We conducted our audits in accordance with Australian Auditing accounting policies.
Standards and International Standards on Auditing UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under these standards are further described In addition: in the Auditors responsibilities for the audits of the Financial KPMG UK has audited the BHP Billiton Plc company Financial Statements item of our report below.
We believe that the audit Statements for the year ended 30 June 2018, which comprise evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide the unconsolidated parent company Balance Sheet and related a basis for our opinions, and KPMG UK notes that its opinions are notes: and consistent with its report to the Risk and Audit Committee.
KPMG Australia considers the Directors declaration to be part of the Consolidated Financial Statements when forming its opinion We were first appointed as auditors by the Directors on 3 May 2002. under the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is the 16 financial years ended 30 June 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities A. KPMG UKs opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with: and BHP Billiton Plc company Financial Statements collectively the the Australian Corporations Act 2001: the relevant ethical requirements Financial Statements is unmodified of the Australian Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards In our opinion the: Boards APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants: Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the and UK ethical requirements, including the UK FRC Ethical Standard Groups and of BHP Billiton Plcs affairs as at 30 June 2018 and as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services of the Groups profit for the year then ended: prohibited by the UK FRC Ethical Standard were provided.
Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU : BHP Billiton Plc company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and, as regards to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
226 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 3.
Key audit matters including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audits of the Financial Statements for the current year and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for EU public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audits of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinions thereon, and consequently are incidental to those opinions, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Valuation, classification and presentation of Onshore US assets new Key Audit Matter for 2018 Assets held for sale: US$11.9 billion 2017: US$ nil Liabilities held for sale: US$1.2 billion 2017: US$ nil Loss after taxation from Discontinued operations: US$2.9 billion 2017: US$0.5 billion As at 30 June 2018, the Group was in the process of Our procedures included: divesting its Onshore US business.
Testing key controls over the valuation, classification and presentation of the Onshore US assets, including those to determine the impairment charge: Given the status of the divestment process at year end Evaluating the terms of the signed Share Purchase Agreements: the Group has disclosed its Onshore US assets as held for sale and presented the results of the business as Checking the impairment charge by comparing the carrying value of the a discontinued operation.
assets and liabilities to their recoverable amount: by reference to the consideration as per the Share Purchase Agreements: Subsequent to year end, the Group signed Share Purchase Assessing the classification of the assets and liabilities classified as held for Agreements to sell these assets.
This provided market sale against the detailed terms of the Share Purchase Agreements: evidence for the recoverable amount of these assets and Checking the accuracy of the Groups comparative disclosures for restating resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$2.9 billion.
amounts as discontinued in line with the requirements of the accounting The valuation and classification of the Onshore US assets standards: and was a key audit matter due to: Evaluating the disclosures including the classification of the assets and the proposed divestment being significant to the liabilities as held for sale and its presentation as a discontinued operation understanding of the financial performance and financial against the criteria in the accounting standards.
We challenged the inclusion position of the Group: or not of amounts using their features and their role in the continuing business.
the size of the impairment charge: and Results: We considered the classification and carrying amount of assets and the judgements we applied in considering the treatment of liabilities held for sale and related disclosures to be acceptable.
specific items as discontinued using the criteria in the accounting standards.
Refer to note 26 Discontinued operations and section 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Onshore US divestment Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Samarco Risk v 2017: Losses attributable to the dam failure pre-tax and finance costs : US$0.6 billion 2017: US$0.3 billion Provision: US$1.3 billion 2017: US$1.1 billion 5 Contingent liability disclosure There are a number of complex accounting judgements Our procedures included: and disclosures made by the Group resulting from the Testing key controls over the accounting and disclosures associated with Samarco dam failure including: the dam failure: Determining the legal status of claims made Assessing the existence of legal and or constructive obligations under the against Samarco and BHP and the appropriate Samarco shareholders agreement, Brazilian law or because of the Groups accounting treatment: public statements and determining if these have been disclosed in the Determining the extent of BHP Billiton Brasil Ltdas Financial Statements in accordance with applicable accounting standards: BHP Billiton Brasil legal obligation to provide funding Assessing the key assumptions used to determine the provision recorded by to Samarco and the quantification of that obligation in BHP Billiton Brasil in relation to its potential funding obligation.
We assessed line with the requirements of the Governance Agreement, the activities described in the Framework Agreement and compared these Framework Agreement and Preliminary Agreement: and to the assumptions in the cashflow forecasts.
This included assessment of Disclosure of contingent liabilities associated with the the amount and timing of forecast cash flows, discount rate, foreign exchange various claims and other circumstances that represent rates and the ability of Samarco to meet its obligations: exposures to Samarco and BHP and that cannot be Instructing Samarcos auditor to undertake specified audit procedures over reliably estimated.
the timing and forecast cash flows in relation to the obligations required Samarco was a key audit matter due to: under the Governance Agreement, Framework Agreement and Preliminary Agreement and evaluating the outcome of these procedures: the significant size of the potential claims: Evaluating the historic accuracy of the prior year forecasted cash flows: the high degree of estimation uncertainty: and Assessing the completeness of the disclosures relating to contingent liabilities the level of judgement required to be applied by through inspection of the Groups internal legal documentation, inquiry of us when assessing the legal claims and BHP Billiton legal personnel and senior management and inspection of documentation Brasils obligations.
provided by external legal counsel.
In addition, we instructed Samarcos auditor to undertake specified audit procedures in relation to the contingent liabilities of Samarco and evaluated the outcome of these procedures: and Assessing that the Groups disclosures detailing significant legal proceedings adequately disclose the potential liabilities of the Group.
Results: We considered the level of provisioning and related disclosures to be acceptable.
Refer to note 3 Significant events Samarco dam failure and section 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Samarco dam failure.
Key audit matters including our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Taxation Risk v 2017: Income tax expense including royalties : US$7.0 billion 2017: US$4.4 billion Current tax payable: US$1.8 billion 2017: US$2.1 billion Contingent liability disclosure The Group has operations in multiple countries, each with Our procedures included: its own taxation regime.
The nature of the Groups activities Testing key controls relating to the accounting for and the disclosure triggers various taxation obligations including corporation of tax related transactions and matters: tax, royalties, other resource and production based taxes Working with our tax specialists in Australia, Chile and the United States and employment related taxes.
The cross-border nature to evaluate the Groups tax obligations.
We made inquiries of management of the Groups commodity sales also creates complexities and inspected internally and externally prepared documentation to associated with international transfer pricing.
understand current disputes and uncertain tax positions.
We considered documentation from recent similar tax rulings and cases to assess the The US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act US tax reform was signed completeness of tax matters identified and the Groups conclusions into law on 22 December 2017.
This reform significantly regarding the status, possible outcomes and associated exposures: changed US corporate income tax law by: Assessing the consistency of assumptions used in estimating provisions reducing the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%: and contingent liabilities for key tax exposures, including those in creating a territorial tax system with a one-time Australia, Chile and the United States, such as the estimated range mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign for potential litigation and settlement outcomes.
We compared these earnings : and assumptions with public statements and disclosures made by the broadening the tax base and allowing for immediate Group, which related to these matters, for consistency: and expensing of certain qualified property.
Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax Tax was a key audit matter due to: and ongoing tax matters.
the application of taxation legislation to the Groups In relation to the US tax reform additional procedures included: affairs, including the introduction of the US tax reform, Working with our tax specialists in the United States to understand the which is inherently complex and highly specialised: and legislation and to consider its application to the Groups circumstances: the judgement required to be exercised by us in relation Testing the completeness of the Groups assessment of the tax accounting to assessing the Groups estimation of tax exposures, impact with reference to the legislation: associated provisions and contingent liabilities.
Comparing the key inputs used in the Groups model of the impacts of the US tax reform to previously audited underlying historical accounting records in particular relating to the one-time mandatory tax: and Testing the mathematical accuracy of the model used to determine the accounting impact by performing recalculations of the Groups assessment.
Results: We considered the level of tax provisioning and related disclosures to be acceptable.
Refer to note 5 Income tax expense Recognition and measurement and section 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Tax and royalty liabilities.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Asset valuation Risk v 2017: Property, plant and equipment: US$67.2 billion 2017: US$80.5 billion Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles pre-tax : US$0.3 billion 2017: US$0.2 billion Fixed assets Investments in subsidiaries of BHP Billiton Plc: US$3.1 billion 2017: US$3.1 billion The asset valuation risk is considered less significant in 2018 due to the separation of the valuation risk related to the Onshore US assets.
The carrying value of the Groups portfolio of assets has Our procedures included: been impacted by sustained volatility in commodity prices.
Testing key controls over the valuation of the Groups property, plant and equipment including those to determine asset impairments or reversals: The key area of judgement of the Group is whether there Evaluating the Groups assessment of impairment triggers as well as any are any indicators of impairment or impairment reversal.
indicators of impairment reversal by: As part of this they perform an assessment of future cash flows for each Cash Generating Unit CGU.
This is used Evaluating the forecast commodity prices incorporated into the Groups to assess the recoverable value of property, plant and impairment testing including comparison to available market data: equipment in the Groups Consolidated Financial Comparing operating and future capital expenditure and reserve life Statements and the recoverable amount of the investments data to the latest approved mine plans and budgets.
We assessed the in subsidiaries in the BHP Billiton Plc parent company historical accuracy of the prior year mine plans and budgets: Financial Statements.
The future cash flows use forward Evaluating the competency and objectivity of experts who produced looking estimates which are inherently difficult to the reserve estimates used in the valuations by considering their determine with precision.
There is also a level of judgement professional qualifications, experience, use of industry accepted applied in determining the other key inputs.
methodology, remuneration structure and reporting lines: Asset valuation was a key audit matter because of: Working with our valuation specialists to compare key assumptions such as discount rates, inflation rates, country specific risk rates and foreign the size of the balances being 60% of the Groups total exchange rates to external market data: and assets : and Performing sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions.
the level of judgement applied by us in evaluating the reasonableness of the inputs used in assessing Assessing the impact of changes in the valuation of these assets on the the Groups assessment of the recoverable value carrying value of investments in the BHP Billiton Plc parent company of the assets.
Results: We considered the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investments to be acceptable.
Refer to note 10 Property, plant and equipment Recognition and measurement, note 11 Intangible assets Recognition and measurement, section 5.2 BHP Billiton Plc and section 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Carrying value of long-term assets excluding Onshore US.
228 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Closure and rehabilitation provisions Risk v 2017: Closure and rehabilitation provisions: US$6.3 billion 2017: US$6.7 billion Given the nature of its operations, the Group incurs Our procedures included: obligations to close, restore and rehabilitate its sites.
Closure Testing key controls over the estimation of closure and rehabilitation and rehabilitation activities are governed by a combination provisions: of legislative requirements and Group policies.
Significant Working with our specialists to assess the reasonableness of estimates estimates over life of mine and reserves are made by the of life of mine and reserves used by the Group in its significant closure Group in determining its rehabilitation provision.
and rehabilitation provisions based on the known reserves and the expected production profile of the reserves: The calculation of closure and rehabilitation provisions requires significant judgement due to the inherent Assessing the work of the Groups mine closure specialists in identifying complexity in estimating the quantum and timing of future rehabilitation activities against legislative requirements and assessing their costs and determining an appropriate rate to discount timing and likely cost.
We evaluated their methodology against industry these costs back to their present value.
The majority of the practice and our understanding of the business.
We also evaluated the Groups assets are long-life which increases the estimation competency and objectivity of the mine closure specialists based on their uncertainty relating to future cash flows.
professional qualifications, experience, use of industry accepted methodology, remuneration structure and reporting lines: and Closure and rehabilitation provisions was a key audit matter Evaluating the key economic assumptions used in the calculation of due to: significant closure and rehabilitation provisions, including the discount the significant size relative to the Groups financial rate applied to calculate the net present value of the provision and foreign position: and exchange rates used in translating the future obligations.
The assumptions the level of judgement applied by us in evaluating were compared against market observable data including risk free rates.
managements estimates of the quantum and timing Results: We considered the level of closure and rehabilitation provisioning of future costs and assessing the rate used to discount to be acceptable.
the costs back to their present value.
Refer to note 13 Closure and rehabilitation provisions Recognition and measurement and section 2.13.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Closure and rehabilitation provisions.
and the volatility in commodity prices impacting current levels 4.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of profitability.
Materiality represents approximately four per cent of of our audits the three year average Group profit before taxation and exceptional The materiality for the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements items for Continuing operations exceptional items is defined in was set at US$400 million 2017: US$400 million.
Materiality has note 2 to the Financial Statements, and one per cent of Group been determined with reference to a benchmark of the three year revenue 2017: five per cent and one per cent respectively.
average Group profit before taxation and exceptional items for Continuing operations i. e. normalised profit, of US$10.5 billion, Materiality for BHP Billiton Plc parent company Financial Statements which we consider to be one of the principal considerations for as a whole was set at US$146 million 2017: US$83 million, determined users in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
with reference to a benchmark of total assets, of which it represents one per cent 2017: one per cent.
Materiality for the Group Financial Statements We agreed to report to the Risk and Audit Committee all corrected Average profit before and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit in taxation and exceptional excess of US$20 million 2017: US$20 million.
We report other audit items for Continuing operations Group Materiality misstatements below that threshold that we believe warrant reporting US$10,537M 2017: US$8,261M US$400M 2017: US$400M on qualitative grounds.
For those items excluded from normalised US$400M 5 Group Financial profit, component auditors performed procedures on items relating Statements to their components.
The Group audit team performed procedures materiality 2017: US$400M on the remaining excluded items.
In order to achieve appropriate audit coverage of the risks described US$220M above and of each individually significant component of the Group, Range of materiality including each asset, segment and group function: at components US$120M US$220M Of the Groups 10 2017: 10 reporting components, we subjected 2017: US$60M to US$220M 6 2017: 6 to full scope audits for Group purposes and 4 2017: 4 to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require a full scope US$20M Misstatements audit for Group purposes, but did present specific individual Average profit before taxation reported to the and exceptional items for risks that needed to be addressed.
For the residual components, Continuing operations audit committee 2017: US$20M we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine Group materiality our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The components within the scope The use of a normalised three year average profit measure is of our work accounted for the following percentages of the consistent with the approach used last year, and this approach is 1 Groups measures : considered to be appropriate given the cyclical nature of the industry Group revenue % Group profit before tax % Group total assets % 1 2 1 8 5 9 3 5 1 9 10 8 99% 98% 99% 2017: 97% 2017: 95% 2017: 99% Full scope audits 2018 Audits of account balances 2018 Full scope audits 2017 87 87 90 Audits of account balances 2017 91 93 90 Out of scope 1 Presented as a percentage of the Groups consolidated result at 30 June 2018.
BHP Annual Report 2018 229 C. Corporate governance disclosures 4.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audits continued We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge The work on 9 of the 10 components 2017: 9 of the 10 components we acquired during our financial statements audit and the was performed by component auditors and the rest, including Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group and Financial Statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and audit team.
understandable and provides the information necessary for Audit instructions set out the significant audit areas and include shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, the relevant risks detailed above, materiality thresholds which business model and strategy: or ranged from US$120 million to US$220 million 2017: ranged the Risk and Audit Committee report does not appropriately address from US$60 million to US$220 million and specific reporting matters communicated by us to the Risk and Audit Committee.
The Group audit team directed the work undertaken by component auditors, through a combination We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance of related inter-office reporting, regular interaction on audit Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven and accounting matters, periodic site visits and review of provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the specific audit work papers.
UK Listing Rules for our review.
The 10 reporting components cover 6 geographical locations We have nothing to report in these respects.
being Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Singapore and the United States.
During the year the Group audit team performed 7.
Report on the Remuneration Report visits to each of the Groups reporting components.
A. KPMG UKs opinion on the Remuneration Report 5.
Other information In our opinion the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited set out in section 3 of the Annual Report has been properly prepared Other information is financial and non-financial information in the in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
Groups Annual Report which is provided in addition to the Financial Statements and the auditors reports.
The Directors are responsible B. KPMG Australias opinion on the Remuneration Report for the other information presented in the Annual Report together We have audited the Remuneration Report set out in section 3 of the with the Financial Statements.
Our opinions on the Financial Annual Report.
The Directors of BHP Billiton Limited are responsible Statements do not cover the other information, and, accordingly, for the preparation and presentation of the Remuneration Report in we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated accordance with Section 300A of the Australian Corporations Act in items 6 and 7 below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Remuneration In connection with our audits of the Financial Statements, our Report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Auditing Standards.
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent In our opinion, the Remuneration Report of BHP Billiton Limited for with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the the year ended 30 June 2018 complies with Section 300A of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
We are required to report if we conclude that there is a material 8.
KPMG UK has nothing to report on the other matters on misstatement of this other information.
Based solely on that which we are required to report by exception work, we have not identified material misstatements in the Under the UK Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you other information.
KPMG UKs reporting on specific sections of the adequate accounting records have not been kept by BHP Billiton other information Plc, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from A.
Strategic Report and Directors Report branches not visited by us: or Based solely on our work on the other information: the BHP Billiton Plc company Financial Statements and the part we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Report and the Directors Report: with the accounting records and returns: or in our opinion the information given in those reports for the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are financial year is consistent with the Financial Statements: and not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance require for our audit.
with the UK Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks, going concern and We have nothing to report in these respects.
longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within section 1.6.
4 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Risk factors disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: the Directors statement in section 5.4 to the Financial Statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and BHP Billiton Plcs use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: and the Directors explanation in section 1.6.
4 of the Annual Report of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review section 4.3 of the Annual Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
230 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout 9.
Respective responsibilities our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance A.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements throughout the audit.
This included communication from the The statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Group audit team to component audit teams of relevant laws and Annual Report and the Financial Statements in section 5.4 regulations identified at Group level, with a request to report on any describes the Directors responsibility for the preparation of the indications of potential existence of non-compliance with relevant Annual Report including the Consolidated Financial Statements laws and regulations irregularities in these areas, or other areas and the BHP Billiton Plc company Financial Statements directly identified by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection The Directors are responsible for: of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, preparing Financial Statements that give a true and fair view as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, in accordance with the relevant financial reporting frameworks: misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
implementing necessary internal controls to enable the preparation 10.
The purpose of our audit work, to whom we owe of Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free our responsibilities from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error: and KPMG UKs report is made solely to BHP Billiton Plcs members, as assessing the Group and BHP Billiton Plcs ability to continue a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the UK Companies as a going concern and whether the use of going concern basis Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement by that company.
KPMG of accounting is appropriate.
This includes disclosing, as applicable, Australias report is made solely to BHP Billiton Limiteds members, matters related to going concern, and using the going concern as a body, in accordance with the Australian Corporations Act 2001. basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Group or BHP Billiton Plc or to cease operations, or have no members of each company those matters we are required to state realistic alternative but to do so.
to them in an auditors report, and the further matters we are required B.
Auditors responsibilities for the audits of the Financial Statements to state to them in accordance with the terms agreed with each Our objectives are: company, and for no other purpose.
Accordingly, each of KPMG to obtain reasonable assurance about whether each of the Financial UK and KPMG Australia makes the following statement: to the fullest Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error: and to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for our report, or for the opinions to issue an Auditors Report that includes our opinions.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that our audits conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards and International Standards on Auditing UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users Michiel Soeting Senior Statutory Auditor taken on the basis of the Financial Statements.
For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants A fuller description of KPMG UKs responsibilities for the audit of London the Financial Statements is provided on the UK FRCs website at 6 September 2018 www.
uk  and a further description of KPMG Australias responsibilities for the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements is located at the Australian Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at http: www.
These descriptions form part of our auditors reports.
5 Irregularities ability to detect KPMG We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the Financial Statements from our sector experience, and through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the Financial Statements including financial reporting including the Anthony Young Australian Corporations Act 2001 and UK Companies Act 2006 and Partner taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with Melbourne those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related 6 September 2018 financial statement items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of health and safety, anti-bribery, environmental and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the regulated nature of the Groups mining activities and its legal form.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the Directors and other management, and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
KPMG, an Australian partnership and KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability partnership, are member firms of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative KPMG International, a Swiss entity.
KPMG Australias liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation.
BHP Annual Report 2018 231 5.7 Supplementary oil and gas information unaudited In accordance with the requirements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB Accounting Standard Codification Extractive Activities-Oil and Gas Topic 932 and SEC requirements set out in Subpart 1200 of Regulation S-K, the Group is presenting certain disclosures about its oil and gas activities.
These disclosures are presented below as supplementary oil and gas information, in addition to information disclosed in section 1.12.1 Petroleum and section 6.3.
The information set out in this section is referred to as unaudited as it is not included in the scope of the audit opinion of the independent auditor on the Consolidated Financial Statements, refer to section 5.6 Independent Auditors reports.
On 27 July 2018, BHP announced that it had entered into agreements for the sale of its entire interests in its Eagle Ford, Haynesville, Permian and Fayetteville Onshore US oil and gas assets.
The financial and non-financial impact of the Onshore US assets is included in the supplementary oil and gas information presented below.
The financial and non-financial impact of these assets has been footnoted beneath each applicable table.
Reserves and production Proved oil and gas reserves and net crude oil and condensate, natural gas, LNG and NGL production information is included in section 6.2.
Capitalised costs relating to oil and gas production activities The following table shows the aggregate capitalised costs relating to oil and gas exploration and production activities and related accumulated depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation provisions.
United 1 2 Australia States Other Total US$M US$M US$M US$M Capitalised cost 2018 Unproved properties 10 4,528 202 4,740 Proved properties 16,258 43,885 2,424 62,567 Total costs 16,268 48,413 2,626 67,307 Less: Accumulated depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation provisions 9,984 33,437 2,065 45,486 Net capitalised costs 6,284 14,976 561 21,821 2017 Unproved properties 94 5,284 165 5,543 Proved properties 16,190 41,837 2,404 60,431 Total costs 16,284 47,121 2,569 65,974 Less: Accumulated depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation provisions 9,085 30,969 1,984 42,038 Net capitalised costs 7,199 16,152 585 23,936 2016 Unproved properties 338 5,074 119 5,531 Proved properties 15,523 40,929 2,372 58,824 Total costs 15,861 46,003 2,491 64,355 Less: Accumulated depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation provisions 8,364 28,664 1,938 38,966 Net capitalised costs 7,497 17,339 553 25,389 1 Net capitalised costs includes Onshore US assets of US$10,672 million 2017: US$11,803 million: 2016: US$12,844 million.
2 Other is primarily comprised of Algeria, Pakistan divested 31 December 2015, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Kingdom.
Costs incurred relating to oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development activities The following table shows costs incurred relating to oil and gas property acquisition, exploration and development activities whether charged to expense or capitalised.
Amounts shown include interest capitalised.
United 3 4 Australia States Other Total US$M US$M US$M US$M 2018 Acquisitions of proved property Acquisitions of unproved property 9 9 1 Exploration 25 418 291 734 Development 195 1,548 34 1,777 2 Total costs 220 1,975 325 2,520 2017 Acquisitions of proved property Acquisitions of unproved property 12 62 74 1 Exploration 32 471 235 738 Development 360 1,034 18 1,412 2 Total costs 392 1,517 315 2,224 2016 Acquisitions of proved property Acquisitions of unproved property 22 42 64 1 Exploration 42 385 194 621 Development 412 1,254 200 1,866 2 Total costs 476 1,681 394 2,551 1 Represents gross exploration expenditure, including capitalised exploration expenditure, geological and geophysical expenditure and development evaluation costs charged to income as incurred.
2 Total costs include US$1,970 million 2017: US$1,744 million: 2016: US$2,256 million capitalised during the year.
3 Total costs includes Onshore US assets of US$1,081 million 2017: US$608 million: 2016: US$862 million.
4 Other is primarily comprised of Algeria and Trinidad and Tobago.
232 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Results of operations from oil and gas producing activities The following information is similar to the disclosures in note 1 Segment reporting in section 5.1, but differs in several respects as to the level of detail and geographic information.
Amounts shown in the following table exclude financial income, financial expenses, and general corporate overheads.
Income taxes were determined by applying the applicable statutory rates to pre-tax income with adjustments for permanent differences and tax credits.
United 7 8 Australia States Other Total US$M US$M US$M US$M 2018 1 Oil and gas revenue 3,229 3,747 421 7,397 Production costs 701 1,312 121 2,134 Exploration expenses 25 270 254 549 2 Depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation provision 1,045 2,842 81 3,968 3 Production taxes 171 1 172 1,287 677 36 574 4 Accretion expense 81 46 14 141 Income taxes 418 723 124 1,265 5 Royalty-related taxes 103 103 6 Results of oil and gas producing activities 685 1,446 174 935 2017 1 Oil and gas revenue 2,876 3,479 356 6,711 Production costs 533 1,515 200 2,248 Exploration expenses 32 242 206 480 2 Depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation provision 814 2,592 91 3,497 3 Production taxes 158 4 162 1,339 874 141 324 4 Accretion expense 56 32 14 102 Income taxes 361 386 142 117 5 Royalty-related taxes 104 104 6 Results of oil and gas producing activities 818 520 297 1 2016 1 Oil and gas revenue 2,777 3,487 321 6,585 Production costs 605 1,705 162 2,472 Exploration expenses 44 128 124 296 2 Depreciation, depletion, amortisation and valuation provision 720 10,569 90 11,379 3 Production taxes 132 13 2 147 1,276 8,928 57 7,709 4 Accretion expense 54 23 7 84 Income taxes 465 3,047 143 2,439 5 Royalty-related taxes 206 4 210 6 Results of oil and gas producing activities 551 5,904 211 5,564 5 1 Includes sales to affiliated companies of US$75 million 2017: US$83 million: 2016: US$118 million.
2 Includes valuation provision of US$596 million 2017: US$102 million: 2016: US$7,232 million.
3 Includes royalties and excise duty.
4 Represents the unwinding of the discount on the closure and rehabilitation provision.
5 Includes petroleum resource rent tax and petroleum revenue tax where applicable.
6 Amounts shown exclude financial income, financial expenses and general corporate overheads and, accordingly, do not represent all of the operations attributable to the Petroleum segment presented in note 1 Segment reporting in section 5.1.
7 Results of oil and gas producing activities includes Onshore US assets of US$ 465 million 2017: US$ 564 million: 2016: US$ 5,855 million.
8 Other is primarily comprised of Algeria, Pakistan divested 31 December 2015, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Kingdom.
BHP Annual Report 2018 233 Standardised measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves Standardised measure The following tables set out the standardised measure of discounted Certain key assumptions prescribed under Topic 932 are arbitrary future net cash flows, and changes therein, related to the Groups in nature and may not prove to be accurate.
The reserve estimates estimated proved reserves as presented in section 6.3.
1 Petroleum on which the Standard measure is based are subject to revision reserves, and should be read in conjunction with that disclosure.
as further technical information becomes available or economic conditions change.
The analysis is prepared in compliance with FASB Oil and Gas Disclosure requirements, applying certain prescribed assumptions Discounted future cash flows like those shown below are not intended under Topic 932 including the use of, unweighted average to represent estimates of fair value.
An estimate of fair value would  market prices for the previous 12-months, also take into account, among other things, the expected recovery year-end cost factors, currently enacted tax rates and an annual of reserves in excess of proved reserves, anticipated future changes discount factor of 10 per cent to year end quantities of net in commodity prices, exchange rates, development and production proved reserves.
costs as well as alternative discount factors representing the time value of money and adjustments for risk inherent in producing oil and gas.
234 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Changes in the Standardised measure are presented in the following table.
2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Changes in the Standardised measure Standardised measure at the beginning of the year 8,242 8,987 17,244 Revisions: Prices, net of production costs 5,540 96 14,146 Changes in future development costs 358 275 1,342 1 Revisions of quantity estimates 166 2,961 2,870 Accretion of discount 1,016 1,147 2,547 Changes in production timing and other 946 1,611 1,280 15,220 11,663 5,397 Sales of oil and gas, net of production costs 5,091 4,301 3,936 Acquisitions of reserves-in-place Sales of reserves-in-place 26 15 114 Previously estimated development costs incurred 1,068 718 1,823 Extensions, discoveries, and improved recoveries, net of future costs 502 401 84 Changes in future income taxes 1,433 578 5,733 2 Standardised measure at the end of the year 10,240 8,242 8,987 1 Changes in reserves quantities are shown in the Petroleum reserves tables in section 6.3.
2 Standardised measure at the end of the year includes Onshore US assets of US$1,932 million 2017: US$1,962 million: 2016: US$1,889 million.
Accounting for suspended exploratory well costs Refer to note 10 Property, plant and equipment in section 5.1 for a discussion of the accounting policy applied to the cost of exploratory wells.
Suspended wells are also reviewed in this context.
The following table provides the changes to capitalised exploratory well costs that were pending the determination of proved reserves for the three years ended 30 June 2018, 30 June 2017 and 30 June 2016.
2018 2017 2016 US$M US$M US$M Movement in capitalised exploratory well costs At the beginning of the year 668 770 484 Additions to capitalised exploratory well costs pending the determination of proved reserves 186 258 304 Capitalised exploratory well costs charged to expense 62 69 18 Capitalised exploratory well costs reclassified to wells, equipment, and facilities based on the determination of proved reserves 2 155 Other 136 At the end of the year 794 668 770 The following table provides an ageing of capitalised exploratory well costs, based on the date the drilling was completed, and the number of projects for which exploratory well costs has been capitalised for a period greater than one year since the completion of drilling.
2018 2017 2016 5 US$M US$M US$M Ageing of capitalised exploratory well costs Exploratory well costs capitalised for a period of one year or less 124 120 262 Exploratory well costs capitalised for a period greater than one year 670 548 508 At the end of the year 794 668 770 2018 2017 2016 Number of projects that have been capitalised for a period greater than one year 17 14 23 BHP Annual Report 2018 235 Drilling and other exploratory and development activities The number of crude oil and natural gas wells drilled and completed for each of the last three years was as follows: Net exploratory wells Net development wells Productive Dry Total Productive Dry Total Year ended 30 June 2018 Australia 1 1 1 1 United States 11 2 841 85 87 2 Other Total 1 1 2 85 1 86 88 Year ended 30 June 2017 Australia 1 United States 80 80 80 2 Other 32 5 1 1 6 Total 3 2 5 81 81 86 Year ended 30 June 2016 Australia 2 2 2 1 United States 1 1 137 2 139 140 2 Other 1 1 1 Total 1 1 140 2 142 143 1 Includes Onshore US assets net productive development wells of 84 2017: 79: 2016: 135 and net dry development wells of 1 2017: nil: 2016: 2.
Onshore US assets had nil net exploratory wells in 2018, 2017 and 2016.
2 Other is primarily comprised of Algeria, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Kingdom.
The number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the respective year, regardless of when drilling was initiated.
Completion refers to the installation of permanent equipment for production of oil or gas, or, in the case of a dry well, to reporting to the appropriate authority that the well has been abandoned.
An exploratory well is a well drilled to find oil or gas in a new field or to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir.
A development well is a well drilled within the limits of a known oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive.
A productive well is an exploratory, development or extension well that is not a dry well.
Productive wells include wells in which hydrocarbons were encountered and the drilling or completion of which, in the case of exploratory wells, has been suspended pending further drilling or evaluation.
A dry well hole is an exploratory, development, or extension well that proves to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
Oil and gas properties, wells, operations, and acreage The following tables show the number of gross and net productive crude oil and natural gas wells and total gross and net developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas acreage as at 30 June 2018.
A gross well or acre is one in which a working interest is owned, while a net well or acre exists when the sum of fractional working interests owned in gross wells or acres equals one.
Productive wells are producing wells and wells mechanically capable of production.
Developed acreage is comprised of leased acres that are within an area by or assignable to a productive well.
Undeveloped acreage is comprised of leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of economic quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether such acres contain proved reserves.
The number of productive crude oil and natural gas wells in which we held an interest at 30 June 2018 was as follows: Crude oil wells Natural gas wells Total Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Australia 354 178 135 48 489 226 1 United States 998 547 6,660 2,012 7,658 2,559 2 Other 59 22 36 8 95 30 Total 1,411 747 6,831 2,068 8,242 2,815 1 Crude oil wells includes Onshore US assets of 971 Gross and 536 Net.
Natural gas wells includes Onshore US assets of 6,660 Gross and 2,012 Net.
Of the productive crude oil and natural gas wells, 20 net: 9 operated wells had multiple completions.
Developed and undeveloped acreage including both leases and concessions held at 30 June 2018 was as follows: Developed acreage Undeveloped acreage Thousands of acres Gross Net Gross Net Australia 2,152 823 4,326 2,605 1 United States 1,137 669 1,313 1,085 2 3 Other 175 64 3,029 2,337 Total 3,464 1,556 8,668 6,027 1 Developed acreage includes Onshore US assets of 1,039 thousand gross acres 633 thousand net acres.
Undeveloped acreage includes Onshore US assets of 210 thousand gross acres 162 thousand net acres.
2 Developed acreage in Other primarily consists of Algeria and the United Kingdom.
3 Undeveloped acreage in Other primarily consists of acreage in Brazil and Trinidad and Tobago.
It also includes the addition of Trion.
Approximately 4,245 thousand gross acres 2,850 thousand net acres, 526 thousand gross acres 278 thousand net acres and 1,490 thousand gross acres 1,078 thousand net acres of undeveloped acreage will expire in the years ending 30 June 2019, 2020 and 2021 respectively, if the Group does not establish production or take any other action to extend the terms of the licenses and concessions.
236 BHP Annual Report 2018 Section 6 Additional information In this section 6.1 Information on mining operations 6.2 Production 6.3 Resources and Reserves 6.4 Major projects 6.5 Legal proceedings 6.6 Glossary BHP Annual Report 2018 237 6.1 Information on mining operations Minerals Australia Copper mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production table refer to section 6.2.
1 and reserves table refer to section 6.3.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Olympic Dam 560 km Public road BHP 100% BHP Mining lease Acquired in Underground Electricity Underground northwest granted by 2005 as part transmitted via automated train and Copper Large poly-metallic of Adelaide, South Australian of WMC i BHPs 275 kV trucking network cathode deposit of iron South Government acquisition power line from feeding crushing, trucked  expires in 2036 Port Augusta and storage and ore to ports Copper uranium-gold ii ElectraNets hoisting facilities Right of production mineralisation Uranium oxide system upstream extension began in 1988 2 grinding circuits transported by of Port Augusta.
for 50 years road to ports Nominal milling Nominal milling Energy purchased subject to capacity raised capacity: 10.3 Mtpa via Retail remaining to 9 Mtpa Flash furnace Agreement mine life in 1999 produces copper Optimisation anodes, then refined project to produce copper completed cathodes in 2002 Electrowon copper New copper cathode and uranium solvent oxide concentrate extraction plant produced by leaching commissioned and solvent extracting in 2004 flotation tailings Major smelter maintenance campaign completed in 2018 Iron ore mining operations The following table contains additional details of our iron ore mining operations.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition WAIO Mt Newman joint venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP 85% BHP Mineral lease Production Open-cut Power for all mine Newman Hub: Western granted and held began at Mt operations both primary crusher, Ore transported Mitsui-ITOCHU Bedded ore types Australia under the Iron Whaleback in the Central and ore handling plant, by Mt Newman Iron 10% classified as per Ore Mount in 1969 Eastern Pilbara heavy media Mt Whaleback JV-owned ITOCHU Minerals host Archaean Newman is supplied by beneficiation plant, Orebodies 18, rail to Port and Energy of Production or Proterozoic iron Agreement Act BHPs natural stockyard blending 24, 25, 29, 30, Hedland Australia 5% from Orebodies formation, which 1964 expires in gas fired Yarnima facility, single cell 31, 32 and 35 427 km 18, 24, 25, are Brockman and 2030 with right power station.
rotary car dumper, 29, 30, 31, Marra Mamba to successive Power consumed train load out 32 and 35 renewals of 21 in port operations nominal capacity complements years each is supplied via 73 Mtpa production a contract from Mt Orebody 25 Ore with Alinta Whaleback processing plant nominal capacity Production 12 Mtpa from Orebodies 31 and 32 started in 2015 and 2017 respectively Yandi joint venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP 85% BHP Mining lease Production Open-cut Power for all mine 3 primary crushers, Western Ore transported granted pursuant began at the operations both 3 ore handling plants, ITOCHU Minerals Channel Iron Australia by Mt Newman to the Iron Ore Yandi mine in the Central and stockyard blending and Energy Deposits are JV-owned rail Marillana Creek in 1992 Eastern Pilbara facility, and 2 train of Australia 8% Cainozoic fluvial to Port Hedland Agreement Act is supplied by load outs nominal Mitsui Iron Ore Capacity sediments 316 km 1991 expires BHPs natural capacity 80 Mtpa Corporation 7% of Yandi hub in 2033 with gas fired Yarnima Yandi JVs expanded 1renewal right power station.
railway spur between to a further Power consumed links Yandi hub 1994 and 2013 21years in port operations to Mt Newman is supplied via JV main line a contract with Alinta 238 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Jimblebar operation Pilbara region, Private road BHP 85% BHP Mining lease Production Open-cut Power for all 3 primary crushers, Western granted pursuant began in mine operations ore handling plant, Ore is ITOCHU Minerals Bedded ore types Australia to the Iron Ore March 1989 both in the train loadout, transported and Energy classified as per McCameys Central and stockyard blending via overland of Australia 8% From 2004, host Archaean or Monster Eastern Pilbara facility and conveyor production was Proterozoic banded Mitsui & Co. Iron Agreement is supplied by supporting mining 12.4km transferred to iron formation, Ore Exploration Authorisation BHPs natural hub infrastructure Wheelarra JV which are Brockman & Mining 7% Act 1972 expires gas fired Yarnima nominal capacity as part of the and Marra Mamba Jimblebar is an in 2030 with power station.
65Mtpa Wheelarra incorporated rights to Power consumed sublease venture, with the successive in port operations agreement above companies renewals of is supplied Ore was first holding A Class 21years each via a contract produced from Shares in with Alinta the newly BHP Iron Ore commissioned Jimblebar Pty Ltd Jimblebar hub BHPIOJ in late 2013 BHP holds 100% Jimblebar of the B Class sells ore to Shares, which the Newman JV has rights proximate to to all other the Jimblebar BHPIOJ assets hub Wheelarra joint venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP 51% BHP Sublease over Production Open-cut Power for all All Wheelarra JV Western part of the began in 2004 mine operations ore is processed at Ore is ITOCHU Minerals Bedded ore types Australia Jimblebar both in the the Jimblebar hub transported and Energy of Wheelarra classified as per mining lease Central and via overland Australia 4.8% JV sells all host Archaean or that expired Eastern Pilbara conveyor ore to the Proterozoic banded Mitsui Iron Ore in March 2018 is supplied by 12.4km Mt Newman iron formation, Corporation 4.2% BHPs natural JV at the which is Brockman Maanshan gas fired Yarnima Jimblebar hub Iron & Steel power station.
Australia 10% Power consumed Shagang in port operations Australia 10% is supplied Hesteel via a contract Australia 10% with Alinta Wugang Australia 10% Mt Goldsworthy joint venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP 85% BHP 1 mineral lease Operations Mining Area C, Power for Yarrie 2 primary crushers, Western and 1 mining commenced at Yarrie and and Shay Gap 2ore handling plants, Yarrie and Mitsui Iron Ore Australia lease both Mt Goldsworthy Nimingarra is supplied by stockyard blending Nimingarra Corporation 7% granted pursuant in 1966 and all open-cut their own small facility and train load Yarrie iron ore ITOCHU Minerals to the Iron Ore at Shay Gap diesel generating out nominal capacity Nimingarra transported by Bedded ore types and Energy of Goldsworthy in 1973 stations.
Power 60 Mtpa Mt Goldsworthy classified as per Mining Area C Australia 8% Nimingarra for all remaining JV-owned rail Original host Archaean or Agreement Act mine operations to Port Hedland Goldsworthy Proterozoic iron 1972, expire both in the 218 km mine closed formation, which 2035, with rights Central and in 1982 are Brockman, Mining Area C to successive Eastern Pilbara Marra Mamba iron ore Associated renewals of is supplied by and Nimingarra transported Shay Gap mine 21years BHPs natural by Mt Newman closed in 1993 gas fired Yarnima 3 mineral leases JV-owned rail Mining at power station.
granted under to Port Hedland Nimingarra Power consumed the Iron Ore 360 km mine ceased in port operations Mount Mt Goldsworthy in 2007, then is supplied Goldsworthy JV railway spur continued via a contract Agreement Act links Mining from adjacent with Alinta 1964, which Area C to Yandi Yarrie area expire 2028, railway spur Production with rights to commenced at 6 successive Mining Area C renewals of mine in 2003 21years each Yarrie mine operations were suspended in February 2014 POSMAC joint venture Pilbara Private road BHP 65% BHP Sublease Production Open-cut Power for all POSMAC sells all Region, over part of commenced in mine operations ore to Mt Goldsworthy POSMAC JV ITOCHU Minerals Bedded ore types Western Mt Goldsworthy October 2003 both in the JV, which is then sells ore to and Energy classified as per Australia Mining Area C Central and processed at Mining Mt Goldsworthy of Australia 8%, POSMAC JV host Archaean mineral lease Eastern Pilbara Area C JV at Mining Mitsui Iron Ore sells all ore to or Proterozoic iron that expires is supplied by Area C Corporation 7% Mt Goldsworthy formation, which on the earlier BHPs natural POS-Ore 20% JV at Mining is Marra Mamba of termination gas fired Yarnima Area C of the mineral power station.
lease or the Power consumed end of the in port operations POSMAC JV is supplied via a contract with Alinta BHP Annual Report 2018 239 Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Queensland Coal Central Queensland Coal Associates joint venture Bowen Basin, Public road BHP 50% BMA Mining leases, Goonyella mine All open-cut except Queensland On-site beneficiation Queensland, including commenced in Broadmeadow: electricity grid processing facilities Coal Mitsubishi Australia undeveloped 1971, merged with longwall connection transported Development Combined nominal tenements, adjoining Riverside underground is under Goonyella by rail to 50% capacity: in excess expire in 2031, mine in 1989 long-term Riverside, Hay Point, Bituminous coal of 65 Mtpa renewable for contracts Broadmeadow Gladstone, Operates as is mined from the further periods and energy Daunia Dalrymple Bay Goonyella Permian Moranbah as Queensland purchased Caval Ridge and Abbot Riverside and Rangal Government via Retail Peak Downs Point ports Coal measures Production legislation allows Agreements Saraji Distances commenced at: Products range from Blackwater Mining is between the Peak Downs premium quality, and Norwich permitted to mines and port in 1972 low volatile, high Park mines continue under are between Saraji in 1974 vitrinite, hard coking the legislation 160 km and Norwich Park coal to medium during the 315km in 1979 volatile hard coking renewal Blackwater coal, to weak application in 1967 coking coal, some period Broadmeadow pulverised coal longwall injection PCI coal operations and medium ash in 2005 thermal coal as a Daunia in secondary product 2013 and Caval Ridge in 2014 Production at Norwich Park ceased in May 2012 Gregory joint venture Bowen Basin, Public road BHP 50% BMA Mining leases, Gregory Gregory: open-cut Queensland On-site beneficiation Queensland, including commenced electricity grid processing facility Coal Mitsubishi Crinum: longwall Australia undeveloped in 1979 connection transported Development underground Facilities under care tenements, is under Gregory and by rail to Hay 50% Crinum mine and maintenance Bituminous coal expire between long-term Crinum mines Point and longwall is mined from 2019 and 2039, contracts Gladstone ports commenced the Permian renewable for and energy in 1997 Distances German Creek further periods purchased between the Production at Coal measures as Queensland via Retail mines and port Gregory open-cut Product is a high Government Agreements are between mine ceased in volatile, low ash legislation allows 310 km and October 2012 hard coking coal Mining is 370 km Production at permitted to Crinum continue under underground the legislation mine ceased in during the November 2015 renewal Agreement application entered for sale period of our entire 50 per cent interest in Gregory Joint Venture BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Bowen Basin, Public road BHP 80% BMC Mining leases, South Open-cut Queensland South Walker Creek Queensland, including Walker Creek electricity grid coal beneficiated Coal Mitsui and Co Bituminous coal Australia undeveloped commenced connection on-site transported 20% is mined from the tenements expire in 1996 is under South Walker by rail to Hay Permian Rangal Nominal capacity: between 2020 long-term Creek and Point and Poitrel Coal measures in excess of 5 Mtpa and 2034, and contracts Poitrel mines Dalrymple commenced Produces a range Poitrel mine utilises are renewable and energy Bay ports in 2006 of coking coal and Red Mountain for for further purchased Distances BMC purchased pulverised coal processing and rail periods as via Retail between the remaining injection PCI coal loading facilities Queensland Agreements mines and port 50% share of Nominal capacity: Government are between Red Mountain in excess of 3 Mtpa legislation allows 135 km and processing facility Mining is 165km in 2018 to secure permitted to 100% ownership continue under the legislation during the renewal application period 240 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition New South Wales Energy Coal Mt Arthur Coal Approximately Public road BHP 100% BHP Current Production Open-cut NSW electricity Beneficiation 126 km Development commenced grid connection facilities: coal Domestic coal Produces a medium northwest Consent expires in 2002 under a handling, preparation, transported rank bituminous of Newcastle, in 2026, an deemed washing plants by conveyor Government thermal coal New South extension will long-term to Bayswater approval permits Nominal capacity: Wales, be sought contract and and Liddell extraction of up in excess of 23 Mtpa Australia within the energy Power Stations to 36 Mtpa of next few years purchased run of mine coal Export coal via a Retail MAC holds from underground transported Agreement 10mining and open-cut by third leases and operations, party rail to 3exploration with open-cut Newcastle port licences extraction limited to 32 Mtpa MACs primary exploration licence is currently being renewed Nickel mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
1 and reserves and resources tables refer to section 6.3.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Nickel West Mt Keith mine and concentrator 485 km north Private road BHP 100% BHP Mining leases Commissioned in Open-cut On-site third Concentration of Kalgoorlie, granted by 1995 by WMC party gas-fired plant with a Nickel Disseminated Western Western turbines nominal capacity: concentrate Acquired in 2005 textured magmatic Australia Australian 11 Mtpa of ore transported as part of WMC nickel-sulphide Contracts Government by road to acquisition mineralisation expire in Leinster nickel Key leases expire associated with a December operations for between 2029 metamorphosed 2023 drying and and 2036 ultramafic intrusion Natural gas on-shipping Renewals at sourced and government transported discretion under separate long-term contracts Leinster mine complex and concentrator 375 km north Public road BHP 100% BHP Mining leases Production Open-cut and On-site third Concentration of Kalgoorlie, granted by commenced underground party gas-fired plant with a Nickel Western Western in 1979 turbines nominal capacity: concentrate Steeply dipping Australia Australian 3 Mtpa of ore shipped by Acquired in 2005 disseminated and Contracts Government road and rail as part of WMC massive textured expire in to Kalgoorlie Key leases acquisition nickel-sulphide December nickel smelter expire between mineralisation 2023 Perseverance 2019 and 2034 associated with underground Natural gas metamorphosed Renewals mine ceased sourced and ultramafic lava of principal operations transported flows and intrusions mineral lease in during 2013 under separate accordance with long-term Nickel agnew contracts Agreement Cliffs mine 6 481 km north Private road BHP 100% BHP Mining leases Production Underground Supplied Mine site of Kalgoorlie, granted by commenced from Mt Keith Nickel ore Steeply dipping Western Western in 2008 transported massive textured Australia Australian by road to Acquired in 2005 nickel-sulphide Government Leinster nickel as part of WMC mineralisation operations Key leases acquisition associated with for further expire between metamorphosed processing 2025 and 2028 ultramafic lava flows Renewals at government discretion BHP Annual Report 2018 241 Nickel smelters, refineries and processing plants Smelter, refinery Title, leases Nominal or processing plant Location Ownership Operator or options Product production capacity Power source Nickel West Kambalda Nickel concentrator 56 km south BHP 100% BHP Mining leases Concentrate 1.6 Mtpa ore On-site third party gas-fired of Kalgoorlie, granted by containing turbines supplemented Ore sourced Western Western approximately by access to grid power through tolling Australia Australian 13% nickel and concentrate Contracts expire Government purchase in December2023 Key leases arrangements Natural gas sourced and expire in 2028 with third parties transported under separate in Kambalda region Renewals at long-term contracts government discretion Kalgoorlie Nickel smelter Kalgoorlie, BHP 100% BHP Freehold title Matte containing 110 ktpa matte On-site third party gas-fired Western over the property approximately turbines supplemented Australia 65% nickel by access to grid power Contracts expire in December 2023 Natural gas sourced and transported under separate long-term contracts Kwinana Nickel refinery 30 km south BHP 100% BHP Freehold title LME grade 75 ktpa nickel matte Power is sourced from the of Perth, over the property nickel briquettes, local grid, which is supplied Western nickel powder under a retail contract Australia Also intermediate products, including copper sulphide, , ammonium-sulphate Minerals Americas Copper mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Escondida Atacama Private road BHP 57.5% BHP Mining Original 2 open-cut pits: Escondida-owned 3 concentrator Desert 170 km available for concession from construction Escondida and transmission plants extract Rio Tinto 30% southeast of public use Chilean completed Escondida Norte lines connect to copper concentrate JECO Antofagasta, Government in 1990 Chiles northern from sulphide Copper Corporation Escondida and Chile valid indefinitely power grid ore by flotation cathode consortium Sulphide Escondida Norte subject to extraction process transported comprising leach copper mineral deposits Electricity payment of by privately Mitsubishi, JX production are adjacent but sourced from 2 solvent extraction annual fees owned rail Nippon Mining commenced distinct supergene a combination plants produce to ports at and Metals 10% in 2006 enriched porphyry of contracts with copper cathode Antofagasta JECO2 Ltd 2.5% copper deposits external vendors Nominal capacity: and Mejillones expiring in 2029 153.7 Mtpa nominal and Tamakaya Copper milling capacity SpA 100% owned concentrate and 350 ktpa by BHP, which transported copper cathode generates power by Escondidanominal capacity from the recently owned of tank house commissioned pipelines 2 x 168 km Kelar gas-fired to its Coloso concentrate pipelines power plant port facilities 167 km water pipeline Port facilities at Coloso, Antofagasta Desalinated water plant Nominal capacity 2,500 litre per second Pampa Norte Spence Atacama Public road BHP 100% BHP Mining Development Open-cut Spence-owned Processing and Desert 162 km concession cost of transmission crushing facilities, Copper Enriched and northeast of from Chilean US$1.1 billion lines connect to separate dynamic cathode oxidised porphyry Antofagasta, Government approved Chiles northern on-off leach transported by copper deposit Chile valid indefinitely in 2004 power grid pads, solvent rail to ports at containing in situ subject to extraction plant, Mejillones and First copper copper oxide Electricity payment of electrowinning plant Antofagasta produced mineralisation purchased annual fees in 2006 that overlies under contract Nominal capacity of a near-horizontal tank house: 200 ktpa sequence of copper cathode supergene sulphides, transitional sulphides, and finally primary hypogene sulphide mineralisation 242 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Pampa Norte Cerro Colorado Atacama Public road BHP 100% BHP Mining Commercial Open-cut Long-term 2 primary, secondary Desert 120 km concession production contracts with and tertiary crushers, Copper Enriched and east of from Chilean commenced northern Chile dynamic leaching cathode oxidised porphyry Iquique, Chile Government in 1994 power grid pads, solvent trucked to port copper deposit valid indefinitely extraction plant, at Iquique Expansions in containing in situ subject to electrowinning plant 1996 and 1998 copper oxide payment of mineralisation Nominal capacity of On 19 June annual fees that overlies a tank house: 130 ktpa 2018, BHP near-horizontal copper cathode entered into sequence of an agreement supergene to sell Cerro sulphides, Colorado to transitional EMR Capital.
sulphides, and The transaction finally primary is expected hypogene sulphide to close during mineralisation the December 2018 quarter, subject to financing and customary closing conditions.
Antamina Andes Public road BHP 33.75% Compaa Mining rights Commercial Open-cut Long-term Primary crusher, mountain Minera from Peruvian production contracts concentrator, copper Copper Glencore 33.75% Zoned porphyry range Antamina Government commenced with individual and zinc flotation and zinc Teck 22.5% and skarn deposit S. A. held indefinitely, in 2001 power producers circuits, bismuth 270 km north concentrates Mitsubishi 10% with central copper subject to moly cleaning circuit of Lima, north transported dominated ores payment of central Peru by pipeline and an outer band Nominal milling annual fees to port of of copper-zinc capacity 53 Mtpa and supply Huarmey dominated ores 300 km concentrate of information Molybdenum pipeline Port facilities on investment and lead at Huarmey and production bismuth concentrates transported by truck Iron ore mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Samarco Southeast Public road BHP Billiton Samarco The mining Production Open-cut Samarco holds Samarco mining Brazil Brasil Limitada facilities are began at interests in activities are currently Conveyor Itabirites 50% of Samarco currently under Germano mine 2hydroelectric suspended after the belts were metamorphic Minerao S. A. administrative in 1977 and power plants, failure of Fundo dam used to quartz-hematite embargoes at Alegria which supply transport Vale S. A.
50% rock and friable The beneficiation and judicial complex part of its iron ore to hematite ores plants, pipelines, injunction given in 1992 electricity beneficiation pellet plants and port the Fundo plant Second pellet Power supply facilities are intact dam failure plant built contract with 3 slurry in 1997 Cemig Gerao pipelines used e Transmisso to transport Third pellet expires in 2022 concentrate plant, second to pellet plants concentrator on coast and second pipeline built Iron pellets 6 in 2008 were exported via port Fourth pellet facilities plant, third concentrator and third pipeline built in 2014 BHP Annual Report 2018 243 Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source use & condition Cerrejn La Guajira Public road BHP 33.33% Cerrejn Mining leases Original Open-cut Local Colombian Beneficiation province, expire mine began power system facilities: crushing Coal exported Anglo American Produces a Colombia progressively producing plant with capacity by company- 33.33% medium rank from 2028 to in 1976 in excess of 40 Mtpa owned rail to Glencore 33.33% bituminous thermal early 2034 and washing plant Puerto Bolivar BHP interest coal non-coking, 150 km Production not acquired suitable for the Nominal capacity scheduled after in 2000 export market in excess of 3 Mtpa 2033 Navajo 40 km Public road BHP 0% BHP Lease held Production Open-cut Four Corners Stackers and southwest by Navajo commenced Power Plant reclaimers used Coal Navajo Produces a medium of Farmington, Transitional in 1963 to size and blend transported Transitional rank bituminous New Mexico, Energy Company Divested in coal to meet by rail to Energy Company thermal coal United States FY2014 contract quantities Four Corners 100% non-coking suitable and specification Power Plant BHP continued for the domestic to manage market only Nominal capacity and operate in excess of 4 Mtpa the mine until the Mine Management Agreement with Navajo Transitional Energy Company NTEC ended on 31 December 2016 Petroleum Petroleum operations The following table contains additional details of our petroleum operations.
2 and reserves table refer to section 6.3.
Operation Nominal Facilities, & location Product Ownership Operator Title, leases or options production capacity use & condition United States Offshore Gulf of Mexico Neptune Green Canyon 613 Offshore Oil and gas BHP 35% BHP Lease from US Government 50 Mbbl d oil Stand-alone tension as long as oil and gas 50 MMcf d gas leg platform TLP deepwater EnVen Energy 30% produced in paying quantities W&T Offshore 20% Gulf of Mexico 31 Offshore 15% 1,300m Shenzi Green Canyon 653 Offshore Oil and gas BHP 44% BHP Lease from US Government 100 Mbbl d oil Stand-alone TLP deepwater as long as oil and gas 50 MMcf d gas Hess 28% Genghis Khan field part of Gulf of Mexico produced in paying quantities Repsol 28% same geological structure 1,310m tied back to Marco Polo TLP Atlantis Green Canyon 743 Offshore Oil and gas BHP 44% BP Lease from US Government 200 Mbbl d oil Moored semi-submersible deepwater as long as oil and gas 180 MMcf d gas platform BP 56% Gulf of Mexico produced in paying quantities 2,155m Mad Dog Green Canyon 782 Offshore Oil and gas BHP 23.9% BP Lease from US Government 100 Mbbl d oil Moored integrated deepwater as long as oil and gas 60 MMcf d gas truss spar, facilities for BP 60.5% Gulf of Mexico produced in paying quantities simultaneous production Chevron 15.6% 1,310m and drilling operations Genesis Green Canyon 205 Offshore Oil and gas BHP 4.95% Chevron Lease from US Government 55 Mbbl d oil Floating cylindrical deepwater as long as oil and gas 72 MMcf d gas hull spar moored to Chevron 56.67% Gulf of Mexico produced in paying quantities seabed with integrated ExxonMobil 38.38% approximately drilling facilities 790m BHP has withdrawn from Genesis effective 1 January 2017 244 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Operation Nominal Facilities, & location Product Ownership Operator Title, leases or options production capacity use & condition Australia Bass Strait Offshore and Oil and gas Gippsland Basin joint Esso Australia 20 production licences and 65 Mbbl d oil 21 producing fields with 23 onshore Victoria venture GBJV : 2 retention leases issued 1,040 TJ d offshore developments 15 by Australian Government 5,150 tpd LPG steel jacket platforms, 4 BHP 50% 850 tpd Ethane subsea developments, 2 Expire between 2018 and end Esso Australia Exxon steel gravity based mono of life of field Mobil subsidiary 50% towers, 2 concrete gravity 1 production licence held with Kipper Unit joint venture based platforms MEPAU A Pty Ltd KUJV : Onshore infrastructure: BHP 32.5% Longford facility gas Esso Australia 32.5% conditioning processing MEPAU A Pty Ltd 35% and liquids processing facilities Interconnecting pipelines Long Island Point LPG processing and liquids storage offtake Ethane pipeline North West Shelf Offshore Domestic gas, North West Shelf Project Woodside 9 production licences issued North Rankin Production from North and onshore LPG, condensate, is an unincorporated JV Petroleum Ltd by Australian Government Complex: 3,010 Rankin, Persephone Western LNG MMcf d gas and Perseus processed BHP: 6 expire in 2022 and Australia through the interconnected 16.67% of Incremental 3 expire 5 years from 53 Mbbl d North Rankin A and North Rankin Pipeline Gas IPG end of production condensate North Rankin B platforms Goodwyn domestic gas JV Goodwyn A platform: Perseus 16.67% of original LNG JV Production from Goodwyn 1,746 MMcf d gas Angel and 12.5% of China LNG JV and Searipple processed 100 Mbbl d Searipple fields 16.67% of LPG JV through Goodwyn A platform condensate Other participants: 3 subsea wells in Perseus Angel platform: subsidiaries of Woodside, field, 3 subsea wells in 960 MMcf d gas Chevron, BP, Shell, Tidepole field and 2 subsea 51 Mbbl d Mitsubishi Mitsui and wells in Goodwyn field tied condensate China National Offshore into Goodwyn A platform Withnell Bay Oil Corporation Production from Angel gas plant: field processed through 630 MMcf d gas Angel platform 5-train LNG plant: Onshore gas treatment 52,000 tpd LNG plant at Withnell Bay processes gas for domestic market 5-train LNG plant North West Shelf Offshore Oil BHP 16.67% Woodside 3 production licences issued Production: FPSO unit Western Petroleum Ltd by Australian Government 60 Mbbl d Woodside 33.34%, Australia in September 2014 expire Storage: 1 MMbbl BP, Chevron, Japan in 2033, 2035 and 2039 Wanaea Australia LNG MIMI respectively Cossack 16.67% each Lambert and Hermes fields Pyrenees Offshore Oil WA-42-L permit: BHP Production licence issued Production: 26 subsea well Western BHP 71.43% by Australian Government 96 Mbbl d oil completions Australia expires 5 years after 21 producers, Quadrant PVG P L 28.57% Storage: 920 Mbbl production ceases 4 water injectors, Crosby WA-43-L permit: 1 gas injector, FPSO Moondyne BHP 39.999% Wild Bull Quadrant PVG P L Tanglehead 31.501% Stickle and Inpex Alpha Ltd 28.5% Ravensworth fields 6 Macedon Offshore Gas and WA-42-L permit BHP Production licence issued Production: 4 well completions and onshore condensate BHP 71.43% by Australian Government 220 MMcf d gas Single flow line transports Western Quadrant PVG P L 28.57% expires 5 years after 20 bbl d condensate gas to onshore gas Australia production ceases processing facility Gas plant located approximately 17 km southwest of Onslow Minerva Offshore and Gas and BHP 90% BHP Production licence issued 150 TJ d gas 2 subsea well completions onshore Victoria condensate by Australian Government 600 bbl d 2 producing wells Cooper Energy expires 5 years after condensate MF Pty Ltd 10% Single flow line transports production ceases gas to onshore gas processing facility Gas plant located approximately 4 km inland from Port Campbell BHP Annual Report 2018 245 Operation Nominal Facilities, & location Product Ownership Operator Title, leases or options production capacity use & condition Other production operations Trinidad and Tobago Greater Angostura Offshore Oil and gas BHP 45% BHP Production sharing contract 100 Mbbl d oil Integrated oil and gas Trinidad and with the Trinidad and Tobago 340 MMcf d gas development: central National Gas Tobago Government entitles us to processing platform Company 30% operate Greater Angostura connected to the Chaoyang 25% until 2026 Kairi-2 platform and gas export platform 31 wells completed for production and injection including: 17 oil producers, 7 gas producers 3 subsea and 7 gas injectors Algeria ROD Integrated Development Onshore Oil BHP 45% interest in Joint Production sharing contract Approximately Development and Berkine Basin 401a 402a production Sonatrach ENI with Sonatrach title holder 80 Mbbl d oil production of 6 oil fields 900 km sharing contract entity 2 largest fields ROD southeast of ENI 55% and SFNE extend into Algiers, Algeria BHP effective 29.3% neighbouring blocks interest in ROD unitised 403a, 403d integrated development Production through ENI 70.7% dedicated processing train on block 403 United Kingdom Bruce Keith Offshore Oil and gas Bruce: Bruce BP 3 production licences issued 920 MMcf d gas Integrated oil and gas North Sea, UK BHP 16% by UK Government expiring platform Keith developed Keith BP BP 37% at end of life of field as tie-back to Bruce facilities Total SA 43.25% Marubeni 3.75% Keith: BHP 31.83% BP 34.84% Total SA 25% Marubeni 8.33% Unconventional petroleum operations The following table contains details of our Onshore US production operations, which are presented in this Report as Discontinued operations.
BHP announced on 27 July 2018 that we had entered into an agreement to divest our Onshore US business see section 1.10.3 for further information.
Operation Nominal Facilities, & location Product Ownership Operator Title, leases or options production capacity use & condition Onshore US Eagle Ford Black Hawk Condensate, BHP working interest in wells BHP operated We currently own leasehold Average daily Producing Hawkville gas and NGL ranges from less than 1% to 100% approximately interests in approximately production condensate southern Texas 34% of 236,000 net acres during FY2018 and gas wells and BHP average net working interest approximately 150 MMcf d gas associated pipeline is approximately 62% Leases associated with 1,539 gross 38 Mbbl d and compression producing wells remain Largest partners include Devon wells condensate facilities in place as long as oil Energy and Statoil Equinor 20 Mbbl d NGL and gas are produced in paying quantities Permian Permian Oil, BHP working interest in wells BHP operated We currently own leasehold Average daily Producing oil and western Texas condensate, ranges from less than 1% to 100% approximately interests in approximately production gas wells with gas and NGL 83% of 83,000 net acres during FY2018 associated gathering BHP average net working interest approximately 51 MMcf d gas systems to third is approximately 84% Leases associated with 184 gross wells 15 Mbbl d oil party processing producing wells remain Largest partners include 6 Mbbl d NGL plant and in place as long as oil Resolute Natural Resources compression and gas are produced and RKI Exploration facilities in paying quantities Haynesville Haynesville Gas BHP working interest in wells BHP operated We currently own leasehold Average daily Producing gas wells northern ranges from less than 1% to 100% approximately interests in approximately production with an associated Louisiana and 38% of 193,000 net acres during FY2018 pipeline owned BHP average net working interest eastern Texas approximately 288 MMcf d gas by a third party is approximately 37% Leases associated with 1,055 gross and compression producing wells remain Largest partners include wells infrastructure in place as long as gas is Chesapeake Energy produced in paying quantities and Aethon Energy Fayetteville Fayetteville Gas BHP working interest in wells BHP operated We currently own leasehold Average daily Producing gas wells northern central ranges from less than 1% to 100% approximately interests in approximately production with associated Arkansas 19% of 258,000 net acres during FY2018 pipeline and BHP average net working interest approximately 219 MMcf d gas compression is approximately 21% Leases associated with 4,853 gross infrastructure producing wells remain in Largest partners include wells place as long as gas is Southwestern Energy produced in paying quantities and Exxon Mobil XTO 246 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 6.2 Production 6.2.
1 Production Minerals The table below details our mineral and derivative product production for all operations except Petroleum for the three years ended 30 June 2018, 2017 and 2016.
Unless otherwise stated, the production numbers represent our share of production and include BHPs share of production from which profit is derived from our equity accounted investments.
Production information for equity accounted investments is included to provide insight into the operational performance of these entities.
For discussion of minerals pricing during the past three years, refer to 1.6.
1 BHP share of production BHP Group Year ended 30 June interest % 2018 2017 2016 2 Copper Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes 3 Escondida, Chile 57.5 925.8 539.6 648.9 4 Antamina, Peru 33.75 139.5 133.8 146.4 Total copper concentrate 1,065.3 673.4 795.3 Copper cathode 000 tonnes 3 Escondida, Chile 57.5 287.5 232.0 330.3 5 Pampa Norte, Chile 100 263.8 254.3 251.4 Olympic Dam, Australia 100 136.7 166.3 202.8 Total copper cathode 688.0 652.6 784.5 Total copper concentrate and cathode 1,753.3 1,326.0 1,579.8 Lead Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes 4 Antamina, Peru 33.75 3.4 5.5 3.7 Total lead 3.4 5.5 3.7 Zinc Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes 4 Antamina, Peru 33.75 119.8 87.5 55.4 Total zinc 119.8 87.5 55.4 Gold Payable metal in concentrate 000 ounces 3 Escondida, Chile 57.5 229.1 110.9 109.0 Olympic Dam, Australia refined gold 100 91.6 104.1 117.7 Total gold 320.7 215.0 226.7 Silver Payable metal in concentrate 000 ounces 3 Escondida, Chile 57.5 8,796 4,326 5,561 4 Antamina, Peru 33.75 5,437 5,783 6,711 Olympic Dam, Australia refined silver 100 792 768 917 Total silver 15,025 10,877 13,189 Uranium Payable metal in concentrate tonnes Olympic Dam, Australia 100 3,364 3,661 4,363 Total uranium 3,364 3,661 4,363 Molybdenum Payable metal in concentrate tonnes 4 Antamina, Peru 33.75 1,662 1,144 1,113 6 Total molybdenum 1,662 1,144 1,113 BHP Annual Report 2018 247 1 BHP Group share of production BHP Group Year ended 30 June interest % 2018 2017 2016 Iron ore Western Australia Iron Ore 6 Production 000 tonnes Newman, Australia 85 67,071 68,283 65,941 Area C Joint Venture, Australia 85 51,517 48,744 46,799 Yandi Joint Venture, Australia 85 64,048 65,355 67,375 7 Jimblebar, Australia 85 30,627 21,950 18,890 8 Wheelarra, Australia 85 25,158 27,020 22,549 Total Western Australia Iron Ore 238,421 231,352 221,554 4 Samarco, Brazil 50 5,404 Total iron ore 238,421 231,352 226,958 Coal Metallurgical coal 9 Production 000 tonnes Blackwater, Australia 50 6,688 7,296 7,626 Goonyella Riverside, Australia 50 7,961 7,355 8,996 Peak Downs, Australia 50 6,350 6,055 5,031 Saraji, Australia 50 5,053 4,734 4,206 Gregory Joint Venture, Australia 50 1,329 Daunia, Australia 50 2,556 2,560 2,624 Caval Ridge, Australia 50 4,285 3,458 3,601 Total BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance 32,893 31,458 33,413 10 South Walker Creek, Australia 80 6,029 5,123 5,436 10 Poitrel, Australia 80 3,718 3,189 3,462 Total BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal 9,747 8,312 8,898 Total Queensland Coal 42,640 39,770 42,311 11 IndoMet, Haju, Indonesia 75 129 529 Total metallurgical coal 42,640 39,899 42,840 Energy coal Production 000 tonnes 12 Navajo, United States 100 451 3,999 San Juan, United States 100 3,053 Total New Mexico Coal 451 7,052 New South Wales Energy Coal, Australia 100 18,541 18,176 17,101 4 Cerrejn, Colombia 33.3 10,617 10,959 10,094 Total energy coal 29,158 29,586 34,247 1 BHP Group share of production BHP Group Year ended 30 June interest % 2018 2017 2016 Other assets Nickel Saleable production 000 tonnes Nickel West, Australia 100 90.6 85.1 80.7 Total nickel 90.6 85.1 80.7 1 BHP share of production includes the Groups share of production for which profit is derived from our equity accounted investments, unless otherwise stated.
2 Metal production is reported on the basis of payable metal.
3 Shown on 100 per cent basis following the application of IFRS 10.
BHP interest in saleable production is 57.5 per cent.
4 For statutory financial reporting purposes, this is an equity accounted investment.
We have included production numbers from our equity accounted investments as the level of production and operating performance from these operations impacts Underlying EBITDA of the Group.
Our use of Underlying EBITDA is explained in 1.11.
Samarco operations are currently suspended following the Samarco dam failure as explained in section 1.8.
5 Includes Cerro Colorado and Spence.
6 Iron ore production is reported on a wet tonnes basis.
BHP interest in saleable production is 85 per cent.
8 All production from Wheelarra is now processed via the Jimblebar processing hub.
9 Metallurgical coal production is reported on the basis of saleable product.
Production figures include some thermal coal.
BHP interest in saleable production is 80 per cent.
BHP interest in saleable production is 75 per cent.
12 BHP completed the sale of Navajo Mine on 30 December 2013.
As BHP retained control of the mine until 29 July 2016, production has been reported through such date.
248 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 6.2.
2 Production Petroleum The table below details Petroleums historical net crude oil and condensate, natural gas and natural gas liquids production, primarily by geographic segment, for each of the three years ended 30 June 2018, 2017 and 2016.
We have shown volumes of marketable production after deduction of applicable royalties, fuel and flare.
We have included in the table average production costs per unit of production and average sales prices for oil and condensate and natural gas for each of those periods.
BHP Group share of production Year ended 30 June 2018 2017 2016 Production volumes Crude oil and condensate 000 of barrels Australia 16,545 18,658 20,307 United States Conventional 27,476 29,933 32,990 United States Onshore US 19,464 22,944 32,568 4 Other 4,616 4,850 4,714 Total crude oil and condensate 68,101 76,385 90,579 Natural gas billion cubic feet Australia 325.0 345.7 325.6 United States Conventional 9.5 10.3 11.4 United States Onshore US 258.5 275.0 364.5 4 Other 42.5 36.8 43.2 Total natural gas 635.5 667.8 744.7 1 Natural gas liquids 000 of barrels Australia 6,955 7,423 7,646 United States Conventional 1,725 1,725 2,158 United States Onshore US 9,560 11,427 15,613 4 Other 88 119 43 1 Total NGL 18,328 20,694 25,460 2 Total production of petroleum products million barrels of oil equivalent Australia 77.7 83.7 82.2 United States Conventional 30.8 33.4 37.1 United States Onshore US 72.1 80.2 108.9 4 Other 11.8 11.1 12.0 Total production of petroleum products 192.4 208.4 240.2 Average sales price Crude oil and condensate US$ per barrel Australia 63.69 50.59 43.55 United States Conventional 58.55 45.45 38.55 United States Onshore US 59.03 47.91 37.66 4 Other 61.73 47.96 41.00 Total crude oil and condensate 60.12 47.61 39.48 Natural gas US$ per thousand cubic feet Australia 5.97 5.06 5.22 United States Conventional 3.12 4.39 2.33 United States Onshore US 2.79 2.82 2.16 4 Other 3.19 2.72 3.20 Total natural gas 4.44 4.00 3.57 Natural gas liquids US$ per barrel Australia 35.99 27.76 24.86 United States Conventional 27.52 21.29 16.16 United States Onshore US 22.15 15.14 10.60 6 4 Other 25.85 21.10 20.90 Total NGL 27.95 20.37 15.31 3 Total average production cost US$ per barrel of oil equivalent Australia 8.06 5.78 6.12 United States Conventional 7.43 6.62 3.21 United States Onshore US 6.43 7.87 7.06 4 5 Other 9.31 13.55 14.39 5 Total average production cost 7.43 7.14 6.51 1 LPG and ethane are reported as natural gas liquids NGL.
2 Total barrels of oil equivalent boe conversion is based on the following: 6,000 standard cubic feet scf of natural gas equals one boe.
3 Average production costs include direct and indirect costs relating to the production of hydrocarbons and the foreign exchange effect of translating local currency denominated costs into US dollars, but excludes ad valorem and severance taxes, and the cost to transport our produced hydrocarbons to the point of sale.
4 Other comprises Algeria, Mexico, Pakistan divested 31 December 2015, Trinidad and Tobago, and the United Kingdom.
5 30 June 2017 and 30 June 2016 have been restated to be consistent with the 30 June 2018 total average production cost calculation which excludes the impacts of non-production related costs.
BHP Annual Report 2018 249 6.3 Resources and Reserves Resources are the estimated quantities of material that can Proved reserve estimates were attributed to future development potentially be commercially recovered from the Groups properties.
projects only where there is a significant commitment to project Reserves are a subset of resources that can be demonstrated to be funding and execution and for which applicable government and able to be economically and legally extracted.
In order to estimate regulatory approvals have been secured or are reasonably certain reserves, assumptions are required about a range of technical to be secured.
Furthermore, estimates of proved reserves include and economic factors, including quantities, qualities, production only volumes for which access to market is assured with reasonable techniques, recovery efficiency, production and transport certainty.
All proved reserve estimates are subject to revision costs, commodity supply and demand, commodity prices either upward or downward based on new information, such and exchange rates.
as from development drilling and production activities or from changes in economic factors, including product prices, contract Estimating the quantity and or quality of reserves requires the terms or development plans.
size, shape and depth of ore bodies or oil and gas reservoirs to be determined by analysing geological data, such as drilling samples Developed oil and gas reserves and geophysical survey interpretations.
Economic assumptions Proved developed oil and gas reserves are reserves that can be used to estimate reserves change from period-to-period as expected to be recovered through: additional technical and operational data is generated.
existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods: installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserve estimate if the extraction is by means 6.3.
1 Petroleum reserves not involving a well.
Estimates of oil and gas reserves involve some degree of uncertainty, Performance-derived reserve assessments for producing wells are inherently imprecise, require the application of judgement and were primarily based in the following manner: are subject to future revision.
Accordingly, financial and accounting for our conventional operations, reserves were estimated using measures such as the standardised measure of discounted rate and pressure decline methods, including material balance, cash flows, depreciation, depletion and amortisation charges, supplemented by reservoir simulation models where appropriate: the assessment of impairments and the assessment of valuation allowances against deferred tax assets that are based on reserve for our Onshore US operations, rate-transient analysis and estimates are also subject to change.
decline curve analysis methods: for wells that lacked sufficient production history, reserves How we estimate and report reserves were estimated using performance-based type curves Petroleums reserves are estimated as of 30 June 2018.
Reported and offset location analogues with similar geologic and reserves include both Conventional Petroleum reserves and Onshore reservoir characteristics.
Footnotes have been included where appropriate so Proved undeveloped reserves that the contribution of the discontinued Onshore US operations can be separated out from the continuing Conventional operations.
Proved undeveloped oil and gas reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage Our proved reserves are estimated and reported according where commitment has been made to commence development to SEC regulations and have been determined in accordance within five years from first reporting or from existing wells where with SEC Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X.
a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.
Proved oil and gas reserves A combination of geologic and engineering data and where Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of crude oil, natural appropriate, statistical analysis was used to support the assignment gas and natural gas liquids NGL that, by analysis of geoscience of proved undeveloped reserves when assessing planned drilling and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty locations.
Performance data along with log and core data was to be economically producible from a given date forward from used to delineate consistent, continuous reservoir characteristics known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating in core areas of the development.
Proved undeveloped locations methods, operating contracts and government regulations.
Unless were included in core areas between known data and adjacent evidence indicates that renewal of existing operating contracts is to productive wells using performance-based type curves reasonably certain, estimates of economically producible reserves and offset location analogues with similar geologic and reservoir reflect only the period before the contracts expire.
Locations where a high degree of certainty extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator could not be demonstrated using the above technologies must be reasonably certain that it will commence within a reasonable and techniques were not categorised as proved.
As specified in SEC Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X, oil and gas Methodology used to estimate reserves prices are taken as the unweighted average of the corresponding first day of the month prices for the 12 months prior to the ending Reserve estimates have been estimated with deterministic date of the period covered.
methodology, with the exception of the North West Shelf gas operation in Australia, where probabilistic methodology has Proved reserves were estimated by reference to available well been used to estimate and aggregate reserves for the reservoirs and reservoir information, including but not limited to well logs, dedicated to the gas project only.
The probabilistic based portion well test data, core data, production and pressure data, geologic of these reserves totals 23 million barrels of oil equivalent MMboe data, seismic data and in some cases, to similar data from total boe conversion is based on the following: 6,000 standard analogous, producing reservoirs.
A wide range of engineering cubic feet scf of natural gas equals 1 boe and represents and geoscience methods, including performance analysis, approximately two per cent of our total reported proved reserves.
well analogues and geologic studies were used to estimate Aggregation of proved reserves beyond the field project level has high confidence proved developed and undeveloped reserves been performed by arithmetic summation.
Due to portfolio effects, in accordance with SEC regulations.
aggregates of proved reserves may be conservative.
The custody transfer point s or point s of sale applicable for each field or project are the reference point for reserves.
The reserves replacement ratio is the reserves change during the year before production, divided by the production during the year stated as a percentage.
250 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Governance Discoveries and extensions Discoveries and extensions added 75 MMboe to proved reserves The Petroleum Reserves Group PRG is a dedicated group that provides oversight of the reserves assessment and reporting during FY2018.
This comprised of 69 MMboe of extensions related to planned drilling in new locations in our Onshore US operations processes.
It is independent of the various operation teams directly responsible for development and production activities.
The PRG within the next five years and an additional 4 MMboe in the Mad Dog field and 2 MMboe in the Shenzi field, both of which are in is staffed by individuals averaging more than 20 years experience in the oil and gas industry.
The manager of the PRG, Abhijit Gadgil, the US Gulf of Mexico.
is a full-time employee of BHP and is responsible for overseeing Revisions the preparation of the reserve estimates and compiling the Overall, net revisions decreased proved reserves by 7 MMboe information for inclusion in this Annual Report.
He has an advanced during FY2018.
In our Australian operations, reductions of 21 MMboe degree in engineering and more than 35 years of diversified occurred, primarily in the North West Shelf, due to revisions related industry experience in reservoir engineering, reserves assessment, to updated technical assessments.
In the United States, net revisions field development and technical management.
He is a 35-year increased reserves by approximately 4 MMboe.
This was a result member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers SPE.
He has also of additions of 36 MMboe, primarily for strong performance in served on the Society of Petroleum Engineers Oil and Gas Reserves the Atlantis field in the Offshore US Gulf of Mexico and better Committee.
Mr Gadgil has the qualifications and experience performance in our Onshore US Eagle Ford and Permian assets.
required to act as a qualified petroleum reserves evaluator under These additions were partially offset by reductions of 33 MMboe, the Australian Securities Exchange ASX Listing Rules.
The estimates mainly in our Onshore US fields as a result of lower planned of petroleum reserves are based on and fairly represent information drilling activity in light of our previously announced plan to exit our and supporting documentation prepared under the supervision shale operations and the effect of lower gas prices.
In Other areas of Mr Gadgil.
He has reviewed and agrees with the information outside of Australia and the United States, revisions increased included in section 6.3.
1 and has given his prior written consent reserves by 10 MMboe, primarily for strong performance in the for its publication.
No part of the individual compensation Angostura Phase 3 project in Offshore Trinidad and Tobago.
for members of the PRG is dependent on reported reserves.
Of the overall decrease in proved reserves of 7 MMboe through Reserve assessments for all Petroleum operations were revisions, the impact of commodity prices using the required conducted by technical staff within the operating organisation.
SEC price-basis represented a decrease of 4 MMboe while well These individuals meet the professional qualifications outlined performance, interest changes and other revisions resulted in a by the SPE, are trained in the fundamentals of SEC reserves net decrease of 3 MMboe.
Virtually all of the price-related decrease reporting and the reserves processes and are endorsed by the occurred in our Onshore US fields where increases of 26 MMboe PRG.
Each reserve assessment is reviewed annually by the PRG occurred in the Eagle Ford and Permian fields as a result of to ensure technical quality, adherence to internally published higher liquids prices, but these additions were more than offset Petroleum guidelines and compliance with SEC reporting by 31 MMboe in reductions in Haynesville and Fayetteville due requirements.
Once endorsed by the PRG, all reserves receive to lower gas prices.
final endorsement by senior management and the Risk and Audit Committee prior to public reporting.
Our Internal Audit Sales and Assurance function provides secondary assurance of the The sale of acreage in our Eagle Ford field accounted for our oil and gas reserve reporting processes through audits of reported sales of approximately 5 MMboe.
There were no the key controls that have been implemented, as required purchases during FY2018.
by the U. S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
These results are summarised in the following tables, which detail For more information on our risk management governance, estimated oil, condensate, NGL and natural gas reserves at 30 June refer to section 2.13.1.
2018, 30 June 2017 and 30 June 2016, with a reconciliation of the changes in each year.
Reserves have been calculated using the FY2018 reserves economic interest method and represent net interest volumes after deduction of applicable royalty.
Reserves of 77 MMboe are Production for FY2018 totalled 192 MMboe in sales, which is a in two production and risk-sharing arrangements that involve decrease of 16 MMboe from FY2017 refer to section 6.2.
2 for BHP in upstream risks and rewards without transfer of ownership more information.
There was an additional 5 MMboe in non-sales of the products.
At 30 June 2018, approximately five per cent production, primarily for fuel consumed in our Petroleum operations.
of the proved reserves were attributable to such arrangements.
The combined sales and non-sales production totalled 198 MMboe.
The natural decline of production in our Onshore US fields and mature fields in other locations was the reason for the lower amount produced.
As of 30 June 2018, our proved reserves totalled 1,400 MMboe and reflect a net increase of 62 MMboe before total production from 6 the 1535 MMboe reported at FY2017.
This increase was primarily the result of continued strong performance in our Offshore US fields in the Gulf of Mexico and Offshore Trinidad and Tobago along with better performance and improved liquid product prices for our North American shale operations.
These increases were partially offset by reductions in the North West Shelf Australia and reduced gas prices received for production from our Onshore US fields.
Net additions to reserves resulted in a reserves replacement of 32 per cent overall, Conventional: 25 per cent reserves replacement, Onshore US: 43 per cent reserves replacement.
As of 30 June 2018, approximately 65 per cent of our proved reserves were in conventional fields, while about 35 per cent of our proved reserves were in unconventional fields.
BHP Annual Report 2018 251 b Millions of barrels Australia United States Other Total a Proved developed and undeveloped oil and condensate reserves c c Reserves at 30 June 2015 124.0 383.3 17.1 524.3 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 9.1 67.0 14.4 43.5 Extensions and discoveries 0.4 2.9 3.4 Purchase sales of reserves 0.3 0.3 Production 20.3 65.6 4.7 90.6 Total changes 10.8 129.6 9.4 130.9 c c Reserves at 30 June 2016 113.2 253.74 26.5 393.4 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 5.9 17.0 4.4 15.4 Extensions and discoveries 123.3 123.3 Purchase sales of reserves 0.4 0.4 Production 18.7 52.9 4.8 76.4 Total changes 24.6 87.0 0.5 61.9 c c Reserves at 30 June 2017 88.6 340.7 26.0 455.3 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 1.6 41.2 0.6 40.1 Extensions and discoveries 27.6 27.6 Purchase sales of reserves 0.7 0.7 Production 16.5 46.9 4.6 68.1 Total changes 18.2 21.1 4.0 1.1 c c Reserves at 30 June 2018 70.5 361.8 21.9 454.2 Developed Proved developed oil and condensate reserves as of 30 June 2015 81.2 225.4 11.7 318.3 as of 30 June 2016 82.2 187.3 20.0 289.5 as of 30 June 2017 76.2 162.3 21.9 260.5 Developed reserves as of 30 June 2018 60.5 181.1 19.2 260.8 Undeveloped Proved undeveloped oil and condensate reserves as of 30 June 2015 42.7 157.9 5.4 206.0 as of 30 June 2016 31.0 66.4 6.5 103.9 as of 30 June 2017 12.4 178.4 4.0 194.8 Undeveloped reserves as of 30 June 2018 10.0 180.7 2.8 193.4 a Small differences are due to rounding to first decimal place.
b Other comprises Algeria, Pakistan divested in December 2015, Trinidad and Tobago, and the United Kingdom.
c For FY2015, FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018 amounts include 161.7, 62.9, 73.0 and 86.1 million barrels respectively attributable to discontinued operations of Onshore US.
252 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information c Millions of barrels Australia United States Other Total a Proved developed and undeveloped NGL reserves d e d e Reserves at 30 June 2015 76.6 108.6 185.2 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 1.8 57.0 55.2 Extensions and discoveries 0.6 1.8 2.4 Purchase sales of reserves b Production 7.6 17.8 25.5 Total changes 5.3 73.0 78.2 d e d e Reserves at 30 June 2016 71.3 35.6 107.0 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 1.2 23.4 0.1 24.8 Extensions and discoveries 13.1 13.1 Purchase sales of reserves 0.1 0.1 b Production 7.4 13.2 0.1 20.7 Total changes 6.2 23.2 17.0 d e d e Reserves at 30 June 2017 65.2 58.9 124.0 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 1.7 12.7 0.1 11.0 Extensions and discoveries 13.4 13.4 Purchase sales of reserves 1.7 1.7 b Production 7.0 11.3 0.1 18.3 Total changes 8.7 13.1 4.4 d e d e Reserves at 30 June 2018 56.5 72.0 128.4 Developed Proved developed NGL reserves as of 30 June 2015 40.1 59.7 99.8 as of 30 June 2016 38.0 30.7 68.7 as of 30 June 2017 56.6 31.4 88.0 Developed reserves as of 30 June 2018 49.8 37.0 86.8 Undeveloped Proved undeveloped NGL reserves as of 30 June 2015 36.5 48.9 85.4 as of 30 June 2016 33.3 4.9 38.2 as of 30 June 2017 8.6 27.5 36.1 Undeveloped reserves as of 30 June 2018 6.6 35.0 41.6 a Small differences are due to rounding to first decimal place.
b Production includes volumes consumed by operations.
c Other comprises Algeria, Pakistan divested in December 2015, Trinidad and Tobago, and the United Kingdom.
d For FY2015, FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018 amounts include 4.2, 0.2, 2.1 and 2.5 million barrels respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in the United States.
e For FY2015, FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018 amounts include 100.5, 28.3, 51.0 and 62.2 million barrels respectively attributable to discontinued operations of Onshore US.
c Production for Australia includes gas sold as LNG.
d Other comprises Algeria, Pakistan divested in December 2015, Trinidad and Tobago, and the United Kingdom.
e For FY2015, FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018 amounts include 343, 321, 295 and 295 billion cubic feet respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in Australia.
f For FY2015, FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018 amounts include 154, 75, 155 and 160 billion cubic feet respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in the United States.
g For FY2015, FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018 amounts include 27, 17, 17 and 16 billion cubic feet respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in Other areas.
h For FY2015, FY2016, FY2017 and 2018 amounts include 524, 413, 467 and 472 billion cubic feet respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations.
i For FY2015, FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018 amounts include 3,209, 1,238, 2,444 and 2,049 billion cubic feet respectively attributable to discontinued operations of Onshore US.
254 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information a d Millions of barrels of oil equivalent Australia United States Other Total Proved developed and undeveloped oil, condensate, b natural gas and NGL reserves e f i g h i Reserves at 30 June 2015 781.1 1,041.3 85.5 1,907.9 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 19.0 397.9 17.3 361.6 Extensions and discoveries 2.7 10.9 13.6 Purchase sales of reserves 12.2 12.2 c Production 86.3 146.4 12.4 245.1 Total changes 64.6 533.4 7.3 605.2 e f i g h i Reserves at 30 June 2016 716.5 507.9 78.2 1,302.7 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 3.6 258.3 11.7 273.6 Extensions and discoveries 172.4 172.4 Purchase sales of reserves 0.6 0.6 c Production 88.1 114.0 11.4 213.5 Total changes 84.5 316.1 0.4 232.0 e f i g h i Reserves at 30 June 2017 632.1 824.0 78.6 1,534.6 Improved recovery Revisions of previous estimates 20.9 3.5 10.2 7.3 Extensions and discoveries 75.0 75.0 Purchase sales of reserves 5.3 5.3 c Production 82.2 103.3 12.1 197.6 Total changes 103.1 30.1 1.9 135.1 e f i g h i Reserves at 30 June 2018 529.0 793.8 76.7 1,399.5 Developed Proved developed oil, condensate, natural gas and NGL reserves as of 30 June 2015 521.5 701.6 58.5 1,281.6 as of 30 June 2016 487.6 429.4 50.5 967.5 as of 30 June 2017 523.8 453.1 74.6 1,051.6 Developed reserves as of 30 June 2018 439.6 464.7 73.9 978.2 Undeveloped Proved undeveloped oil, condensate, natural gas and NGL reserves as of 30 June 2015 259.6 339.7 27.0 626.3 as of 30 June 2016 228.9 78.5 27.8 335.2 as of 30 June 2017 108.2 370.8 4.0 483.1 Undeveloped reserves as of 30 June 2018 89.4 329.2 2.8 421.3 a Barrel oil equivalent conversion based on 6,000 scf of natural gas equals 1 boe.
b Small differences are due to rounding to first decimal place.
c Production includes volumes consumed by operations.
e For FY2015, FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018 amounts include 57, 53, 49 and 49 million barrels equivalent respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in Australia.
f For FY2015, FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018 amounts include 30, 13, 28 and 29 million barrels equivalent respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in the United States.
g For FY2015, FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018 amounts include 4, 3, 3 and 3 million barrels equivalent respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations in Other areas.
h For FY2015, FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018 amounts include 91, 69, 80 and 81 million barrels equivalent respectively, which are anticipated to be consumed as fuel in operations.
i For FY2015, FY2016, FY2017 and FY2018 amounts include 797, 298, 531 and 490 million barrels equivalent respectively attributable to discontinued operations of Onshore US.
6 BHP Annual Report 2018 255 Proved undeveloped reserves 6.3.
2 Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves At 30 June 2018, Petroleum had 421 MMboe of proved The statement of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves presented undeveloped reserves, which represented 30 per cent of year-end in this Annual Report has been produced in accordance with the 2018 proved reserves of 1400 MMboe.
Approximately 237 MMboe Australian Securities Exchange ASX Listing Rules Chapter 5 2014 or 56 per cent of the proved undeveloped reserves reside in our and the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, conventional offshore fields in Australia, the Gulf of Mexico and Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, December 2012 JORC Code.
Algeria, while 185 MMboe or 44 per cent resides in our Onshore US fields.
The current proved undeveloped reserves reflect a net The JORC Code requires the use of reasonable investment decrease of 62 MMboe from the 483 MMboe reported at 30 June assumptions when reporting reserves.
This decrease was primarily the result of the conversion of predicts sales prices, based on supply and demand forecast and 48 MMboe from proved undeveloped to proved developed through current and long-term historical average price trends.
The largest component of this The Ore Reserves tabulated are held within existing, permitted conversion occurred in our Onshore US fields where 26 MMboe mining tenements.
BHPs mineral leases are of sufficient duration was moved to proved developed status.
An additional 11 MMboe or convey a legal right to renew for sufficient duration to enable was converted in the North West Shelf Persephone development all reserves on the leased properties to be mined in accordance in Australia, while 10 MMboe was converted in the Atlantis field with current production schedules.
Our Ore Reserves may include in the Offshore US Gulf of Mexico.
An additional 1 MMboe was areas where some additional approvals remain outstanding, but also converted as a result of drilling in the Rod field in Algeria.
where, based on the technical investigations we carry out as part The reduction in planned drilling in our Onshore US fields, in light of our planning process and our knowledge and experience of the of our planned exit from Onshore US operations also resulted approvals process, we expect that such approvals will be obtained in a net reduction of 9 MMboe from proved undeveloped, while as part of the normal course of business and within the time frame a further reduction of 7 MMboe occurred in the Offshore Australia required by the current life of mine schedule.
Barracouta field as a result of an updated technical assessment.
The information in this Annual Report relating to Mineral Resources Of the 421 MMboe currently classified as proved undeveloped at and Ore Reserves is based on and fairly represents information 30 June 2018, 48 MMboe has been reported for five or more years.
and supporting documentation compiled by Competent Persons All of these reserves are in our offshore conventional fields that are as defined in the JORC Code.
All Competent Persons have, at currently producing, have significant development in place or are the time of reporting, sufficient experience relevant to the style scheduled to start producing within the next five years.
The largest of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to components of the proved undeveloped that has been reported the activity they are undertaking to qualify as a Competent Person.
for more than five years are in the Kipper Turrum project 14 MMboe At the reporting date, each Competent Person listed in this Annual and in the Macedon field 10 MMboe both in Offshore Australia and Report is a full-time employee of BHP or a company in which BHP in the Atlantis field 8 MMboe and the Mad Dog field 6 MMboe, has a controlling interest unless otherwise noted and is a Member both of which are in the Offshore US Gulf of Mexico with active or Fellow of the AusIMM or AIG or a Recognised Professional drilling programs.
The remainder resides in other Australian offshore Organisation.
Each Competent Person consents to the inclusion fields that have active development plans.
Our Onshore US fields in this Annual Report of the matters based on his or her information do not contain any undrilled proved undeveloped reserves that in the form and context in which it appears.
have been reported for more than five years or that will not be All Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves presented are reported drilled within five years.
in 100 per cent terms unless otherwise stated and represent Over the past three years, the conversion of proved undeveloped estimates at 30 June 2018.
Tonnes are reported as dry metric reserves to developed has totalled 319 MMboe, averaging tonnes unless otherwise stated.
All tonnes and grade quality 106 MMboe per year.
In currently producing conventional fields, information have been rounded, hence small differences may the remaining proved undeveloped reserves will be developed be present in the totals.
The Measured and Indicated Mineral and brought on stream in a phased manner to best optimise Resources are inclusive of those Mineral Resources modified the use of production facilities and to meet sales commitments.
to produce the Ore Reserves.
The information contained in this During FY2018, Petroleum spent US$1.8 billion on development document differs in certain respects from that reported to the SEC.
Reserve reporting requirements for SEC filings in the United States are specified in Industry Guide 7, with economic assumptions based on current economic conditions that may differ to the JORC Codes reasonable investment assumptions.
Accordingly, a SEC pricing assumptions test is performed with reserve estimates derived under the JORC Code compared to those derived assuming current economic conditions.
Reserves disclosed in the United States will differ if the SEC pricing assumption test indicates reserves lower than those reported under the JORC Code in Australia and the United Kingdom and or Inferred Mineral Resources are included in the mine plan.
BHP applies assurance arrangements and internal controls to verify the estimates and estimation process for Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.
Theseinclude: standard BHP procedures for public reporting aligned with current regulatory requirements: independent audits of new and materially changed estimates: annual reconciliation performance metrics to validate reserves estimates for operating mines: internal technical assessments of resources and reserves estimates for each asset scheduled every two years.
The Geoscience and Resource Engineering Centres of Excellence manage assurance and functional leadership for Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.
The Geoscience Centre of Excellence coordinates Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves reporting to support the above controls.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are presented in the accompanying tables.
256 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Competent Persons Coal Coal Resources Copper Goonyella Riverside, Broadmeadow, Red Hill, Nebo West Mineral Resources and Bee Creek: R Macpherson MAIG Escondida: M Corts MAusIMM, R Maureira MAusIMM Peak Downs, Caval Ridge, Peak Downs East and Mt Arthur Coal: employed by Minera Escondida Limitada S Martinez MAusIMM Cerro Colorado: G Merello MAusIMM Saraji, Norwich Park, South Walker Creek and Saraji East: Spence: R Ferrer MAusIMM R Saha MAusIMM Pampa Escondida, Pinta Verde and Chimborazo: K Clarke Blackwater, Gregory, Crinum, Liskeard and Togara South: MAusIMM, R Maureira MAusIMM both employed by G Naidoo MAusIMM Minera Escondida Limitada Daunia and Poitrel: S Cutler MAusIMM Pinto Valley Miami unit: M Williams MAusIMM Wards Well: S Groenland MAusIMM Olympic Dam: C Badenhorst MAusIMM Cerrejn: G Hernandez MGSSA employed by Cerrejn Limited, Antamina: L Canchis MAusIMM employed by Minera Antamina S. A. DLawrence MAusIMM employed by DJL Geological Ore Reserves Consulting Limited Escondida: S Blanco MAusIMM employed by Coal Reserves Minera Escondida Limitada Goonyella Riverside: N Wilson MAusIMM Cerro Colorado and Spence: C Gonzlez MAusIMM Broadmeadow: R Sharma MAusIMM Olympic Dam: D Grant FAusIMM Peak Downs: P Gupta MAusIMM Antamina: L Mamani MAusIMM employed by Minera Antamina S. A. Caval Ridge and Saraji: S fide la Cruz MAusIMM Iron Ore Norwich Park: N Mohtaj MAusIMM Mineral Resources Blackwater: A Hardy MAusIMM WAIO: M Smith MAusIMM, R Stimson MAusIMM, Daunia and South Walker Creek: R Lumbanradja MAusIMM C Allison MAusIMM Gregory: N Bordia MAusIMM Samarco: L Bonfioli MAusIMM employed by Poitrel: G Bustos MAusIMM Samarco Minerao S. A. Mt Arthur Coal: H Mirabediny MAusIMM Ore Reserves Cerrejn: G Hernandez MGSSA employed by Cerrejn Limited, WAIO: D Blechynden P. Eng.
PEGNL, A Greaves MAusIMM, DLawrence MAusIMM employed by DJL Geological B Hall MAusIMM, D Magee MAusIMM Consulting Limited Potash Mineral Resources Jansen: J McElroy MAusIMM, B Nmeth MAusIMM Nickel Mineral Resources Leinster: M Menicheli MAusIMM, M Job FAusIMM employed by Cube Consulting Pty Limited Mt Keith: R Otadoy MAusIMM, M Job FAusIMM employed by Cube Consulting Pty Limited Cliffs and Jericho: M Job FAusIMM employed by Cube Consulting Pty Limited Yakabindie and Venus: M Menicheli MAusIMM Ore Reserves Leinster: A Kumar MAusIMM employed by Perth Mining Consultants Pty Limited, M Thomas MAusIMM employed by AMC Consultants Pty Limited Mt Keith and Yakabindie: S Gadi MAusIMM, D Brosztl MAusIMM Cliffs: A Hadzhiev MAusIMM 6 BHP Annual Report 2018 257 Copper Mineral Resources As at 30 June 2018 Measured Resources Indicated Resources Commodity 1 Deposit Ore Type Mt %TCu %SCu ppmMo g tAu Mt %TCu %SCu ppmMo g tAu Copper Operations 2 Escondida Oxide 99 0.67 58 0.57 Mixed 67 0.56 66 0.46 Sulphide 5,210 0.61 3,550 0.51 3 4 Cerro Colorado Oxide 58 0.61 0.42 141 0.64 0.45 Supergene Sulphide 39 0.61 0.10 99 0.61 0.11 Transitional Sulphide 59 0.46 119 0.42 Hypogene Sulphide Spence Oxide 36 0.67 0.42 1.7 0.63 0.39 Low-grade Oxide 1.4 0.23 37 0.21 Supergene Sulphide 129 0.72 19 0.48 Transitional Sulphide 22 0.69 0.9 0.57 Hypogene Sulphide 577 0.45 190 771 0.45 130 Copper Projects Pampa Escondida Sulphide 294 0.53 0.07 1,150 0.55 0.10 Pinta Verde Oxide 109 0.60 64 0.53 Sulphide 23 0.50 Chimborazo Sulphide 139 0.50 Pinto Valley Miami unit In situ Leach 174 0.31 40 0.32 Copper Uranium Gold Operations Mt %Cu kg tU O g tAu g tAg Mt %Cu kg tU O g tAu g tAg 3 8 3 8 5 Olympic Dam OC Sulphide 2,960 0.66 0.21 0.32 1 3,030 0.60 0.20 0.26 1 UG Sulphide 555 1.71 0.50 0.64 4 262 1.67 0.49 0.65 3 Sulphide Copper Zinc Operations Mt %Cu %Zn g tAg ppmMo Mt %Cu %Zn g tAg ppmMo 6 Antamina Sulphide Cu only 160 0.88 0.14 7 310 510 0.87 0.14 9 270 Sulphide Cu-Zn 82 0.88 1.95 18 90 282 0.94 1.86 16 80 UG Sulphide Cu only 12 1.11 0.88 15 110 1 Cut-off criteria: Deposit Ore Type Mineral Resources Ore Reserves Escondida Oxide 0.20%SCu 0.20%SCu Mixed 0.30%TCu Sulphide 0.30%TCu 0.30%TCu and greater than variable cut-off V COG of concentrator.
Sulphide ore is processed in the concentrator plants as a result of optimised mine plan with consideration of technical and economical parameters in order to maximise Net Present Value.
Sulphide Leach 0.30%TCu and lower than V COG.
Sulphide Leach ore is processed by dump leaching as an alternative to the concentrator process.
metallurgical recovery see footnote 9 for averages.
Mineralisation at the US$0 hr limit averages Mineralisation at the US$6,000 hr limit averages 0.15%Cu, 1.7g tAg, 139ppmMo and 6,700t hr 0.16% Cu, 2.0 g t Ag, 141 ppm Mo and 6,700 t hr mill throughput.
Sulphide Cu-Zn Net value per concentrator hour incorporating Net value per concentrator hour incorporating all material revenue and cost factors and includes all material revenue and cost factors and includes metallurgical recovery see footnote 9 for averages.
Mineralisation at the US$0 hr limit averages Mineralisation at the US$6,000 hr limit averages 0.08%Cu, 0.71%Zn, 12.9g tAg and 6,500t hr 0.08% Cu, 0.71% Zn, 11.7 g t Ag and 6,500t hr mill throughput.
UG Sulphide Cu only Cut-offs of 0.28%Cu equivalent CuEq, 0.68%CuEq and 0.89%CuEq for caving, sub-level caving and sub-level stoping mining methods 6 applied respectively.
CuEq was calculated using the formula: %CuEq %Cu 0.00872 g tAg, based on Cu price of 3.30US$ lb and Ag price of 20.70US$ troy oz and predicted metallurgical recoveries of 89% for Cu and 85% for Ag.
The elements included in the metal equivalent calculation have a reasonable potential to be recovered and sold.
Antamina All metals used in net value calculations for the Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are recovered into concentrate see footnote 9 for averages and sold.
2 Escondida The increase in Mineral Resources was mainly due to an update of the ultimate pit in response to higher copper price forecast, lower production cost and a resource estimate update incorporating an additional 45,000m of drill hole data.
3 Cerro Colorado The decrease in the Hypogene Sulphide ore type was mainly due to increased production costs.
4 Cerro Colorado Divestment of Cerro Colorado is in progress.
5 Olympic Dam The increase in the Mineral Resources was due to higher copper and gold price forecasts.
Change in the ore type from Sulphide to Open Cut Sulphide and Underground Sulphide.
6 Antamina The increase in the Mineral Resources was mainly due to an update in the resource estimate to include Underground Sulphide Cu only Mineral Resources.
BHP Annual Report 2018 259 Copper Ore Reserves As at 30 June 2018 Proved Reserves Probable Reserves Commodity 1 7 8 9 Deposit Ore Type Mt %TCu %SCu ppmMo Mt %TCu %SCu ppmMo Copper Operations 10 Escondida Oxide 93 0.66 157 0.60 Sulphide 3,700 0.71 1,910 0.57 Sulphide Leach 1,340 0.41 399 0.39 4 11 Cerro Colorado Oxide 34 0.60 0.43 23 0.59 0.42 Supergene Sulphide 21 0.60 0.15 15 0.62 0.16 Transitional Sulphide 11 0.54 0.09 5.6 0.51 0.11 12 Spence Oxide 29 0.63 0.42 0.15 0.76 0.57 Oxide Low Solubility 15 0.76 0.32 2.5 0.49 0.17 Supergene Sulphide 113 0.74 0.10 13 0.51 0.10 Transitional Sulphide 19 0.69 0.06 100 0.92 0.57 0.05 70 Hypogene Sulphide 575 0.45 0.02 190 751 0.45 0.02 130 ROM 3.4 0.53 0.12 Copper Uranium Gold Operations Mt %Cu kg tU O g tAu g tAg Mt %Cu kg tU O g tAu g tAg 3 8 3 8 13 Olympic Dam UG Sulphide 154 2.06 0.63 0.68 5 346 1.95 0.56 0.74 4 Sulphide Low-grade 8.4 1.20 0.39 0.50 4 27 1.12 0.36 0.51 3 Copper Zinc Operations Mt %Cu %Zn g tAg ppmMo Mt %Cu %Zn g tAg ppmMo 14 Antamina Sulphide Cu only 107 1.02 0.15 7 380 191 0.97 0.18 8 340 Sulphide Cu-Zn 62 0.87 2.14 18 70 154 0.81 2.01 13 80 7 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves were: Deposit Proved Reserves Probable Reserves Escondida Oxide: 30m x 30m Oxide: 45m x 45m Sulphide: 50m x 50m Sulphide: 90m x 90m Sulphide Leach: 60m x 60m Sulphide Leach: 115m x 115m Cerro Colorado 40m to 50m 100m Spence Oxide & Oxide Low Solubility: maximum 50m x 50m 100m x 100m for all Ore Types Supergene Sulphide, Transitional Sulphide & Hypogene Sulphide: maximum 70m x 70m Olympic Dam 20m to 35m 35m to 70m Antamina 25m to 40m 40m to 75m 8 Ore delivered to process plant.
9 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations were: Deposit Metallurgical Recovery Escondida Oxide: 62% Sulphide: 85% Sulphide Leach: 38% Cerro Colorado Oxide & Supergene Sulphide: 72% Transitional Sulphide: 64% Spence Oxide & Oxide Low Solubility: 80% Supergene Sulphide: 82% Transitional Sulphide & Hypogene Sulphide: 84% ROM: 30% Olympic Dam Cu 94%, U O 69%, Au 69%, Ag 64% 3 8 Antamina Sulphide Cu only: Cu 93%, Zn 0%, Ag 80%, Mo 65% Sulphide Cu-Zn: Cu 78%, Zn 80%, Ag 64%, Mo 0% 10 Escondida Reserve Life increase by five years was mainly due to a reallocation of Sulphide Leach Ore Reserves to Sulphide Ore Reserves.
Inherent within the Reserve Life calculation were Oxide and Sulphide Leach, which have a Reserve Life of 11 years and 16 years respectively.
Escondida continues to advance studies to assess the Ore Reserves under the Hamburgo tailings and along the property limit with the Zaldivar deposit.
11 Cerro Colorado Lower grade Oxide and Sulphide material was reallocated to the new Transition Sulphide ore type.
The decrease in Reserve Life was due to an increase in nominated production rate from 19.5Mtpa to 20.7Mtpa.
12 Spence Ore Reserves have increased due to the first time declaration of the Hypogene Sulphide ore type, published on 18 October 2017 in BHP Operational Review available to view at www.
Transitional Sulphide and Hypogene Sulphide ore type recoveries are based on metallurgical testwork.
13 Olympic Dam Change in ore type from Sulphide to Underground Sulphide providing consistency with the underground mining method.
14 Antamina The decrease in the Ore Reserves was mainly due to depletion, partially offset by revision of the tailings storage capacity surveyed in 2017.
Wet tonnes are reported for WAIO deposits and Samarco, including moisture contents: BKM Brockman 3%, BKM Bene Brockman Beneficiation 3%, CID Channel Iron Deposits 8%, MM Marra Mamba 4%, NIM Nimingarra 3.5%.
2 A single cut-off grade was applied in WAIO per deposit ranging from 5055%Fe.
For Samarco the cut-off grade was 22%Fe.
3 WAIO Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are reported on a Pilbara basis by ore type to align with our production of the Newman Blend lump product which comprises BKM, BKM Bene and MM ore types, in addition to other lump and fines products including CID.
This also reflects our single logistics chain and associated management system.
4 WAIO BHP interest is reported as Pilbara Ore Reserves tonnes weighted average across all joint ventures which can vary from year to year.
BHP ownership varies between 85% and 100%.
5 WAIO Mineral Resources have increased due to updated geological and resource modelling following additional drilling at multiple deposits.
6 Samarco The decrease in Mineral Resources was due to the exclusion of mineralisation impacted by environmental legislation relating to caves, partially offset by an updated model including additional drill hole data.
7 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves were: Deposit Proved Reserves Probable Reserves WAIO 50m x 50m 150m x 50m 8 WAIO recovery was 100%, except for BKM Bene where Whaleback beneficiation plant recovery was 88% tonnage basis.
9 WAIO Iron ore is marketed for WAIO as Lump direct blast furnace feed and Fines sinter plant feed.
10 WAIO Cut-off grades used to estimate Ore Reserves range from 5062%Fe for all material types.
Ore delivered to process plant.
11 WAIO Ore Reserves are all located on State Agreement mining leases that guarantee the right to mine.
Across WAIO, State Government approvals including environmental and heritage clearances are required before commencing mining operations in a particular area.
Included in the Ore Reserves are select areas where one or more approvals remain outstanding, but where, based on the technical investigations carried out as part of the mine planning process and company knowledge and experience of the approvals process, it is expected that such approvals will be obtained as part of the normal course of business and within the time frame required by the current mine schedule.
12 WAIO MM ore type has increased due to inclusion of the South Flank project Ore Reserves.
The increase was published on 14 June 2018 in an exchange release available to view at www.
BKM Ore Reserves have decreased due to depletion and the application of a higher cut-off grade for Mining Area C Ore Reserves due to operational optimisation.
Coal qualities are for a potential product on an air-dried basis.
2 Cut-off criteria: Deposit Mining Method Coal Resources Coal Reserves Goonyella Riverside, Caval Ridge, Norwich Park, Gregory OC 0.5m seam thickness 0.5m seam thickness Peak Downs OC 0.5m seam thickness and 35% raw ash 0.5m seam thickness Saraji OC 0.5m seam thickness 0.4m seam thickness Blackwater, Daunia OC 0.3m seam thickness 0.3m seam thickness Norwich Park, Crinum UG 2.0m seam thickness Broadmeadow UG 2.0m seam thickness 2.5m seam thickness South Walker Creek OC 0.5m seam thickness and product yield 50% 0.5m seam thickness UG 2.0m seam thickness and product yield 50% Poitrel OC 0.5m seam thickness and product yield 50% 0.3m seam thickness Red Hill, Saraji East OC 0.5m seam thickness UG 2.0m seam thickness Liskeard OC 0.5m seam thickness at 15:1 bcm t overburden ratio Nebo West OC 0.5m seam thickness and 90m below surface Bee Creek OC 0.5m seam thickness Wards Well UG 2.0m seam thickness 3 Peak Downs The increase in Coal Resources was mainly due to the inclusion of Peak Downs East Coal Resources.
4 Gregory JV Divestment of Gregory and Crinum is in progress.
5 South Walker Creek Change in Coal Type for Coal Resources and Coal Reserves from Met to Met PCI based on an internal review.
6 Poitrel The change in Coal Resources was mainly due to an increase in Inferred Resources based on additional drill hole data.
7 Nebo West The decrease in Coal Resources was due to an update in the resource estimate including revised resource classification supported by drill hole spacing analysis and exclusion of some coal seams.
8 Bee Creek The decrease in Coal Resources was due to an update in the resource estimate including revised resource classification supported by drill hole spacinganalysis.
Drill hole spacings vary between seams and geological domains and were determined in conjunction with geostatistical analysis where applicable.
The range of maximum drill hole spacings used to classify the Coal Reserves were: Deposit Proved Reserves Probable Reserves Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow 900m to 1,300m plus 3D seismic coverage for UG 1,750m to 2,400m Peak Downs, Caval Ridge 500m to 1,050m 500m to 2,100m Saraji 450m to 1,800m 800m to 2,600m Norwich Park 500m to 1,400m 1,000m to 2,800m Blackwater 450m to 1,000m 900m to 1,850m Daunia 650m 1,200m Gregory 850m 850m to 1,700m South Walker Creek 400m to 800m 650m to 1,500m Poitrel 300m to 550m 600m to 1,050m 10 Product recoveries for the operations were: Deposit Product Recovery Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow 74% Peak Downs 61% Caval Ridge 58% Saraji 57% Norwich Park 71% Blackwater 92% Daunia 83% Gregory 81% South Walker Creek 78% Poitrel 79% 11 Total Coal Reserves were at the moisture content when mined 4% CQCA JV, Gregory JV, BHP Mitsui Coal.
Total Marketable Reserves were at a product specification moisture content 9.510% Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow: 9.5% Peak Downs: 10% Caval Ridge: 10% Saraji: 1011% Norwich Park: 7.511.5% Blackwater: 9.510% Daunia: 8.5% Gregory: 9% South Walker Creek: 1012% Poitrel and at an air-dried quality basis, for sale after the beneficiation of the Total Coal Reserves.
12 Coal delivered to handling plant.
13 Goonyella Riverside and Broadmeadow deposits use the same infrastructure hence Reserve Life applies to both.
14 Peak Downs Change in the Coal Type from Met to Met Th was due to the use of Caval Ridge wash plant to process some coal and produce a thermal product.
15 Norwich Park, Gregory Remain on care and maintenance.
16 Gregory The increase in Reserve Life was due to the reduction in the nominated production rate from 2.5Mtpa to 2Mtpa.
17 Poitrel The decrease in Marketable Coal Reserves was mainly due to changes in the structural model and revised resource classification.
Tonnages are reported as in situ for Mt Arthur Coal and Togara South, and on a total moisture basis for Cerrejn.
3 Cerrejn The Coal Resources are restricted to areas which have been identified for inclusion by BHP based on a risk assessment.
4 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves were: Deposit Proved Reserves Probable Reserves Mt Arthur Coal 200m to 800m 400m to 1,550m Cerrejn 6 drill holes per 100ha 2 to 6 drill holes per 100ha 5 Overall product recoveries for the operations were: Deposit Product Recovery Mt Arthur Coal 76% Cerrejn 97% 6 Total Coal Reserves were at the moisture content when mined 8.7% Mt Arthur Coal: 13% Cerrejn.
Total Marketable Reserves were at a product specific moisture content 10.1% Mt Arthur Coal: 13.2% Cerrejn and at an air-dried quality basis for Mt Arthur Coal and at a total moisture quality basis for Cerrejn.
7 Mt Arthur Coal Coal is delivered to handling plant.
8 Cerrejn Marketable Coal Reserves decreased due to the reduction in the nominated production rate from 33Mtpa to 29.5Mtpa and mining duration constrained to lease expiry in 2034.
Coal is beneficiated by exception.
9 Cerrejn While there have been delays in some permits as at 30 June 2018 in response to ongoing local community legal challenges, replacement reserves have been identified within the mine plan utilitising existing fleet capacity.
BHP continues to monitor the situation for potential impact on mining.
A stratigraphic cut-off based on the 406 and 402 clay seams was applied.
2 25.7% K O grade is equivalent to 40.7%KCl content using the mineralogical conversion factor of 1.583.
2 3 %MgO is used as a measure of carnallite KCl.
6H O content where per cent carnallite equivalent %MgO x 6.8918.
2 2 4 Measured Resource grade has been assigned to Inferred Resources.
5 Tonnages are reported on an in situ moisture content basis, estimated to be 0.3%.
% MgO Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 1 Cut-off criteria: 5 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves were: Deposit Ore Type Mineral Resources Ore Reserves Deposit Proved Reserves Probable Reserves Leinster OC 0.40%Ni 0.40%Ni Leinster 25m x 25m 25m x 50m Disseminated 0.40%Ni Mt Keith 40m x 40m 80m x 80m Sulphide Cliffs 25m x 25m 25m x 25m UG 1.0%Ni 0.88%Ni and development includes dilution Yakabindie 40m x 60m 80m x 60m that occurs during block 6 Ore delivered to the process plant.
cave mining 7 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations were: process Deposit Metallurgical Recovery SP, SP oxidised 0.70%Ni Leinster OC 83% Mt Keith Disseminated Variable between Sulphide 0.35%Ni and Mt Keith 64% 0.40%Ni Cliffs 83% recovery at 10% SP Variable between Variable between concentrate grade 0.35%Ni and 0.35%Ni and 8 Predicted metallurgical recoveries for the projects were: 0.40%Ni 0.40%Ni and 0.18% Deposit Metallurgical Recovery recoverable Ni Leinster UG 88% OC Variable between OC 51% 0.35%Ni and 0.40%Ni and Yakabindie 63% 0.18% 9 Leinster Ore Reserves includes operations and projects.
recoverable Ni 10 Leinster The increase in Ore Reserves was due to the inclusion of additional Cliffs Disseminated 0.40%Ni Open Cut Mineral Resources from improved resource classification supported Sulphide by additional drilling and an increase in nickel price.
Massive Sulphide Stratigraphic 11 Mt Keith The decrease in Ore Reserves was mainly due to depletion, partially UG 1.2%Ni offset by upgrades in the Mineral Resources classification supported by additional drilling.
Yakabindie Disseminated 0.40%Ni 12 Cliffs The decrease in Ore Reserves was mainly due to depletion, partially Sulphide offset by the inclusion of additional mining levels enabled by enhanced OC 0.35%Ni and ground support.
0.15%S Venus Disseminated 0.40%Ni Sulphide Massive Sulphide Stratigraphic Jericho Disseminated 0.40%Ni Sulphide 2 Mt Keith The decrease in Mineral Resources was mainly due to depletion, partially offset by an update in the resource estimate incorporating additional drill holes.
3 Cliffs The increase in Disseminated Sulphide Mineral Resources was due to an upgrade in the resource estimate incorporating additional drill holes.
4 Jericho The increase in Inferred Mineral Resources was due to an extension of resource estimate towards the south incorporating additional drill holes.
6 BHP Annual Report 2018 271 6.4 Major projects At the end of FY2018, BHP had five major projects under development in petroleum, copper, iron ore and potash, with a combined budget of US$10.6 billion over the life of the projects.
Capital and exploration expenditure increased to US$6.8 billion and is expected to further increase to approximately US$8 billion per annum for FY2019.
Projects in execution at the end of FY2018 1 Date of initial production Capital expenditure US$M 1 Commodity Project and ownership Capacity Target Budget Projects under development Petroleum North West Shelf Greater Western To maintain LNG plant throughput CY2019 216 Flank-B Australia 16.67% from the North West Shelf operations.
non-operator On schedule and on budget, overall project is 87% complete Petroleum Mad Dog Phase 2 US Gulf of Mexico New floating production facility with CY2022 2,154 23.9% non-operator the capacity to produce up to 140,000 gross barrels of crude oil per day.
On schedule and on budget, overall project is 23% complete 2 Iron Ore South Flank Australia Sustaining iron ore mine to replace CY2021 3,061 85% Operator production from the 80 Mtpa Yandi Mine.
Project approved on 14 June 2018 Copper Spence Growth Option New 95 ktpd concentrator is expected FY2021 2,460 to increase Spences payable copper in concentrate production by approximately 185 ktpa in the first 10 years of operation and extend the mining operations by more than 50 years.
Project approved on 17 August 2017 7,891 Other projects in progress at the end of FY2018 1 Capital expenditure US$M Commodity Project and ownership Scope Budget Projects under development Potash Jansen Potash Canada 100% Investment to finish the excavation and lining of the production 2,700 and service shafts, and to continue the installation of essential surface infrastructure and utilities 2,700 1 Unless noted otherwise, references to capacity are on a 100 per cent basis, references to capital expenditure from subsidiaries are reported on a 100 per cent basis and references to capital expenditure from joint operations reflect BHPs share.
2 Includes initial funding of US$184 million announced on 26 June 2017.
272 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 6.5 Legal proceedings We are involved from time-to-time in legal proceedings and On 25 June 2018, a Governance Agreement summarised below, governmental investigations of a character normally incidental was entered into providing for the settlement of this public civil to our business, including claims and pending actions against claim, suspension of the US$155 billion approximately US$40 billion us seeking damages or clarification of legal rights and regulatory Federal Public Prosecution Office claim for 24 months, partial inquiries regarding business practices.
Insurance or other ratification of the Framework Agreement and a formal declaration indemnification protection may offset the financial impact that the Framework Agreement remains valid for the signing parties.
on the Group of a successful claim.
On 8 August 2018, the 12th Federal Court of Minas Gerais ratified the Governance Agreement.
This section summarises the significant legal proceedings and investigations and associated matters in which we are currently Ratification of the Governance Agreement on 8 August 2018 involved or have finalised since the last Annual Report.
settled this public civil claim, including the R$1.2 billion approximately US$365 million injunction order.
Legal proceedings relating to the failure of the Fundo Preliminary Agreement tailings dam at the iron ore operations of Samarco in Minas Gerais and Esprito Santo Samarco dam failure On 18 January 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil, together with Vale and Samarco, entered into a Preliminary Agreement with the Federal BHP Billiton Brasil is engaged in numerous legal proceedings Prosecutors Office in Brazil, which outlines the process and relating to the Samarco dam failure.
Given all of these proceedings timeline for further negotiations towards a final settlement are in early stages, it is not possible at this time to provide a range regarding the R$20 billion approximately US$5.2 billion public of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future civil claim and the R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion exposures for BHP Billiton Brasil.
The most significant of these Federal Public Prosecution Office claim relating to the dam failure.
As described below, many of these proceedings involve claims for compensation for the Under the Preliminary Agreement, BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and similar or possibly the same damages.
There are numerous Samarco agreed interim security Interim Security comprising: additional lawsuits against Samarco relating to the Samarco R$1.3 billion approximately US$335 million in insurance bonds: dam failure to which BHP Billiton Brasil is not a party.
R$100 million approximately US$20 million in liquid assets: R$20 billion public civil claim commenced by the Federal A charge of R$800 million approximately US$210 million Government of Brazil, states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais over Samarcos assets: and other authorities R$20 billion public civil claim R$200 million approximately US$50 million to be allocated On 30 November 2015, the Federal Government of Brazil, states within the next four years through existing Framework Agreement of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais and other public authorities programs in the Municipalities of Barra Longa, Rio Doce, Santa collectively filed a public civil claim before the 12th Federal Cruz do Escalvado and Ponte Nova.
Court of Belo Horizonte against Samarco and its shareholders, On 24 January 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco provided BHP Billiton Brasil and Vale, seeking the establishment of a fund the Interim Security to the 12th Federal Court of Belo Horizonte, of up to R$20 billion approximately US$5.2 billion in aggregate which was to remain in place until the earlier of 30 June 2017 and for clean-up costs and damages.
the date that a final settlement arrangement was agreed between The plaintiffs also requested certain interim injunctions in the Federal Prosecutors, and BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco.
connection with the public civil claim.
On 18 December 2015, Following, a series of extensions, on 25 June 2018, the parties the Federal Court granted the injunctions and, among other reached an agreement in the form of the Governance Agreement things, ordered Samarco to deposit R$2 billion approximately summarised below.
US$605 million in to a court-managed bank account for Governance Agreement use towards community and environmental rehabilitation.
On 25 June 2018, BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale, Samarco, the other BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco immediately appealed parties to the Framework Agreement, the Public Prosecutors against the injunction.
Office and the Public Defence Office entered into a Governance On 2 March 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil, together with Vale and Agreement which settles the R$20 billion approximately Samarco, entered into a Framework Agreement with the plaintiffs US$5.2 billion public civil claim, enhances community participation Federal Government of Brazil, states of Esprito Santo and Minas in decisions related to Programs under the Framework Agreement Gerais and certain other authorities to establish a foundation and establishes a process to renegotiate the Programs over two Fundao Renova that will develop and execute environmental years to progress settlement of the R$155 billion approximately and socio-economic programs Programs to remediate and provide US$40 billion Federal Public Prosecution Office claim compensation for damage caused by the Samarco dam failure.
The term of the Framework Agreement is 15 years, renewable for Renegotiation of the Programs will be based on certain agreed periods of one year successively until all obligations under the 6 principles such as full reparation consistent with Brazilian law, Framework Agreement have been performed.
Under the Framework the requirement for a technical basis for any proposed changes, Agreement, Samarco is responsible for funding Fundao consideration of findings from experts appointed by BHP Billiton Renovas annual calendar year budget for the duration of the Brasil, Samarco and Vale, consideration of findings from experts Framework Agreement.
The amount of funding for each calendar appointed by Prosecutors and consideration of feedback from year will be dependent on the remediation and compensation impacted communities.
During the renegotiation period and up until projects to be undertaken in a particular year.
To the extent revisions to the Programs are agreed, the Renova Foundation will that Samarco does not meet its funding obligations under the continue to implement the Programs in accordance with the terms Framework Agreement, each of Vale and BHP Billiton Brasil of the Framework Agreement and the Governance Agreement.
has funding obligations under the Framework Agreement The Governance Agreement was ratified by the 12th Federal in proportion to its 50 per cent shareholding in Samarco.
Court of Minas Gerais on 8 August 2018, settling the R$20 billion On 29 June 2018, BHP Billiton Brasil announced funding of approximately US$5.2 billion public civil claim and suspending US$158 million to support Fundao Renova for the six months the R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion Federal Public to 31December 2018, in the event Samarco does not meet Prosecution Office claim for a period of two years from the date its funding obligations under the Framework Agreement.
Interim Security provided under the Preliminary Agreement is maintained for a period of 30 months under the Governance Agreement, after which BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco will be required to provide security of an amount equal to the Fundao Renovas annual budget up to a limit of R$2.2 billion approximately US$570 million.
BHP Annual Report 2018 273 R$155 billion public civil claim commenced by the Federal require the defendants to pay R$30,000 approximately Public Prosecution Off ice R$155 billion Federal Public US$8,000 per affected family and compensation to provide Prosecution Off ice claim dignified and adequate housing for the affected families.
On 3 May 2016, the Federal Public Prosecution Office filed a public On 5 February 2016, the Court granted an injunction to freeze civil claim before the 12th Federal Court of Belo Horizonte against R$475 million approximately US$145 million from bank accounts BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco as well as 18 other public of BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco and ordered them 1 entities which has since been reduced to five defendants by the to pay preliminary amounts to families in Ponte Nova affected Court seeking R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion for by the Samarco dam failure.
This injunction was revoked on reparation, compensation and collective moral damages in relation 9 November 2016 and the Court, on 8 May 2018, also ordered the to the Samarco dam failure.
frozen funds to be returned to BHP Billiton Brasil R$2 million.
Samarco and BHP Billiton Brasil have filed their defences, In addition, the claim includes a number of preliminary respectively on 6 December 2016 and 9 March 2017.
This case injunction requests, seeking orders that BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale has been remitted to the 12th Federal Court in Belo Horizonte and Samarco deposit R$7.7 billion approximately US$2 billion and is currently suspended.
in a special company account and provide guarantees equivalent to R$155 billion approximately US$40 billion.
The injunctions Public civil claim commenced by the Public Defender Department also seek to prohibit BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco in Minas Gerais from distributing dividends and selling certain assets On 25 April 2016, the Public Defender Department filed a public among other things.
civil claim against BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco in the The 12th Federal Court previously suspended this public civil claim, State Court in Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil claiming including the R$7.7 billion approximately US$2 billion injunction R$10 billion approximately US$2.6 billion for collective moral request.
Suspension of the claim continues for a period of two damages to be deposited in the State Human Rights Defense Fund.
years from the date of ratification of the Governance Agreement The Public Defender Department is also seeking a number of on 8 August 2018. social and environmental remediation measures in relation to the Samarco dam failure, including orders requiring the reparation Public civil claims commenced by the State Prosecutors Off ice of the environmental damage and the reconstruction of properties in the state of Minas Gerais and populations, including historical, religious, cultural, social, On 10 December 2015, the State Prosecutors Office in the state environmental and immaterial heritages affected by the dam failure.
of Minas Gerais filed a public civil claim against BHP Billiton Brasil, On 16 March 2016, the Court denied the remediation measures Vale and Samarco before the State Court in Mariana claiming requested as an injunction by the Public Defender Department.
indemnification amount not specified for moral and material The public civil claim was remitted to the 12th Federal Court damages to an unspecified group of individuals affected by the in Belo Horizonte and is currently suspended.
Samarco dam failure, including the payment of costs for housing Public civil claim commenced by the State Prosecutors Off ice and social and economic assistance.
in the state of Esprito Santo The State Prosecutors Office also requested certain interim On 15 January 2016, the State Prosecutors Office of Esprito Santo injunctions in connection with this claim, including orders for filed a public civil claim before the State Court in Esprito Santo BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco to provide housing, health against BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco seeking compensation care, financial assistance and education facilities to the people for collective moral damages in relation to the suspension of the affected by the Samarco dam failure.
The plaintiff also sought water supply of the Municipality of Colatina as a result of the an order to freeze R$300 million approximately US$80 million Samarco dam failure.
As part of the public civil claim, the State in Samarcos bank accounts.
The Court granted the injunction Prosecutors Office sought a number of injunctions, including freezing R$300 million approximately US$80 million in Samarcos an order to freeze R$2 billion approximately US$520 million bank accounts for use towards the compensation and remediation in the defendants bank accounts in order to secure the requested measures requested under this public civil claim.
On 11 February 2016, the Court denied all of hearing on 20 January 2016, the parties agreed that Samarco the injunction requests made by the State Prosecutors Office.
should unilaterally provide: The State Prosecutors Office appealed the decision and on flexible housing solutions for 271 displaced families: 2 August 2016 the State Court of Appeal decided to remit the monthly salaries to the displaced families for at least 12 months: case to the 12th Federal Court in Belo Horizonte.
This public civil a R$20,000 approximately US$5,000 payment to each claim is suspended.
displaced family: Public civil claim commenced by the state of Esprito Santo a R$100,000 approximately US$25,000 payment to each On 8 January 2016, the state of Esprito Santo filed a public civil of the families of those deceased, as advance compensation.
claim against BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco before the There have been multiple hearings, injunctions and enforcement State Court in Colatina later remitted to the 12th Federal Court petitions of previous settlements requested in this public civil in Belo Horizonte seeking the remediation and restoration claim.
Samarco has requested the Court to release part of the of the water supply of the residents of Baixo Guandu, Linhares, frozen amount to pay for i the technical entity hired to assist the Colatina and Marilndia.
In addition, the claim sought injunctions impacted community: and ii payments related to the Preliminary ordering, among other things, the execution of several works and Agreement.
This public civil claim is ongoing and no final decision improvements in public equipment in order to repair and upgrade has been issued.
the sewage system and water network in Colatina and Linhares, and an order to freeze R$1 billion approximately US$260 million On 2 February 2016, the State Prosecutors Office in the state of the defendants assets.
On 4 February 2016, the Court ordered of Minas Gerais filed another public civil claim against BHP Billiton Samarco to deposit approximately R$7 million approximately Brasil, Vale and Samarco before the State Court in Ponte Nova US$2 million in a fund of the state of Esprito Santo to be created claiming compensation of R$7.5 billion approximately US$2.3 billion and granted certain injunctions relating to remediation measures.
for moral and material damages suffered by 1,350 individuals At the same time it denied the injunction request to freeze assets in Ponte Nova and collective moral damages allegedly suffered of R$1 billion approximately US$260 million.
On 6 April 2016 by the community in Ponte Nova.
The claim also sought a number the Court of Appeals suspended the injunctions granted.
of preliminary injunctions, including orders to: BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco filed their defences in freeze R$1 billion approximately US$305 million of cash in the March 2016 and also requested the suspension of this public defendants bank accounts in order to secure the compensation civil claim.
On 18 December 2017, the case was remitted requested under the public civil claim: to the 12th Federal Court.
require the defendants to pay minimum wages and basic food supplies to the families in Ponte Nova affected by the Samarco dam failure: 1 Currently, solely the companies, the Federal Government and the State of Minas Gerais are defendants.
274 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Public civil claim commenced by the Association for the On 14 October 2016, the defendants moved to dismiss the Complaint.
Defense of Collective Interests ADIC In a decision of the District Court dated 28 August 2017, the claims were dismissed in part, including the claims against the current and On 17 November 2015, ADIC, a NGO in Brazil, filed a public civil former executive officers and directors.
claim solely against Samarco before the 12th Federal Court in Belo Horizonte claiming at least R$10 billion approximately On 6 August 2018, the parties reached an in-principle US$2.6 billion for environmental and social damages in relation settlement agreement of US$50 million to resolve all claims to the Samarco dam failure, in addition to collective moral with no admission of liability by the Defendants.
The agreement damages and reparation measures.
The NGO also requested is subject to Court approval.
BHP expects to recover the majority of preliminary injunctions ordering the deposit of R$1 billion the settlement payment under its external insurance arrangements.
approximately US$260 million and prohibiting Samarco from United States class action complaint bondholders distributing dividends to its shareholders.
Samarco presented On 14 November 2016, a putative class action complaint Complaint its defence on 12 February 2016.
The Court did not decide on the was filed in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of New injunction request and on 27 March 2017, the Court suspended York on behalf of all purchasers of Samarcos ten-year bond notes this public civil claim.
due 20222024 between 31 October 2012 and 30 November 2015 Other proceedings against Samarco and the former chief executive officer of Samarco.
As noted above, BHP Billiton Brasil has been named as a defendant The Complaint asserts claims under the U. S. federal securities laws in numerous other lawsuits that are at early stages of proceedings.
and indicates that the plaintiff will seek certification to proceed The lawsuits seek various remedies, including rehabilitation costs, as a class action.
compensation to injured individuals and families of the deceased, On 6 March 2017, the Complaint was amended to include recovery of personal and property losses and injunctive relief.
BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc, BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda and In addition, government inquiries and investigations relating to Vale S. A. and officers of Samarco, including four of Vale S. A. the Samarco dam failure have been commenced by numerous and BHP Billiton Brasil Ltdas nominees to the Samarco Board.
agencies of the Brazilian Government and are ongoing, including On 5 April 2017, the plaintiff dismissed the claims against the criminal investigations by the federal and state police, and by individuals.
The remaining corporate defendants filed a joint federal prosecutors.
motion to dismiss the plaintiffs Complaint on 26 June 2017.
Our potential liabilities, if any, resulting from other pending On 7 March 2018, the District Court granted the defendants and future claims, lawsuits and enforcement actions relating motion to dismiss the Complaint: however, the District Court to the Samarco dam failure, together with the potential cost granted the plaintiff leave to file a second amended Complaint, of implementing remedies sought in the various proceedings, which it did on 21 March 2018.
On 21 May 2018, the defendants cannot be reliably estimated at this time and therefore a provision moved to dismiss the Complaint.
The defendants motion is has not been recognised and nor has any contingent liability pending before the District Court.
been quantified for these matters.
Ultimately these could have a material adverse impact on BHPs business, competitive position, The amount of damages sought by the plaintiff on behalf of the cash flows, prospects, liquidity and shareholder returns.
For more putative class is unspecified.
Given the preliminary status of this information on the Samarco dam failure, refer to section 1.8. matter, it is not possible at this time to provide a range of possible outcomes or a reliable estimate of potential future exposures As at June 2018, Samarco has been named as a defendant in more to BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Brasil Ltda.
than 50,255 small claims in which people had their water service interrupted for between five and 10 days, and courts have awarded Australian class action complaints damages, which generally range from R$1,000 approximately On 31 May 2018, a shareholder class action was filed in the US$260 to R$10,000 approximately US$2,600 per impacted Federal Court of Australia Melbourne against BHP Billiton Ltd person.
Currently, the majority of such small claims are suspended on behalf of persons who, during the period from 21 October 2013 due to a recourse presented by Samarco before the Minas Gerais to 9 November 2015, acquired BHP Billiton Ltd shares on the State Court.
Given the number of people affected by the Samarco Australian Securities Exchange or BHP Billiton Plc shares on dam failure, the number of potential claimants may continue the London Stock Exchange or Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
BHP Billiton Brasil is a defendant in more than 15,500 On 31 August 2018 an additional shareholder class action that of these cases.
makes similar allegations was filed in the Federal Court of Australia Criminal charges against BHP Billiton Ltd on behalf of persons who, during the period On 20 October 2016, the Federal Prosecutors Office filed criminal from 27 August 2014 to 9 November 2015, entered into a contract charges against BHP Billiton Brasil, Vale and Samarco and certain to acquire BHP Billiton Ltd shares on the Australian Securities employees and former employees of BHP Billiton Brasil Affected Exchange or BHP Billiton Plc shares on the London Stock Exchange Individuals in the Federal Court of Ponte Nova, Minas Gerais.
On 3 March 2017, BHP Billiton Brasil and the Affected Individuals Orders have been made for the Court to consider how to manage filed their preliminary defences.
BHP Billiton Brasil rejects outright 6 the competing shareholder class actions on 29 October 2018. the charges against the company and the Affected Individuals and will defend the charges and fully support each of the Affected The amount of damages sought by the plaintiff on behalf of the Individuals in their defence of the charges.
United States class action complaint shareholders Tax and royalty matters In February 2016, a putative class action complaint Complaint was The Group presently has unresolved tax and royalty matters for filed in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of New York which the timing of resolution and potential economic outflow on behalf of purchasers of American Depositary Receipts of BHP is uncertain.
For details of those matters, refer to note 5 Income Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc between 25 September 2014 tax expense in section 5. and 30 November 2015 against BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and certain of its current and former executive officers and directors.
The Complaint asserts claims under US federal securities laws and indicates that the plaintiff will seek certification to proceed as a class action.
1 Mining, oil and gas-related terms 2D Dated Brent Two dimensional.
A benchmark price assessment of the spot market value of physical cargoes of North Sea light sweet crude oil.
An electrochemical process in which metal is recovered AIG by dissolving a metal within an electrolyte and plating The Australian Institute of Geoscientists.
AusIMM Energy coal The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
Used as a fuel source in electrical power generation, cement manufacture and various industrial applications.
Energy coal Beneficiation may also be referred to as steaming or thermal coal.
The process of physically separating ore from waste material prior to subsequent processing of the improved ore. Ethane A component of natural gas.
Where sold separately, is largely Brownfield ethane gas that has been liquefied through pressurisation.
The development or exploration located inside the area One tonne of ethane is approximately equivalent to 28,000 of influence of existing mine operations which can share cubic feet of gas.
FAusIMM Butane Fellow of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
Where sold separately, is largely butane gas that has been liquefied through pressurisation.
Field One tonne of butane is approximately equivalent to 14,000 An area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all cubic feet of gas.
grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural feature and or stratigraphic condition.
There may be two or more Coal Reserves reservoirs in a field that are separated vertically by intervening Equivalent to Ore Reserves, but specifically concerning coal.
impervious strata, or laterally by local geologic barriers, or by both.
Coal Resources Reservoirs that are associated by being in overlapping or adjacent Equivalent to Mineral Resources, but specifically concerning coal.
fields may be treated as a single or common operational field.
Coking coal The geological terms structural feature and stratigraphic condition are intended to identify localised geological features Used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steelmaking as opposed to the broader terms of basins, trends, provinces, process by virtue of its carbonisation properties.
Coking coal may plays, areas-of-interest, etc.
per SEC Regulation S-X, Rule 4-10. also be referred to as metallurgical coal.
Flotation Competent Person A method of selectively recovering minerals from finely ground A minerals industry professional who is a Member or Fellow ore using a froth created in water by specific reagents.
In the of The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, or of the flotation process, certain mineral particles are induced to float Australian Institute of Geoscientists, or of a Recognised Professional by becoming attached to bubbles of froth and the unwanted Organisation RPO, as included in a list available on the JORC and mineral particles sink.
These organisations have enforceable disciplinary processes, including the powers to suspend or expel a member.
FPSO Floating, production, storage and offtake A Competent Person must have a minimum of five years relevant A floating vessel used by the offshore oil and gas industry for experience in the style of mineralisation or type of deposit under the processing of hydrocarbons and for storage of oil.
An FPSO consideration and in the activity that the person is undertaking vessel is designed to receive hydrocarbons produced from nearby JORC Code, 2012. platforms or subsea templates, process them and store oil until Condensate it can be offloaded onto a tanker.
A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in gaseous form in natural Grade or Quality underground reservoirs, but which condense to form a liquid Any physical or chemical measurement of the characteristics at atmospheric conditions.
of the material of interest in samples or product.
Conventional Petroleum Resources Greenfield Hydrocarbon accumulations that can be produced by a well The development or exploration located outside the area drilled into a geologic formation in which the reservoir and fluid of influence of existing mine operations infrastructure.
characteristics permit the hydrocarbons to readily flow to the Heap leach ing wellbore without the use of specialised extraction technologies.
A process used for the recovery of metals such as copper, nickel, Copper cathode uranium and gold from low-grade ores.
The crushed material is laid Electrolytically refined copper that has been deposited on on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and leached by uniformly the cathode of an electrolytic bath of acidified copper sulphate trickling gravity fed a chemical solution through the beds to ponds.
The refined copper may also be produced through The metals are recovered from the solution.
Hypogene Sulphide Crude oil Hypogene mineralisation is formed by fluids at high temperature A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in liquid form in natural and pressure derived from magmatic activity.
Hypogene sulphide underground reservoirs, and remain liquid at atmospheric consists predominantly of chalcopyrite.
pressure after being produced at the well head and passing Indicated Mineral Resources through surface separating facilities.
That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or Cut-off grade quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics are estimated A nominated grade above which an Ore Reserve or Mineral with sufficient confidence to allow the application of Modifying Resource is defined.
For example, the lowest grade of mineralised Factors in sufficient detail to support mine planning and evaluation material that qualifies as economic for estimating an Ore Reserve.
of the economic viability of the deposit JORC Code, 2012.
276 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Inferred Mineral Resources Mineral Resources That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity and grade A concentration or occurrence of solid material of economic or quality are estimated on the basis of limited geological evidence interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, grade quality and and sampling.
Geological evidence is sufficient to imply but not quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic verify geological and grade or quality continuity JORC Code, 2012. extraction.
The location, quantity, grade or quality, continuity and other geological characteristics of a Mineral Resource are International Centre for Settlement of Investment known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence Disputes ICSID and knowledge, including sampling JORC Code, 2012.
ICSID is an autonomous international institution that provides Mineralisation facilities and services to support conciliation and arbitration of international investment disputes between investors and States.
Any single mineral or combination of minerals occurring in a mass, ICSID was established under the Convention on the Settlement or deposit, of economic interest.
of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other Modifying Factors States the ICSID Convention, with over 140 member States.
Considerations used to convert Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC Code These include, but are not restricted to, mining, processing, A set of minimum standards, recommendations and guidelines metallurgical, infrastructure, economic, marketing, legal, for public reporting in Australasia of Exploration Results, environmental, social and governmental factors.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.
The guidelines are defined NGL natural gas liquids by the Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC, Consists of propane, butane and ethane individually or as a mixture.
which is sponsored by the Australian mining industry and its professional organisations.
Nominated production rate The approved average production rate for the remainder of the Leaching life-of-asset plan or five-year plan production rate if significantly The process by which a soluble metal can be economically different to life-of-asset production rate.
recovered from minerals in ore by dissolution.
OC OP open-cut open-pit LNG liquefied natural gas Surface working in which the working area is kept open to the sky.
Consists largely of methane that has been liquefied through chilling and pressurisation.
One tonne of LNG is approximately Ore Reserves equivalent to 46,000 cubic feet of natural gas.
The economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for LOI loss on ignition losses, which may occur when the material is mined or extracted A measure of the percentage of volatile matter liquid or gas and is defined by studies at Pre-Feasibility or Feasibility level contained within a mineral or rock.
LOI is determined to calculate as appropriate that include application of Modifying Factors.
loss in mass when subjected to high temperatures.
Such studies demonstrate that, at the time of reporting, LPG liquefied petroleum gas extraction could reasonably be justified JORC Code, 2012.
Consists of propane and butane and a small amount less PCI than two per cent of ethane that has been liquefied through pressurisation.
One tonne of LPG is approximately equivalent Pulverised coal injection.
PEGNL MAIG Professional Engineer of the Association of Professional Member of the Australian Institute of Geoscientists.
Engineers and Geoscientists of Newfoundland and Labrador.
Marketable Coal Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Represents beneficiated or otherwise enhanced coal product The economically mineable part of an Indicated and, in some where modifications due to mining, dilution and processing circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
The confidence have been considered, must be publicly reported in conjunction in the Modifying Factors applying to a Probable Ore Reserve with, but not instead of, reports of Coal Reserves.
The basis is lower than that applying to a Proved Ore Reserve.
Consideration of the predicted yield to achieve Marketable Coal Reserves of the confidence level of the Modifying Factors is important must be stated JORC Code, 2012. in conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
A Probable Ore Reserve has a lower level of confidence than a Proved Ore MAusIMM Reserve but is of sufficient quality to serve as the basis for a Member of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
decision on the development of the deposit JORC Code, 2012.
Measured Mineral Resources Propane 6 That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade A component of natural gas.
Where sold separately, is largely or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics are propane gas that has been liquefied through pressurisation.
estimated with confidence sufficient to allow the application One tonne of propane is approximately equivalent to 19,000 of Modifying Factors to support detailed mine planning cubic feet of gas.
and final evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit Proved oil and gas reserves JORC Code, 2012.
Those quantities of oil, gas and natural gas liquids, which by Metallurgical coal analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated A broader term than coking coal, which includes all coals with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from used in steelmaking, such as coal used for the pulverised a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing coal injection process.
economic conditions, operating methods, and government Metocean regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal A term that is commonly used in the offshore oil and gas industry is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or to describe the physical environment and surrounds i. e. an probabilistic methods are used for the estimation from SEC environment near an offshore oil and gas working platform.
Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting, 2009, 17 CFR Parts 210, MGSSA 211, 229 and 249.
Member of the Geological Society of South Africa.
BHP Annual Report 2018 277 Proved Ore Reserves WTI West Texas Intermediate The economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource.
A mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in liquid phase in natural A Proved Ore Reserve implies a high degree of confidence in the underground reservoirs and remains liquid at atmospheric pressure Modifying Factors.
A Proved Ore Reserve represents the highest after passing through surface separating facilities.
Crude oil is confidence category of reserve estimate and implies a high refined to produce a wide array of petroleum products, including degree of confidence in geological and grade continuity, and the heating oils: gasoline, diesel and jet fuels: lubricants: asphalt: consideration of the Modifying Factors.
The style of mineralisation ethane, propane, and butane: and many other products used for or other factors could mean that Proved Ore Reserves are not their energy or chemical content.
achievable in some deposits JORC Code, 2012 West Texas Intermediate refers to a crude stream produced in Qualified petroleum reserves and resources evaluator Texas and southern Oklahoma that serves as a reference or marker for pricing a number of other crude streams and which is traded A qualified petroleum reserves and resources evaluator, as defined in the domestic spot market at Cushing, Oklahoma.
in Chapter 19 of the ASX Listing Rules.
2 Other terms Current stated Ore Reserves estimate divided by the current approved nominated production rate as at the end of the AASB Australian Accounting Standards Board financial year.
Accounting standards as issued by the Australian Accounting ROM run of mine Standards Board.
Run of mine product mined in the course of regular mining ADR American Depositary Receipt activities.
Tonnes include allowances for diluting materials and An instrument evidencing American Depository Shares or for losses that occur when the material is mined.
ADSs, which trades on a stock exchange in the United States.
Solvent extraction ADS American Depositary Share A method of separating one or more metals from a leach solution A share issued under a deposit agreement that has been created by treating with a solvent that will extract the required metal, to permit US-resident investors to hold shares in non-US companies leaving the others.
The metal is recovered from the solvent and trade them on the stock exchanges in the United States.
ADSs are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, SP stockpile which are the instruments that trade on a stock exchange in the An accumulation of ore or mineral built up when demand United States.
slackens or when the treatment plant or beneficiation equipment ASIC Australian Securities and Investments Commission is incomplete or temporarily unable to process the mine output: any heap of material formed to create a buffer for loading or other The Australian Government agency that enforces laws relating purposes or material dug and piled for future use.
to companies, securities, financial services and credit in order to protect consumers, investors and creditors.
Spud Assets Commence drilling of an oil or gas well.
Assets are a set of one or more geographically proximate operations Supergene Sulphide including open-cut mines, underground mines, and onshore Supergene is a term used to describe near-surface processes and and offshore oil and gas production and production facilities.
their products, formed at low temperature and pressure by the Assets include our operated and non-operated assets.
Supergene sulphide is mainly formed Asset groups of chalcocite and covellite and is amenable to heap leaching.
We group our assets into geographic regions in order to provide Tailings effective governance and accelerate performance improvement.
Those portions of washed or milled ore that are too poor to be Minerals assets are grouped under Minerals Australia or Minerals treated further or remain after the required metals and minerals Americas based on their geographic location.
Oil, gas and petroleum have been extracted.
assets are grouped together as Petroleum.
TLP tension leg platform ASX Australian Securities Exchange A vertically moored floating facility for production of oil and gas.
ASX is a multi-asset class vertically integrated exchange group Total Mineral Resources that functions as a market operator, clearing house and payments system facilitator.
It oversees compliance with its operating rules, The sum of Inferred, Indicated and Measured Mineral Resources.
promotes standards of corporate governance among Australias Total Ore Reserves listed companies and helps educate retail investors.
The sum of Proved and Probable Ore Reserves.
BHP UG underground Both companies in the DLC structure, being BHP Billiton Limited Below the surface mining activities.
and BHP Billiton Plc and their respective subsidiaries.
Unconventional Petroleum Resources BHP Billiton Limited Group Hydrocarbon accumulations that are generally pervasive in nature BHP Billiton Limited and its subsidiaries.
and may be continuous throughout a large area requiring specialised BHP Billiton Limited share extraction technologies to produce or recover.
Examples include, A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Limited.
but are not limited to coalbed methane, basin-centred gas, shale gas, gas hydrates, natural bitumen tar sands, and oil shale deposits.
BHP Billiton Limited shareholders The holders of BHP Billiton Limited shares.
Examples of specialised technologies include: dewatering of coalbed methane, massive fracturing programs for shale gas, steam and or solvents to mobilise bitumen for in situ recovery, and, in some cases, mining activities.
Wet tonnes Production is usually quoted in terms of wet metric tonnes wmt.
To adjust from wmt to dry metric tonnes dmt a factor is applied based on moisture content.
278 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share Gearing ratio A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by The ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets.
shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited on Joint Electorate Actions.
GHG greenhouse gas BHP Billiton Plc Group For BHP reporting purposes, these are the aggregate anthropogenic BHP Billiton Plc and its subsidiaries.
carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of carbon dioxide CO, 2 methane CH, nitrous oxide N O, hydrofluorocarbons HFCs, 4 2 BHP Billiton Plc share perfluorocarbons PFCs and sulphur hexafluoride SF.
6 A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Plc.
Group BHP Billiton Plc shareholders BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective subsidiaries.
The holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares.
Henry Hub BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share A natural gas pipeline located in Erath, Louisiana that serves as A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by the official delivery location for futures contracts on the New York shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc on Joint Electorate Actions.
BHP shareholders HPI high potential injuries In the context of BHPs financial results, BHP shareholders refers High potential injuries HPI are recordable injuries and first aid to the holders of shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
cases where there was the potential for a fatality.
Board IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards The Board of Directors of BHP.
Accounting standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Company BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective KMP Key Management Personnel subsidiaries.
Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
Continuing operations Assets operations entities that are owned and or operated by BHP, For BHP, KMP includes the Executive Director our CEO, excluding Onshore US and assets operations entities included the Non-Executive Directors our Board, as well as the Chief in the demerger of South32.
Financial Officer, the President Operations, Minerals Australia, the President Operations, Minerals Americas, and the President Discontinued operations Operations, Petroleum.
For FY2014 to FY2018, Discontinued operations includes assets KPI key performance indicator operations entities that are owned by and or operated by BHP during FY2018 and held for sale as part of our Onshore US sale, Used to measure the performance of the Group, individual which was announced on 27 July 2018.
For FY2014 and FY2015, businesses and executives in any one year.
Discontinued operations also includes assets operations entities LME London Metal Exchange that were owned and or operated by BHP during FY2015 and A major futures exchange for the trading of industrial metals.
demerged into a new company South32 on 25 May 2015.
Marketing and Supply Dividend record date BHPs commercial businesses that optimise our working capital The date, determined by a companys board of directors, by when and manage our inward and outward supply chains.
Our Marketing an investor must be recorded as an owner of shares in order to business sells our products, gets our commodities to market qualify for a forthcoming dividend.
and supports strategic decision-making through market insights.
DLC Dividend Share Supply sources the goods and services we need for our business, A share to enable a dividend to be paid by BHP Billiton Plc to sustainably and cost effectively.
BHP Billiton Limited or by BHP Billiton Limited to BHP Billiton Plc Minerals Americas as applicable.
A group of assets located in Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Peru DLC Dual Listed Company and the United States see Asset groups focusing on copper, zinc, BHPs Dual Listed Company structure has two parent companies iron ore, energy coal and potash.
BHP Billiton Ltd and BHP Billiton Plc operating as a single economic Minerals Australia entity as a result of the DLC merger.
A group of assets located in Australia see Asset groups.
Minerals DLC merger Australia includes operations in Western Australia, Queensland, The Dual Listed Company merger between BHP Billiton Limited New South Wales and South Australia, focusing on iron ore, copper, 6 and BHP Billiton Plc on 29 June 2001. metallurgical and energy coal, and nickel.
ELT Executive Leadership Team Non-operated asset Non-operated joint venture NOJV The Executive Leadership Team directly reports to the Chief Non-operated assets non-operated joint ventures include interests Executive Officer and is responsible for the day-to-day management in assets that are owned as a joint venture but not operated by BHP.
of BHP and leading the delivery of our strategic objectives.
References in this Annual Report to a joint venture are used for convenience to collectively describe assets that are not wholly Executive KMP owned by BHP.
Such references are not intended to characterise Executive KMP includes the Executive Director our CEO, the the legal relationship between the owners of the asset.
Chief Financial Officer, the President Operations, Minerals Australia, Occupational illness the President Operations, Minerals Americas, and the President Operations, Petroleum.
It does not include the Non-Executive An illness that occurs as a consequence of work-related activities Directors our Board.
It includes acute or chronic illnesses or diseases, which may be caused by inhalation, absorption, ingestion Functions or direct contact.
Functions operate along global reporting lines to provide support to all areas of the organisation.
Functions have specific accountabilities and deep expertise in areas such as finance, legal, governance, technology, human resources, corporate affairs, health, safety and community.
BHP Annual Report 2018 279 OMC Operations Management Committee Senior manager Prior to FY2018, the Operations Management Committee had An employee who has responsibility for planning, directing or responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities controlling the activities of the entity or a strategically significant of BHP under the authorities that have been delegated to it by part of it.
In the Strategic Report, senior manager includes senior the Board.
This included key strategic, investment and operational leaders and any persons who are directors of any subsidiary decisions, and recommendations to the Board.
company even if they are not senior leaders.
During FY2018 the OMC was dissolved and the Remuneration Shareplus Committee re-examined the classification of KMP for FY2018 to All-employee share purchase plan.
determine which persons have the authority and responsibility for Social investment planning, directing and controlling the activities of BHP.
After due Voluntary contributions to support communities through cash consideration, the Remuneration Committee determined the KMP donations to community programs and associated administrative for FY2018 comprised of all Non-executive Directors the Board, costs.
BHPs targeted level of contribution is one per cent of the Executive Director the CEO, the Chief Financial Officer, the pre-tax profit calculated on the average of the previous three President Operations, Minerals Australia, the President Operations, years pre-tax profit as reported.
Minerals Americas, and the President Operations, Petroleum.
The Committee also determined that, effective 1 July 2017, the South32 Chief External Affairs Officer and Chief People Officer roles are During FY2015, BHP demerged a selection of our alumina, no longer considered KMP.
aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel, silver, lead and zinc assets into Onshore US a new company South32 Limited.
BHPs Petroleum asset in four US shale areas Eagle Ford, Permian, Strate Haynesville and Fayetteville, where we produce oil, condensate, South Africas Central Securities Depositary for the electronic gas and natural gas liquids.
Operated assets TRIF total recordable injury frequency Operated assets include assets that are wholly owned and The sum of fatalities lost-time cases restricted work cases operated by BHP and assets that are owned as a joint venture medical treatment cases x 1,000,000 actual hours worked.
References in this Annual Report to a joint venture are used for convenience to collectively describe Stated in units of per million hours worked.
BHP adopts the assets that are not wholly owned by BHP.
Such references are US Government Occupational Safety and Health Administration not intended to characterise the legal relationship between the guidelines for the recording and reporting of occupational injury owners of the asset.
TRIF statistics exclude non-operated assets.
Operating Model TSR total shareholder return The Operating Model outlines how BHP is organised, works and TSR measures the return delivered to shareholders over a certain measures performance and includes mandatory performance period through the movements in share price and dividends paid requirements and common systems, processes and planning.
which are assumed to be reinvested.
It is the measure used to The Operating Model has been simplified and BHP is organised compare BHPs performance to that of other relevant companies by assets, asset groups, Marketing and Supply, and functions.
under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Operations UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority Open-cut mines, underground mines, onshore and offshore oil Term used when the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA acts and gas production and processing facilities.
as the competent authority under Part VI of the UK Financial Services and Markets Act FSMA.
Our Requirements Underlying attributable profit The standards that give effect to the mandatory requirements arising from the BHP Operating Model as approved by the Profit loss after taxation attributable to BHP shareholders Executive Leadership Team ELT.
They describe the mandatory excluding any exceptional items attributable to BHP shareholders minimum performance requirements and accountabilities as described in note 2 Exceptional items in section 5.
Refer to for definitive business obligations, processes, functions and section 1.11 for further information.
Underlying EBIT Previously called Group Level Documents GLDs, the Our Underlying EBITDA, including depreciation, amortisation and Requirements standards reflect a simpler organisation with the impairments.
Refer to section 1.11 for further information.
purpose of being more user-friendly and easier to read.
Underlying EBITDA Petroleum asset group Earnings before net finance costs, depreciation, amortisation and A group of conventional and non-conventional oil and gas assets impairments, taxation expense, Discontinued operations and see Asset groups.
Petroleums core production operations are exceptional items.
located in the US Gulf of Mexico, Australia, Trinidad and Tobago Unit costs and onshore United States.
Petroleum produces crude oil and condensate, gas and natural gas liquids.
One of the financial measures BHP uses to monitor the performance of individual assets.
Unit costs are calculated as Platts revenue less Underlying EBITDA excluding third party.
Conventional Platts is a global provider of energy, petrochemicals, metals and petroleum unit costs exclude inventory movements, freight, agriculture information and a premier source of benchmark price exploration and development and evaluation expense: WAIO, assessments for those commodity markets.
Queensland Coal and New South Wales Energy Coal unit costs exclude freight and royalties: Escondida unit costs exclude freight Quoted and treatment and refining charges and are net of by-product In the context of American Depositary Shares ADS and credits.
FY2019 and medium-term unit cost guidance are based on listed investments, the term quoted means traded on the exchange rates of AUD USD 0.75 and USD CLP 663.
looking guidance is based on internal exchange rate assumptions.
SEC United States Securities and Exchange Commission The US regulatory commission that aims to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly and efficient markets and facilitate capital formation.
280 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 6.6.
3 Terms used in reserves and resources 6.6.
4 Units of measure Ag P % ML silver phosphorous percentage or per cent megalitre AI O Pc bbl mm 2 3 alumina phosphorous in concentrate barrel containing millimetre 42 US gallons Anth PCI MMbbl d bbl d anthracite pulverised coal injection million barrels per day barrels per day Ash S MMboe Bcf inorganic material remaining sulphur million barrels of oil equivalent after combustion billion cubic feet measured at SCu MMBtu the pressure bases set by the Au soluble copper million British thermal units regulator gold 1 scf of natural gas equals SiO 2 bcm 1,010 Btu Cu silica bank cubic metres MMcf d copper TCu boe million cubic feet per day CV total copper barrels of oil equivalent MMcm d calorific value 6,000 scf of natural gas Th million cubic metres per day equals 1 boe Fe thermal coal Mscf iron dmt U O 3 8 thousand standard cubic feet dry metric tonne Insol.
uranium oxide Mt insolubles dmtu VM million tonnes dry metric tonne unit K O 2 volatile matter Mtpa potassium oxide g t Yield million tonnes per annum grams per tonne KCl the percentage of material of MW potassium chloride interest that is extracted during ha mining and or processing megawatt hectare LOI Zn ppm loss on ignition kcal kg zinc parts per million kilocalories per kilogram Met psi metallurgical coal kg tonne or kg t pounds per square inch kilograms per tonne MgO scf magnesium oxide km standard cubic feet kilometre Mo t molybdenum kt tonne kilotonnes Ni TJ nickel ktpa terajoule kilotonnes per annum TJ d ktpd terajoules per day kilotonnes per day tpa kV tonnes per annum kilovolt tpd m tonnes per day metre 6 t h Mbbl d tonnes per hour thousand barrels per day wmt wet metric tonnes BHP Annual Report 2018 281 Section 7 Shareholder information In this section 7.1 History and development 7.2 Markets 7.3 Organisational structure 7.4 Material contracts 7.5 Constitution 7.6 Share ownership 7.7 Dividends 7.8 Share price information 7.9 American Depositary Receipts fees and charges 7.10 Government regulations 7.11 Ancillary information for our shareholders 282 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Certain DLC equalisation principles must be observed.
These are 7.1 History and development designed to ensure that for so long as the Equalisation Ratio BHP Billiton Limited formerly BHP Limited and, before that, between a BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share and a BHP Billiton The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited was incorporated Plc ordinary share is 1:1, the economic and voting interests in 1885 and is registered in Australia with ABN 49 004 028 077. resulting from holding one BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share BHP Billiton Plc formerly Billiton Plc was incorporated in 1996 and one BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share are, so far as practicable, and is registered in England and Wales with registration number equivalent.
For more information, refer to sub-section Equalisation 3196209.
Successive predecessor entities to BHP Billiton Plc of economic and voting rights below.
Australian Foreign Investment Review Board conditions We have operated under a Dual Listed Company DLC structure The Treasurer of Australia approved the DLC merger subject since 29 June 2001.
Under the DLC structure, the two parent to certain conditions, the effect of which was to require that, companies, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, operate among other things, BHP Billiton Limited continues to: as a single economic entity, run by a unified Board and senior be an Australian company, which is headquartered in Australia: executive management team.
For more information on the ultimately manage and control the companies that conducted DLC structure, refer to section 7.3. the businesses that were conducted by its subsidiaries at the time of the DLC merger for as long as those businesses form part of BHP.
7.2 Markets The conditions also require the global headquarters of BHP to As at the date of this Annual Report, BHP Billiton Limited has a be in Australia.
primary listing on the Australian Securities Exchange ASX in Australia and BHP Billiton Plc has a premium listing on the UK The conditions have effect indefinitely, subject to amendment of the Listing Authoritys Official List and its ordinary shares are admitted Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 FATA or any to trading on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
BHP Billiton Plc revocation or amendment by the Treasurer of Australia.
If BHP Billiton also has a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited no longer wishes to comply with these conditions, it must JSE in South Africa.
obtain the prior approval of the Treasurer.
Failure to comply with the conditions results in substantial penalties under the FATA.
In addition, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the United States.
Equalisation of economic and voting rights Trading on the NYSE is via American Depositary Receipts ADRs The economic and voting interests attached to each BHP Billiton evidencing American Depositary Shares ADSs, with each ADS Limited ordinary share relative to each BHP Billiton Plc ordinary representing two ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP share are determined by a ratio known as the Equalisation Ratio.
Citibank N. A. Citibank is the Depositary for both ADS The Equalisation Ratio is currently 1:1, meaning one BHP Billiton programs.
BHP Billiton Limiteds ADSs have been listed for trading Limited ordinary share currently has the same economic and voting on the NYSE ticker BHP since 28 May 1987 and BHP Billiton Plcs interests as one BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share.
The Equalisation Ratio governs the proportions in which dividends and capital distributions are paid on the ordinary shares in each 7.3 Organisational structure company relative to the other.
Given the current Equalisation Ratio of 1:1, the amount of any cash dividend paid by BHP Billiton Limited on each BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share must be matched by 7.3.
1 General an equivalent cash dividend by BHP Billiton Plc on each BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share, and vice versa.
If one company is prohibited BHP consists of the BHP Billiton Limited Group and the BHP Billiton by applicable law or is otherwise unable to pay a matching dividend, Plc Group, operating as a single unified economic entity, following the DLC Structure Sharing Agreement requires that BHP Billiton the completion of the DLC merger in June 2001 the DLC merger.
Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will, as far as practicable, enter into For a full list of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc subsidiaries, such transactions with each other as their Boards agree to be refer to section 5.2 note 13. necessary or desirable to enable both companies to pay matching dividends at the same time.
2 DLC Structure BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc making a payment to the other company or paying a dividend on the DLC Dividend Share BHP shareholders approved the DLC merger in 2001, which held by the other company or a subsidiary of it.
The DLC Dividend was designed to place ordinary shareholders of both companies Share may be used to ensure that the need to trigger the matching in a position where they have economic and voting interests in dividend mechanism does not arise.
BHP Billiton Limited issued a single group.
a DLC Dividend Share on 23 February 2016.
No DLC Dividend Share The principles of the BHP DLC structure are reflected in the DLC has been issued by BHP Billiton Plc.
For more information on the Structure Sharing Agreement and include the following: DLC Dividend Share, refer to section DLC Dividend Share below and section 7.5.
The two companies must operate as if they are a single unified economic entity, through Boards of Directors that comprise the same individuals and a unified senior executive management team.
The Directors of both companies will, in addition to their duties to the company concerned, have regard to the interests of the ordinary shareholders in the two companies as if the two companies were a single unified economic entity and, for that purpose, the Directors of each company take into 7 account in the exercise of their powers the interests of the shareholders of the other.
2 DLC Structure continued The Equalisation Ratio may be adjusted to maintain economic Joint Electorate Actions equivalence between an ordinary share in each of the two companies Under the terms of the DLC agreements, BHP Billiton Limited and where, broadly speaking and subject to certain exceptions : BHP Billiton Plc have implemented special voting arrangements a distribution or action affecting the amount or nature of issued so that the ordinary shareholders of both companies vote together share capital is proposed by one of BHP Billiton Limited and as a single decision-making body on matters that affect the ordinary BHP Billiton Plc and that distribution or action would result shareholders of each company in similar ways.
These are referred in the ratio of economic returns on, or voting rights in relation to as Joint Electorate Actions.
For so long as the Equalisation Ratio to Joint Electorate Actions see below of, a BHP Billiton Limited remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share will effectively ordinary share to a BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share not being have the same voting rights as each BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share the same, or would benefit the holders of ordinary shares in on Joint Electorate Actions.
one company relative to the holders of ordinary shares in the A Joint Electorate Action requires approval by ordinary resolution other company: or special resolution if required by statute, regulation, applicable no matching action is taken by the other company.
A matching listing rules or other applicable requirements of BHP Billiton Limited action is a distribution or action affecting the amount or nature and BHP Billiton Plc.
In the case of BHP Billiton Limited, both the of issued share capital in relation to the holders of ordinary BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shareholders and the holder of the shares in the other company which ensures that the economic BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share vote as a single class and voting rights of a BHP Billiton Limited ordinary share and and, in the case of BHP Billiton Plc, the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share are maintained in proportion shareholders and the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting to the Equalisation Ratio.
Share vote as a single class.
For example, an adjustment would be required if there were to Class Rights Actions be a capital issue or distribution by one company to its ordinary Matters on which ordinary shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders that does not give equivalent value before tax on may have divergent interests from the ordinary shareholders of a per share basis to the ordinary shareholders of the other company BHP Billiton Plc are referred to as Class Rights Actions.
The company and no matching action was undertaken.
Since the establishment wishing to carry out the Class Rights Action requires the prior of the DLC structure in 2001, no adjustment to the Equalisation approval of the ordinary shareholders in the other company voting Ratio has ever been made.
separately and, where appropriate, the approval of its own ordinary DLC Dividend Share shareholders voting separately.
Depending on the type of Class Each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc is authorised Rights Action undertaken, the approval required is either an ordinary or special resolution of the relevant company.
to issue a DLC Dividend Share to the other company or a wholly owned subsidiary of it.
In effect, only that other company or a The Joint Electorate Action and Class Rights Action voting wholly owned subsidiary of it may be the holder of the share.
arrangements are secured through the constitutional documents The share is redeemable.
of the two companies, the DLC Structure Sharing Agreement, The holder of the share is entitled to be paid such dividends as the BHP Special Voting Shares Deed and rights attaching to a the Board may decide to pay on that DLC Dividend Share specially created Special Voting Share issued by each company provided that: and held in each case by a special voting company.
The shares in the special voting companies are held legally and beneficially the amount of the dividend does not exceed the cap by Law Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
mentioned below: the Board of the issuing company in good faith considers paying Cross guarantees the dividend to be in furtherance of any of the DLC principles, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed a including the principle of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee in favour of the creditors of the other company.
operating as a single unified economic entity.
Under the Deed Poll Guarantees, each company has guaranteed The amounts that may be paid as dividends on a DLC Dividend certain contractual obligations of the other company.
This means that creditors entitled to the benefit of the BHP Billiton Limited Share are capped.
Broadly speaking, the cap is the total amount of the preceding ordinary cash dividend whether interim or final Deed Poll Guarantee and the BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee will, to the extent possible, be placed in the same position as paid on BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares, whichever is greater.
The cap will not apply if the relevant debts were owed by both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on a combined basis.
to any dividend paid on a DLC Dividend Share if the proceeds of that dividend are to be used to pay a special cash dividend R estrictions on takeovers of one company only on ordinary shares.
The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles A DLC Dividend Share otherwise has limited rights and does of Association have been drafted to ensure that, except with the not carry a right to vote.
DLC Dividend Shares cannot be used consent of the Board, a person cannot gain control of one company to transfer funds outside of BHP as the terms of issue contain without having made an equivalent offer to the ordinary shareholders structural safeguards to ensure that a DLC Dividend Share may of both companies on equivalent terms.
Sanctions for breach of only be used to pay dividends within the Group.
For more these provisions would include withholding of dividends, voting information on the rights attaching to and terms of DLC Dividend restrictions and the compulsory divestment of shares to the extent Shares, refer to section 7.5, the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited a shareholder and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
284 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 7.5.
3 Restrictions on voting by Directors 7.4 Material contracts A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement DLC structure agreements or any other proposal in which they have a material personal BHP Billiton Limited then known as BHP Limited and BHP Billiton interest except in certain prescribed circumstances, including Plc then known as Billiton Plc merged by way of a DLC structure subject to applicable laws where the material personal interest: on 29 June 2001.
To effect the DLC structure, BHP Limited and Billiton Plc as they were then known entered into the following arises because the Director is a shareholder of BHP and is held contractual agreements: in common with the other shareholders of BHP: BHP Billiton DLC Structure Sharing Agreement arises in relation to the Directors remuneration as a Director BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed of BHP: BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee relates to a contract BHP is proposing to enter into that is subject to approval by the shareholders and will not impose any BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
obligation on BHP if it is not approved by the shareholders: For information on the effect of each of these agreements, arises merely because the Director is a guarantor or has given refer to section 7.3. an indemnity or security for all or part of a loan, or proposed loan, to BHP: Framework Agreement arises merely because the Director has a right of subrogation On 2 March 2016, BHP Billiton Brasil together with Vale and Samarco, in relation to a guarantee or indemnity referred to above: entered into a Framework Agreement with the Federal Government relates to a contract that insures, or would insure, the Director of Brazil, states of Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais and certain other against liabilities the Director incurs as an officer of BHP, authorities to establish a foundation Fundao Renova that will but only if the contract does not make BHP or a related body develop and execute environmental and socio-economic programs corporate the insurer: to remediate and provide compensation for damage caused by the relates to any payment by BHP or a related body corporate Samarco dam failure.
For a description of the terms of the in respect of an indemnity permitted by law, or any contract Framework Agreement, refer to section 6.5. relating to such an indemnity: or is in a contract, or proposed contract with, or for the benefit of, or on behalf of, a related body corporate and arises merely 7.5 Constitution because the Director is a director of a related body corporate.
This section sets out a summary of the Constitution of BHP Billiton If a Director has a material personal interest and is not entitled Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
Where to vote on a proposal, they will not be counted in the quorum for the term BHP is used in this section, it can mean either BHP Billiton any vote on a resolution concerning the material personal interest.
Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
In addition, under the UK Companies Act 2006, a Director has Provisions of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the a duty to avoid conflicts of interest between their interests and Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc can be amended only the interests of the company.
The duty is not breached if, among where such amendment is approved by special resolution either: other things, the conflict of interest is authorised by non-interested by approval as a Class Rights Action, where the amendment Directors.
The Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc enable the results in a change to an Entrenched Provision: or Board to authorise a matter that might otherwise involve a Director otherwise, as a Joint Electorate Action.
breaching their duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
An interested Director may not vote or be counted towards a quorum for a In 2015, shareholders approved a number of amendments to our resolution authorising a conflict of interest.
Where the Board constitutional documents to amend the terms of the Equalisation authorises a conflict of interest, the Board may prohibit the relevant Shares which were renamed as DLC Dividend Shares and Director from voting on any matter relating to the conflict.
The to facilitate the more streamlined conduct of simultaneous Board has adopted procedures to manage these voting restrictions.
For a description of Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions, refer to section 7.3.
4 Loans by Directors Any Director may lend money to BHP at interest with or without 7.5.
1 Directors security or may, for a commission or profit, guarantee the repayment of any money borrowed by BHP and underwrite or guarantee the The Board may exercise all powers of BHP, other than those that are subscription of shares or securities of BHP or of any corporation reserved for BHP shareholders to exercise in a general meeting.
in which BHP may be interested without being disqualified as a Director and without being liable to account to BHP for any commission or profit.
2 Power to issue securities Under the Constitution and Articles of Association, the Board of Directors has the power to issue any BHP shares or other securities including redeemable shares with preferred, deferred or other special rights, obligations or restrictions.
The Board may issue shares on any terms it considers appropriate, provided that: the issue does not affect any special rights of shareholders: if required, the issue is approved by shareholders: and if the issue is of a class other than ordinary shares, the rights attaching to the class are expressed at the date of issue.
7 BHP Annual Report 2018 285 All unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise used 7.5.
5 Appointment and retirement by the Board for the benefit of whichever of BHP Billiton Limited of Directors or BHP Billiton Plc determined that dividend, until claimed or, in the case of BHP Billiton Limited, otherwise disposed of according Appointment of Directors to law.
BHP Billiton Limited is governed by the Victorian unclaimed The Constitution and Articles of Association provide that a person monies legislation, which requires BHP Billiton Limited to pay to the may be appointed as a Director of BHP by the existing Directors State Revenue Office any unclaimed dividend payments of A$20 of BHP or may be elected by the shareholders in a general meeting.
or more that have remained unclaimed for over 12 months.
Any person appointed as a Director of BHP by the existing Directors In the case of BHP Billiton Plc, any dividend unclaimed after a will hold office only until the next general meeting that includes an period of 12 years from the date the dividend was determined election of Directors.
or became due for payment will be forfeited and returned to A person may be nominated by shareholders as a Director of BHP if: BHP Billiton Plc.
a shareholder provides a valid written notice of the nomination: Voting rights the person nominated by the shareholder satisfies candidature Voting at any general meeting ofBHP shareholders can, in the for the office and consents in writing to his or her nomination first instance, be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll as a Director, is demanded in accordance with the Constitution or Articles in each case, at least 40 business days before the earlier of the of Association as applicable or is otherwise required as date of the general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc and the corresponding outlined below.
general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited.
The person nominated as a Director may be elected to the Board by ordinary resolution Generally, matters considered by shareholders at an AGM of passed in a general meeting.
BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc constitute Joint Electorate Actions or Class Rights Actions and must be decided on a poll Under the Articles of Association, if a person is validly nominated and in the manner described under the headings Joint Electorate for election as a Director at a general meeting of BHP Billiton Actions and Class Rights Actions in section 7.3.
This means that, Limited, the Directors of BHP Billiton Plc must nominate that person in practice, most items of business at AGMs are decided by way as a Director at the corresponding general meeting of BHP Billiton of a poll.
An equivalent requirement is included in the Constitution, which requires any person validly nominated for election as In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than a a Director of BHP Billiton Plc to be nominated as a Director procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on which of BHP Billiton Limited.
the holder of the relevant BHP Special Voting Share is entitled to vote must be decided on a poll.
Retirement of Directors For the purposes of determining whichshareholders are entitled The Board has a policy consistent with the UK Corporate Governance to attend or vote at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Code under which all Directors must, if they wish to remain on the Limited, and how many votes suchshareholder may cast, the Board, seek re-election by shareholders annually.
This policy took Notice of Meetingwill specify when ashareholder must beentered effect from the 2011 Annual General Meetings AGMs and replaced on the Register of Shareholders in order to have the right to attend the previous system that required Directors to submit themselves or vote at the meeting.
The specified time must be not more than to shareholders for re-election at least every three years.
48 hours before the time of the meeting.
A Director may be removed by BHP in accordance with applicable Shareholders who wish toappoint a proxy to attend, vote or speak law and must vacate his or her office as a Director in certain at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited as appropriate circumstances set out in the Constitution and Articles of Association.
on their behalf must deposit the relevant form appointing a proxy There is no requirement for a Director to retire on reaching a so that it is receivedby that company not less than 48 hours before certain age.
Rights to share in BHP Billiton Limiteds profits 7.5.
6 Rights attaching to shares The rights attached to the ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Limited, Dividend rights as regards the participation in the profits available for distribution, are as follows: Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits available for distribution.
Under Australian law, dividends The holders of any preference shares will be entitled, in priority on shares may be paid only if the companys assets exceed its to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other class liabilities immediately before the dividend is determined and the of shares, to a preferred right to participate as regards dividends excess is sufficient for payment of the dividend, the payment of up to but not beyond a specified amount in distribution.
the dividend is fair and reasonable to the companys shareholders Subject to the special rights attaching to any preference shares, as a whole and the payment of the dividend does not materially but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes prejudice the companys ability to pay its creditors.
of shares, the holder of the DLC Dividend Share if any will be entitled to be paid such non-cumulative dividends as the Board The Constitution and Articles of Association provide that payment may, subject to the cap referred to in section 7.3 and the DLC of any dividend may be made in any manner, by any means and Dividend Share being held by BHP Billiton Plc or a wholly owned in any currency determined by the Board.
member of its group, decide to pay on that DLC Dividend Share.
Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above will be payable to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares and the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share in equal amounts per share.
286 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Rights to share in BHP Billiton Plcs profits On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Plc, subject to the payment of all amounts payable under the special provisions The rights attached to the ordinary shares of BHP Billiton Plc, referred to above, prior ranking amounts owed to the creditors in relation to the participation in the profits available for of BHP Billiton Plc and to all prior ranking statutory entitlements, distribution, are as follows: the assets of BHP Billiton Plc to be distributed on a winding-up The holders of the cumulative preference shares will be entitled, are to be distributed to the holders of shares in the following in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other order of priority: class of shares, to be paid a fixed cumulative preferential To the holders of the cumulative preference shares, the dividend Preferential Dividend at a rate of 5.5 per cent per repayment of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or annum, to be paid annually in arrears on 31 July in each year credited as paid up on the cumulative preference shares held or, if any such date will be a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday by them and any accrued Preferential Dividend, whether or in England, on the first business day following such date in each not such dividend has been earned or declared, calculated year.
Payments of Preferential Dividends will be made to holders up to the date of commencement of the winding-up.
on the register at any date selected by the Directors up to To the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares and to the 42 days prior to the relevant fixed dividend date.
holders of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the DLC Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference Dividend Share, the payment out of surplus, if any, remaining after shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other the distribution above of an equal amount for each BHP Billiton Plc classes of shares, the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting ordinary share, the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the Share will be entitled to be paid a fixed dividend of US$0.01 per DLC Dividend Share subject to a maximum in the case of the annum, payable annually in arrears on 31 July.
BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the DLC Dividend Share Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference of the nominal capital paid up on such shares.
shares and the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes of shares, the holder of the DLC Dividend Share will be entitled 7.5.
8 Redemption of preference shares to be paid such non-cumulative dividends as the Board may, If BHP Billiton Limited at any time proposes to create and issue subject to the cap referred to in section 7.3 of this Annual Report any preference shares, the terms of the preference shares may and the DLC Dividend Share being held by BHP Billiton Limited give either or both BHP Billiton Limited and the holder the right or a wholly owned member of its group, decide to pay on that to redeem the preference shares.
Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above The preference shares terms may also give the holder the right will be payable to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary to convert the preference shares into ordinary shares.
shares in equal amounts per BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share.
Under the Constitution, the preference shares must give DLC Dividend Share the holders: As set out in section 7.3.
2, each of BHP Billiton Limited and the right on redemption and on a winding-up to payment in BHP Billiton Plc is authorised to issue a DLC Dividend Share cash in priority to any other class of shares of i the amount paid to the other company or a wholly owned subsidiary of it.
or agreed to be considered as paid on each of the preference shares: and ii the amount, if any, equal to the aggregate of any The dividend rights attaching to a DLC Dividend Share are dividends accrued but unpaid and of any arrears of dividends: described above and in section 7.3.
The DLC Dividend Share issued the right, in priority to any payment of dividend on any other by BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Limited DLC Dividend Share class of shares, to the preferential dividend.
and the DLC Dividend Share that may be issued by BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Plc DLC Dividend Share have no voting rights and, There is no equivalent provision in the Articles of Association of as set out in section 7.5.
7 below, very limited rights to a return BHP Billiton Plc, although as noted above in section 7.5.
2, BHP can of capital on a winding-up.
A DLC Dividend Share may be redeemed issue preference shares that are subject to a right of redemption at any time, and must be redeemed if a person other than: on terms the Board considers appropriate.
in the case of the BHP Billiton Limited DLC Dividend Share, BHP Billiton Plc or a wholly owned member of its group: 7.5.
9 Capital calls in the case of the BHP Billiton Plc DLC Dividend Share, BHP Billiton Limited or a wholly owned member of its group, Subject to the terms on which any shares may have been issued, becomes the beneficial owner of the DLC Dividend Share.
the Board may make calls on the shareholders in respect of all monies unpaid on their shares.
BHP has a lien on every partly paid share for all amounts payable in respect of that share.
7 Rights on return of assets on liquidation shareholder is liable to pay the amount of each call in the manner, at the time and at the place specified by the Board subject to Under the DLC structure, special provisions designed to ensure that, receiving at least 14 days notice specifying the time and place as far as practicable, the holders of ordinary shares in BHP Billiton for payment.
A call is considered to have been made at the time Limited and holders of ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Plc are treated when the resolution of the Board authorising the call was passed.
equitably having regard to the Equalisation Ratio, which would apply in the event of an insolvency of either or both companies.
On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Limited, the assets of BHP Billiton Limited remaining available for distribution among shareholders after the payment of all prior ranking amounts owed to all creditors and holders of preference shares, and to all prior ranking statutory entitlements, are to be applied subject to the special provisions referred to above in paying to the holders of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share and the DLC Dividend 7 Share of an amount of up to A$2.00 on each such share, on an equal priority with any amount paid to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares, and any surplus remaining is to be applied in making payments solely to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares in accordance with their entitlements.
12 Limitations of rights to own securities Subject to relevant law, the Directors may exercise all powers of There are no limitations under the Constitution or the Articles BHP to borrow money, and to mortgage or charge its undertaking, of Association restricting the right to own BHP shares other than property, assets both present and future and all uncalled capital restrictions that reflect the takeovers codes under relevant or any part or parts thereof and to issue debentures and other Australian and English law.
In addition, the Australian Foreign securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 imposes a number of conditions liability or obligation of BHP or of any third party.
that restrict foreign ownership of Australian-based companies.
Rights attached to any class of shares issued by either BHP Billiton For information on share control limits imposed by the Constitution Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied whether as a Joint and the Articles of Association, as well as relevant laws, refer to Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action where such variation sections 7.10 and 7.3.
2. is approved by: the company that issued the relevant shares, as a special 7.5.
13 Documents on display resolution: and the holders of the issued shares of the affected class, either Documents filed by BHP Billiton Limited on the Australian Securities by a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the Exchange ASX are available at asx.
au and documents filed holders of the issued shares of the class affected, or with the on the London Stock Exchange LSE by BHP Billiton Plc are available written consent of members with at least 75 per cent of the at morningstar.
Documents filed on the ASX, or on votes of that class.
the LSE are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.
The documents referred to in this Annual Report as being available on our website, bhp.
com, are not incorporated by reference and 7.5.
11 Conditions governing general meetings do not form part of this Annual Report.
The Board may, and must on requisition in accordance with BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc both file Annual Reports applicable laws, call a general meeting of the shareholders and other reports and information with the US Securities and at the time and place or places and in the manner determined Exchange Commission SEC.
These filings are available on the by the Board.
No shareholder may convene a general meeting SEC website at sec.
You may also read and copy any document of BHP except where entitled under law to do so.
Any Director that either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc files at the SECs may convene a general meeting whenever the Director thinks fit.
public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, General meetings can also be cancelled, postponed or adjourned, DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or access where permitted by law or the Constitution or Articles of Association.
gov for further information on the public Notice of a general meeting must be given to each shareholder reference room.
entitled to vote at the meeting and such notice of meeting must be given in the form and manner in which the Board thinks fit.
Five shareholders of the relevant company present in person or by proxy constitute a quorum for a meeting.
A shareholder who is entitled to attend and cast a vote at a general meeting of BHP may appoint a person as a proxy to attend and vote for the shareholder in accordance with applicable law.
All provisions relating to general meetings apply with any necessary modifications to any special meeting of any class of shareholders that may be held.
288 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 7.6 Share ownership Share capital The details of the share capital for both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are presented in note 14 Share capital in section 5 and remain current as at 24 August 2018.
Major shareholders The tables in section 3.3.
18 and the information set out in section 4.18 present information pertaining to the shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc held by Directors and members of the Key Management Personnel KMP.
Neither BHP Billiton Limited nor BHP Billiton Plc is directly or indirectly controlled by another corporation or by any government.
Other than as described in section 7.3.
2, no major shareholder possesses voting rights that differ from those attaching to all of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plcs voting securities.
Substantial shareholders in BHP Billiton Limited The following table shows holdings of five per cent or more of voting rights in BHP Billiton Limiteds shares as notified to BHP Billiton Limited 1 under the Australian Corporations Act 2001, Section 671B as at 30 June 2018.
2 Date of last notice Percentage of total voting rights Title of class Identity of person or group Date received Date of change Number owned 2018 2017 2016 Ordinary shares BlackRock Group 19 December 2016 15 December 2016 160,784,672 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% 1 No changes in the holdings of five per cent or more of the voting rights in BHP Billiton Limiteds shares have been notified to BHP Billiton Limited between 1 July 2018 and 24 August 2018.
2 The percentages quoted are based on the total voting rights conferred by ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Limited as at 24 August 2018 of 3,211,691,105.
Substantial shareholders in BHP Billiton Plc The following table shows holdings of three per cent or more of voting rights conferred by BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares as notified to 1 BHP Billiton Plc under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5 as at 30 June 2018.
2 Date of last notice Percentage of total voting rights Title of class Identity of person or group Date received Date of change Number owned 2018 2017 2016 Ordinary shares Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 8 October 2015 7 October 2015 103,108,283 4.88% 4.88% 4.88% Ordinary shares BlackRock, Inc. 3 December 2009 1 December 2009 213,014,043 10.08% 10.08% 10.08% 3 Ordinary shares Elliott Capital Advisors, L. P. 3 February 2018 1 February 2018 115,183,724 5.45% 5.04% 1 No changes in the holdings of three per cent or more of the voting rights in BHP Billiton Plcs shares notified to BHP Billiton Plc between 1 July 2018 and 24 August 2018.
2 The percentages quoted are based on the total voting rights conferred by ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Plc as at 24 August 2018 of 2,112,071,796.
3 Holding is made up of 4.65 per cent ordinary shares and 0.80 per cent by financial instruments.
1 Twenty largest shareholders as at 24 August 2018 as named on the Register of Shareholders Number of fully % of issued BHP Billiton Limited paid shares capital 1.
HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 785,602,425 24.46 2.
Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited Citibank NY ADR DEP A C 147,717,926 4.60 5.
BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd Agency Lending DRP A C 78,040,220 2.43 7.
Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited Colonial First State INV A C 35,205,858 1.10 8.
HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited NT-Comnwlth Super Corp A C 21,070,234 0.66 10.
Computershare Nominees Ci Ltd ASX Shareplus Control A C 14,682,120 0.46 11.
Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 13,990,941 0.44 12.
HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited Euroclear Bank SA NV A C 6,454,422 0.20 15.
HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 5,872,938 0.18 16.
Navigator Australia Ltd MLC Investment Sett A C 4,306,746 0.13 17.
Solium Nominees Australia Pty Ltd VSA A C 4,198,613 0.13 18.
Netwealth Investments Limited Wrap Services A C 3,978,295 0.12 20.
IOOF Investment Management Limited IPS Super A C 3,442,918 0.11 2,005,538,779 62.43 7 BHP Annual Report 2018 289 Number of fully % of issued BHP Billiton Plc paid shares capital 2 1.
The Bank of New York Nominees Limited 98,417, 980 4.66 5.
Government Employees Pension Fund PIC 38,967,150 1.84 10.
Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa 23,692,693 1.12 19.
Vidacos Nominees Limited 10245 22,646,840 1.07 1,253,192,002 59.33 1 Many of the 20 largest shareholders shown for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc hold shares as a nominee or custodian.
In accordance with the reporting requirements, the tables reflect the legal ownership of shares and not the details of the underlying beneficial holders.
2 The largest holder on the South African register of BHP Billiton Plc is the Strate nominee in which the majority of shares in South Africa including some of the shareholders included in this list are held in dematerialised form.
US share ownership as at 24 August 2018 BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc Number of Number of Number of Number of Shareholders % shares % Shareholders % shares % Classification of holder Registered holders of voting securities 1,639 0.30 4,066,238 0.13 75 0.47 98,766 0.01 1 2 ADR holders 1,628 0.30 147,717,926 4.60 206 1.28 111,943,596 5.30 1 These shares translate to 73,858,963 ADRs.
2 These shares translate to 55,971,798 ADRs.
2 The number of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders holding less than a marketable parcel A$500 based on the market price of A$32.71 as at 24 August 2018 was 6,593.
BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc Number of Number of Number of Number of Shareholders % shares % Shareholders % shares % Classification of holder Corporate 155,062 28.82 2,329,587,264 72.53 6,239 38.80 2,102,852,415 99.56 Private 383,015 71.18 882,103,841 27.47 9,842 61.20 9,219,381 0.44 Total 538,077 100.00 3,211,691,105 100.00 16,081 100.00 2,112,071,796 100.00 7.7 Dividends Policy Payments The Group adopted a dividend policy in February 2016 that BHP Billiton Limited shareholders may currently have their cash provides for a minimum 50 per cent payout of Underlying dividends paid directly into their bank account in Australian dollars, attributable profit at every reporting period.
For information on UK pounds sterling, New Zealand dollars or US dollars, provided Underlying attributable profit for FY2018, refer to section 1.11.1. they have submitted direct credit details and if required, a valid currency election nominating a financial institution to the BHP The Board will assess, at every reporting period, the ability to pay Share Registrar in Australia no later than close of business on the amounts additional to the minimum payment, in accordance with dividend record date.
BHP Billiton Limited shareholders who do not the Capital Allocation Framework, as described in section 1.4.
3. provide their direct credit details will receive dividend payments by In FY2018, we determined our dividends and other distributions in way of a cheque in Australian dollars.
US dollars as it is our main functional currency.
BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc shareholders on the UK register who wish to receive paid its dividends in Australian dollars, UK pounds sterling, New their dividends in US dollars must complete the appropriate Zealand dollars and US dollars.
BHP Billiton Plc paid its dividends election form and return it to the BHP Share Registrar in the United in UK pounds sterling or US dollars, if elected to shareholders Kingdom no later than close of business on the dividend record registered on its principal register in the United Kingdom and in date.
BHP Billiton Plc shareholders may have their cash dividends South African rand to shareholders registered on its branch register paid directly into a bank or building society by completing a in South Africa.
dividend mandate form, which is available from the BHP Share Currency conversions were based on the foreign currency Registrar in the United Kingdom or South Africa.
exchange rates on the record date, except for the conversion into Dividend reinvestment plan South African rand, which takes place one week before the record BHP offers a dividend reinvestment plan to registered shareholders, date.
Aligning the currency conversion date with the record date which provides the opportunity to use cash dividends to purchase for all currencies except the conversion into South African rand BHP shares in the market.
enables a high level of certainty around the currency required to pay the dividend and helps to reduce the Groups exposure to movements in exchange rates since the number of shares on which dividends are payable and the elected currency is final at close of business on the record date.
Aligning the final date to receive currency elections currency election date with the record date further simplifies the process.
7 BHP Annual Report 2018 291 7.8 Share price information The following tables show the share prices for the period indicated for ordinary shares and ADSs for each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
The share prices are the highest and lowest closing market quotations for ordinary shares reported on the Daily Official List of the ASX and LSE respectively, and the highest and lowest closing prices for ADSs quoted on the NYSE, adjusted to reflect stock dividends.
The total market capitalisation of BHP Billiton Limited at 24 August 2018 was A$105.1 billion US$77.0 billion equivalent, which represented approximately 5.22 per cent of the total market capitalisation of the ASX All Ordinaries Index.
The closing price for BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares on the ASX on that date was A$32.17.
The total market capitalisation of BHP Billiton Plc at 24 August 2018 was 35.09 billion US$44.07 billion equivalent, which represented approximately 1.44 per cent of the total market capitalisation of the FTSE All-Share Index.
The closing price for BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares on the LSE on that date was 16.61.
292 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information 7.9 American Depositary Receipts fees and charges We have American Depositary Receipts ADR programs for Fees payable by the Depositary to the Issuer BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Citibank has provided BHP net reimbursement of US$1.5 million in FY2018 for ADR program-related expenses for both of BHPs ADR Depositary fees programs FY2017 US$1.4 million.
ADR program-related expenses Citibank serves as the depositary bank for both of our ADR programs.
include legal and accounting fees, listing fees, expenses related to ADR holders agree to the terms in the deposit agreement filed investor relations in the United States, fees payable to service with the SEC for depositing ADSs or surrendering the ADSs for providers for the distribution of material to ADR holders, expenses cancellation and for certain services as provided by Citibank.
of Citibank as administrator of the ADS Direct Plan and expenses to Holders are required to pay all fees for general depositary services remain in compliance with applicable laws.
provided by Citibank in each of our ADR programs, as set forth in the tables below.
Citibank has further agreed to waive other ADR program-related expenses for FY2018, amounting to less than US$0.03 million, Standard depositary fees: which are associated with the administration of the ADR programs Depositary service Fee payable by the ADR holders FY2017 less than US$0.03 million.
Issuance of ADSs upon deposit Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs Our ADR programs trade on the NYSE under the stock tickers BHP of shares or fraction thereof issued and BBL for the BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc programs, Delivery of Deposited Securities Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs respectively.
As of 24 August 2018, there were 73,858,963 ADRs against surrender of ADSs or fraction thereof surrendered on issue and outstanding in the BHP Billiton Limited ADR program and 55,971,798 ADRs on issue and outstanding in the BHP Billiton Distribution of Cash Distributions No fee Plc ADR program.
Both of the ADR programs have a 2:1 ordinary shares to ADR ratio.
Corporate actions depositary fees: Depositary service Fee payable by the ADR holders Cash Distributions i. e. sale of rights, Up to US$2.00 per 100 ADSs other entitlements, return of capital or fraction thereof held Distribution of ADSs pursuant Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs to exercise of rights to purchase or fraction thereof held additional ADSs.
Excludes stock dividends and stock splits Distribution of securities other Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs than ADSs or rights to purchase or fraction thereof held additional ADSs i. e. spin-off shares Distribution of ADSs pursuant to an No fee ADR ratio change in which shares are not distributed 7.10 Government regulations Our assets are subject to a broad range of laws and regulations The rights to explore for minerals, oil and natural gas are granted imposed by governments and regulatory bodies.
These regulations to us by the government that owns the natural resources we wish touch all aspects of our assets, including how we extract, process to explore.
Usually, the right to explore carries with it the obligation and explore for minerals, oil and natural gas and how we conduct to spend a defined amount of money on the exploration, or to our business, including regulations governing matters such undertake particular exploration activities.
as environmental protection, land rehabilitation, occupational In certain jurisdictions where we have assets, such as Trinidad and health and safety, the rights and interests of Indigenous peoples, Tobago, a production sharing contract PSC governs the competition, foreign investment, export, marketing of minerals, relationship between the government and companies concerning oil and natural gas and taxes.
how much of the oil and gas extracted from the country each will The ability to extract minerals, oil and natural gas is fundamental receive.
In PSCs, the government awards rights for the execution to BHP.
In most jurisdictions, the rights to extract mineral or of exploration, development and production activities to the petroleum deposits are owned by the government.
The company bears the financial risk of the initiative and right to access the land and extract the product by entering into explores, develops and ultimately produces the field as required.
licenses or leases with the government that owns the mineral, oil When successful, the company is permitted to use the money or natural gas deposit.
The terms of the lease or licence, including from a certain set percentage of produced oil and gas to recover the time period of the lease or licence, vary depending on the laws its capital and operational expenditures, known as cost oil.
The of the relevant government or terms negotiated with the relevant remaining production is known as profit oil and is split between government.
Generally, we own the product we extract and we the government and the company at a rate determined by the are required to pay royalties or similar taxes to the government.
government and set out in the PSC.
Related to our ability to extract is our ability to process the extracted Although onshore oil and gas rights in the United States can be minerals, oil or natural gas.
Again, we rely on governments to grant owned by the government state and federal, they are primarily the rights necessary to transport and treat the extracted material owned by private property owners, which is the case for our to prepare it for sale.
onshore oil and gas rights.
Oil and gas rights primarily take the 7 form of a lease, but can also be owned outright in fee.
If the rights are secured by lease, we are typically granted the right to access, explore, extract, produce and market the oil and gas for a specified period of time, which may be extended if we continue to produce oil or gas or operate on the leased land.
BHP Annual Report 2018 293 Environmental protection, land rehabilitation and occupational Uranium production in Australia health and safety are principally regulated by governments and To mine, process, transport and sell uranium from within Australia, to a lesser degree, if applicable, by leases.
These obligations we are required to hold possession and export permissions, often require us to make substantial expenditures to minimise which are also subject to regulation by the Australian Government or remediate the environmental impact of our assets and to or bodies that report to the Australian Government.
ensure the safety of our employees and contractors.
Regulations To possess nuclear material, such as uranium, in Australia, setting emissions standards for fuels used to power vehicles and a Permit to Possess Nuclear Materials Possession Permit equipment at our assets and the modes of transport used in our must be held pursuant to the Australian Nuclear Non-Proliferation supply chains can also have a substantial impact, both directly and Safeguards Act 1987 Non-Proliferation Act.
A Possession indirectly, on the markets for these products, with flow-on impacts Permit is issued by the Australian Safeguards and Non-Proliferation on our costs.
For more information on these types of obligations, Office, an office established under the Non-Proliferation Act, refer to section 1.9. which administers Australias domestic nuclear safeguards From time-to-time, certain trade sanctions are adopted by the requirements and reports to the Australian Government.
United Nations UN Security Council and or various governments, To export uranium from Australia, a Permit to Export Natural Uranium including in the United Kingdom, the United States, the European Export Permit must be held pursuant to the Australian Customs Union EU and Australia against certain countries, entities or Prohibited Exports Regulations 1958.
The Export Permit is issued individuals, that may restrict our ability to sell extracted minerals, by the Minister with responsibility for Resources and Energy.
oil or natural gas and or our ability to purchase goods or services.
A special permit to transport nuclear material is required under Disclosure of Iran-related activities pursuant to section 13 r the Non-Proliferation Act by a party that transports nuclear of the U. S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 material from one specified location to another specified location.
Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights As we engage service providers to transport uranium, each of Act of 2012 added Section 13 r to the U. S. Securities Exchange those service providers is required to hold a permit to transport Act of 1934, as amended the Exchange Act.
Section 13 r requires nuclear material issued by the Australian Safeguards and an issuer to disclose in its annual reports whether it or any of Non-Proliferation Office.
its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions Hydraulic fracturing or dealings relating to Iran.
Disclosure is required even where the activities, transactions or dealings are conducted outside the Our Onshore US assets involve hydraulic fracturing, which United States by non-US persons in compliance with applicable uses water, sand and a small amount of chemicals to fracture law, and whether or not the activities are sanctionable under hydrocarbon-bearing subsurface rock formations to the allow US law.
Provided in this section is certain information concerning flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore.
We depend on the use activities of certain affiliates of BHP that took place in FY2018.
of hydraulic fracturing techniques in our Onshore US drilling BHP believes that these activities are not sanctionable either and completion programs.
as being outside the scope of US sanctions, or within the scope Several US federal agencies are reviewing or advancing regulatory of a specific licence issued by the U. S. Department of the Treasurys proposals concerning hydraulic fracturing and related activities.
Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC.
BHP is making this On 13 December 2016, the US Environmental Protection Agency disclosure in the interests of transparency.
EPA issued its final report on the impacts of hydraulic fracturing BHP Billiton Petroleum Great Britain Ltd BHP GB, a wholly owned activities on drinking water resources.
The EPA concluded that affiliate of BHP, holds a non-operating 16 per cent interest in the hydraulic fracturing activities can impact drinking water resources Bruce oil and gas field located offshore United Kingdom, together under some circumstances, but noted it was not possible to fully with co-venturers BP Exploration Operating Company Limited BP assess the potential impacts on drinking water resources, including operator and 37 per cent interest holder, Marubeni Oil & Gas the frequency and severity of impacts.
North Sea Limited 3.75 per cent interest holder and Total E&P On 16 July 2015, the EPAs Office of Inspector General issued a UK Limited 43.25 per cent interest holder.
report indicating that the EPA should review oversight of permit The Bruce platform provides transportation and processing issuance for hydraulic fracturing using diesel fuels and that the services to the nearby Rhum gas field pursuant to a contract agency should develop a plan for responding to the publics between the Bruce owners and Rhum owners the Bruce-Rhum concerns about chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing.
According to BP, the Rhum field is operated by to this report, the EPA has developed revised permitting guidance BP and owned under a 50:50 unincorporated joint arrangement for hydraulic fracturing activities using diesel fuels.
The EPA has between BP and Iranian Oil Company U. K. Limited IOC.
IOC is also published a report analysing chemicals used in hydraulic an indirect subsidiary of the National Iranian Oil Company NIOC, fracturing fluids.
which is a corporation owned by the Government of Iran.
As a On 27 July 2018, BHP announced that we had entered into Bruce owner, BHP GB is party to the Bruce-Rhum Agreement with agreements for the sale of our entire interest in the Eagle Ford, BP as the operator.
The U. S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Haynesville, Permian and Fayetteville Onshore US oil and gas Foreign Assets Control OFAC issued licence No.
Both sales are subject to the satisfaction of customary to BP and its affiliates for Rhum Field activities for the period to regulatory approvals and conditions precedent.
We expect 30 September 2017 and thereafter authorised activities under OFAC completion of both transactions to occur by the end of licence No.
BHP ceased to rely on US persons for Bruce-Rhum Agreement related activities from 30 September 2017 and continues to monitor developments concerning the US Iranian sanctions program to maintain compliance with applicable sanctions laws and requirements.
For FY2018, BHP GB recognised a total US$9 million in cost recovery in accordance with the terms of the Bruce-Rhum Agreement, which has been booked as a reduction in operating expenses in the Bruce field.
294 BHP Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance at BHP Remuneration Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional information Shareholder information Exchange controls and shareholding limits The restrictions in the FATA on share acquisitions in BHP Billiton Limited described above apply equally to share acquisitions in BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Plc because BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc There are no laws or regulations currently in force in the United are dual listed entities.
Kingdom that restrict the export or import of capital or the payment of dividends to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plcs shares, There are certain other statutory restrictions and restrictions under BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs although the Group does operate in some other jurisdictions where the payment of dividends could be affected by exchange Articles of Association that apply generally to acquisitions of shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc i. e. the control approvals.
restrictions are not targeted at foreign persons only.
These From time to time, certain sanctions are adopted by the UN include restrictions on a person and associates breaching Security Council and or various governments, including in the a voting power threshold of: United Kingdom, the United States, the EU and Australia against above 20 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Limited on a certain countries, entities or individuals that may restrict the stand-alone basis i. e. calculated as if there were no Special export or import of capital or the remittance of dividends to Voting Share and only counting BHP Billiton Limiteds certain non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
ordinary shares : There are no restrictions under BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of 30 per cent of BHP Billiton Plc.
This is the threshold for a Association or subject to the effect of any sanctions under mandatory offer under Rule 9 of the UK takeover code and this English law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign threshold applies to all voting rights of BHP Billiton Plc therefore owners to hold or vote BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
including voting rights attached to the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share : There are certain restrictions on shareholding levels under BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association described under the 30 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Plc on a stand-alone basis heading BHP Billiton Limited below.
i. e. calculated as if there were no Special Voting Share and only counting BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares : BHP Billiton Limited above 20 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Plc, calculated Under current Australian legislation, the payment of any dividends, having regard to all the voting power on a joint electorate basis interest or other payments by BHP Billiton Limited to non-resident i. e. calculated on the aggregate of BHP Billiton Limiteds and holders of BHP Billiton Limiteds shares is not restricted by BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares.
exchange controls or other limitations, except that, in certain circumstances, BHP Billiton Limited may be required to withhold Under BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs Australian taxes.
Articles of Association, sanctions for breach of any of these thresholds, other than by means of certain permitted acquisitions, From time to time, certain sanctions are adopted by the UN include withholding of dividends, voting restrictions and Security Council and or various governments, including in the compulsory divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder United Kingdom, the United States, the EU and Australia.
Those and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
sanctions prohibit or, in some cases, impose certain approval Except for the restrictions under the FATA, there are no limitations, and reporting requirements on transactions involving sanctioned countries, entities and individuals and or assets controlled either under Australian law or under the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited, on the right of non-residents to hold or vote BHP Billiton or owned by them.
Certain transfers into or out of Australia of amounts greater than A$10,000 in any currency may also Limited ordinary shares.
be subject to reporting requirements.
The Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 the FATA restricts certain acquisitions of interests in shares in Australian companies, including BHP B illiton Limited.
Generally, under the FATA, the prior approval of the Australian Treasurer must be obtained for proposals by a foreign person either alone or together with its associates to acquire 20 per cent or more of the voting power or issued shares in an Australian company.
Any acquisition by a foreign government investor of the voting power or issued shares in an Australian company will require the prior approval of the Australian Treasurer to be obtained.
The FATA also empowers the Treasurer to make certain orders prohibiting acquisitions by foreign persons in Australian companies, including BHP Billiton Limited and requiring divestiture if the acquisition has occurred where the Treasurer considers the acquisition to be contrary to the national interest.
Such orders may also be made in respect of acquisitions by foreign persons where two or more foreign persons and their associates in aggregate already control 40 per cent or more of the issued shares or voting power in an Australian company, including BHP Billiton Limited.
7 BHP Annual Report 2018 295 7.11 Ancillary information for our shareholders This Annual Report provides the detailed financial data and Key dates for shareholders information on BHPs performance required to comply with The following table sets out future dates in the next financial the reporting regimes in Australia, the United Kingdom and and calendar year of interest to our shareholders.
If there are any the United States.
changes to these dates, all relevant stock exchanges see section 7.2 will be notified.
Shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will receive a copy of the Annual Report if they have requested Date Event a copy.
ADR holders may view all documents online at bhp.
com or opt to receive a hard copy by accessing citibank.
com 25 September 2018 Final dividend payment date or calling Citibank Shareholder Services during normal business 17 October 2018 BHP Billiton Plc Annual General Meeting in London hours using the details listed on the inside back cover of this Venue: Annual Report.
The QEII Centre Broad Sanctuary Change of shareholder details and enquiries Westminster Shareholders wishing to contact BHP on any matter relating London SW1P 3EE United Kingdom to their shares or ADR holdings are invited to telephone the Time: 11.00 am local time appropriate office of the BHP Share Registrar or Transfer Office Details of the business of the meeting are contained listed on the inside back cover of this Annual Report.
in the separate Notice of Meeting Any change in shareholding details should be notified by the 8 November 2018 BHP Billiton Limited Annual General Meeting shareholder to the relevant Registrar in a timely manner.
in Adelaide Venue: Shareholders can also access their current shareholding details Adelaide Entertainment Centre and change many of those details online at bhp.
The website Cnr Port Road and Adam Street requires shareholders to quote their Shareholder Reference Hindmarsh Number SRN or Holder Identification Number HIN in order South Australia to access this information.
Australia Time: 10.00am local time Alternative access to the Annual Report Details of the business of the meeting are contained in the separate Notice of Meeting We offer an alternative for all shareholders who wish to be advised of the availability of the Annual Report through our website 19 February 2019 Interim results announced via an email notification.
By providing an email address through 8 March 2019 Interim dividend record date our website, shareholders will be notified by email when the 26 March 2019 Interim dividend payment date Annual Report has been released.
Shareholders will also receive notification of other major BHP announcements by email.
Shareholders requiring further information or wishing to make use of this service should visit our website, bhp.
ADR holders wishing to receive a hard copy of the Annual Report 2018 can do so by accessing citibank.
com or calling Citibank Shareholder Services during normal business hours.
ADR holders may also contact the adviser that administers their investments.
Holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares dematerialised into Strate should liaise directly with their Central Securities Depository Participant CSDP or broker.
296 BHP Annual Report 2018 Corporate Directory BHP Registered Offices BHP Corporate Centres Marketing and Supply Office BHP Billiton Limited Chile Singapore Australia Cerro El Plomo 6000 10 Marina Boulevard, #50-01 171 Collins Street Piso 18 Marina Bay Financial Centre, Tower 2 Melbourne VIC 3000 Las Condes 7560623 Singapore 018983 Santiago Telephone Australia 1300 55 47 57 Telephone 65 6421 6000 Telephone International 61 3 9609 3333 Telephone 56 2 2579 5000 Facsimile 65 6421 7000 Facsimile 61 3 9609 3015 Facsimile 56 2 2207 6517 BHP Billiton Plc United States United Kingdom Our agent for service in the United States Nova South, 160 Victoria Street is Jennifer Lopez-Burkland at: London SW1E 5LB 1500 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 150 Telephone 44 20 7802 4000 Houston, TX 77056-3020 Facsimile 44 20 7802 4111 Telephone 1 713 961 8500 Facsimile 1 713 961 8400 Group Company Secretary Margaret Taylor Share Registrars and Transfer Offices Australia South Africa United States BHP Billiton Limited Registrar BHP Billiton Plc Branch Register Computershare Trust Company, N. A. Computershare Investor Services and Transfer Secretary 250 Royall Street Pty Limited Computershare Investor Services Canton, MA 02021 Yarra Falls, 452 Johnston Street Pty Limited Postal address PO Box 43078 Abbotsford VIC 3067 Rosebank Towers Providence, RI 02940-3078 Postal address GPO Box 2975 15 Biermann Avenue Telephone 1 888 404 6340 Melbourne VIC 3001 Rosebank toll-free within US 2196, South Africa Telephone 1300 656 780 within Australia Facsimile 1 312 601 4331 Postal address PO Box 61051 61 3 9415 4020 outside Australia ADR Depositary, Transfer Agent and Registrar Marshalltown 2107 Facsimile 61 3 9473 2460 Citibank Shareholder Services Email enquiries: investorcentre.
com bhp Telephone 27 11 373 0033 PO Box 43077 Facsimile 27 11 688 5217 Providence, RI 02940-3077 United Kingdom Email enquiries: web.
queries@ Telephone 1 781 575 4555 outside of US BHP Billiton Plc Registrar computershare.
co. za 1 877 248 4237 1-877-CITIADR toll-free Computershare Investor Services PLC within US The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road Holders of shares dematerialised into Strate Facsimile 1 201 324 3284 Bristol BS13 8AE should contact their CSDP or stockbroker.
Email enquiries: Postal address for general enquiries New Zealand citibank@shareholders-online.
com The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road Computershare Investor Services Limited Website: citi.
com dr Bristol BS99 6ZZ Level 2 159 Hurstmere Road Telephone 44 344 472 7001 Takapuna Auckland 0622 Facsimile 44 370 703 6101 Postal address Private Bag 92119 Email enquiries: Auckland 1142 investorcentre.
co. uk contactus Telephone 64 9 488 8777 Facsimile 64 9 488 8787 How to access information on BHP BHP produces a range of publications, which are available Economic Sustainability Contribution Report Report 2018 2018 online at bhp.
If you are a shareholder, you can also elect to receive a paper copy of the Annual Report through one of the Share Registrars listed above.
Subscribe to receive news alerts sent directly to your email address Read our reports at Economic Sustainability bhp.
com compan y bhp Report 2018 y outube.
com bhp Cover image Photographer: Steve Baccon bhp.
