Introduction from the chairman engagement it has with both our people and with our wider community of stakeholders.
As a board, we fully support this it builds on the work we already do, and we will continue to evolve and enhance this engagement and provide more detail next year.
Our oversight of the significant risks such as operational, compliance and cyber security facing BP continues.
Both the audit committee and the safety, ethics and environmental assurance committee SEEAC continue to review these in depth and receive assurance from management as to how they are understood and mitigated to the level of risk acceptable to the board.
In this regard, I want to once again pay tribute to the exceptional service over many years of Alan Boeckmann and Admiral Frank Bowman on the SEEAC and welcome Nils Andersen to the role of SEEAC chair.
Brendan Nelson continues to chair the audit committee and brings enormous financial and regulatory experience and expertise to the role.
I also want to thank Sir John Sawers for all his work chairing the geopolitical committee.
John brings unique insight and experience to BPs culture is well grounded with the right his role and the committee does important work overseeing significant political and related risks in key geographies where BP operates.
values and behaviours embedded by the board and the senior leadership.
The nomination and governance committee continues to review the skills that we need while always considering diversity and the need for independent thinking and challenge.
The committee will also continue to review the size of the board to confirm that it is appropriate with a good mix of skills, experience and knowledge and the ability to maintain It is now nine months since I joined BP, initially as a non-executive appropriate oversight of the executive team and provide constructive director.
In that time, my experience has confirmed the very positive challenge and support.
impression of BPs culture and values I arrived with.
Based on my time Executive remuneration remains a significant issue and we appreciated spent in the business, the values of safety, respect, excellence, courage the strong support that was given to our remuneration report at last and one team are clearly embedded and genuinely lived.
This was the second year in which our three-year policy, that is grounded, responsible and humble by which I mean one where developed following extensive engagement with shareholders, was in people have confidence in their capabilities and the strategy, but not effect.
Paula Reynolds is working with the remuneration committee in complacency or arrogance, and with a strong desire to learn and develop.
implementing that policy this year and to develop the new three-year I firmly believe that is the right combination for maintaining safe policy for which shareholder approval will be sought in 2020.
Paula is operations, earning the trust of stakeholders and embracing the currently in the process of reducing her directorship commitments challenges and opportunities the energy transition presents.
A priority for with other companies during 2019 to ensure that she can retain her my chairmanship is to see that the board continues to help sustain and strong focus on chairing the remuneration committee.
evolve this positive culture by having the right capability around the table and the right engagement with stakeholders outside the boardroom.
You will see from Paulas report on page 83 that the committee continues to exercise appropriate discretion in relation to executive Board capability remuneration.
From 2019 we are linking BPs progress towards one BPs board has evolved considerably during Carl-Henric Svanbergs of our emissions reduction targets to the remuneration of a significant tenure.
Together we will look to continue its development and find number of our employees, including executive directors.
the right balance of continuity and renewal.
In my letter on page 6, I mentioned Dame Alison Carnwath and Pamela Daley joining the board Engaging with stakeholders in 2018, and that this year we are losing the distinguished services of Remuneration is just one issue where I believe dialogue is invaluable, Admiral Frank Bowman and Alan Boeckmann.
and I will continue to encourage the board to meet with a range of Ian Davis is now in his 10th year as a director and continues as our senior stakeholders, including investors, partners, and our people, and gain independent director, having held this role since 2017.
I have huge first-hand experience of BPs businesses and operations around the respect and regard for Ians skills and experience and, to provide the world.
Over the past year, board members visited BP operations in the continuity that I believe is critical I have asked him to extend his service US, UK and Oman and individual members also took opportunities to to at least the AGM in 2020.
Ian continues to demonstrate constructive visit BP sites when travelling and pursuing their other interests and challenge and engagement both in the board and with executive business activities.
Personally, I have already visited our operations in management.
The board therefore retains complete confidence in Ians several countries including in the UK, the US, China, Oman and the independence and supports his re-election in this capacity.
I look forward to making many more visits this year and sharing my observations and reflections in due course.
Governance and remuneration processes Finally, I am grateful to Bob, the executive team, our employees and my We have spent considerable time evaluating the work of the board and colleagues on the board for all of their hard work, their commitment to its committees, for which we also brought in external expertise to BP and for the way that they have so warmly welcomed me into the facilitate our discussions.
This was a very valuable exercise and resulted company.
I am excited for our future.
in a number of recommendations that I am considering with the board, and certain changes to our ways of working have already been made.
Details of these changes will be included in a revised set of board governance principles to be published later this year.
Looking outwards, there were changes to UK legislation and governance requirements during 2018 that have now come into effect.
Helge Lund In particular, the board is required to understand more deeply the Chairman 68 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Corporate governance Delegation BP governance framework The board operates within a system of governance that is set out in the BP board governance principles.
More information These principles define the role of the board, its processes and its relationship with executive management.
com governance for the board This system is reflected in the governance of the groups subsidiaries.
Owners shareholders Monitoring, BP board BP board information governance and assurance principles: Group audit BP goal Nomination Remuneration Chairmans Safety, Geopolitical Audit and governance committee committee ethics and committee committee Finance G overnance committee See page 87 See page 85 environment See page 84 See page 75 process Safety and See page 86 assurance operational risk D elegation committee model See page 81 Group ethics and compliance E xecutive limitations Business integrity Delegation Strategy group risks annual plan External market Delegation of and reputation authority through research policy with monitoring Independent Group chief executive auditor Accountability Independent Assurance adviser if through Group chief executives delegations relevant monitoring and reporting Independent advice if Executive management requested Independent assurance as needed Group Group financial Group Group people Group ethics Resource Group renewal operations risk commit tee disclosure committee and compliance commitments committee risk commit tee GFRC committee GPC committee meeting RCM GORC GDC GECC Board and committee attendance Nomination Audit Joint audit Remuneration Geopolitical and governance Chairmans Board committee SEEAC SEEAC committee committee committee committee A B A B A B A B A B A B A B A B Non-executive directors Carl-Heneric Svanberg 9 9 3 3 6 6 Nils Andersen 9 8 7 6 1 1 4 4 2 2 6 4 Paul Anderson 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 4 4 Alan Boeckmann 9 7 6 4 4 2 7 5 3 3 6 4 Frank Bowman 9 9 6 6 4 3 4 4 6 6 Alison Carnwath 5 5 5 4 3 2 2 2 Pamela Daley 4 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 Ian Davis 9 9 7 7 4 4 3 3 6 6 Ann Dowling 9 9 6 6 4 4 3 3 6 6 Helge Lund 4 4 3 3 1 1 Melody Meyer 9 8 6 6 4 4 4 4 6 6 Brendan Nelson 9 9 9 9 4 4 7 7 2 2 6 6 Paula Reynolds 9 8 9 8 4 3 7 7 3 1 6 6 John Sawers 9 8 6 6 4 4 4 4 3 3 6 6 Executive directors A B Bob Dudley 9 9 Brian Gilvary 9 9 A Total number of meetings the director was eligible to attend.
B Total number of meetings the director did attend.
Nils Andersen missed a board meeting due to a pre-existing external commitment.
Paula Reynolds missed a board meeting due to a pre-existing external commitment.
Alan Boeckmann missed meetings of the board due to unforeseen personal circumstances.
John Sawers missed a board meeting due to other commitments.
Pamela Daley missed a board meeting due to a pre-existing external commitment.
Melody Meyer missed a board meeting due to other commitments.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 69 Accountability
