CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance the bedrock of an organisation.
Q&A with our Chairman, Simon Miller What is the role of corporate governance at Brewin Dolphin?
Successful businesses are built on the strong foundations provided by good corporate governance.
As the process that balances the interests of stakeholders including shareholders, employees, clients, intermediaries, regulators and the wider community, corporate governance ensures the organisation has the ethical, and effective leadership required to deliver success for all.
The Board met in Bristol and Birmingham during the year, Chairmans overview demonstrating our commitment to our regional network of 30 It is important that the performance and composition of boards are offices.
In addition, we ran the first Brewin Dolphin People Awards continuously evaluated to ensure they are performing effectively.
initiative, which recognised those employees who best represented Aspecialist board consultancy, Lintstock, was appointed in 2017 our Company values and culture see page 39 for full details.
to carry out interviews with the Board and members of the Executive Committee to help ensure the Board was operating And finally, our employees were extremely generous with their time effectively and to recommend improvements.
They reported back and energy in delivering a wide array of community initiatives, with recommendations relating to, inter alia, the skills matrix at details of which can be found on page 42.
The pages that follow contain our Corporate Governance The Board responded positively to their recommendations details statement and reports from our Board Committees.
In particular, we acted to improve what might be called cognitive diversity at Board level, by recruiting two new Non-Executive Directors with specific strategic marketing and Simon Miller digital expertise.
As a result, Michael Kellard joined the Board in Chairman December 2017 and Simonetta Rigo in June 2018.
Both are 27 November 2018 excellent additions and have brought additional skills to the Board.
We look forward to Siobhan Boylan joining in early 2019 as Finance Director, replacing Andrew Westenberger who stepped UK Corporate Governance Code down from the role in May 2018.
Compliancestatement As a result of these changes, the Nomination Committee reviewed We have complied with all principles and provisions of the the constitution of Board committees with effect from 1 October 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout 2018.
Details of the revised committee membership are set out on the financial year ended 30 September 2018.
Governance Statement and the cross-referenced reports within it set out the Boards approach to applying the Code.
At Brewin Dolphin, our values Genuine, Expert and Ambitious support our corporate governance activities by helping us ensure The 2018 Corporate Governance Code was issued in July all stakeholders views are at the heart of our decision 2018 and is first applicable for our financial year ending 30 making process.
The Board has considered the principles and provisions of the new code, principally: The Board recognises that, for the business to be successful, it needs to understand and respond to the views of shareholders.
The consideration of the interests of all stakeholders in I encourage shareholders to attend our AGM on 1 February 2019. accordance with section 172 of the 2006 Companies Act, It provides an opportunity to discuss any issues they wish to raise.
including workforce engagement: I am always available for shareholder meetings throughout the Creating a culture which aligns company values year, as are the Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director.
with strategy: Employee engagement is a critical success factor for Brewin The diversity of the Board and succession planning: and Dolphin.
In 2018 an all-employee engagement survey was Executive remuneration.
conducted for the fourth consecutive year.
This enables us to We are evaluating current policies and procedures and will better understand the views of our employees and how their make changes where required in order to comply with the new engagement impacts business performance and helps to principles and provisions and will provide an update in the next measure how deeply our culture is embedded within the Group.
