Governance CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE REVIEW Welcome to the Corporate Governance and Remuneration sections of our Annual Report I would liketo thank Lucinda for her commitment to British Land for over 25 years, six years of which were as an Executive Director, and wish her all the very best for the future.
We look forward to welcoming Simon Carter as an Executive Director andChief Financial Officer when he joins the Group on 21 May 2018.
I should also like to take this opportunity to thank our Non-Executive Directors who retired during this year.
The diligence and commitment shown by Aubrey Adams, Simon Borrows and Lord Turnbull during their long tenure have been exemplary and have contributed to the good governance of the Group.
I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31 March 2018.
During the year we also welcomed three new Non-Executive Directors: Preben Prebensen, Alastair Hughes and Rebecca The Boards responsibility for leading the Company and overseeing Worthington and I look forward to working closely with them the governance of the Group continues to be supported by a robust over the coming years.
All Directors in role at 31 March 2018 will structure which allows for constructive debate and challenge by its stand for election or re-election at the 2018 AGM.
This approach enables the Directors to make effective decisions, at the right time and based on the right information.
This year, we appointed Independent Board Evaluation IBE to undertake the triennial externally facilitated Board evaluation.
As I mention in my statement on pages 4 and 5, our level of Details of the process undertaken and a summary of the outcomes thoughtful activity and the resilience of our strategy set British Land are set out on page 66.
However, I am pleased to report here that the apart.
We take this thoughtfulness and consideration into our review concluded that your Board, its Commitees and its individual governance structure and I recently asked that a review of our members continue to operate effectively and with due diligence.
governance policies be undertaken to ensure that they remain We fully intend to implement the recommendations made by IBE appropriate for our business and in line with best market practice.
and we will report on progress in the 2019 Annual Report.
Governance underpins the way in which the business of the Group The Board also reviewed and approved a new Diversity and Inclusion is managed, our behaviour and our corporate culture.
This year, Policy this year.
Further detail on this is given in the Nomination we are reporting against the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code Committee Report on pages 74 to 75 and in the Social and the Code available at w w w. frc.
I am pleased to report that environmental reporting section on page 30. the Board has continued to apply good governance and considers that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code All Directors will attend this years AGM which will again provide throughout the year.
an opportunity for all shareholders to hear more about our performance during the year and to ask questions of the Board.
The following Corporate Governance Report, including the reports I look forward to welcoming you on 17 July 2018. of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, outlines how the Company has applied the Codes principles and provisions.
Board changes As mentioned on page 5, the Board has continued to evolve during the year with a number of changes to its membership.
Lucinda Bell John Gildersleeve stepped down as an Executive Director and as Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Chairman on 19January 2018, and left British Land on 4 April 2018.
62 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 GOVERNANCE REVIEW Our governance structure is an integral part of the way we design and deliver our strategy Leadership Role of the Board The Board The Board has reserved key decisions and matters for its own As at 31 March 2018 the Board comprised the Chairman, eight approval, including its core responsibilities of setting the Groups independent Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
strategic direction, overseeing the delivery of the agreed strategy, Biographies of the Directors are set out on pages 58 to 61 and include managing risk and establishing the culture, values and standards details of the skills and experience each brings to the Board.
Matters below the financial limit set by the Board are delegated to a committee of any two Executive Directors Our rigorous and transparent procedures for appointing new with all decisions taken reported to the next following Board meeting.
Directors are led by the Nomination Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and all continuing The Board culture is one of openness and constructive debate: the Directors offer themselves for election or re-election by shareholders Directors are able to voice their opinions in a relaxed and respectful at the AGM each year provided the Board, on the recommendation of environment, allowing coherent discussion.
When running Board the Nomination Committee, deems it appropriate that they do so.
meetings, the Chairman maintains a collaborative atmosphere and ensures that all Directors contribute to the debate.
The Chairman The composition of the Board is fundamental to its success in also arranges informal meetings and events throughout the year to providing strong and effective leadership.
The Nomination Committee help build constructive relationships between the Board members is responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board and its and the senior management team.
Committees and assessing whether the balance of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity is appropriate to enable The Chairman meets with individual Directors outside formal them to operate effectively.
Board meetings to allow for open, two-way discussion about the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and its members.
The Chairman is therefore able to remain mindful of the views Board of Directors as at 31 March 2018 of the individual Directors.
Division of responsibilities 8% There is a clear written division of responsibilities between the 25% Chairman who is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board and the Chief Executive who is responsible for managing the Companys business.
Non-Executive Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors The Board has delegated authority for the day-to-day management 67% Executive Directors of the business to the Chief Executive, with specific areas of the business being managed by the other Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors are involved in, or aware of, all major activities and are therefore extremely well placed to ensure that any decisions We continue to have a strong mix of experienced individuals on the align with the Groups agreed strategy.
The majority are independent Non-Executive Directors who are not only able to offer an external perspective on the business, but The Executive Directors make decisions within predefined also constructively challenge the Executive Directors, particularly parameters delegated by the Board, although any proposal may still when developing the Companys strategy.
The Non-Executive be taken to the full Board for consideration and approval where this Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting is considered appropriate, even if they fall within those parameters.
their agreed goals and objectives, and monitor the reporting of that performance.
Three standing Committees have been established: the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, to which certain powers The high calibre of debate and the participation of all Directors, have been delegated.
Membership of each of these Committees is Executive and Non-Executive, in its meetings allows the Board to comprised solely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The reports utilise the experience and skills of the individual Directors to their of these three standing Committees are set out on pages 69 to 91. maximum potential and make decisions that are in the best interests of the Company.
Management Committees have also been established to make recommendations on matters delegated to them by the Board, its standing Committees or the Executive Directors.
This governance structure set out on the following page ensures that the Board is able to focus onstrategic proposals, major transactions and governance matters which affect the long term success of the business.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Governance GOVERNANCE REVIEW Governance structure Board of Directors Develops strategy and leads British Land to achieve long term success, determines the risks British Land faces, the level of risk it is prepared to take to achieve its strategy and ensures that systems of risk management and control are in place.
It also provides leadership and governance for the Company as a whole, having regard to the views of shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board has reserved certain matters to its own approval see w w w. britishland.
com governance with others beingdelegated to Board or Management Committees asappropriate.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Oversees financial and narrative Leads process for Board Sets the Executive Directors reporting, provides assurance on the appointments and succession Remuneration Policy and the effectiveness of internal control, risk planning, ensures that Board and remuneration of the Chairman and management systems and audit senior management have appropriate Executive Directors, approves annual processes, reviews the effectiveness skills, knowledge and experience to and long term performance andobjectivity of external and operate effectively and deliver objectives and awards.
Chief Executive and Executive Directors Overall responsibility for day-to-day management of the business and implementation ofapproved strategy lies with the Chief Executive with specific areas of the business managed by the other Executive Directors.
Executive Committee An advisory committee that operates under the direction and leadership of the Chief Executive.
Membership comprises allExecutive Directors and senior management from across the business.
Considers day-to-day operational and financialperformance, performance of the Groups assets and overall development programme.
Investment Committee Risk Committee Health, Safety and Reviews, approves or recommends Oversees management and reporting EnvironmentCommittee significant transactions including of strategic and operational risks, Drives actions in pursuit of the acquisitions, disposals and recommends appropriate risk Companys health and safety and developments of assets up to appetite levels and monitors risk environmental stewardship goals and anagreed financial limit.
exposure, reviews operation of risk reviews performance against actions.
Sustainability Committee Community Investment Committee Monitors performance and progress Oversees the strategic management against sustainability targets and key of the Community Investment Fund initiatives, assessing emerging and approves and monitors all social, ethical and environmental related spend.
issues, associated risks and mitigating actions.
64 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategy days Consideration and approval of risk appetite and the principal The Board held its annual offsite strategy event during March 2018. risks faced by the Company The strategy days are structured to provide the Directors, and the Use of capital and the implementation of a 300 million share Non-Executive Directors in particular, with an opportunity to focus on buyback programme the development of, and challenge to, the Groups corporate strategy.
Launch of the Flexible Workspace brand Storey Review of the outcome of a multi-agency crisis management The format of the 2018 event was different from prior years with one exercise at one of British Lands assets entire session given over to the consideration of key questions on Results of the externally facilitated Board performance evaluation future direction.
To stimulate this conversation, a number of external Approval of full year and half year financial results, the Annual speakers were invited to the session held earlier in the day and to the Report and the Notice of AGM following dinner in order to give a wider social and economic context Declaration of quarterly interim dividends to discussions.
Diversity and gender pay Cyber security and information technology Board meetings Preparations for the General Data Protection Regulation Regular Board and Committee meetings are scheduled throughout which comes into force in May 2018 the year and the Directors ensure that they allocate sufficient time to Health and safety compliance discharge their duties effectively.
Occasionally, Board meetings may Governance review be held at short notice when Board-level decisions of a time-critical Sustainability nature need to be made.
Care is taken to ensure that information is circulated in good time The table below sets out the changes that have taken place to the before Board and Committee meetings, and that papers are Board, together with details of each Directors attendance at Board presented clearly and with the appropriate level of detail to enable meetings during the year ended 31 March 2018: the Board to discharge its duties.
All papers are circulated one week prior to meetings and clearly marked as being For Decision or Date of Date of For Information.
To enhance the delivery of Board and Committee appointment leaving the papers the Board uses a Board portal and tablets which provide a Director since 1 April 2017 Board Attendance secure and efficient process for meeting pack distribution.
Under John Gildersleeve 7 8 the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary facilitates Chris Grigg 8 8 effective information flows between the Board and its Committees, and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors.
Charles Maudsley 8 8 Tim Roberts 8 8 In March 2018 the Board undertook a site visit to Meadowhall in Lynn Gladden 8 8 Sheffield, a joint venture asset with Norges Bank Investment Management.
Since the Board last visited in 2015, a 60 million Alastair Hughes 01 Jan 2018 3 3 refurbishment had been undertaken, creating a go-to space William Jackson 8 8 providing outstanding customer experiences.
As well as reviewing Nicholas Macpherson 7 8 the results of the refurbishment, the Board considered the next Preben Prebensen 01 Sep 2017 5 5 phase of the Meadowhall development programme including the delivery of the Leisure Hall where we have secured a resolution to Tim Score 8 8 grant planning consent from Sheffield City Council.
Laura Wade-Gery 8 8 Rebecca Worthington 01 Jan 2018 2 3 Effectiveness Board induction On appointment, all Directors whether Executive or Non-Executive Former Directors receive a comprehensive induction.
Each new Director is invited to Lucinda Bell 19 Jan 2018 5 6 meet the General Counsel and Company Secretary or Head of Aubrey Adams 31 Dec 2017 5 5 Secretariat to discuss their induction in detail, following which the Simon Borrows 18 Jul 2017 2 3 programme is tailored specifically to their requirements and adapted to reflect their existing knowledge and experience.
Lord Turnbull 18 Jul 2017 2 3 Each induction programme would ordinarily include: Absences at Board meetings were due to commitments predating joining the Board, illness or unavailability for meetings held at Meetings with the Chairman, Executive Directors, Committee short notice.
Chairmen, external auditor or remuneration consultants as appropriate The Board agenda is set by the Chairman, in conjunction with the Information on the corporate strategy, the investment strategy, Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
Each scheduled meeting the financial position and tax matters including details of the includes a Management Report delivered by the Chief Executive and Companys REIT status regular updates on the activities of various standing and management An overview of both Retail and Offices portfolios provided Committees.
Discussions also take place on strategic proposals, by members of the senior management team major acquisitions, disposals and developments and legal and Visits to key assets.
During 2017 and 2018 these included visits governance matters.
to Broadgate, Canada Water, Meadowhall andPaddington Details of Board and Committee procedures and Directors During the year ended 31 March 2018 particular areas considered responsibilities by the Board, either directly or following receipt of reports from its Details on the investor relations programme standing Committees, include: Information on the Companys approach to sustainability Outcomes of the annual strategy days and progress towards All induction documents are made available on our secure electronic agreed outcomes Board portal and are therefore available to Directors both during and after their induction.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Governance GOVERNANCE REVIEW CONTINUED Training and development The Chairman and Company Secretary agree what Board wide Board evaluation training or development may be appropriate.
During theyear ended During the year, the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees 31 March 2018, the Board considered papers and presentations on was conducted by Independent Board Evaluation IBE.
legal and regulatory developments, technology opportunities or challenges and  developments as well as Stage 1 receiving regular briefings on the views ofstakeholders and the October 2017 external environment.
IBE met with the Chairman to discuss and agree the focus of the evaluation Directors are also entitled to seek independent advice in relation to the performance of their duties at the Companys expense, subject to having first notified the Chairman or the Company Secretary.
Stage 2 November 2017 Commitment IBE attended Board and Committee meetings Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment set out the time commitments expected from them.
Following consideration, the Nomination Committee has concluded that all the Non-Executive Stage 3 Directors continue to devote sufficient time to discharging their February 2018 duties to the required high standard.
Individual interviews held with each Board Director, the Company Secretary and the Head of Secretariat British Lands policy is to allow Executive Directors to take one non-executive directorship at another FTSE company, subject to Board approval.
External appointments of the Executive Directors Stage 4 are disclosed in their biographies.
Any fees earned by the Executive March 2018 Directors are disclosed on page 87 of the Remuneration Report.
IBE attended further Board and Committee meetings Conflicts of interest The Directors are required to avoid a situation in which he or she Stage 5 has, or can have, a direct or indirect conflict with the interests of March 2018 theCompany.
The Board has established a procedure whereby Draft report discussed with Chairman prior to finalisation theDirectors are required to notify the Chairman and the Company and presentation to the whole Board Secretary of all new outside interests and actual or perceived conflicts of interest that may affect them in their roles as Directors of British Land.
All potential conflicts of interest are authorised by Stage 6 the Board at the earliest opportunity and the register of Directors March April 2018 post Board presentation interests is reviewed by the full Board at least annually.
IBE provided feedback to the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on the performance of each The Board also reviews the Directors Interests Policy on an annual Committee.
The performance of the Chairman was also basis.
Following the last review in November 2017, the Board discussed with the Senior Independent Director who concluded that the policy continued to operate effectively.
subsequently met with the other Non-Executive Directors to further consider the Chairmans performance, taking into Re-election account the views of the Executive Directors.
The Board has reviewed the Nomination Committees assessment of whether each Non-Executive Director remains independent in In addition to the formal Board evaluation, the Board Chairman character and judgement and whether there are relationships or met each Non-Executive Director individually during the year to circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, discuss their contribution to the Board.
As a result, the Board as a whole considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent, is of the stature Outcomes and has the required experience to perform his or her role as an Overall, the evaluation report from IBE reflected well on the independent Director.
The results of the externally facilitated Board Board.
Its members are seen as engaged and committed while evaluation also confirm the Boards belief that each Non-Executive the Boards culture remains open, respectful and constructive.
Director standing for election or re-election at the 2018 AGM remains committed to their role within British Land and continues IBE made a number of recommendations to the Board, based to perform effectively.
on the Boards own suggestions, including: Increasing the Boards interaction with the wider management team Working to define Board values in conjunction with the Company values and take forward the Boards work on culture and employee engagement Using informal Board sessions to enable alignment around complex or evolving issues The Board intends to implement the recommendations made by IBE and will report on progress in the 2019 Annual Report.
IBE has no other connection with British Land.
66 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Accountability A robust system of business and financial planning: including Financial and business reporting cash flows and profitability forecasting, with scenario analysis The Board is responsible for preparing the Annual Report and performed on major corporate, property and financing proposals confirms in the Directors responsibility statement set out on page 95 A robust process for property investment appraisals that they believe that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, Monitoring of key outcomes, particularly expenditure and balanced and understandable, and provides the information performance of significant investments, against budget necessary to assess British Lands position, performance, business and forecast model and strategy.
The basis on which the Company creates Clearly defined policies and review of actual performance andpreserves value over the long term is described in the against policies StrategicReport.
Benchmarking of property performance against external sources such as Investment Property Databank The Audit Committee reviewed the procedure undertaken to enable the Key controls testing Board to provide the fair, balanced and understandable confirmation A comprehensive property and corporate insurance programme to shareholders.
Meetings were held between the Group Financial and a formal whistle-blowing policy Controller, Head of Investor Relations and other senior employees to review and document the key considerations undertaken and a During the course of its review for the year ended 31 March 2018, detailed report was then presented to the Audit Committee.
and to the date of this Report, the Audit Committee has not identified, nor been advised of, a failing or weakness which it has determined Risk management and internal control to be significant.
The Board determines the extent and nature of the risks it is prepared to take in order to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
The Going concern and viability statements Board has responsibility for the Companys overall approach to risk During the year the Board assessed the appropriateness of using management and internal control which includes ensuring the the going concern basis of accounting in the financial statements.
design and implementation of appropriate risk management and The assessment considered future cash flows and debt facilities internal control systems.
Oversight of the effectiveness of these to assess the liquidity risk of the Company and the availability of systems is delegated to the Audit Committee which undertakes finance to assess the solvency risk.
The assessment covered the regular reviews to ensure that the Group is identifying, considering 12-month period required by the going concern basis of accounting.
and mitigating as far as practicable, the most appropriate risks for the business.
In accordance with the Code, the Board has also assessed the prospects of the Group over a five-year period which is deemed The Board confirms that, through the Audit Committee, a robust appropriate for the viability statement.
In preparing the viability assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including statement the Board considered the principal risks set out on pages those that would threaten its business model, future performance, 52 to 55 and the sensitivities of cash flow and debt covenant solvency or liquidity, was carried out during the year.
forecasts, all of which are considered to have a reasonable likelihood of impacting the viability of the Company.
Full details of this British Lands approach to risk, including the roles of the Board, assessment are set out on page 51. and the Audit Committee in setting risk appetite and monitoring risk exposure, is detailed in the Managing risk in delivering our strategy Following these assessments the Directors believe that the Group section on pages 48 to 51. is well placed to manage its financing and other business risks satisfactorily and have a reasonable expectation that the Company As well as complying with the Code, the Group has adopted the and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation best practice recommendations in the FRC Guidance on risk for at least 12 months from the date of the Annual Report.
They management, internal control and related financial and business therefore consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis reporting and the Companys internal control framework operates of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
in line with the recommendations set out in the internationally recognised COSO Internal Control Integrated Framework.
The Board also considers that the Company and the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due The Company is committed to conducting its business in an over the period ending 31 March 2023. ethical manner, with integrity and in line with all relevant laws andregulations.
The Group has adopted a number of policies and Taxation procedures including policies and training on anti-bribery and Our principles of good governance extend to our responsible corruption and fraud awareness, information security and GDPR.
Our tax strategy Our Approach to Tax, available Allemployees are made aware of the Groups policies through the on our website w w w. britishland.
com governance, is approved by employee handbook, regular bulletins and receive training the Board and is in line with the Groups long term values, culture appropriate to their roles and responsibilities.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Remuneration system of internal control annually, including the systems of control The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 76 to 91. for material joint ventures and funds.
The Groups internal control system is built on the following fundamental principles, and is The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2016 subject to review by internal audit: AGM and is summarised on page 78.
We are not making any changes to the Remuneration Policy this year.
A defined schedule of matters reserved for approval by the Board A detailed authorisation process: no material commitments are entered into without thorough review and approval by more than one authorised person Formal documentation of all significant transactions British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Governance GOVERNANCE REVIEW CONTINUED Relations with stakeholders The Board is committed to maintaining open channels of Key investor relations activities communication with all of the Companys stakeholders.
An important during the year included part of this is providing a clear explanation of the Companys strategy and objectives, and ensuring that feedback is acknowledged, considered and, where appropriate, acted upon.
Stakeholder feedback is essential to the success of our business, so we ensure May 2017 Full year results presentation theChairman, Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive and Full year results roadshow, otherExecutive Directors are available to address any concerns June 2017 London Investor property conference, ourstakeholders may wish to raise.
Investor roadshow, Netherlands US Canada Investor property conference, British Land aims to be informative and accessible to all London shareholders.
Announcements relating to the Groups financial Private Client round table presentation, London results and key events are provided in a timely manner and are easily Analyst & Investor presentation, accessible via our website and social media.
The Group website also Paddington Central provides detailed information on our assets, as well as case studies July 2017 AGM illustrating our strategy, including our sustainability activities.
British Land has a dedicated Investor Relations team which is September 2017 Investor property available to respond to any questions or concerns investors may conference, London haveon an ad hoc basis.
Investor property tour, November 2017 Paddington Central Industry dinner All stakeholders are able to contact the Company directly via Thought Leadership event, Half year results Broadgate thecontacts page on our website: w w w. britishland.
Half year results roadshow, London Annual General Meeting Two investor property conferences, London All Directors attend the AGM, which provides retail shareholders January 2018 Investor property inparticular with an opportunity to hear directly from the Board on conference, London the Companys performance over the past year, its strategy and the Investor property tour, Broadgate objectives for the year ahead.
The AGM also provides shareholders Investor property tour, Storey with the opportunity to ask questions and a number of the Directors, including the Chairman, make themselves available for informal February 2018 Private Client round table discussion after the meeting has concluded.
presentation, London March 2018 Investor property tour, Storey The 2017 AGM was attended by approximately 125 shareholders.
Retail round table All resolutions were voted on by way of a poll and passed by presentation & lunch the required majority.
The results of the AGM voting are announced to the London Stock Exchange as soon as practicable following the AGM and also made available on the Companys website.
Lenders and bondholders Retail shareholders The Board recognises the contribution made by our lenders and Our Shareholders Centre on our website: w w w. britishland.
Through our Treasury team, the Group maintains shareholders-centre includes information on the AGM, dividends, an open dialogue with our debt providers which helps the Board shareholder communication, howto contact our registrar, Equiniti, understand their investment appetite and criteria.
and other useful resources forshareholders.
Community Institutional investors British Land recognises that the people who live in and around our Institutional investors and analysts receive regular communications assets are essential to creating Places People Prefer, and therefore from the Company, including details of Investor Relations events to the success of our business.
Investing in these communities is see the chart to the right, one-to-one and group meetings with animportant part of our approach, and our Local Charter details Executive Directors, and tours of our major assets.
This year, our how we build trust by making positive contributions locally.
Our investor relations activity included a presentation and asset tour at Community Funding Guidelines set out howwe allocate funding, Paddington Central, following the completion of our 4 Kingdom Street with a particular focus on initiatives close toour assets that provide development.
In total, the Chief Executive, former Chief Financial opportunities to local people through education, employment and Officer and Investor Relations team met with representatives from over training.
Both documents can be found on our website at 205 institutions during the year ended 31 March 2018.
commission anindependent investor perception study, which provides feedback on our strategy and highlights material concerns from key investors and is presented to the Board.
The Executive team is committed to ensuring that shareholder views, bothpositive and negative, are relayed back to the Board.
The Chief Executive provides a written report at each scheduled meeting which includes direct market feedback on activity during the period.
68 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018
