CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Dear Shareholder As Chairman, what is What role does the Board Q Q your view on the role play in setting the culture I am pleased to present the Corporate of governance?
Governance Report for the year ended Good governance is essential to the longThe Board can most influence culture by 30 September 2018.
The report sets out term success of a company.
Boards should leading by example.
Culture is about people our approach to governance, our key actions demonstrate openness and accountability in and the expectations of how we treat during the year, our ways of working and the boardroom and promote this throughout each other.
We display and communicate how we promote Board effectiveness.
One of the most important the companys values in the boardroom The Board is supported by three Board roles of corporate governance is to and act as role models for the business.
committees to which it delegates specific ensure that strategic decisions are made The Board has a duty to promote trust responsibilities.
The reports of those with a long-term view of the health of and openness and show zero tolerance committees are set out on pages 63-83. the company.
At Britvic, the Board works to ensure that Part of our role is to review decisions and On behalf of the Board, at the governance structures remain appropriate strategic plans through a cultural lens, and recommendation of the Audit Committee and are updated when necessary to reflect challenge robustly if value gaps appear.
based on its assessment detailed on pages the business and global market within As the company develops the Board will 65-66, I confirm that we believe this Annual which Britvic operates.
continually review values and culture to Report and Accounts 2018 presents a fair, ensure alignment with the strategy and balanced and understandable assessment As Chairman, how do you priorities of the business.
of the companys position, its performance Q promote the effectiveness and its prospects, as well as its business model and strategy.
of the Boards decisionmaking process?
John Daly Chairman It is my role as Chairman to foster an environment of open debate and diverse thought, to drive progress towards achieving the companys strategic goals.
This requires bringing together a motivated team of Directors with different experiences and perspectives, ensuring we have adequate time and high-quality information to inform our decisions, and encouraging varied contributions and challenges.
Reviewing the merits of past decisions is also crucial for continuous improvement of the decisionmaking process.
This year the Board conducted an external evaluation of effectiveness, details of which are set out on page 62.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION How does the collective Q HOW GOVERNANCE SUPPORTS STRATEGY experience of the Board help the management team?
The Directors have a wealth of experience that is relevant to Britvic.
The Board Strategic priority The Boards governance role members are experts in a number of The Board approves the Groups strategy and essential areas, including corporate finance, annual operating plan, reviews subsequent progress business transformation, marketing and and makes decisions related to matters reserved brand development and technology.
for the Board in order to support the delivery of Many have worked at senior levels in fast Generate this strategy.
profitable growth In reviewing strategy and performance, they What we achieved in 2018 in our core markets are able to challenge plans and evaluate Review of long-term strategy at Board and results based on personal knowledge and Executive team off-site meeting Read more evidence from a wide range of situations.
Budget and plan approvals see pages 20-21 Regular performance updates What role does the Board play Regular reviews of the UK and Irish businesses Q in managing sustainability?
Sustainability is an integral part of the long-term strategy and is organised under the three pillars of Healthier People, Healthier Communities and Healthier Strategic priority The Boards governance role Planet.
The Board receives regular updates The Board reviews all proposals for global growth on key topics such as carbon emissions and monitors progress of our international business.
and waste, and in July carried out a deep dive to agree targets and review progress.
What we achieved in 2018 The company also engages with external Regular updates on the Brazil business post Realise global initiatives such as Forum for the Future and acquisitions, including the integration of opportunities in this year signed up to the UK Plastics Pact.
Bela Ischia kids, family and Regular updates on the US business Our full sustainable business review can be adult categories Regular updates on the French business found on pages 36-43.
Regular reviews of the innovation strategy Read more and execution How does the Board monitor the Q see pages 22-23 Groups management of risk?
The Board delegates governance responsibilities in respect of risk to the Audit Committee, who meet with the Director of Audit and Risk at every meeting to review the outcomes of internal audits Strategic priority The Boards governance role and risk management activities.
The Board The Board reviews key proposals relating itself remains accountable for setting the to business capability, including the supply Groups risk appetite and reviews principal chain transformation.
risks twice a year, with particular focus What we achieved in 2018 Continue to on areas of change, to assess whether Regularly reviewed progress in relation to our the companys response and mitigation step change our Business Capability Program activities are appropriate.
business capability Visited the Rugby factory to inspect work on installation of new lines and high-bay warehouse How does the Board Q Read more engage with stakeholders?
see pages 24-25 The Board considers the impact of the companys activities on a number of different stakeholders, and the methods of engagement vary considerably depending on the nature of those involved.
We receive a wide variety of reports from management on stakeholder impact such as the results of Strategic priority The Boards governance role employee surveys, reviews of supplier and The Board reviews the strategy for sustainable customer relationships and measurement of growth and leverages its collective experience company performance against recognised of the regulatory environment to advise on social and environmental guidelines.
Directors also have the opportunity to Build trust and What we achieved in 2018 speak directly with employees when respect in our Monitored implementation of the UKs Soft visiting ofces and production sites.
communities Drinks Industry Levy and Irelands Sugar Sweetened Drinks Tax Read more Supported progress in packaging developments see pages 26-27 BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 49
