&KDLUPDQoV JRYHUQDQFH UHSRUW First, I would like to thank my predecessor, Sir Mike Rake, for the support and guidance he provided to me in my role as nonexecutive director before I became chairman on 1 November 2017.
Sir Mike left a legacy of strong corporate governance and, before he left, had started to implement a number of important reforms Ive been proud to continue and expand.
We are already starting to see WKH SRVLWLYH HHFWV RI WKHVH DFURVV RXU EXVLQHVV The Board adopted a refreshed set of delegations of authority.
This has created clearer personal accountability and enabled better decision making at the top of the business.
We are embedding the same principles across the group.
The Executive Committee has replaced the Operating Committee, advising the chief executive or his delegate on the decisions for which they are individually accountable.
We have also created the BT Investment Board to provide recommendations and input to support the chief executive with his decision making on investment proposals.
We have embraced change and As part of the DCR settlement with Ofcom, we have successfully transformation across many areas created a more independent Openreach.
Our agreement with of the business, and I believe BT is Ofcom enhances the independence of the Openreach board, whilst maintaining the unit as an integral part of our business.
We have ZHOO SRVLWLRQHG ERWK WR DGGUHVV LWV created the BT Compliance Committee as a sub-committee of the LPPHGLDWH FKDOOHQJHV DQG WR SODQ Audit & Risk Committee to help ensure BT delivers the intended outcomes of the DCR settlement.
As we look ahead, I believe we are for the future.
in a strong position to address regulatory and structural challenges.
We have progressed well with our integration of EE into the BT group, to the point that we have agreed with Deutsche Telekom that the Integration Committee is no longer needed.
The Integration Committee was therefore dissolved in October 2017.
Karen Richardson and Tony Ball will step down from the Board at the end of the 2018 AGM.
I would like to thank Karen and Tony for WKHLU VLJQLcant contribution to BT.
We have begun a search process to replace the skills and experience that Karen and Tony bring to the Board, and will continue to strengthen our succession plans for the years ahead.
I would also like to thank the Board and executive team for all their HRUWV WKLV HDU :H have embraced change and transformation across many areas of the business, and I believe BT is well positioned both to address its immediate challenges and to plan for the future.
Indeed, Im looking forward to the role we will all play in GHOLYHULQJ{WKLV Jan du Plessis Chairman 9 May 2018 132 132 B BT T Gr Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Repor eport 2018 t 2018
