GOVERNANCE REPORT Chairmans introduction DEAR SHAREHOLDER, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the corporate governance report for the year ended 31 March 2018.
This report describes Burberrys corporate governance structures and procedures, the work of the Board and itsCommittees to provide an overview of how we have discharged our responsibilities this year.
The Board is collectively responsible for how Burberry is directed and SIR JOHN PEACE controlled and its responsibilities include: promoting Chairman Burberrys long-term success: setting its strategic aims andvalues: providing the leadership to put them into effect:supervising and constructively challengingthose responsible for the operational running ofthe business: ensuring a framework of prudent and effectivecontrols: and reporting to shareholders on the Boards stewardship.
As Chairman, I am responsible for leading and ensuring aneffective Board.
In an important year of change for Burberry, as highlighted in my letter, I am pleased to reportthat the Board operated effectively during the year.
In particular, the Board has contributed significantly in providing constructive challenge in support of the reviewand approval of and subsequent monitoring of theimplementation of the Companys new strategy.
The Boardalso played an important role in the search for and appointment of the new Chief Creative Officer and in the search for my successor as Chairman.
Also highlighted is the outcome from our annual Board effectiveness review.
This external review confirmed that the Board has a relevant mix of skills and experience, and its agenda has the right focus.
It highlighted some areas where our effectiveness can be enhanced in preparation for the future.
I would like to thank Board members for their dedication and hard work during the year.
70 GOVERNANCE REPORT The principal corporate governance rules applying to Burberry, as a UK company listed on the London Stock Exchange, for the year ended 31 March 2018 are contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as updated and published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 the Code, and the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules.
These require companies to describe inthe Annual Report their corporate governance from twopoints of view: the first dealing generally with our application of the Codes main principles and the second dealing specifically with non-compliance with any of theCodes provisions.
On the following pages, we have providedthe appropriate descriptions of our governance arrangements in relation to the Code and confirm that, throughout the year, the Directors consider Burberry hascomplied with all relevant provisions.
More recently, the FRC published a consultation paper on proposed revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The FRC is aiming to publish a final version of the Code by early summer 2018, and the new Code requirements will apply to accounting periods beginning on or after 1January2019.
Burberry must also comply with corporate governance rulescontained in the FCA Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules as well as certain related provisions inthe Companies Act 2006.
It is important to have an open and ongoing dialogue withour shareholders and other stakeholders, particularly during times of change.
Throughout the year, members of the Board and senior management participated in over 100meetings with investors, including with the Groups largestinvestors.
During the coming year, the Board will continue to focus on the progress against our strategic goals and performance, as Burberry embarks on a new chapter.
