54 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Chairmans report I am pleased to present this report on the work of the Board during 2018, formed of this section pages 5463 and the section headed Other statutory and regulatory information pages 6368.
Results for 2018 In the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 813 we have detailed the results for the year.
It has been a significant year for Capita and the Board and we remain confident that the transformation programme we are pursuing will deliver the right outcomes.
Board activities in 2018 The Board has a standing schedule to meet nine times a year but holds further meetings as required, operating with an open culture.
In 2018, the Board has had to deal with many key matters, as it seeks to set the Group on a sustainable path for the future and address historical issues.
Our plan to appoint two employees A structured approach is taken when setting Board and Committee to the Board is further evidence meetings they are aligned with the Companys financial calendar.
We of our commitment to inclusivity set an agenda to cover the wide range of matters that are brought to our attention, ensuring each is given appropriate time and focus.
Governance has a key role to play in the culture of the organisation Sir Ian Powell and I believe the Board and senior management changes we have Chairman made in 2018 will drive improved governance and performance across the whole of the business.
Patrick Butcher was appointed as Chief Financial Officer at the end of 2018 and details of the new Executive Committee are set out below.
Senior management Capita currently comprises six divisions and we continue to review the structure of our businesses and management to ensure it is appropriate.
An Executive Committee, under Jon Lewiss leadership, was formed during the year.
This committee brings together the six leaders of the new divisional structure and a number of new functional roles, including chief officers for Corporate Development, Digital, Growth, People, and Transformation, a Chief General Counsel and Director of Corporate Affairs.
These new roles include several new hires to Capita.
The committees focus is on improving culture and engagement across the workforce, with the aim of harnessing the collective strength of Capitas talented pool of people across all levels of the organisation.
The Board believes that the management team as a whole now have the credibility, knowledge, values and behaviours required to drive Capitas business forward and achieve success across its chosen markets.
Further detail about the Executive Committee can be found on pages 5859.
Engagement and diversity Our plan to appoint two employees to the Board is further evidence of our commitment to inclusivity and engagement.
We received a large number of applications and are following a rigorous selection process, which includes external independent review.
The intention is for the successful candidates to be announced shortly and I look forward to welcoming them onto the Board in due course.
Over the last two years, we have brought focus to the diversity agenda at Capita and have made some progress, but not enough.
We are fully committed to improving diversity and details of how this is being addressed are included in the strategic report on page 3738.
As an organisation of more than 63,000 people and one of the UKs largest employers, Capita must recruit, retain, develop and reward its people well, if it is to achieve its goals.
Its purpose, culture, values and behaviours have to empower and encourage all of Capitas people to ensure everyone has the opportunity to fulfil their potential, irrespective of background.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 55 A separate meeting of the Board took place to discuss fully the Board effectiveness evaluation and its findings, focusing on the following themes and Corporate governance principles developing actions for 2019: We continue to pursue the highest standards of corporate governance Longer-term vision and strategy extending the time-frame of and business practice, including the principles embodied in the UK strategic discussion and emerging risks during the year, with an Corporate Governance Code 2016 2016 Code, which permeate all annual deep focus on strategy and risk appetite.
aspects of the Boards activity.
Improve the Boards understanding of employees views through In particular, the principles in the 2016 Code relating to leadership and the appointment of Employee Directors, site visits and working with effectiveness are addressed through a strong and experienced group of the Chief People Officer on top talent, succession planning and independent Non-Executive Directors together with the ongoing diversity.
division of responsibility between running the Board and running Succession planning a skills and capabilities matrix would be Capitas business.
Furthermore, the Boards effectiveness was subject developed by the Nomination Committee to help enhance Board to an external evaluation in 2018, details of which are set out below.
The 2016 Code principles relating to accountability and remuneration Board programme to ensure the Board programme and agendas are addressed through the work of the Audit and Risk Committee and facilitate appropriate exposure to Capitas business and senior Remuneration Committee respectively and those committee reports management.
The principles in the 2016 Risk & Compliance and Internal Audit Code regarding relations with shareholders are addressed through the ongoing programme of shareholder engagement activity, a summary On pages 4451 of the strategic report we have described the roles of of which can be found on pages 6263.
Group Risk & Compliance and Group Internal Audit together with the risk framework and internal controls for Capita.
In July 2018, the Financial Reporting Council FRC refreshed and updated the 2016 Code and published the UK Corporate Governance In order for the Board to ensure that the strategic direction of Capita Code 2018 2018 Code which will apply to Capita in respect of the is appropriate and has the appropriate risk oversight, numerous 2019 financial year.
Where appropriate, disclosures relating to the meetings are held throughout the year.
These include individual 2018 Code are included in this Annual Report and Accounts 2018. meetings between the Chief Risk & Compliance Officer and the Group Internal Audit Director with the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Board evaluation Committee, as well as normal scheduled meetings.
Risks are identified Board evaluation is undertaken annually, with external evaluation and categorised in a number of ways and are prioritised and delegated every three years.
In late 2018, an external evaluation of the Board in accordance with the risk ratings provided to the risk owner.
and its committees was undertaken by Independent Board Evaluation, Both the Chief Risk & Compliance Officer and the Group Internal who have no other relationship with Capita.
This comprised a series of Audit Director report to the Chief Financial Officer and independently interviews with Board members and key stakeholders who regularly to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Both report respectively on the interact with the Board, including Executive Committee members and internal audit programme and risk and compliance management senior management, auditors, brokers, external legal counsel and the activities and on the internal audit programme across Capita.
The findings of the review were presented have access to all members of the Board and hold regular meetings to the Board.
Reports on committees were presented to the with the Executive Directors and meet with the Audit and Risk committee chairmen and circulated to the Board.
Committee Chairman at least every quarter.
The review took place against a backdrop of considerable change, both Directors in terms of Board composition and activity.
During 2018, new appointments strengthened the Board and Executive Committee, The Directors of the Company currently in office are listed on pages including the appointment of Patrick Butcher as Chief Financial Officer 5657. and Claire Chapman as Chief General Counsel.
As part of developing a All members of the Board will stand for re-election Patrick Butcher new strategy for Capita, the Board led the delivery of a rights issue in for election at the forthcoming AGM.
All Board members have April 2018.
The review also included a report on the performance of received a formal performance evaluation, as described, which individual directors and of the Chairman.
demonstrates that each Director continues to be effective and The evaluation concluded that, overall, the Board had performed well committed to the role.
through the period, demonstrating good leadership, an ability to John Cresswell has informed the Board of his intention to step down support and challenge, with a high level of engagement and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, but he will remain on commitment.
the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
John took up a new CEO role The evaluation has given the Board an opportunity to review its in 2018 and feels he can no longer provide Capita with the time and practices, and set a base-line standard from which to progress and attention the Committee Chairmans role requires.
He will continue to measure going forward.
chair the Committee until a replacement is appointed.
The following pages in this section consist of our corporate governance and remuneration reports.
I hope that you will find these and the entire Annual Report and Accounts informative.
The Board will be happy to receive any feedback you may have.
Sir Ian Powell Chairman 13 March 2019
