Strategic Report Governance Financials Chairmans Letter Corporate Governance Geoff Cooper Chairman Dear Shareholder From a legal and regulatory perspective, significant new challenges have continued to present themselves throughout During the last year, the Board has continued to focus on the year with the FRCs comprehensive review and now supporting the business through a period of management consultation on a new Corporate Governance Code being the change which has seen Kris Lee succeed Darren Bryant as most significant.
CFO, Roger Whiteside join the Board as an additional Independent Non-Executive Director as well as various other We will continue to look for opportunities to improve while changes to the Groups senior management team.
continuing to operate with our belief that pragmatic application of corporate governance principles and guidelines Our CEO, Karen Hubbard, working closely with the Board and in a way that enhances or protects the value of the business the senior management team has continued to seek out should be the core component of the Boards decision making opportunities to develop and build on the Groups established processes.
four pillar strategy to ensure each element takes into account both current business performance and the current market The membership and roles of each of the Board Committees dynamics relevant to each pillar.
are detailed in separate sections of this report together with the individual reports on their activities during the year.
The retail environment remains challenging with pressure on consumers disposal income given lower than inflation wage At our Annual General Meeting AGM this year, all of our growth.
Maintaining our competitive position and retaining Directors will be seeking reappointment.
the trust and confidence of our customers has been central to the Boards decisions.
This has proved challenging in light of I look forward to welcoming shareholders at the Companys the significant cost headwinds the business is facing and has AGM in May.
been set against a backdrop of continuing uncertainty driven by a lack of clarity and progress on the Brexit process.
Yours sincerely In what has been a challenging year, the Board remains committed to high standards of governance and to Geoff Cooper continuous reflection on its own performance.
As part of this Chairman commitment, we carried out our first externally facilitated Board review in 2017.
We asked Lorna Parker, an independent 9 April 2018 and experienced Board evaluation specialist, to evaluate our Board.
The review concluded that we are a collegiate and collaborative Board that engages in open and rigorous debate.
Importantly the review identified that the Board should commit more time to the Groups longer-term strategy beyond the current four pillar strategy and this forms an important part of the Boards programme in the current year.
Further details of the review and the actions that were agreed are set out in the reportbelow.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37
