Strategic Report Governance Financials Chairmans Letter Nomination Committee Geoff Cooper Chairman of the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder The Committee, working closely with Karen and the Group HR Director, Lucy Crowther, has supported development, The main focus of the Nomination Committee over the last engagement and succession planning for the senior year has been recruiting and supporting the handover to our management team in which there has been a number of new CFO, Kris Lee, following Darren Bryants retirement at the changes during the year.
The Committee has also endorsed end of July 2017. the introduction of a more structured definition of job roles and levels across the Group that will provide greater Kris, a very experienced retail CFO, underwent an extensive transparency over future development, progression and induction programme giving him the opportunity to engage reward.
with all parts of the business and assess the Groups current operations and strategy.
Following this, he provided his initial During the forthcoming year and beyond, the Committee will reflections to the Board.
conduct more formal and regular reviews of the Groups new wider template for talent development, which has been Kris was recruited following a thorough search process introduced to ensure effective succession planning across all focused on identifying a candidate with the skills and relevant levels in the Group.
retail experience to work closely with our CEO, Karen Hubbard, the Board and the senior management team to drive Finally, the Non-Executive Directors and I have also committed our existing four pillar strategy and, in time, assess longerto spending additional time in the business to strengthen our term strategic options for the business.
understanding of the Groups culture and the Groups understanding and appreciation of our roles.
A professional search firm carried out the search and all members of the Committee, Karen and key members of the Looking forwards, the Committee will continue to reflect on senior management team were involved in the selection the developing corporate governance landscape.
The search firm were asked to review and, if possible, introduce more structured planning and review of succession revise their long and short lists to seek qualified candidates for the Board and senior management team as well as regular that would increase the Boards diversity.
As part of the Boards commitment to managing Board Yours sincerely succession and ensuring it has the right balance of skills and experience to support the Groups strategic plans, Roger Whiteside was appointed to the Board as an additional Geoff Cooper Independent Non-Executive Director in December 2017.
Roger Chairman of the Nomination Committee is currently CEO of multi-site food on-the-go retailer Greggs plc and has a wealth of retail knowledge and senior leadership 9 April 2018 experience that will complement the Board.
As with Kris Lee, Rogers recruitment was facilitated by a specialist search firm and all of the Board were fully involved in his recruitment.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67
