Strategic Report Governance Financials Chairmans Letter Remuneration Committee Octavia Morley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder We have a track record of setting stretching targets, rigorously scrutinising variable pay outcomes and not I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report overpaying.
The FY17 annual bonus and 2014 LTIP award for the financial year ended 31 January 2018. which vested during the year paid out at 20% and 47% of maximum respectively and, most recently, there was a zero During the year the Committee has conducted an extensive bonus for FY18.
review of our remuneration policy to assess whether it remains appropriate in light of our business strategy and the retail The Committee believes that Restricted Shares, rather than environment in which we operate.
As a result, and following a LTIP awards with specific three-year performance targets, will very productive shareholder consultation, the Committee better support our business strategy for the foreseeable concluded that, with the exception of the move to Restricted future for the following reasons: Shares noted below, there should only be minor changes to our policy in respect of salary, annual bonus and benefits, 1.
Employee share ownership which are summarised later.
Management and wider employee share ownership is part of our cultural DNA and has created a strong performance The key change to our remuneration policy is to move away culture up to and beyond IPO.
The proposed policy for from granting share awards based on the achievement of Restricted Shares will ensure that more direct share ownership specific three-year performance targets LTIP awards, to a will cascade through the senior management team and below, simpler approach where much lower awards of shares are ensuring higher employee share ownership.
We believe that granted annually, which vest over a longer timeframe.
These this, more harmonised, approach will work well at Card provide a longer-term strategic focus and over time generate Factory and is in line with current investor and market thinking significant employee shareholdings which creates a more in relation to executive pay.
direct alignment of long-term interests between executives and shareholders.
This move to Restricted Shares will also 2.
Right for our business strategy lead to a reduction in maximum pay.
Our remuneration strategy needs to provide the management team with flexibility to focus on longer-term strategic priorities STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE FOR A MOVE FROM that may change over the course of a three-year policy period LTIP TO RESTRICTED SHARES and beyond.
Restricted Shares will provide a longer-term As part of a strategic review, the Board has identified focus, while the shorter-term annual bonus will continue to opportunities to strengthen the business both strategically provide a more direct performance counterbalance, as it and operationally.
Our four pillars strategy aims to deliver focuses on stretching EBITDA targets and other strategic and sustained growth, strong cash generation and shareholder operational objectives.
returns through a focus on like-for-like sales growth, new store roll out, business efficiencies and online development.
Strong investor alignment Additional strategic priorities of further targeted investment The level of Restricted Shares is 50% less compared to the and greater engagement with colleagues and our customers maximum LTIP award under our previous policy.
Rather than have also been identified.
the usual three-year vesting, Restricted Shares will vest in stages, over three, four and five years and vested shares may Our remuneration principles are to provide a simple and not be sold other than to pay any taxes due until after a straightforward policy, with fixed pay at the lower end of the five-year period.
market and a higher weighting to variable performance pay.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Chairmans Letter Remuneration Committee Continued 4.
Meaningful performance underpin The annual bonus will remain capped at 125% and 100% of There is a performance underpin, which provides a clear focus base salary, respectively, for the Chief Executive and Chief on building long-term value and strengthening the business.
80% of the annual bonus will continue to this is not achieved in the view of the Committee, the level of be based on stretching EBITDA targets.
The remaining Restricted Shares vesting may be reduced, potentially to zero.
20% will be determined by strategic objectives which will be stretching, clearly defined, measurable and disclosed 5.
Simple and transparent retrospectively in our Annual Report on Remuneration.
Restricted Shares are simple and easy to understand Theinclusion of a strategic element enables the internally.
There is an ongoing focus on share price and the Committee to highlight the importance of the current drivers for long-term value rather than hitting specific targets strategic focus and objectives of the business and to every three years.
Shareholders will have a much clearer view reward steps in achievingthis.
on remuneration, where the maximum level of pay will be Restricted Shares will be granted worth 87.5% of salary reduced significantly and will fluctuate less.
and 75% of salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively, based on the face value of The Committee is aware that the Companys updates during shares at the time of grant.
In order for Restricted Shares the second half of the year, which outlined a strong sales to be capable of vesting, the Committee must be satisfied position but continuing cost and margin pressure, had an that business performance is robust and sustainable and impact on the share price.
However, the review of the that management hasstrengthenedthe business.
In Directors remuneration policy and the decision by the Board assessing performance, the Committee will consider to introduce Restricted Shares was made well before this time financial and non-financial KPIs of the business as well as and the Committee continues to believe that this is the right delivery against strategic priorities.
To the extent it is not policy for Card Factory over the long-term.
satisfied with performance the Committee may scale back the level of vested awards.
There will be full Annual Report OTHER POLICY CHANGES disclosure of the Committees determination of the Aside from a move to Restricted Shares, there are no material performance underpin.
However, having benefitted from the experience gained from our four years as a listed company, PAYMENTS FOR PERFORMANCE IN FY17 18 we have made the policy clearer and simpler to operate with The EBITDA performance for the year fell short of the three minor changes as follows: stretching minimum performance hurdle so no annual bonus to provide a more conventionally expressed pension is payable for performance for the year ended 31 January maximum under the policy as a percentage of salary, 2018.
The Group has performed well since its IPO in 2014. being5% of salary, rather than a value amount but no However, in spite of strong like-for-like sales growth, this has change to actual pension, which remains very low been a tough year for the Group in terms of profitability with compared to peers : the impact of significant cost headwinds.
It is therefore right, in line with our rigorous approach to pay for performance, under the current policy at least 80% of bonus must be that there is no incentive payment for this year.
In practice, currently 100% is determined by EBITDA.
We propose to slightly LTIP awards were made in 2015 to our former CEO, Richard amend our policy to allow greater flexibility in the Hayes, and our former CFO, Darren Bryant.
Both have selection of performance measures to support the subsequently retired from the business but their outstanding business strategy, while ensuring a majority is always LTIP awards having been scaled back pro rata for service based on financial KPIs.
Bonus payments will always be were capable of vesting subject to the achievement of subject to the Remuneration Committee ensuring performance conditions.
However, based on EPS performance underlying performance of the business is acceptable: and over the relevant period, none of these awards will vest.
the level of shareholding required to be built and maintained has increased from 200% and 150% of salary As both Executive Directors have recently joined the business to 250% and 200%of salary for the Chief Executive and there are no outstanding LTIP awards that are capable of Chief Financial Officer, respectively.
vesting by reference to the performance period ending 31January 2018.
HOW WE INTEND TO APPLY THE POLICY IN FY18 19 We are proposing a 5% increase in base salary for our CEO FY18 LTIP AWARD with effect from 1 May 2018 to recognise the low starting Our LTIP award for FY18 was made in the second half of our financial year to align with the timing of last years grant, salary on her recruitment, her performance and increased experience in role.
Our Chief Executives current base which had been delayed to allow a proper assessment of Brexit on the market and our business outlook.
Our interim salary is 454,000 and would increase to 477,000.
No increase is proposed for our Chief Financial Officer who results for FY18 showed strong sales performance on both a has recently been appointed on a salary of 315,000.
The total and a like-for-like basis, but also demonstrated the significant impact of various cost headwinds in particular new salaries retain a lower quartile market positioning.
foreign exchange and wage rates.
Against this outlook, the Within the new policy limit of 5% of salary, the Chief Committee set an EPS growth range of 1% to 6% pa CAGR for Executives and Chief Financial Officers pension the three financial years to January 2020, which is viewed as entitlement will remain at just over 3% of base salary.
appropriately stretching in the circumstances.
In addition, for awards to vest, the Companys return on capital must be consistent with historic levels, reinforcing the focus on returns for shareholders.
52 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials BOARD CHANGES CONCLUSION On 31 July 2017 Darren Bryant stepped down as CFO.
There We will carefully monitor the FRCs proposed amendments to have been no contractual payments relating to his notice the Code, which are likely to require a wider remit of the period and Darren was not eligible to receive a bonus or LTIP Committee beyond the most senior executive population and award for FY18.
His outstanding LTIP awards will be scaled greater stakeholder engagement, including with employees.
back pro rata for service and may vest subject to the As a Board we welcome these developments and will be achievement of the performance conditions.
Following an considering during 2018 how the changes can be extensive recruitment process, we were delighted to secure implemented.
the appointment of Kris Lee as Darrens replacement.
Kris has started on a base salary of 315,000, was eligible for a pro I will attend the AGM to answer any questions shareholders rata bonus for the period of the FY18 year worked and may have and I look forward to your support on both of the received a pro rata LTIP award for FY18.
As part of his resolutions relating to remuneration.
recruitment package, and in order that Kris was able to take up his position quickly, the Committee approved a like-for-like buyout of his forfeited bonus of 150,000.
Octavia Morley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee With effect from 4 December 2017, Roger Whiteside joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director and as a 9 April 2018 member of this Committee.
Roger is Chief Executive of Greggs plc and has been on the Boards of several other companies.
His wealth of corporate experience generally as well as on remuneration matters will be an asset to the Board and this Committee.
Rogers fees are in line with our policy.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The proposed remuneration policy and its application for FY18 19 has been subject to an extensive consultation with our major shareholders, the majority of who indicated their support for our proposals subject to them reviewing the final policy ahead of the vote at our AGM in May.
There has been a genuine dialogue with our major shareholders on the proposed changes, which has been incorporated into the final proposals presented here.
I would like to thank those investors consulted for their time and the constructive feedback given.
More generally, the Remuneration Committee continues to keep all aspects of senior executive remuneration under review against market and best practice for UK-listed companies and other retailers, investor guidelines and against the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code or the Code.
Taking all these factors into account, the Committee has developed the proposed remuneration policy, which it believes is appropriate and balanced, supports the Companys objective todeliver shareholder value and aligns executive and shareholder interests.
At the AGM, which will be held on 31 May 2018, our remuneration policy contained within this report will be subject to a binding shareholder vote which, if approved, will mean that the new policy would take effect from that date.
The remainder of this report, containing this Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration, which outlines the payments made in respect of the FY18 financial year and the implementation of our remuneration policy for the forthcoming financial year, will be subject to a separate advisory vote.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53
