CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS Dear Shareholders, 2018 was another strong year for our company.
We achieved the highest full-year earnings in our companys history, our fifth consecutive year of adjusted earnings growth and third consecutive record year.
More importantly, 2018 marked the return to double-digit return on invested capital.
Back in 2013, we set an objective to transform our company and, within five years, to reach double-digit return on invested capital the mark of a high-performing company.
I sincerely thank our more than 120,000 team members who went above and beyond, and by consistently exceeding our guest expectations, delivered for both our guests and our shareholders.
In just five years, our team more than doubled our return on invested capital and nearly tripled our adjusted earnings per share, through executing our strategy to create demand in excess of measured capacity growth while leveraging our industryleading scale.
It was their efforts that drove, over that time period, an $11 billion increase in market capitalization and the return of $11 billion to shareholders through strong dividend growth and opportunistic share repurchases.
All of this was accomplished while also achieving an improvement to Aand A3 credit ratings from S&P and Moodys, respectively.
It was their passion and their commitment that enabled us to overcome a host of headwinds and still perform at these higher levels.
And when combined with the strong support of our valued travel agent partners, underpinned our sustained earnings improvement.
Creating Demand in Excess of Measured Capacity Growth While the journey to sustained double-digit return on invested capital is built on the foundation of exceeding guest expectations, we have many other notable accomplishments that helped pave the way.
Our proactive public relations efforts to increase consideration for cruise and reduce misperceptions about cruising have clearly had a positive impact on demand creation.
The absolute number of positive media mentions is five times what they were just five years ago and today our brands consistently capture over 75 percent of all positive media in our industry.
Through our marketing efforts, our brands have shared the spotlight with many well-known personalities who brought with them a greater audience of potential new-to-cruise like, to name a few, Oprah Winfrey for Holland America Line, Shaquille ONeal for Carnival Cruise Line, Shakira for Costa, and even Her Majesty the Queen for P&O Cruises UK.
Our brands were featured on television programs all around the world including: GoodMorningAmerica, The TodayShow,  in the U. S. and in the UK, Ant&Dec and the ITV reality show, TheCruise.
In addition, we created our own original TV programming which has already reached more than 400 million views and counting, airing on major U. S. networks including ABC, NBC, Telemundo and Univision.
Our proprietary shows -- Emmy-award  Corwin, , VacationCreation, and for the fast growing Spanish-speaking market, LaGranSorpresa -- are among the most popular travel series on TV, using authentic storytelling to share the powerful way travel by sea connects people, places and cultures around the world.
All of these programs and more can also be found on our own over the top digital platform, OceanView, or our own mobile app, OceanView mobile.
Through our history-making voyage to Cuba in 2016, we captured over 55 billion highly positive media impressions, and became the first U. S. cruise operator in more than 40 years to bring cruise guests directly from the U. S. to Cuba.
At the same time, our voyage opened an exciting new destination option in the Caribbean for our guests.
2 We made more global news through the historic signing of a joint venture agreement with China State Shipbuilding Corporation CSSC, forming a local cruise operating company and forging a significant long-term relationship to help build the cruise industry in China.
And we made history with the debut of OceanMedallion, our patented guest experience innovation, which enabled us to become the first travel company ever to be asked to keynote at CES, the largest technology trade show in the world.
We believe MedallionClass can elevate the guest experience by enabling the delivery of more personalized guest services including features like expedited frictionless embarkation: keyless and personalized stateroom access: on demand services, easy to follow wayfinding, the best Wi-Fi at sea, interactive entertainment and more.
There is nothing like OceanMedallion in the travel industry today, and we are excited about its potential to further our mission of consistently exceeding our guests expectations.
To date, OceanMedallion has received 36 billion favorable media impressions for our company and has won recognition globally as an innovation effort, including our company being recognized byFastCompany as one of the Top Ten Most Innovative Companies in the travel category.
These kinds of global exposures are all part of our continuous effort to keep cruising at the forefront of consumers vacation consideration set.
Reinforcing Measured Capacity Growth Of course, our ongoing fleet replenishment efforts are central to our strategy to create demand in excess of measured capacity growth.
Over the last five years, we welcomed 12 state-of-the-art larger, more efficient vessels, while at the same time nine less efficient ships exited our fleet building an inherently more returnresilient fleet.
Going forward, we will continue to achieve greater economies.
Over the next five years, we will welcome 17 more efficient ships, and continue to divest our less efficient ships, representing net capacity growth of roughly five percent compounded annually, in keeping with our philosophy of measured capacity growth.
We expect this more efficient capacity to be a driver for earnings growth going forward.
Using Our Industry-Leading Scale to Create Greater Value We continue to make meaningful progress on our cross-brand efforts to use our industry-leading scale to create greater value.
We began rolling out new technology across our brands both onboard and shoreside including enhanced targeted marketing, improved CRM capabilities, new mobile apps and redesigned websites which collectively contribute to an enhanced guest experience.
We deployed our new state-of-the-art revenue management system across six of our brands.
We also accelerated progress on our cost containment efforts, delivering more than $350 million of cost savings in just five years.
We believe we have more runway ahead to continue the momentum.
Affirming Our Sustainability Commitment Over the past five years, we also had many notable achievements in our sustainability efforts, including the opening of our significantly expanded Arison Maritime Center, home of the CSMART Academy in the Netherlands, to provide state of the art maritime training to nearly 7,000 deck and engineering officers annually, through cutting-edge bridge and engine room simulators and curriculum.
And we opened three state-of-the-art Fleet Operations Centers around the globe to provide real-time support, ship-to-shore, 24 hours a day.
On the environmental front, we exceeded our target unit fuel consumption reduction of 25 percent -- three years ahead of schedule -- and we made history with the cruise industrys first ship able to be solely powered by liquefied natural gas, the worlds cleanest burning fossil fuel.
We are fully committed to continuous improvement in health, environment, safety and security.
Executing Along the Path to Sustainable Double-Digit ROIC The last five years have been transformative, achieving breakthrough results against considerable odds.
It is a solid foundation on which to build.
In fact today, our business model is stronger than ever, having built into the fleet even greater return on investment resilience on top of an even stronger balance sheet.
3 Annex 1 DLC Annual Report As our journey continues, we will stay on much the same path -- creating demand in excess of measured capacity growth while leveraging our industry-leading scale to deliver a sustained and growing double-digit return on invested capital over time, while at the same time continuing to return cash to shareholders.
While we have accomplished much, we have much more work to do.
We are ever mindful that there are headwinds and risks, and we are working hard to ensure that we mitigate and weather them.
Thank you for your continued confidence and your shared vision of building upon the great legacy that is Carnival Corporation & plc as we continue to exceed guest expectations while delivering lifelong memories through the worlds greatest holiday experiences.
Arnold W. Donald President and Chief Executive Officer January 28, 2019 4
