Chairs introduction to corporate governance The Board strives to set the tone from the top to ensure we have an open and honest corporate culture which is based on our core values.
72 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Dear Shareholder Accountability Our risk management and controls environment has been I am delighted to introduce my first corporate governance further strengthened through 2018 by activities led by the Audit report since my appointment as Chair.
Having reviewed our internal audit arrangements the Board just a few weeks ago, I have been impressed by for our non-regulated businesses, the Audit Committee the focus throughout the organisation to evolve the service concluded that there could be scope to enhance them and, proposition for our clients by embracing new technology, following a review process, appointed Grant Thornton to whilst also maintaining our traditional values.
Of course, provide outsourced support.
The Audit Committee also ran this has to be underpinned by high standards of corporate a competitive tender process for the external audit contract, governance and driven forward by an effective and cohesive resulting in  being reappointed Board and executive management team, and this is where subject to shareholder approval.
the role of the chair comes to the fore.
We are maintaining our focus on our risk management 2018 was a busy year for the Board, as we sought to further systems in 2019, and are currently refreshing our approach enhance our governance arrangements.
I set out below a few to evaluating our risk appetite.
of the highlights and achievements under each of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code principles, together Remuneration with areas of focus for this year.
You will find further detail Remuneration remains high on the agenda for shareholders.
within the Board Committee reports, as well as the thoughts In response to the vote against the Directors remuneration of the Committee Chairs who are driving forward the agendas report at last years AGM, Dr Tim Miller has met with a number of these forums.
of our top shareholders through 2018, and his annual statement in the Directors remuneration report provides Leadership an overview of those discussions.
We will next be seeking The Board strives to set the tone from the top to ensure shareholder approval for our Directors Remuneration Policy we have an open and honest corporate culture which is at the 2020 AGM and, as mentioned in his annual statement, based on our core values of integrity, excellence, fairness Tim will be consulting with our largest shareholders and and transparency.
As the guardians of our culture, we need leading proxy agencies later this year.
to live these values through all of our actions.
Relations with shareholders Looking forward to 2019, the Board has reviewed the Understanding the views of our shareholders is one of the mechanisms set out in the 2018 Code for engagement with keys to our long-term success and, whilst the CEO and CFO the workforce, and I am pleased to confirm that Dr Tim Miller, & COO act as the primary contact for institutional investors, our Remuneration Committee Chair, has agreed to assume I am available to attend meetings if requested by shareholders.
the role of Employee Engagement Director.
The feedback Meetings with investors will form an important part of my that we get from our colleagues will be extremely valuable, induction programme which I hope will foster an open dialogue.
and I will share more details with you in next years report.
More personally, I will be visiting a number of our offices I also look forward to meeting shareholders at our AGM as part of my induction programme, providing me with on 9 May 2019.
The Board unanimously recommends all an opportunity to hear first-hand the views of our employees of the resolutions which are set out in our Notice of Meeting, and to share with them my own values and impressions of and we look forward to receiving your support.
Effectiveness Bill Thomas I am pleased to confirm that the annual effectiveness Chair evaluation of the Board and its Committees concluded that 8 March 2019 these forums continue to operate effectively.
I have been discussing the output from the evaluations with my fellow Directors and I have welcomed the open and honest culture that already exists within the Board.
As I learn more about the Board and the Group, I will of course have my own views as to how our governance arrangements may need to evolve in the future to best support our strategy, and we will keep this under review.
Our next effectiveness evaluation commencing in late 2019 will be , the timing of which works well as I consolidate my own views regarding how our effectiveness might be enhanced.
As highlighted in my Chairs review and the Nomination Committee report, there were a number of Director changes in 2018 early 2019.
Moving into 2019, we will be strengthening our focus on executive succession planning to ensure we have appropriate future capabilities for the business.
