Corporate governance Chairmans introduction Driving performance through culture We have a relatively flat structure Henry Klotz, underpinned by a belief that constructive Executive Chairman feedback allows employees not only to voice concerns, but also give praise where we do things well.
The Board monitors areas such as employee turnover, exit interview feedback and employee surveys to ensure employees have a say in setting our culture.
What were the key issues Q. identified by the 2018 Board evaluation?
The evaluation recognised the strength of the management team and the quality of information the Board received.
Nevertheless, I noted that there was still more to do on refreshing the Boards composition.
The evaluation highlighted the importance of continuing with our meetings in France and Germany to understand better opportunities and risks within the portfolio, and to see first-hand how our teams operate and gain a valuable insight of the views of We believe in the importance of good German employees to understand better our tenants.
corporate governance as a key driver to some of the challenges they face in building a strong business that delivers managing our assets.
It also gave the The evaluation also recognised the need sustainable value to shareholders.
Board an opportunity to engage with to develop relationships with employees, We recognise that through an effective tenants to understand how they perceive which will be a key focus in 2019. structure of controls, which define our performance as their landlord, and authority and accountability throughout their feedback was very positive.
What engagement has the the Group, we can manage risks Q.
Board had with smaller appropriately whilst still promoting We also focused on succession planning shareholders and wider effective and entrepreneurial leadership whilst ensuring stability and continuation stakeholders during the year?
and ensuring a successful and innovative of expertise.
The Board, assisted by Whilst some commentators believe the business.
This, we believe, has been the the Nominations Committee, had a full AGM is an event that should be removed key to our long-term success.
discussion on the steps required to align from the corporate calendar, we have further the composition of the Board with seen a greater number of smaller What has the Board focused the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Q. shareholders attend this event where we on during the year?
present to them the Companys strategy We have taken a number of key outcomes What role does the Board play Q. and performance.
There was an open from the 2017 external board evaluation, in setting the culture of the forum where small shareholders could which we wanted to focus on in 2018. business?
question all members of the Board, which We have held Board meetings and been We know that one of our biggest asset I felt was a good opportunity for the Board on property tours in each of the countries is our people, and so we recognise the to engage with smaller shareholders.
We wanted the need to have the right culture in place to Board to engage with our French and ensure we continue to generate success.
38 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information As you will see from our Corporate, We will undertake a project looking at Social and Environmental Responsibility our culture, vision and values, which BOARD SKILLS AND report, we have engaged with a wide we recognise is an important tool in a EXPERIENCE range of stakeholders with the aim of successful and progressive modern creating excellent working relationships workplace.
It is something our employees Financial management and affiliations with organisations in the asked us to do and so we look forward areas in which we invest.
I think it is very to this galvanising and motivating all of 80% important for the Group to give its time, our employees to deliver and improve on effort and financial assistance in building our success.
HR issues these relationships with stakeholders and I encourage all members of staff We will also be introducing a Workforce to participate.
Advisory Panel, chaired by Elizabeth 50% Edwards, to formalise the way in which John Whiteley is retiring in we seek employee feedback.
What succession plans will report directly to the Board through do you have in place?
I look forward to the outcome 90% We have a succession plan for the of its first meetings later in the year.
executive directors and in this instance Property we appointed an independent executive We will also initiate our search for an search firm to undertake the search for independent Non-Executive Director to a successor.
This included a diverse pool will succeed Malcolm Cooper.
100% of internal and external candidates who were put through a thorough selection Risk management and interview process in order to appoint Henry Klotz the best person for the role.
We expect to Executive Chairman 90% conclude the process shortly.
7 March 2019 What are your priorities for Q. the year ahead?
The evaluation gave us some insight into our priorities for 2019, against the introduction of the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
