Corporate Governance Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance What action has the Board taken tohelp the business deliver on its turnaround strategy?
The Board has provided oversight and supported proposals made by the executive team in relation to: organisational shape and design: culture and talent: supply chain management: operational performance: and cost actions.
Corporate culture is intrinsically linked A culture to the Groups performance: what steps has the Board taken to define the culture of the Group and the values employees are expected to adopt?
Culture has been a key focus during 2018, ofgood culminating in the launch of the Every Mission Matters purpose and the revised set of values in January 2019.
The embedding of the new purpose and values and their impact on corporate culture will be a key focus for 2019. governance How is the Board preparing for the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code?
The Board welcomes the new Code, issued by the FRC, which applies to the Company from 2019.
The Board and its Committees have reviewed the new Code, particularly on how best to formalise areas such as employee engagement, culture, pay ratio, post-employment share ownership, retirement benefits, and remuneration policies and practices in the wider workforce, amongst others.
What is the Boards approach to succession planning?
The Board undertook a skills review in 2018 to feed into the succession plan for Board members.
As the Board refreshment exercise draws to a conclusion, we will move into a more normal succession planning process, focusing initially on strengthening the Remuneration Committee, which was highlighted through the evaluation process.
Why has the decision been taken to resume payment of a dividend at this stage of the Groups turnaround?
The Board considered it appropriate to return to the dividend list in 2019, at a prudent level, recognising that it is important to our shareholders to return value as a signal of our confidence in the progress of the turnaround.
The Board is accountable for the Groups management of risk.
How does the Board monitor this?
The risk management process is described on pages 34 and 35.
The Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee both have a role in the monitoring of progress, as does the Group Michael Wareing Executive.
The Board retains the accountability 50 Chairman for the setting of the Groups appetite for risk.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 How governance has supported our turnaround strategy Strategy The Boards actions What we achieved in 2018 The Board challenged management proposals as part of The completion of the AvComm and Wireless test and Returning the its strategic review to focus on areas where the Group has measurement businesses divestment for US$455m in strength in capability and customer base.
March 2018 has helped strengthen the balance sheet.
business to The Board has agreed a target for Net Debt: EBITDA of less The Group is in a net cash position at 31 December 2018, financial than 1.5 times.
down from a gearing ratio of 1.3x at 31 December 2017.
This is significant progress, as Cobham had a gearing ratio The Board has been debating its policy on capital strength of 3.0x 24 months ago.
allocation and agreed a target capital structure, including a future dividend policy.
The Board has approved a target capital structure and capital allocation policy.
The Audit Committee has monitored the utilisation of provisions and charges throughout 2018.
The remaining unutilised balances relating to the 2016 exceptional charges total 206m at the year end which will Read more on page 7 continue to unwind as cash outflows.
The Board and management have worked together to The divestment of AvComm and Wireless test and Focusing identify and divest businesses which are not considered to measurement businesses supports the focus of the Group be part of the Groups core business.
These divestments on its defence, aerospace and space markets.
As the portfolio were approved by the Board, enabling management to mentioned above, this was completed in March 2018. concentrate on the retained businesses in the Group.
onmarkets In May 2018, we divested the Opera electromagnetic The restructuring of the business units enables better simulation software business for 7.8m, and a smaller weknow customer focus and a more clearly defined business Lightning Test and Consultancy business was divested in identity, more closely aligned to end markets.
Both of these businesses were parts of the business, a layer of management has been part of the Communications and Connectivity Sector.
removed, which has simplified the structure and will We have restructured the Aviation Services Sector into deliver cost savings.
two regional businesses UK & EMEA and Australia.
The Communications and Connectivity Sector and the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector management have also undertaken a re-structuring exercise, to reduce costs Read more on page 7 and refocus on market-facing businesses.
Resolving legacy issues enables the Board to be more We have continued to progress delivery on the contracts Resolving forward looking and to concentrate on the more strategic against which we took significant charges in 2016. issues affecting the Group.
On the largest of these, the KC-46 tanker programme, we legacyissues announced on 19 February 2019, a settlement regarding Boeings damage assertions, bringing an immediate end to the Boeing withhold on Cobham invoices.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys investigation in relation to the Companys compliance with the Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Market Abuse Regulations between April 2016 and February 2017 has been discontinued.
The Group is actively involved in attempting to resolve the tax treatment of interest deductions on one of the Groups financing arrangements: refer to note 30 for Read more on page 7 further details.
Improvement of performance and delivery to customers We are continuing to invest in the infrastructure at Improving leading to more business being awarded and thus anumber of sites including Wimborne, UK and enhancing order intake, and ultimately assisting in margin SanDiego in the US to address some long-standing operational improvement.
This can be demonstrated by KPIs 1,2 and 5 operational issues.
on pages 18 and 19. execution We are focusing on improving our operational Improved employee working conditions and culture performance to reduce the significant costs related to andeffecting support achievement of strategic objectives and help latedelivery to customers and the re-work of product resolve some legacy cultural issues.
thathas failed post-production quality tests.
cultural change Launched new purpose statement and values to support The senior management team was brought together cultural change.
invarious forums to ensure that a more customer focused, performance based culture with common values is adopted.
We are in the process of implementing a global Human Resources information system which will give the transparency to allocate resources more effectively, manage skill groups, assist in succession planning and Read more on page 9 develop talent across the Group.
