Governance and Directors Report CHAIRMANS LETTER Maintaining high standards of corporate governance DEAR SHAREHOLDER STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Compass has a global and diverse community of stakeholders that Compass Group PLCs annual Corporate Governance Report includes clients, consumers, employees, suppliers and shareholders for the financial year ended 30 September 2018. as well as the communities in which we operate.
We respect the views of all our stakeholders and seek to engage with them and take Within the Governance Report we aim to provide investors and their feedback into account, incorporating it where we can, to help otherstakeholders with an insight into the governance activities of inform our decision making processes.
the Board and its committees throughout the year.
In July 2018, the Financial Reporting Council published its new CULTURE AND GOVERNANCE UKCorporate Governance Code 2018 the New Code which has As a Board, we set the corporate culture which defines who we are, been revised to take account of the increasing demands on the UKs what we stand for and how we do business.
Compass history and corporate governance framework.
The New Code seeks, amongst culture have been founded on the principle that strong governance other matters, to improve the way that companies engage with makes sound business sense.
Our good reputation has been built theirwider stakeholder community and will apply to Compass for on our resolve to maintain the highest ethical and professional itsfinancial year beginning 1 October 2019.
With support from the standards at all times underpinned by a well-defined and effective committees we will continue to evolve our governance framework system of governance.
toensure that we remain compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code and meet best practice requirements.
We strive to create an environment where our corporate values are not just words, but are put into practice, promoting positive and BOARD COMPOSITION AND CHANGES productive behaviour every day.
We invest time and resources On 31 December 2017, Richard Cousins, our long-standing communicating with our people, designing programmes to educate GroupChief Executive Group CEO whose retirement had been and encourage the highest standards of conduct.
This reflects our planned for 31 March 2018, died tragically in a plane crash.
We vision to be a world class provider of food services, renowned for our were all deeply shocked and saddened by Richards passing.
It great people, great service and great results.
Theseefforts are wasa greatprivilege to have known him personally and to work underpinned by our Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics.
withhim overthe last few years.
As a result of Richards untimely As a Board, we are responsible for setting the tone from the top death, DominicBlakemores appointment as Group CEO was andfor championing a healthy, responsible corporate culture advanced from 1 April 2018 to 1 January 2018.
Despite taking whichpromotes the long term sustainable success of the Company overin suchsad circumstances, the transition was seamless and for the benefit of all of our stakeholders.
We remain committed to Dominic has led the organisation resolutely to deliver another building on our existing legacy of good governance in support of our excellent set of results.
corporate performance and social purpose so that we continue to We look forward to supporting Dominic in building on Compass benefit from the confidence and support of our shareholders.
success over the coming years.
44 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE Following the completion of his nine year term of appointment, The Board is supportive of Lord Davies recommendations and DonRobert retired from the Board on 31 May 2018.
John Bason, SirJohn Parkers initial recommendations on diversity.
These will Chairman of the Audit Committee and a non-executive director since continue to be considered in the succession planning process.
We June 2011, succeeded Don as the Senior Independent Director are confident that initiatives taking place across Compass to help SID on 1 June 2018.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank identify the leaders of the future will lead to greater diversity within Don for his contribution and for the invaluable support he provided our senior management.
In this regard, we have continued to to me and his colleagues during his time as SID.
strengthen our approach to talent management and succession planning at senior level, a subject which continues to command the As announced on 4 July 2018, Johnny Thomson, Group Finance Boards full attention and this is reflected in the appointments that Director, will step down from the Board at the end of December were made to the Executive Board during the course of the year, 2018.
We are very grateful to Johnny for his significant contribution details of which can be found on page 69. toCompass over the last nine years and Johnny leaves the Company in sound financial health.
On 11 October 2018, we announced the We will continue to assess Board succession planning to ensure appointment of Karen Witts who will join the Board as Group Chief thatwe maintain an appropriate combination of skills, experience Financial Officer Group CFO on 8 April 2019.
Karen has significant and knowledge to deliver our strategy, and to ensure that plans financial and operational expertise and a wealth of experience in retail arein place for orderly succession to the Board and senior and technology.
I look forward to welcoming Karen to the Board as we management positions.
continue to execute our strategy and create value for shareholders.
REMUNERATION POLICY In the latter half of the year, Anne-Francoise Nesmes and At the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 8 February 2018 JohnBryant were appointed as non-executive directors with 2018 AGM, shareholders voted on a new Remuneration Policy effectfrom 1July 2018 and 1 September 2018 respectively.
The Policy is designed to closely align executive reward Anne-Francoise has a wealth of experience in finance and to the delivery of our business strategy and combines an appropriate accounting gained in international organisations, with a strong mix of fixed and variable elements to support the performance of the focuson strategy, mergersand acquisitions M&A and governance.
Our Remuneration Committee Chairman, John brings over 30 years experience with a particular focus on Carol Arrowsmith, discusses this in more detail in her report on finance, operations, M&A, strategy and portfolio transformation as pages 71 to 93. well as a valuable insight into markets in the USA.
Anne-Francoise THE YEAR AHEAD and John also replenish the listed company experience that was depleted by Donsretirement.
We encourage you to join the Board in We are committed to doing things in the right way and will continue supporting their election at the Companys Annual General Meeting to strengthen our governance processes over the coming year to AGM to be held on Thursday 7 February 2019 2019 AGM.
ensure that we are aligned with best practice and that our approach to disclosure remains understandable and transparent.
On 30 September 2018, after more than 11 years service to theGroup, Mark White, our Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, retired.
Mark was instrumental in driving our governance agenda during his tenure.
Alison Yapp, a solicitor with more than 25years international experience in FTSE and NYSE listed Paul Walsh companies, joined Compass on 7 August 2018 and took over Chairman fromMark on 1 October 2018.
On behalf of the Board, I would liketo thank Mark for his contribution over the years and to extend 20 November 2018 awarm welcome to Alison.
My fellow Board members and I are satisfied that the Board continues to have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to encourage challenge and debate, and is well placed to meet the needs of the business going forward.
SUCCESSION PLANNING AND DIVERSITY Succession planning continues to be an area of focus for the Board and the Nomination Committee.
We recognise that the Board sets the tone for diversity across the Group and that it is important that we should have a diverse leadership to support good decision making.
The appointment during the year of Anne-Francoise Nesmes as a non-executive director has increased the percentage ofwomen on the Board to 27%, taking us significantly closer to achieving Lord Davies target of 33% female representation on theBoard by 2020.
I am pleased to report that following the appointment of Karen Witts in 2019, female representation will increase to 36%.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 45
