Governance and Directors Report INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Committed to the highest standards UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HOW WE GOVERN THE COMPANY CODE COMPLIANCE The Board leads the Groups governance framework.
It is responsible for setting the strategic targets for the Group, monitoring Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
progress made, approving proposed actions and for ensuring that The Board is accountable to shareholders and is the appropriate internal controls are in place and that they are committed to the highest standards of corporate operating effectively.
governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance The Board is assisted by four principal committees Audit, Code 2016 the Code.
, Nomination and Remuneration, each of The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council which is responsible for reviewing and dealing with matters within its FRC website at www.
This Corporate Governance Report, together with the At scheduled Board meetings, the minutes of all committee Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 71 to 93, meetings are circulated and a summary of committee meetings describes how the Board has applied the main principles discussed as appropriate.
of good governance, as set out in the Code, during the All of the non-executive directors are members of all year under review.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT Individual reports from each principal committee Chairman can It is the Boards view that for the year ended 30 September befound on pages 56 to 93.
2018 the Company has been fully compliant with all of the principles set out in the Code.
The Company also has a number of executive management committees Disclosure, General Business and the Executive The Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, is required to review Board.
These have been established in order to consider various whether the above statement reflects the Companys issues and matters for recommendation to the Board and its compliance with the provisions of the Code specified for its principal committees or to deal with day to day matters within the review by the UK Listing Authority UKLA Rules and to authority granted by the Board.
report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
The Directors Report also contains information required to be disclosed under the UKLAs Rules and under the Disclosure The directors present their Annual Report and the audited Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR.
To the extent necessary, consolidated financial statements of the Company and its certain information is incorporated into this Report by reference.
subsidiaries for the year ended 30 September 2018.
Our governance structure comprises the functions on page 47, This Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 93 and supported by the Groups standards, policies andinternal controls, the Other Statutory Disclosures on pages 94 to 100, which are described in more detail over thefollowing pages.
together with the Directors Responsibilities statement on page 101 and the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 43 which have been incorporated into this Report by reference, make up the Directors Report.
46 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDERS THE BOARD OPERATIONAL We have a geographically diverse The Board is responsible for the performance and long GOVERNANCE shareholder base of 40,815, comprising term successof the Company, including health and The operational 4,247 institutional investors and safety, leadership, strategy, values, standards, controls governance of the 36,568private investors as at and riskmanagement.
Company is the 30September 2018. responsibility of the CHAIRMAN Group CEO.
AGM The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of The Companys Annual General Meeting theBoard and for ensuring there is effective debate The various operational provides the ideal opportunity for the Board andchallenge.
governance structures to meet with fellow investors.
At the2019 inplace are maintained GROUP CEO AGM, shareholders will vote on 22 resolutions and overseen by the The Group CEOs role entails being ultimately dealing with key governance matters, Executive Board, which responsible for day to day operational management including payment ofthe final dividend, is led by the Group decisions and for implementing the Companys long and appointment reappointment ofdirectors and CEOand comprises short term plans.
The Group CEO acts as a direct liaison the reappointment of the auditor.
theexecutive directors, between the Board and management.
regional managing INVESTOR RELATIONS SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR directors and other We have an active Investor Relations The role of Senior Independent Director is to provide members of senior engagement programme.
asounding board for the Chairman and to serve as management.
During the year, the Company held anintermediary for other directors and shareholders around 350 meetings with investors where necessary.
through a combination of one to one COMPANY SECRETARY meetings, group meetings and telephone The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring calls, around 70 of which were personally good information flow to the Board and its committees attended by the Group CEO and Group and between senior management and the non-executive Finance Director.
directors: and for advising the Board through the Chairman on governance matters.
BOARD COMMITTEES AUDIT CORPORATE NOMINATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Responsible for the Groups Advises the Board on broad Ensures the Board has Determines the reward financial reporting and CR policy taking into account thenecessary balance of strategy for executive effectiveness of the internal the overall strategic plan and skills, experience and directors and senior and external audit functions other factors diversity to oversee the managers to ensure reward delivery of strategy isaligned to shareholders interests See page 56 See page 64 See page 68 See page 71 EXECUTIVE DISCLOSURE GENERAL BUSINESS BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Day to day operational Oversees the disclosure Conducts the Companys management and ofmarket sensitive business within clearly implementation of strategy information and other defined limits delegated by publicannouncements the Board asnecessary See page 55 See page 55 See page 55 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 47 Governance and Directors Report Introduction to Corporate Governance continued The Board manages the business of the Company and may, subject BOARD OF DIRECTORS to the Articles of Association and applicable legislation, borrow As at 30 September 2018, and as at the date of this Report, the money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge the business, Board of Directors was made up of 11 members, comprising the property and assets present and future, issue debentures and non-executive Chairman, three executive directors and seven other securities and give security, whether outright or as a collateral non-executive directors.
security, for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any The roles of Chairman and Group CEO are separate and clearly third party.
defined, with the division of responsibilities set out in writing and The Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that it agreed by the Board.
acts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders are All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board and understood and met.
by the definition contained in the Code to be independent of The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its management and free of any relationship which could materially decision as follows: interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board considers that each of the non-executive directors brings their strategy and management own senior level of experience, gained in each of their own fields, Board membership and other appointments predominantly in international operations.
financial reporting and controls The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and the internal controls remuneration of both executive and non-executive directors is contracts detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report, which is on pages capital structure 71 to 93. communication BOARD TENURE DIRECTOR BALANCE remuneration delegation of authority 9% corporate governance matters 18% other matters 27% For example, the Board must approve any changes to 27% theGroups capital structure, operating and expenditure budgets, significant capital investment or any new significant 18% client contract.
64% However, the Boards primary role remains to provide 37% entrepreneurial leadership and to review the overall strategic More than 5 years Non-executive development of the Group as a whole.
35 years Executive The Board has delegated day to day operational decisions to the Executive Board.
The Executive Board is supported by country and 13 years Non-executive Chairman regional management teams who are responsible for achieving Less than 1 year agreed targets, maintaining budgetary controls and implementing policies and controls at country and business unit level.
LORD DAVIES 2020 TARGET: % FEMALE The work of the Board and its committees is described in the 27% following pages.
In this section of the Governance Report, we have also set out our governance structures and processes and how we 36% have applied the main principles and complied with the relevant provisions of the Code.
Activities which provide a flavour of the work 33% undertaken by the Board and its committees during the year have Current 2019 anticipated Lord Davies 2020 target been highlighted.
48 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018
