Chairmans governance overview I am pleased to present Computacenters The Board is conducting a thorough search DEAR SHAREHOLDER Corporate Governance Report for the year for two Independent Non-Executive Directors ended 31 December 2018.
The Board believes and is unanimous in its view that all three of that effective governance practices are these factors will be enhanced by the fundamental in underpinning the Groups subsequent appointments to the Board.
Due ability to deliver long-term shareholder to the timing of the search as compared to value.
The Board therefore supports and is the date of the AGM, and the release of the committed to the principles of corporate Notice of AGM, the selected candidates will governance set out in the 2016 UK Corporate be confirmed as members of the Board Governance Code the Code, which has following the AGM and announced shortly applied for the year under review beginning thereafter.
It is anticipated that, in 1 January 2018.
The Code is published by the accordance with the Companys procedure, Financial Reporting Council and can be found both of the new Directors will have a full Greg Lock at www.
induction which is tailored to their knowledge Non-Executive Chairman and previous experience.
This will include This Corporate Governance Report outlines meetings with the Chairmen of the Board and and explains the Groups governance policies its Committees, the Group Chief Executive and practices, and sets out how we applied Officer CEO and Group Finance Director FD.
It aims to assist our Given their intended appointments to the shareholders in understanding the Groups Remuneration Committee, both will be approach to corporate governance.
provided with a detailed briefing on executive remuneration by the Groups As a Company listed on the main market of Human Resources Director.
Further, with the London Stock Exchange, Computacenter their intended appointments to the Audit is required to review its practices against the Committee, both will receive presentations Codes provisions and report to its from a number of the Groups Financial Senior shareholders on its compliance with them.
Both new Directors will The Board confirms that the Company has also join the Nomination Committee.
complied with each provision of the Code throughout the year and anticipates being The Board was unanimous in its support compliant with the 2018 UK Corporate for Peter Ryan, firstly as a candidate in Governance Code the New Code, which was a thorough search process to replace me published in July 2018 and is effective from as Chairman, and then as the preferred 1 January 2019, as at 31 December 2019. candidate following a recommendation from the Special Nomination Committee led This is my final report to you as Chairman as, by the Senior Independent Director, Ros Rivaz.
along with Regine Stachelhaus, I will not be The appointment of Peter Ryan to the Board standing for re-election at the Companys on 13 February 2018 brought a fresh Annual General Meeting AGM on 16 May perspective to the Boards discussions and 2019.
I ask shareholders to note that has complemented the continuity of service following the expected appointment of Peter and knowledge of the Company provided by Ryan to the role of Chairman at the AGM and the remaining members of the Board.
His the subsequent appointment of two further significant operational expertise in large Independent Non-Executive Directors that enterprises and deep knowledge of the is expected to immediately follow the AGM, Companys sector and its challenges, membership of the Board will remain complements the skills of our other Board compliant with provision 11 of the New Code members and will assist him as he throughout 2019, which requires at least half transitions to the role of Chairman of the of the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be Board.
Peter has had a successful 37-year Independent Non-Executive Directors.
international career in technology, encompassing all dimensions of the industry Board composition including software, services, systems It is critical that the Board has the right integration, outsourcing and infrastructure.
composition, so it can provide the best His deep and world-class experience within possible leadership for the Group and Computacenters industry will allow him to discharge its duties to shareholders.
This lead the Board through the next stages of the includes having the right balance of skills Companys growth and assist Management in IT IS CRITICAL and experience, ensuring that all of the shaping the future strategy for the business.
Directors have a good working knowledge THAT THE BOARD of the Groups business, and retaining the Boards independence and objectivity.
68 GOVERNANCE REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategy Governance framework consultation and feedback.
Further detail The Board is collectively responsible for As allowed by the Companys Articles of regarding engagement with our shareholders leading the Group and promoting its success, Association, the Board delegates a number can be found on page 101. within a framework of appropriate controls, of its responsibilities to Committees, so it which enable risk to be assessed and can carry out its functions effectively.
It is also responsible diagram of the Board governance structure Greg Lock for implementing the business model set out is set out on this page.
As part of its ongoing Non-Executive Chairman on pages 18 to 19, for ensuring that the Group review of the Groups governance procedures 11 March 2019 has the right strategy to drive shareholder and framework, the Board reviewed the value, and for providing appropriate support terms of reference for each of these and challenge to the Group Executive Committees.
A number of the Groups policies Management team.
The Board dedicates a were also reviewed and amended during the day-long session each year to receiving year.
The detail and format of information strategy-related presentations and provided to the Board by Management discussing and shaping the strategic continues to develop.
The Board has also direction of the Company with Management.
reviewed and updated the Companys In April of this year an additional, day long Articles of Association and these will be strategy session was held for the benefit of presented to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
In addition to the regular discussions on the Board Committees development of the Groups strategy, the Board now also receives an in-depth topical Audit Committee presentation from Management on a specific strategic initiative at every Board meeting.
Nomination Board Committee Board effectiveness Remuneration An internal evaluation of the Board and its Committee Committees took place during the year.
Further details of the process and the findings can be found on page 73.
After Board visits carefully considering its findings, I am To help develop and update the Directors satisfied that the Board continues to knowledge of the Groups operations, the function effectively and that its current Board regularly visits our offices overseas.
constitution and range of skills are During the year, the Board held a meeting at appropriate for protecting the long-term the Groups French headquarters in Paris, interests of the Group and the Companys where it received presentations from the shareholders.
French Managing Director and senior members of his team.
This focused on the I also remain satisfied that the Boards sustainability of the businesss performance, members, and in particular the Nongiven its recent turnaround, the prospects Executive Directors, have sufficient time for continued growth within both the to undertake their current Board and Services and Technology Sourcing business, Committee roles.
I will continue to assess and the local macroeconomic and these judgements to ensure they remain competitive environments.
Diversity In accordance with both the Code and the The Board recognises the benefits that New Code, all of the Directors will stand for diverse skills, experience and points of view election or re-election at the 2019 AGM, with can bring to an organisation, and how it may the exception of Regine Stachelhaus and I, assist the Boards decision making and who will not be standing for re-election.
Whilst the Board monitors the possibility of legislation in this Succession planning area, appointments to the Board will continue The Board continues to focus at length on to be primarily based on merit.
As at succession planning, which remains 31 December 2018, the Board had two female particularly important given the tenure of Non-Executive Directors, Regine Stachelhaus the current Executive Directors.
Prior to the and Ros Rivaz, representing 22.2 per cent of date of this report, the Board reviewed the the total Board membership.
This is in line with succession plans for both the Executive and the representation as at 31 December 2017.
It also received a presentation from the Group Human Shareholder engagement Resources Director on how the Group The Board remains committed to manages and develops talent immediately communicating with our shareholders and, below Board level, in the long-term interests where appropriate, submitting its views for of the Group.
