OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Chairmans governance letter Sir Christopher Gent Chairman Dear Shareholder Effectiveness and accountability Using the core principles of the Code as a framework, in the During the year we undertook an externally facilitated review of the following sections of this Annual Report we explain the governance Boards effectiveness.
Information about this review process and its structure we have established and how your Board operates to key findings are included on page 85.
In particular, the review found support the Groups long-term success.
Further information about that we need to focus more on Board level succession planning and the Boards role in relation to specific developments during the year, consider the composition of the Board to ensure that we have the including considering and approving the Groups refreshed execution relevant skills and experience to support the delivery of the Groups model, is set out on pages 28 to 31. revised strategy.
As explained on page 87, in the coming year the Nomination Committee will prioritise this issue.
We have explained how we have applied the Codes core principles on pages 76 and 77.
We have reviewed the 2018 UK Corporate Shareholder and other stakeholder engagement 1 Governance Code 2018 Code, which took effect from 1 January During the year I have held a number of meetings with shareholders, 2019, and we are implementing changes to our governance with a large proportion of these meetings taking place after the structure to realign with its provisions.
Further information about our shareholder engagement activities are set out on page 99.
Culture Earning trust and behaving responsibly and with integrity underpins Our Board level employee engagement programme, which is led our ability to deliver long-term sustainable value for all our by Ros Rivaz and Regina Benjamin, was designed during 2018 and stakeholders.
As a Board we have an important role to play in commenced in January.
Information about the programme is relation to the Groups culture.
We must ensure that a healthy included on page 99.
Currently we are putting in place channels and values-driven culture is thriving in all parts of our business, including processes to enable the Board to engage effectively with other the Boardroom, and that our interactions with all our stakeholders, stakeholders and we will report on these next year.
and society as a whole, are open and transparent.
As explained on page 21, we undertook an employee engagement survey during the I look forward to meeting shareholders at our forthcoming AGM.
year which revealed a number of positive findings, including 87% of our employees recognising our Purpose as meaningful and relevant.
As explained in my letter on pages 6 and 7 and the CEOs review on pages 8 to 11, we must significantly improve our execution capabilities and our culture must focus more on delivery and performance.
Our new people strategy, which is explained on page Sir Christopher Gent 19, is designed to achieve this and your Board will closely monitor Chairman its execution.
14 February 2019 Leadership In October 2018 we announced the retirement of Paul Moraviec and we are now undertaking a global search to identify his successor.
Strategy Following Paul Moraviecs departure, the Board asked Rick Anderson to undertake a detailed review of all parts of the Groups business.
Based on this review, Rick, together with the Executive Committee, developed a refreshed execution model to better execute our strategy.
The Board considered this model and, following discussions and challenges to management in relation to its key provisions, the Board approved the Groups refreshed execution model.
Further information about how the Group will better capitalise on its core strengths and market opportunities is included on pages 28 to 31.
A copy of the 2018 Code is available from the Financial Reporting Councils website.
73 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
