Chairmans introduction to governance COMMITTED TO GOOD GOVERNANCE Corporate governance is a core discipline that is vital to the success of the Group.
During 2018, the principal areas of focus Accelerating growth of the forthe Board were: Partnerships business The acquisition of Westleigh in April 2018 supporting implementation of the helped to progress Countrysides strategy to businessstrategy: expand its Partnerships business.
Westleigh developing the Companys culture, values broadens the geographical reach of Partnerships and ethics to align with implementation into regions where underlying demand is strong.
ofthe business strategy: It provides a strong strategic and cultural fit with the Countryside model and provides an considering ways to accelerate growth of excellent platform for accelerating the delivery the Partnerships business resulting in the of Partnerships.
acquisition of Westleigh in April 2018 : ongoing succession planning for the Board Succession planning for the Board and Executive Committee: and Executive Committee Led by our Nomination Committee, we are improving risk management to support Dear Shareholders, focused on ensuring that our talent pipeline implementation of the Groups strategic goals: This report sets out our approach to governance, supports the Groups strategy.
explaining how our governance framework considering alternative forms of construction, The Board continued to support and review supported our activities throughout the year.
leading to the establishment of a new the success of our leadership development factory for modular construction: The Board regards corporate governance as a programmes.
We are confident that these, core and vital discipline that complements our overseeing a programme to improve ourtalent pipeline and other initiatives such as desire to continually improve upon the success operational efficiency: and tailored development programmes for different of the Group on our shareholders behalf.
levels of high potential management candidates, developing an IT strategy that will support Ourgovernance framework described in mean we are well set to continue successfully the continued growth of the business.
thisreport allows the continued monitoring, developing employees into diverse and review, development and implementation We made good progress against all of these experienced managers.
ofthe policies, procedures and culture that focus areas during the year.
Succession planning for the Board and Committees support our high governance standards.
Supporting implementation was also on the Nomination Committees agenda, During 2018, the Board spent considerable time particularly given theBoard changes asa result ofthebusiness strategy focusing on developing the Companys culture, ofOaktree Shareholders share sell-down.
There The Board has been heavily involved in monitoring values and ethics to align with implementation ismore detail on our succession planning activity and supporting the implementation across of the business strategy and on ensuring that set out below and in the Nomination Committee theGroup of the strategy first outlined during good standards of behaviour permeate all Report on page 58.
Countrysides initial public offering IPO in levelsof the organisation to support our February 2016 and most recently described at long-term success.
Improving risk management our Capital Markets Day on 27 June 2018. tosupport the implementation I am pleased to report that our boardroom Developing the Companys oftheGroups strategic goals culture is good, underpinned by a genuine culture, values and ethics Risk management, in particular of the principal sense of mutual respect between all Directors.
This is borne out by our externally facilitated risks faced by the Group, is a key element of Central to Countrysides business-strategy the Boards ongoing agenda.
The principal risks performance evaluation process for 2018, the isthe objective to build Places People Love.
results of which we describe on page 50. were in particular focus during 2018 as we Considerable work has been undertaken to monitored the housebuilding market and related continue to develop and embed a Group-wide issues following the UKs vote in June 2016 to business culture, values and ethics that support leave the European Union.
We set out details this objective.
of ourprincipal risks and uncertainties on pages40 and 41.
Central to Countrysides business strategy isthe objective to build Places People Love.
42 Annual report 2018 Countryside Properties PLC Governance Considering modern methods The Board Shareholder engagement ofconstruction On 2 October 2017 we announced that Richard Adams last day of service as aNon-Executive The planned opening of a new 130,000 sqft Director would be 31December 2017. factory in Warrington, together with the Federico Cancianis lastday of service as a closed-panel timber frame factory that is part Non-Executive Director of the Company was of the Westleigh acquisition, is in response on 5 December 2017.
Appointed by Oaktree tothe Boards agenda to remain innovative, Shareholders under the terms of the Relationship improve efficiency and mitigate supply risks 2018 Agreement as described on page 48, Federico asthe Group continues to grow.
stepped down from the Board following the November Overseeing a programme to sell-down of shares in the Company by Oaktree December2017 improve operational efficiency Shareholders, as announced on 1December 2017.
On 8 December 2017 we announced that The Board continues to focus on operational Full year results and roadshow Douglas Hurt would join the Board as a efficiency, as a key measure to drive Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit marginimprovement.
Committee and Senior Independent Director January 2018 Developing an IT strategy that will of the Company, with hisfirst day ofservice AGM Q1 trading update support the continued growth of being 1 January 2018. the business On 1 October 2018, the Company announced We strengthened our IT governance and that Becky Worthington was appointed Group March 2018 security during 2018.
Security in general and Chief Operating Officer from that date and the cyber security in particular remained high on Site visit to Acton Gardens appointment of Mike Scott to the Board, as Group our agenda.
The Group completed a thorough Chief Financial Officer.
With these changes, it risk assessment of information security during brings the Board to a total of seven Directors.
the year, and the Audit Committee considered April 2018 Independence of Directors regular reports on progress.
Interim pre-close update and The Board reviewed the independence of all conferencecall Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman Other activities in 2018 at the Board meeting on 26 July 2018 and Health and safety determined that they all continue to be A continual focus on health and safety processes independent.
The Board is satisfied that the is critical for our business andtheBoard Chairman was independent upon appointment regularly reviews health and safetyKPIs.
We describe our approach to health and safety Board and Committee effectiveness in detail on page 35, including a description of An externally facilitated Board and Committee the metrics by which we measure our evaluation was carried out in 2018.
I am delighted performance in this area.
to confirm that no significant issues were raised.
The Boards third statement relating to Section 54 The view of the Board is that the governance May 2018 of the Modern SlaveryAct outlines the further structure, together with the Board and its Interim results and roadshow improvements we made during 2018 to combat Committees, all continue to operate effectively, modern slavery.
This was published on the with a positive and open culture.
The review Groups website inNovember 2018. process is described in more detail on page 50.
June 2018 Developing talent I am satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors Capital Markets Day continue to be effective and show a high level Given the high degree of competition for of commitment to their roles.
All Directors will, talent, considerable effort hasbeen made to asthey will every year, stand for re-election at the identify, develop and promote home-grown forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
Details on this can be found in the Ourpeople section on pages 32 and 33.
Q3 trading update David Howell Meeting our major shareholders Chairman As part of our comprehensive investor relations 20 November 2018 September 2018 programme, our Executive Directors meet investors and analysts regularly, supported JP Morgan investor conference when appropriate by myself and other members of the Board.
Our investor relations programme Compliance with the Code is described on page 53.
We carried out a series of shareholder engagement events during 2017 18, From 1 October 2017 until 30 September as shown opposite.
We again received positive 2018, Countryside has complied with feedback for each event andsee them as a alltheprovisions ofthe UK Corporate valuable opportunity tounderstand the views Governance Code 2016 the Code.
of our major shareholders and develop constructive relationships with them.
2019 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2018 43
