Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CRANSWICK PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The scope of our audit Opinion As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In In our opinion, Cranswick plcs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements : particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit and involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
the Groups and the parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent companys financial We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the of the IAS Regulation.
risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and parent company financial We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Group and statements, including, but not limited to, the risk of non-compliance related to the Groups financial conduct, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Company balance sheets as at 31 March 2018: the Group income statement and Group and Company statements of comprehensive income, the Rules, Pensions legislation, UK tax legislation, and ongoing requirements as a result of the Groups manufacture of food products.
Our tests included, Group and Company statements of cash flows, and the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the but were not limited to, review of legal correspondence and discussions with the Group management and managements experts.
There are inherent notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management BASIS FOR OPINION override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under material misstatement due to fraud.
ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial Independence statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Group or the parent company.
Complex customer accruals Our audit procedures included understanding and evaluating the Other than those disclosed in the Audit Committee Report on page 62, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the parent As is industry practice, the Group has numerous types of complex controls and systems related to the commercial accruals process, company in the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018. commercial arrangements with retailers and other customers and obtaining audit evidence through substantive audit procedures.
that have a range of terms for example promotions, rebates and OUR AUDIT APPROACH discounts.
These commercial accruals also include advertising and The substantive audit procedures performed for each individual Overview marketing contributions and total 8.9 million 2017: 10.2 million.
division varied depending upon the nature and level of commercial accruals and type of agreement but included the following tests, Overall Group materiality: 4.6 million, based on 5% of Adjusted profit before tax.
Due to the varying terms of these arrangements, and given these on a sample basis: Overall parent company materiality: 3.4 million, initially based on 1% of total assets and capped at 3.4 million due to agreements and activity may span a year end, a degree of judgment Inquiries of management and the account managers to Materiality Group materiality allocation.
is exercised in determining the valuation of the liability and the timing understand how the calculations are performed: of when this liability should be recognised.
Testing of the calculations performed in arriving at the accrual, We, as the Group engagement team, audited all of the components with the exception of Ravenscroft & Thackeray Audit scope by agreeing the calculations to agreements in place with the and Cranswick Bio covering 1,459.2 million 99% of the Groups external revenues and 87.5 million 99% of the We consider there to be a specific risk associated with the customers, and the relevant sales volume data: Groups Adjusted profit before tax.
completeness, accuracy and valuation of the commercial accrual Agreement, on a sample basis, of the amounts raised and settled Areas of that has been recognised at the year end as this is material and can with customers, for claims which have arisen within the current or Complex customer accruals.
focus be complex and judgemental.
next financial year: IAS 41 Biological assets.
Look back at the accuracy of the prior year and older provisions, to determine customer patterns and assess managements ability to make accurate estimates of the required provisions: and Reviewed historical payments made on aged balances and reviewed underlying agreements to assess the appropriateness of the aged accruals in place across the Group.
We found, based on the results of our testing, that the accrual recorded and disclosures made in the financial statements were consistent with the supporting evidence obtained.
88 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 89 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF CRANSWICK PLC Materiality Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together IAS 41 Biological assets We gained an understanding of, and evaluated the key processes used with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the Due to the nature of the Groups operations, biological assets to calculate the fair value of the biological assets.
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the consisting of pigs and chickens are recognised.
On initial recognition financial statements as a whole.
and at the balance sheet date, these biological assets have been We performed a recalculation of both the pig and chicken valuation measured at their fair value less costs to sell, in line with IAS 41.
The models used to assess the accuracy of the calculation and audited the Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: net IAS 41 valuation movement recognised in the year is a cost of underlying data inputs to the model.
Group financial statements Parent company financial statements We evaluated the Directors assessment of the assumptions used in Overall materiality 4.6 million.
The valuation of these biological assets requires significant levels of relation to the valuation of the biological assets as follows: judgement and industry-specific expertise in applying appropriate We have compared the mortality assumptions within the models How we determined it 5% of Adjusted profit before tax.
1% of Total assets and subsequently capped due assumptions.
Changes in a number of the key assumptions including to the operational data obtained from the farms: to Group materiality allocation.
mortality rates, growth rates, and the fair value at various stages We have reviewed the growth rate of the chickens to third party of development can have a material impact on the valuation.
source data and have assessed the reasonableness of the straight Rationale for benchmark applied Adjusted profit before tax excludes the impact We believe that total assets is the primary line growth model used for pigs: and of fair value adjustments IAS 41 fair value measure used by the shareholders in assessing We have agreed the fair value price of the assets at the various movements and non-cash transactions not the performance of a holding company, and stages of their life cycle to supporting third party data.
directly linked to operating performance is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
amortisation of customer relationship intangible We have performed a sensitivity analysis over all of the above assets.
Based on the benchmarks used in the assumptions and confirmed significant movements would be required Annual Report, Adjusted profit before tax is the to result in a material misstatement.
primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, and We found, based on the results of our testing, that the calculation and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
disclosures made in the financial statements in relation to the IAS 41 valuation of biological assets were consistent with the supporting evidence obtained.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.2 million and 3.9 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the parent company to communicate in our report.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2 million Group audit and How we tailored the audit scope 0.2 million Parent company audit as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in Going concern which they operate.
In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: The Group is organised in to 17 reporting units all within the UK.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of these reporting units and the Reporting obligation Outcome centralised functions.
The reporting units vary in size and we identified 15 components that required an audit of their complete financial information We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, due to their individual size or risk characteristics.
The components where we performed an audit of their complete financial information accounted draw attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this for 99% of the Groups Adjusted profit before income tax and 99% of the Groups revenue.
All of these components were audited by the Group financial statements about whether the Directors considered it statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent companys engagement team.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in ability to continue as a going concern.
preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification Of the remaining 2 components that together represent 1% of the Groups Adjusted profit before tax, we performed analytical procedures to of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the parent companys respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
90 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 91
