48 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Chairmans letter Strategy Dear shareholder, A key focus for the Board continues to be I am pleased to present our Corporate on the creation of long-term sustainable governance report for 2018 setting out value for our shareholders and this year the our approach to governance in practice, Board spent significant time working with the work of the Board in 2018 and the Executive Leadership Team on shaping including reports from the Boards the recommended offer for Virgin Money Governance and Nomination Committee, and in doing so the Board spent Audit Committee and Risk Committee considerable time assessing the strategic and the Remuneration Committee and financial rationale for the combination report included in the Directors and the opportunities for shareholders.
the same time the Board has continued to support the Executive Leadership Team to 2018 has been a landmark year for CYBG execute the three-year strategic plan and as we completed the acquisition of the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Strong corporate particular the Board has spent time governance and an effective Board have overseeing the continued delivery of the The Board is focused on been key in the run-up to the acquisition customer growth strategy, progress on our and the Board remains focused on achieving the highest efficiency programme, the preparation for ensuring that the highest standards of standards of corporate the IRB accreditation application and the corporate governance underpin our governance and is committed multi-year strategic investment necessary commitment to delivering a strong and to deliver an enhanced digital experience to delivering long-term sustainable business and real value for all for customers.
In doing so the Board has shareholders.
sustainable value for CYBGs spent time discussing the challenges shareholders.
arising from an increasingly competitive Board changes market, regulatory change and the The acquisition of Virgin Money has risks in the current economic and enabled the Board to benefit from the political environment.
appointment to the Board of Geeta Gopalan, Darren Pope and Amy Stirling Culture former Non-Executive Directors of Virgin CYBG is building a purpose-led, high Money.
Geeta, Darren and Amy bring performing, team-based culture with a knowledge, skills and experience that clear set of organisational values and complement those of the existing Board behaviours which shape the culture of the and also provide continuity which is business.
The Board firmly believes that important in the early period of the strong governance underpins a strong Combined Group.
Their biographical details, culture and the Board is committed to skills and experience are described on leading by example and ensuring that pages 53 to 57.
Board committee changes culture transformation is focused on during the year are set out on pages 73 creating leaders, colleagues and ways of and 80. working that will allow the business to David Browne retired from the Board on evolve and change in line with the market 30 June 2018 and I would like to thank him and the Groups strategy.
During the year a for his contribution during his six years on new Culture Dashboard was introduced to the Board.
Debbie Crosbie stepped down provide the Board with insight on the as an Executive Director of the Company progress in transforming culture and the on 19 November 2018 to take up an Board also spent time reviewing the external opportunity and the Board thanks feedback from colleagues in the annual Debbie for her significant contribution over MyVoice colleague engagement survey more than 20 years with the Group.
which showed that we have sustained our strong customer-focused culture and The structure, size and composition of the that our culture continues to encourage Board and its committees will continue to high levels of accountability, respect be kept under review in 2019. and integrity.
During the year a new programme was introduced to develop the Boards engagement with senior colleagues Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 through informal discussion sessions.
Some Looking ahead of these sessions were used to explore the In the year ahead the Board will focus on topics of culture, values, behaviours and preparing our readiness to comply with the inclusion and for Directors to hear provisions of the new 2018 UK Corporate first-hand from colleagues on how our Governance Code applicable to CYBG for culture is operating in practice.
the financial year ending 30 September 2020 in addition to continuing to evolve Stakeholder engagement our corporate governance framework to Hearing from our stakeholders remains an suit the requirements of the new important part of the Boards programme Combined Group Board.
and helps us focus on the things that are Finally, I would like to thank the Board important to them.
Our stakeholders and our colleagues for their support and include our customers, shareholders and commitment throughout 2018.
I am colleagues in addition to government, confident that CYBG is very well placed regulatory bodies, our suppliers and wider to make the most of the opportunities society.
This year the Board continued to that the combination with Virgin Money develop its stakeholder engagement brings about.
A highlight was meeting with stakeholders in the political and business community in the West Midlands which provided the Board with good insight into the current economic and political environment and for the Board to reinforce Jim Pettigrew CYBGs commitment to grow our business Chairman in that region.
In addition, during the year the Board, either collectively or individually, undertook site visits, met with customers and representatives from wider communities and continued to receive regular stakeholder updates.
In addition, the Board is updated regularly on both retail shareholder and institutional investor As at 30 September 2018 As at the date of publication of this report feedback and my fellow Directors and I very much looking forward to having the Gender diversity Gender diversity opportunity to meet with our shareholders at our 2019 AGM.
A A B B Board effectiveness A Female 3 27% A Female 4 31% An important part of my role as Chair is to B Male 8 73% B Male 9 69% ensure that the Board and its individual members operate effectively and that the Board environment enables effective Age Age challenge and high-quality decision making.
A A The Board takes its effectiveness seriously B B and adopts a programme of continuous improvement supported by a formal annual A 4555 years 4 A 4555 years 6 review.
This year I led an internal review B 5665 years 7 B 5665 years 7 with the assistance of the Group Human Resources Director and Company Secretary.
Role split Role split In line with the Boards commitment to lead by example on culture, our internal review A A focused on how the Board aligns to the B B Great Leadership framework and C C demonstrates the behaviours we expect of all leaders.
The Board will continue to keep A Executive 3 A Executive 2 its governance arrangements under review B Non-Executive 7 B Non-Executive 10 through 2019 to ensure that the new C Non-Executive Chairman C Non-Executive Chairman Combined Group Board remains effective.
independent on appointment 1 independent on appointment 1
