Letter from the Chairman on Governance Tony Rice Non-Executive Chairman Dear Shareholder Board Effectiveness As Chairman, I am responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
During the 2018 On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Dechras Governance financial year we undertook an external evaluation of the Board, its report for the year ended 30 June 2018. committees and individual Directors.
I am delighted to report that the Values overall outcome from the evaluation was that the Board and its individual Dechra established a Code of Conduct in August 2009, which set out Directors are performing effectively, and that the Board is dynamic and the standards of conduct to be adopted by all employees.
However, in consistent with the organisational culture of openness.
The findings from light of recent acquisitions and the growth of the Group, it was agreed this evaluation are detailed on page 71. that the Code of Conduct would be updated and relaunched.
During During the year the Board formalised its policy on diversity.
The Board the year, the Board approved the revised Code of Conduct, which is proud of the diversity within the Group and monitors and reviews our encompasses the Groups Values, the standards of conduct to be position in this area.
Further details can be found in the Nomination adopted by all Dechra businesses worldwide and an overview of how Committee Report on pages 80 to 82. to raise a concern.
For further details please refer to page 73.
Accountability Managing Governance We are required by the Code to include an assessment of the viability The Board recognises that excellence in corporate governance is of the Company.
Further details can be important in order to generate and protect value for our investors.
found in the Audit Committee Report on how the Audit Committee Our governance structure is designed to maintain effective control have assisted the Board in reviewing the financial reporting and internal and oversight of our business whilst at the same time promoting the financial control effectiveness, and managing the relationship with the entrepreneurial spirit that has underpinned Dechras success to date.
In our Corporate Governance Report we aim to provide a clear Remuneration and meaningful explanation of how the Board leads the Group and Our Remuneration Policy is designed to promote the long term discharges its governance duties, including how we apply the provisions success of the Group and to reward the creation of long term value of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Further details can be found in the Directors Leadership Remuneration Report on pages 83 to 98.
We have a strong and balanced Board with a range of complementary Relations with Shareholders skills to support the strategic and operational direction of the Group.
The Annual General Meeting will be held in London on 19 October 2018 There were no membership changes in the Board or Committees during and I would like to invite our shareholders to attend.
It will provide you the year.
with an opportunity to meet the Board and ask any questions that you The Senior Executive Team SET has the responsibility for the overall may have in respect of the Groups activities.
leadership of the Group, driving the successful implementation and Finally, should you have any questions in relation to the report, please execution of the strategy.
Further details of the SET can be found on feel free to contact me or the Company Secretary.
Tony Rice Non-Executive Chairman 3 September 2018 62 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2018 www.
