CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Our Governance Strong and robust corporate governance is integral to the creation of long-term value for our shareholders and stakeholders.
Our values Do the Aim Work right thing higher together For our people, our customers, our shareholders Strive to be the best in every area of the Collaborate across all levels and functions: and our wider stakeholders: make decisions business:be ambitious, courageous and leverage the skills, knowledge and experience, based on what is right, not what is easy: innovative: relentlessly challenge and improve: irrespective of hierarchy, to deliver the best demonstrate personal and professional integrity: seek and embrace change: learn from our possible results: develop relationships based on do whats rightfor the long-term sustainability of mistakes: persevere, always deliver our trusting each other, partnerships and win-wins: our business.
promisesand dont settle for second best.
Bring all of Take Say it yourself to work ownership like it is Treat it like its OUR business: take the initiative, Be real, authentic and true to yourself: have open Be the best you can be, the real and whole ifyou can see a better way, go and make a and honest conversations with all audiences in an you:celebrate our diversity of skills, experiences difference: take decisions, be accountable for adult-to-adult manner: listen, seek to understand and personalities: be a role model to others, youractions in whatever role you perform: take and respect diversity of views: be open, call out demonstrate a can do spirit, have fun and make responsibility for your personal development issues we see: share information and keep things this a great place to be: be excited about our andperformance.
Company and our future: believe in yourself, feelconfident and empowered.
60 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Further information on our diversity policy, our approach to Dear shareholders and succession planning and Board appointments can be found otherstakeholders, onpages 83 and 84.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate Executive remuneration Governance report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Groups remuneration policy was approved at the 2017 Our commitment to good AGM with 98.29% of votes cast and is expected to remain in corporategovernance place for three years.
The resolution approving the Directors Your Board is committed to putting strong and robust corporate remuneration report at the 2018 AGM was passed with governance at the heart of everything we do.
This report 76.58% of votes cast.
Whilst the majority of our major explains how your Board has dealt with ensuring that we have institutional shareholders voted in favour of the resolution, effective corporate governance in place to help support the weunderstand some of our shareholders objected to the creation of long-term value for our shareholders and stakeholders.
CFOsbase salary compared to that of her predecessor.
I have engaged with a number of our shareholders during the year to UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 discuss executive remuneration in addition to Board succession The Board welcomes the new UK Corporate Governance planning, diversity, data security, climate change and strategic Code and the Guidance on Board Effectiveness which were continuity and to reassure them that good governance is a published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in July matter of the highest priority for the Board.
Further details 2018 and apply to our 2019 financial year.
We seek to onthework of the Remuneration Committee can be found ensure that our governance framework remains aligned with intheDirectors remuneration report on pages 88 to 91. best practice and we will report against the new Code in Effectiveness and evaluation nextyears Annual Report.
As Chairman, my principal objective is to guide and The Board has arrangements in place to comply with developan effective Board for the benefit of our shareholders, thenewCode.
For example, in 2018, the Board gave whilst having regard to the interests of our other stakeholders.
detailed consideration to its workforce engagement This year, the Board and its Committees again carried out mechanisms andagreed that attendance at the Groups theireffectiveness review in-house with the assistance of national Employee Representative Body ERB meetings by theCompany Secretary.
Suggestions for further improving NEDs on a rotational basis would enable them to participate effectiveness were raised during the review process and effectively in the workforce dialogue and would enable ERB takeninto consideration by the Board.
Further details can members to benefit from exchanges of views with a variety of befound on page 71.
Culture and values Succession planning and Board changes The Board recognises the importance of its role in setting the Following the announcement on 1 August 2018, that tone of the Groups culture and embedding it throughout the PaulGeddes will step down as CEO in the summer of Group.
The Board aims to create an open and collaborative 2019, the Board launched a search for his successor.
culture that encourages the Group to make decisions that are The Nomination Committee conducted a thorough interview best for our shareholders, whilst having regard to the interests and assessment programme, which is described in more detail of our other stakeholders.
I believe that the values and the on page 83, culminating in its recommendation to the Board Code of Business Conduct set by the Board are central to that Penny James be appointed as the Groups new CEO.
theGroups culture and contribute to the Groups objectives TheBoard agreed to appoint Penny as CEO with effect from oflong-term success and sustainable shareholder value.
the conclusion of the AGM on 9 May 2019, at which point Communication with our shareholders and other stakeholders Paul Geddes will step down from the Board.
By maintaining dialogue with you, After serving as a NED for more than six years, Clare we aim to ensure that your views are considered and our Thompson has also decided to step down from the Board objectives are understood.
I would like to thank you for your atthe conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
support and look forward to discussing the Groups progress with you at our forthcoming AGM on 9 May 2019.
The Nomination Committee led the recruitment of Gregor Stewart and Mark Gregory, who joined the Board as NEDs Yours sincerely, on1 March 2018, and Fiona McBain, who was appointed asa NED with effect from 1 September 2018.
The selection processes were informed by the Nomination Committees annual review of the Boards balance of skills, experience andexpertise.
MICHAEL N BIGGS CHAIRMAN The Nomination Committee reviews succession plans both forthe Board and at executive level each year.
The Board recognises the benefit of recruiting leaders who live the Groupsculture and values and represent a diversity of gender, ethnicity, cognitive strengths and socio-economic, educational Our Code of Business Conduct and professional backgrounds.
The Board has female Your Board maintains strong relationships and regular representation of 42% and the Board remains committed to interaction with our shareholders and other stakeholders.
theprinciple that diversity is a key enabler of its effectiveness.
Their continued support for our strategic aims is important.
co. uk for more information.
