Dominos Pizza Group plc 50 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Corporate governance The Board is committed to developing and maintaining a governance framework that is appropriate to the business and supports effective decision making coupled with robust oversight of risks and internal controls.
Chairmans introduction I am pleased to introduce the review of corporate governance for 2018.
Stephen Hemsley Non-executive Chairman Our purpose Our purpose is to feed the power of the possible.
For our customers, this means transforming everyday moments into something more special.
Whether its relaxing at home or gaming with friends or brainstorming at work, Dominos makes the experience 11 out of 10.
For ambitious team members who make and deliver our freshly handcrafted pizzas, it means creating opportunities enabling them to rise quickly into positions of responsibility, learning the skills required to lead and inspire a team.
For entrepreneurs and investors, it means creating the most rewarding and sustainable franchise model in the sector by constantly innovating in products, processes and partnerships.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 51 Effective corporate governance The Board continues to work with Significant events arrangements are critical in ensuring that Executive management to promote the the Board is able to: Groups values and to monitor attitudes Continued strong growth despite and behaviours to ensure that they are a tougher environment for our direct and control the Group: consistent with our culture.
provide strategic leadership and our aim is to maintain a sustainable Resilient UK performance is effective oversight: business model which creates value for a testament to the quality of promote a culture that supports the shareholders and benefits the Groups our franchisees.
long-term success of the Company and wider stakeholders.
We welcome the International expansion provides its stakeholders: and increased focus on stakeholder reporting future growth potential.
and are evolving our Board reporting to maintain a framework within which the Your Boards approach to ensure that the views of stakeholders Executive leadership team can conduct capital allocation balances are understood by the Board and that its day-to-day operational management immediate returns with investment due regard is taken of those views and of the business.
in the longer term sustainability interests when decisions are made.
We are committed to developing and of growth.
The Board receives regular updates on maintaining a governance framework emerging trends in corporate governance that is appropriate to the business and best practice and the changes made to supports effective decision making Our values the FRCs UK Corporate Governance coupled with robust oversight of risks and Our values are consistent with the Code the New Code applicable from internal controls.
Dominos world-wide brand values, 1 January 2019.
The Board will report on One of the Boards objectives from the which are: its compliance with the New Code in the 2017 Board evaluation was to increase our 2019 Annual Report and Accounts.
Our culture The following report sets out the how the Handle the rush.
places particular emphasis on enabling Board has applied the principles of good franchisees to be successful and having Respect others.
great pride in the Dominos brand and the Make disciplined decisions.
values inherent in the brand.
is a fast paced environment and we Stephen Hemsley Celebrate success.
encourage focus, agility and the ability to deliver results at pace.
We promote open Non-executive Chairman and honest communication within the 11 March 2019 business and provide support to enable our colleagues to develop, grow and achieve their potential.
