Governance Chairmans Letter As planned, we were also pleased to attended two meetings of our National Dear Shareholder appoint an additional Non-Executive Colleague Council and reported back to When I wrote to you last year, we had Director, Rachel Osborne, in April.
In November 2018, members just started the process of recruiting Unfortunately, Rachel subsequently of the Colleague Council will meet with a new Chief Executive Officer.
I am changed her executive role which the Board to communicate their views.
pleased that we were able to appoint created a competitive conflict and she We have also reviewed how we engage Nick Wilkinson in February 2018. stood down from the Board in August.
with our other stakeholders, and details Nick brings an excellent retail skill-set We have initiated a search for Rachels are set out in this report.
Finally, we have with multi-channel experience across replacement and will update on looked at how the Board is monitoring a number of consumer sectors and progress in due course.
I thank the culture of the business and tabled geographies.
He has made an excellent Rachel for her contribution over her an annual Board review of these.
start and is working well with the rest of short tenure.
the Board and the Executive team.
In January 2018, we held one of Whilst there have been a number of our regular Corporate Governance Shortly after Nick joined, we changes to the Board over the year, we meetings, attended by Will Adderley, announced that Keith Down, our Chief have maintained a core Board team the Non-Executive Directors, the Financial Officer, had decided to step of Will Adderley, Liz Doherty, William Company Secretary and myself, down from the Board, to take up a role Reeve, Peter Ruis, Marion Sears and to which our major institutional closer to his family home.
I would like myself, all of whom have served at shareholders were invited.
There was a to thank Keith for his contribution and least three years on the Board.
I thank useful exchange of views on a variety commitment to Dunelm.
all my colleagues for their continued of governance topics, and we intend to We have appointed Laura Carr to support and commitment, and the time repeat this regularly.
succeed Keith as Chief Financial Officer, given to help with the appointment and In the last two years our annual Board and she will start with us in November.
induction of my newer colleagues.
effectiveness review was facilitated Laura brings a breadth of business and Externally, the Government and by an external third party.
This year I finance experience with multi-national regulators have continued to focus conducted an internal review, focused and consumer facing businesses, and I on the need to strengthen corporate mainly on how we manage succession look forward to working with her.
governance and requiring companies and Board and Committee effectiveness To support the Board and the Executive to demonstrate higher standards going forward.
Further details are set team during the transition from Keith of corporate behaviour and to fully out in the report below.
to Laura, David Stead, Dunelms former recognise their obligations to all of At our AGM this year, as usual, CFO, has served as Interim CFO.
As I have written in all Directors will be seeking would like to thank David for coming previous years, good governance is an reappointment.
In addition, in out of retirement to support us during integral part of our corporate culture, accordance with the Listing Rules, each this period.
and our business principles encompass of the Non-Executive Directors will also a commitment to take long term As I mentioned last year, Simon Emeny be subject to a vote of shareholders decisions and to treat our customers, retired at the AGM in November 2017, independent of the Adderley family.
colleagues, suppliers and communities after serving ten years as a Nonwith equal respect, as key stakeholders I look forward to meeting shareholders Executive Director, latterly as Senior in our business.
Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Liz We have reviewed the Financial Yours sincerely, Doherty has succeeded Simon as Senior Conduct Authoritys revisions to Independent Director, and William the Corporate Governance Code, Andy Harrison Reeve has taken the role of Chair of the and whilst it is not yet in force, we Chairman Remuneration Committee.
have implemented some of its recommendations.
Marion Sears, 12 September 2018 who has been on the Board since the Groups flotation in 2006, has agreed to act as the Designated Non-Executive Director for our colleagues.
She has DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 49
