CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTED TO good corporate JOHN BARTON Chairman governance I am pleased to introduce this report, which describes theactivities of your Board during the year, along with ourgovernance arrangements and how we have applied themainprinciples and complied with the relevant provisionsof the 2016 UK Corporate Governance We continue to achieve Code theCode.
This year the Board has continued to focus on providing good governance through effective leadership and oversight of the Group as it seekstofocus on its strategic priorities and create value a responsive governance forourshareholders.
A summary of Board activity during theyear can be found on page 68. framework that supports The role and effectiveness of the Board is essential to a successfully run company: the way in which we discharge and challenges our ourduties is set out on the following pages.
APPOINTMENT OF A NEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE executives decision making Johan Lundgren joined the Board as Director and Chief Executive on 1 December 2017.
During his first year Johan has taken the opportunity to meet many employees, customers, regulatory bodies and other stakeholders to seek their views on, amongst other things, the Groups strategy andculture.
CHANGES TO THE BOARD There have been a number of Board changes since the lastAnnual Report, with membership of the Board and itsCommittees having evolved, but remaining balanced.
Appointments have been subject to a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure.
We welcomed Julie Southern to the Board on 1 August 2018 asa Non-Executive Director.
She also became a member ofthe Audit, Remuneration and Safety Committees, and willtakeover from Adle Anderson as Audit Committee Chairfrom 1 January 2019.
Julie has held a number of  finance and related roles and bringswith her extensive experience of the airline industry.
Ibelieveshe will bea huge asset to the easyJet Board and itsCommittees.
More detailed information on Julies inductioncan be found onpage 75.
com GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Keith Hamill OBE stepped down from the easyJet Board on LOOKING AFTER OUR STAKEHOLDERS 31December 2017 following completion of nine years on the The Board continues to take account of the impact of its Board.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to reiterate my decisions on all of our stakeholders.
thanks to Keith for his valued contribution to the easyJet We have also begun to consider ways in which a stronger and Board and to easyJets success.
more meaningful engagement can take place between the We are also sorry to lose Adle Anderson, Non-Executive Board and the workforce.
Director who, after seven years, will resign from the Board This engagement, amongst other things, will allow Directors witheffect from the end of the Companys 2019 Annual togauge how the Groups new strategic initiatives are General Meeting on 7 February 2019.
On behalf of the embedding within the organisation under the new leadership Board, Iwould like to thank Adle for her important of Johan Lundgren.
contribution tothe easyJet Board and specifically in her roleasAudit Committee Chair.
She has brought deep UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE understanding and acumen to her responsibilities and I am pleased to report that we were in full compliance with sheleaves us with our gratitude and best wishes.
therequirements of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC 2016 Code, a copy of which is available on www.
More information on these Board changes and the work of theNominations Committee can be found on pages 78 to 79.
We welcomed the publication by the FRC of its new UK Corporate Governance Code in July 2018 and its focus on CULTURE AND DIVERSITY thethemes of corporate and Board culture, stakeholder We take the issue of diversity in the boardroom very seriously engagement and sustainability, which are critical factors and are mindful of important recent developments in this area.
forusas wepartner with our stakeholders to build an We remain focused on maintaining an inclusive and diverse enduringbusiness.
We believe this improves effectiveness, encourages Over the summer, as part of the FRCs regular review and constructive debate, delivers strong performance and assessment of the quality of corporate reporting in the UK, enhances the success of the business.
At its September 2018 weengaged with the FRC in response to their questions meeting, the Nominations Committee approved a refreshed relating to information within our 2017 Annual Report and Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy and set our objectives Accounts.
easyJet has taken on board the FRCs comments inthis area.
You can read more about this, and our overall and recommendations with specific enhancements having approach to diversity and inclusion in our other senior been made to our 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
Further leadership positions and across easyJet, onpage 79. details can be found on page 81.
TEGEL OPERATIONS The following pages set out details of the composition of A key focus of the Board during the year was the oversight ourBoard, its corporate governance arrangements, processes ofthe acquisition of part of Air Berlins operations at Berlin and activities during the year, and reports from each of the Tegel Airport.
This year the Boards annual base visit took place in Tegel, which provided the Board with the opportunity to see the operation inaction and meet with various members of the management team.
More information on the visit can be found on page 69.
BREXIT JOHN BARTON The Board continued to closely oversee the implementation Non-Executive Chairman ofeasyJets planning for Brexit.
This has involved regular management updates on both the design and implementation CONTENTS OF THE CORPORATE of easyJets response to Brexit negotiations, and the likely GOVERNANCE REPORT impact on the European airline industry.
We will remain Plc Board and Airline Management Page 61 focused on ensuring that easyJets operating model and Board AMB profiles network are unaffected by Brexit and that flying rights between the EU and the UK are maintained.
Our governance framework Page 67 Board activity in 2018 Page 68 BOARD EVALUATION Our Nominations Committee oversaw an externally facilitated Compliance with the Code Page 69 review of the composition, diversity and effectiveness of the Board Committee overview and activities Page 76 Board to achieve the objectives of the Group.
A full report during the year onthe activities of the Nominations Committee and the Directors report Page 106 outcomes of the evaluation can be found on pages 72 to 73.
60 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
