STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE LETTER I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION the year ended 31 December 2018.
The report sets out our approach to governance, our key areas of focus during the year, our ways of working and how we as your Board remain effective as stewards of your Company.
As I reflect on the achievements and challenges during 2018, I remain impressed with the pace of strategic progress in a year which has seen the divestment of the Delden and Jersey City sites, the acquisition of Mondo and the acquisition of an advantaged manufacturing site in India all whilst remaining focused on operational delivery and good governance.
The Mondo acquisition in particular had a significant impact on Board and Committee meetings and shareholder engagement at key points throughout the year.
I am delighted with how the ANDREW DUFF Board performed during this challenging period as each CHAIRMAN member demonstrated commitment, individual expertise, challenge, support and guidance as the acquisition progressed through to the successful outcome of the General Meeting held in October.
As part of our ongoing programme of governance and in keeping with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the external Board effectiveness evaluation was carried out during October to December 2018 by Manchester Square Partners.
The findings of the evaluation and further information can be found in the Nomination Committees report on page 72.
2018 has been a year of focus on the delivery of strategic priorities and the Board continues to deepen its knowledge and understanding of the Groups operations through the continuing Compliance statement programme of site visits which allows greater insight and value The UK Corporate Governance Code Code provides the to the work of the Board.
As I look ahead to 2019, I am pleased standard for corporate governance in the UK.
The Financial that we have scheduled site visits to our newly acquired assets Conduct Authority requires listed companies to disclose and operations in Finland and the Netherlands as well as a visit whether they have complied with the provisions of the Code to our management headquarters in New Jersey, USA.
The Code currently applicable to the Company is the 2016 edition and we are reporting our As ever, I am grateful to you, our shareholders, for your compliance with that edition.
continued support and I look forward to welcoming you at our AGM at 11.00 a. m. on 30 April 2019 which will be held at the The Board considers that the Company has complied with offices of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, Exchange House, the provisions and applied the main principles of the Code Primrose Street, London EC2A 2EG.
for the whole of the year ended 31 December 2018.
The sections that follow describe how the Company has applied On behalf of the Board, at the recommendation of the Audit the main principles of corporate governance, in particular Committee based on its assessment detailed on page 76, those laid down in the Code.
The Code can be accessed I confirm that we believe the 2018 Annual Report presents a fair, at www.
balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position, its performance and its prospects as well as its business model and strategy.
ANDREW DUFF CHAIRMAN 61 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
