Directors Report In addition to fulfilling its normal programme of work this year the Audit and Risk Committee has focused on the: Audit and Risk implementation of an established Minimum Controls Standards MCS programme to drive improvements within the Committee Companys financial control framework to ensure that all areas become effective and efficient on a more consistent and sustainable basis, and above all is embedded within everything Chairmans Letter we do.
Led by the Group Assurance team the MCS programme included controls training across the Group.
The implementation plan is well underway and a MCS Steering Committee has been established which reports directly to the Audit and Risk Committee.
I am pleased to note the strong commitment of the site teams to maintaining a robust control environment delivery of a project to improve IT General Controls which goes hand in hand with the MCS programme to create a sustainable environment.
The remediation effort involved the undertaking of a thorough review of all user accesses across all systems to ensure appropriate segregation of duties and where necessary introduce mitigating actions and auditable processes.
The extensive programme was completed by the end of January 2019.
The work on this programme will continue as the controls are embedded within the Groups systems and functions Dear Shareholder, One of the key undertakings reported in last years Annual Report was the improvement initiatives being put in place regarding the As Chairman of the Essentra plc Audit and Risk Committee, Companys risk management practices and procedures.
Since my I am pleased to present my first Report to shareholders, and appointment as Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee I have to be able to confirm, on behalf of the Board, that the Annual committed to attend the Group Risk Committee meetings on a Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
I am happy to confirm the high quality levels of debate, discussions and presentations made within this forum I was appointed Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee in when examining and identifying the Principal Risk, other Key Risks April 2018 and would like to thank my predecessor Terry Twigger and Emerging Risks for consideration by the Board at both the half for his counsel and guidance during the months leading up to this year and full year reporting cycle.
At the 2018 December meeting the Terms of Reference were reviewed and taking into consideration its importance and focus The detailed report, which follows, aims to provide insight into in the risk management process it was agreed to recommend to the workings and activity of the Audit and Risk Committee the Board that the Audit Committee should be renamed the throughout the year, enabling us to assist the Board to discharge Audit and Risk Committee, which was subsequently approved.
its responsibilities: the integrity of Financial Reporting: the The Audit and Risk Committee fulfils an important oversight role relationship with the External Auditor: the effectiveness of the on behalf of the Essentra Board, monitoring the integrity of the Group Assurance function and the effectiveness of the risk Groups financial reporting and the effectiveness of both the Groups management process and internal control.
I believe that the Audit systems of internal control and its risk management framework.
and Risk Committee has the necessary experience, expertise and financial understanding to fulfil its responsibilities and meet the Last year the Company embarked on a Corporate Governance increasing governance demands.
improvement programme with the aim of being upper quartile best practice FTSE 250 by 2020.
To support this initiative a number The Audit and Risk Committee in 2019 will continue to focus on the of improvement projects were started during 2018 which will audit, assurance and risk processes in order to enhance the overall continue into 2020, focused on the continued evolution of the effectiveness of the Internal Controls, review the progress of the improvement programme in response to requests from the Board.
implementation programme and to assess the effectiveness of the In support of this, during the year, the Audit and Risk Committee improvements being made.
I would like to thank the members and has overseen the implementation of a number of changes to the Board as a whole for their work and support during these first policy, processes and practice within the areas of governance, risk few months.
The changes have been rolled out to the divisions making regular individual presentations to each Audit and Risk The Audit and Risk Committee can provide positive assurance to Committee ensuring that the divisions are an integral part of the the Board, that the Annual Report, when taken as a whole, is fair, improvement process.
These presentations also allow the members balanced and understandable and also provides the information of the Committee to interact with management on a more necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and regular basis.
performance, business model and strategy.
Mary Reilly Non-Executive Director Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 80 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018
