DIRECTORS REPORT Dear Shareholder Remuneration As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2018.
Committee At the 2018 AGM, we asked shareholders to support a Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy aligned to our new corporate Chairmans Letter strategy.
I was delighted with the overwhelming support that we received with more than 99% of votes being cast in favour of the new Policy.
As outlined in the Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 7, our strategy remains unchanged in 2019 and accordingly no change is proposed to our Policy.
Notwithstanding this, the Remuneration Committee had a full and varied agenda in 2018 as illustrated in the meeting activities on page 95.
I have provided more detail below on some of the key activities undertaken by the Committee during the year.
Linking reward to strategy During the year, the Remuneration Committee undertook its Lorraine Trainer annual review of remuneration arrangements against corporate Non-Executive Director strategy.
Whilst the Committee was satisfied that existing Remuneration Committee Chairman arrangements remained generally appropriate, one change being made following the review, and in response to shareholder feedback, is the replacement of the cash measure used in 2018 with a return on invested capital measure for the 2019 LTIP award.
The Committee believes that this is an appropriate change and Key principles is consistent with Essentras strategic priorities for 2019 now that stability is achieved, strategic momentum continues and profit Ensuring remuneration Key principles that growth has been restored from a stable revenue base.
continues to attract and have underpinned develop key talent The table below summarises the KPIs that are being used in our approach to The Remuneration executive incentive plans in 2019. remuneration this Committee works with the year are as follows: Chief Executive to ensure he has the right reward tools to KPI 2018 2019 be able to attract talent into Linking reward Adjusted operating profit Annual bonus Annual bonus the business.
to strategy Net working capital Annual bonus Annual bonus The delivery of Essentras Adjusted EPS LTIP LTIP Ensuring consistency strategic priorities is Total shareholder return LTIP LTIP of reward principles underpinned by a focus on The Remuneration Adjusted operating cash flow LTIP Key Performance Indicators Committee has taken an KPIs which measure the Return on invested capital ROIC LTIP active role in ensuring that Companys progress in the reward principles are applied delivery of value.
Aligning pay and performance consistently throughout the Essentra organisation.
Aligning pay and In 2018 profit growth was restored from a stable revenue base performance for the first time since 2015, a development which represents a The Remuneration sustainable inflection point for the business.
Revenue remained Committee sets performance unchanged on a like-for-like basis and there was continued targets that are stretching improvement in all aspects of business stability, with further whilst also providing sufficient progress in key elements of each of the four divisions.
More information on the financial and operating performance of Essentra in 2018 is set out on pages 42 to 45 in the Strategic Report.
ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 85 Directors Report Remuneration Committee Chairmans Letter continued For the LTIP awards to be granted in 2019, the Remuneration The Remuneration Committee believes that the overall annual Committee has adjusted targets for the EPS measure of 5% to 12% bonus outcomes for the Executive Directors summarised below are and set the ROIC measure of 9.5% to 14.5% that are consistent with a fair reflection of what has been achieved in 2018 by Essentra as a the successful delivery of our strategy within the uncertain operating whole and the performance of the individual Executive Directors.
environment discussed in the Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 7.
2018 Annual bonus outturn Base Target Stretch Actual % of maximum KPIs performance performance performance performance bonus payable Adjusted Operating Profit 50% of maximum 91.9m 99.4m 106.8m 96.8m 16.2% Net Working Capital 30% of maximum 15.1% 14.8% 14.6% 14.0% 30.0% Personal objectives Details of performance against pre-set personal objectives are set out on page 97.
20% of maximum Following assessment by the Remuneration Committee, Paul Forman Chief Executive and Stefan Schellinger former CFO received 18.0%, and 11.0% of their respective maximum bonuses in relation to these objectives.
Bonus award to Paul Forman: 64.2% of maximum Bonus award to Stefan Schellinger: 57.2% of maximum pro-rated for period of employment 1 Based on internal forecast at constant exchange rates.
2 Average monthly net working capital as a percentage of sales.
Having only joined Essentra in November 2018 Lily Liu was not entitled to a bonus in relation to 2018.
The performance targets for the 2016 LTIP awards were not met and these awards lapsed in full.
The Remuneration Change in Chief Financial Officer CFO Lily Liu replaced Stefan Schellinger as CFO in November 2018.
Committee believes that A summary of Lily Lius remuneration arrangements that were approved by the Remuneration Committee in Q2 2018 is set the overall annual bonus out below: outcomes for the salary of 320,000 subject to annual review from 1 April 2019.
An inflationary increase of 2.9% will be effective from April 2019.
Executive Directors are a Above inflationary increases may be applied to the salary as Lily Liu gains experience in this role fair reflection of what has pension provision worth 20% of salary.
This was determined prior to recent 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code guidance on pensions been achieved in 2018. car allowance and standard other benefits maximum annual bonus potential of 125% of salary, with half of any bonus deferred in shares for three years an annual award of performance shares under the LTIP over shares worth 150% of salary.
This award will be granted in August 2019 a one-off additional award of performance shares under the LTIP over shares worth 100% of salary.
This award, to be granted in August 2019, was agreed by the Remuneration Committee to compensate Lily for the value of share awards granted by her previous employer that lapsed when she joined Essentra.
The award will be wholly linked to Essentras long-term performance, and is of a lower value than the forfeited awards a payment of 20,000 to compensate Lily Liu for a benefit repayment to her former employer when she agreed to join Essentra shareholding guideline of 200% of salary The Remuneration Committee also agreed termination remuneration arrangements for Stefan Schellinger.
Full details of those arrangements are set out on page 101 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
86 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 D DIIR RE EC CT TO OR RS S R RE EP PO OR RT T Considering the 2018 UK Corporate Remuneration in our wider workforce Governance Code the 2018 Code The Remuneration Committee is aware of its responsibility During the past year the Remuneration Committee has received to consider remuneration in our wider workforce when making regular updates on the development of the 2018 Code and decisions that affect our senior executives.
For example, our discussed its implications for Essentra.
Our remuneration standard policy is that Executive Director salary increases should arrangements are already compliant with many of the new be consistent with the wider UK workforce.
provisions and work is well under way to incorporate further agreed changes.
One of the 2018 Codes principles is that remuneration Consequently, the Executive Director salaries have been reviewed should promote long-term sustainable success.
The Executive and increased in line with the budget for the UK workforce salaries Directors adhere to an Essentra shareholding policy which is which was set at an average of 2.9%.
aligned with Essentras long-term performance during and after their period of employment: Non-Executive Director fees were not increased but the Chair fees were uplifted.
Further details can be found on page 103. whilst in Essentras employment, Executive Directors are required to build up sizeable equity holdings Chief Executive: 3x salary: During the past year, the Remuneration Committee has also CFO 2x salary discussed a number of broader issues relating to workforce pay during and post-employment, vested LTIP awards are subject including our Gender Pay report and our diversity and inclusion to an additional two-year holding period policies.
During 2019, we will be working in conjunction with our unvested LTIP awards will normally not be eligible for accelerated Board Employee Champion to fully implement the 2018 Code vesting following cessation of employment requirements in this area.
We will detail our actions in next years Remuneration Report alongside the publication of our first Chief We will review this shareholding policy as part of the next renewal Executive pay ratio.
of our Directors Remuneration Policy taking into account market developments and shareholder guidance.
Conclusion There will be an advisory shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM on the The Remuneration Committee also notes the provision in the new Annual Report on Remuneration section of this report, pages 95 to Code relating to alignment of pension provision between Executive 103, which explains in detail how we implemented the Policy during Directors and the workforce.
It is our intention to review the 2018 and how we intend to implement it during 2019. implementation of this provision as part of our next Directors Remuneration Policy renewal or, if earlier, at the time of our next I hope you will find this report to be clear and helpful in Executive Director appointment.
understanding our remuneration practices and that you will be supportive of this resolution.
As ever, the Remuneration Committee welcomes any questions or comments from shareholders.
As outlined in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 78 to During the past year, the 79 I have advised the Chairman of the Board of my intention to retire from the Board as a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee at the 2020 AGM.
has also discussed a number Finally I would like to thank the members of the Remuneration Committee for their commitment in getting the right outcomes of broader issues relating to both for the team and the shareholders.
The balance of their experience really enhances our debates and our ability to evolve workforce pay including our our measures in line with the evolution of the Company.
Gender Pay report and our Lorraine Trainer Remuneration Committee Chairman diversity and inclusion policies.
1 March 2019 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS LETTER ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 87
