Experian plc 62 Governance Chairmans introduction Strengthening our team and processes has always been central to our decision-making Im pleased to present the Corporate In line with the UK Corporate Governance governance report for the year ended Code Code, a comprehensive and externally 31 March 2018.
This governance report facilitated Board evaluation took place last provides insight into the Groups governance year.
This year, our Board evaluation was an framework and the Boards approach to internal one.
The evaluation concentrated on achieving good corporate governance during the progress on last years areas of focus and the year.
As Chairman, one of my key roles is to the resulting actions, as well as agreeing areas ensure that the Board and Experian continue to of focus for the coming year.
The evaluation have high standards of corporate governance provided the Board with insights into its while, at the same time, we establish and performance, and the Board concluded that it continually develop the right controls to was operating eff ectively.
The evaluation also provide the Board with the appropriate level of identi ed opportunities for the Board to further oversight and assurance.
By having a sound improve its eff ectiveness.
You will read later corporate governance framework we can about the results of the evaluation and the ensure eff ective and effi cient decision-making, areas of focus that weve agreed.
One of the key roles and the right balance of diversity, skills and for the Board includes I work closely with the Chief Executive experience to monitor and manage the risks Offi cer, Brian Cassin, and the Company establishing the culture, we face.
As Chairman, I ensure that the Board Secretary, Charles Brown, to plan the agenda is empowered and resourced to do these values and ethics of for each Board meeting.
The Board is committed to operating the Company.
right balance between strategic planning and openly and with integrity, and these principles performance updates, corporate development are embedded in the boardroom and in how and governance matters.
We plan for an Don Robert the Board operates.
appropriate mix of standing items and Chairman One of the Boards key roles is to set the subjects that may, in the context of events or Groups strategic aims and to ensure that the challenges, be directly relevant at the time.
Group has the financial resources to meet This process, together with the visits to the these strategic aims.
The Board held its annual business and presentations on relevant strategy sessions in January 2018.
The world issues, means that the Board is focused around Experian is changing, with many key on the important areas.
trends and forces shaping our plans and direction.
The Board has taken many actions to improve our position over the past few years, such as signi cant investments in new product innovation and great progress on technology.
The plans include key actions to further strengthen our position, seize attractive opportunities and ultimately accelerate our growth.
Governance 63 The Nomination and Corporate Governance The corporate governance landscape Committee, under the chairmanship of continues to evolve and, during the year, a George Rose, the Deputy Chairman and Senior consultation on the draft new UK Corporate Independent Director, continues to regularly Governance Code was published by the review Board composition and executive UK Financial Reporting Council FRC.
During the year, Mike Rogers was The Nomination and Corporate Governance appointed as an independent non-executive Committee will continue to evaluate the director on 1 July 2017, and as Chairmanpotential impact of the new code, and other designate of the Remuneration Committee governance developments, on the Group, from the July 2018 Annual General Meeting and will oversee any changes required AGM.
He brings over 30 years of banking and within Experian or at Board level.
financial services experience, with a reputation for strategic insight and focused execution.
Conclusion As we continue to develop and execute The Board considers that the Company has Experians strategy for growth, Mikes insight applied the principles and complied with the and extensive experience are valuable provisions of the Code, published in April 2016, attributes.
Dr Ruba Borno joined the throughout the year ended 31 March 2018.
Links to further Board on 1 April 2018 as an independent The Corporate governance report, together information: non-executive director.
Ruba will bring with the Report on directors remuneration, advanced technologies expertise, with the explains how we have applied the Codes Board and Experian bene tting from her Page main principles and complied with its insight and understanding of digitisation and 65 & 77 Gender diversity of the Board provisions during the year.
The information technology transformation across industries.
66 Strategic planning required by the FCA Disclosure Guidance and Following these appointments, both Mike and 67 The Groups governance framework Transparency Rules Sourcebook DTR 7.2 Ruba commenced a comprehensive induction 70 Board evaluation is set out on these pages and the Corporate programme, which includes brie ngs and governance report, other than that required 71 New directors inductions presentations on all key aspects of Experians by DTR 7.2.
6R, which is set out in the operations.
We provide more detail on Board Directors report.
induction, training and ongoing interaction with the business later in this report.
Roger Davis noti ed the Company of his intention to step down as a director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with eff ect from the AGM of the Company to be held in July 2018.
He will continue to chair the Board of Experian Limited, the Groups UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA regulated subsidiary.
Roger has served with great eff ectiveness on our Board since 2007 and I would like to thank him and wish him well.
The importance of considering the Companys responsibilities to our stakeholders, including our customers, shareholders and employees, has always been core to the Experian culture, values and decision-making processes.
