Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Governance overview A strong governance culture Your Board continues to believe that diversity, both at Board level Dear Shareholder and throughout the organisation, is a key component of our success.
I am pleased to present the Companys Corporate Governance We have formalised our approach to Board diversity by adopting Report for the financial year ended 31 July 2018. a Board Diversity Policy during the year.
I am pleased to report This section, together with the reports from the Nominations, Audit that in January 2018 the Group Chief Executive, supported by the and Remuneration Committees beginning on pages 60, 62 and 70 Board, joined the 30% Club, a campaign organisation with members respectively, provide a description of how the Company has applied drawn from the chairs and chief executives of listed and other large the main principles and complied with the relevant provisions of organisations that is committed to achieving better gender balance the Code.
We remain committed to full compliance with the Code through voluntary action.
Further detail on the Boards approach to and to achieving high standards of corporate governance both in diversity, including the Board Diversity Policy, can be found on page the boardroom and throughout the Group.
We have used the core 61 and further detail on how we have approached diversity across the principles of the Code as the framework within which we explain our Group, including our gender pay gap information, can be found on governance practices in this report please see the boxes below, pages 25 and 42. which direct you to further detail.
Culture and good governance Your Board remains committed to presenting a clear assessment At Ferguson, we are committed to fostering an effective governance of the Companys position and prospects through the information provided in this report and through our financial statements and framework, through our policies and procedures, that supports the Companys core values and which underpins our ability to set the other narrative and financial reports as required.
Please note that further information on the Board, its Committees and our governance overall strategic direction of the Ferguson Group.
I note with interest the changes to the Code published on 16 July 2018 and due to come practices can be found at www.
into effect for our financial year ending 31 July 2020.
We will review our policies and procedures during the coming year and look forward Ensuring a clear and compelling strategy All to reporting how we have implemented these changes.
During the year, the Board regularly reviewed aspects of the strategy and how it was being implemented.
In addition to receiving regular Your Board continues to strive for improvement and the areas for reports from management on progress made with our strategy, the further development identified in the annual effectiveness review Board visited our US business twice during the year.
These visits have been noted as priority areas for 2018 19.
In line with the enabled the Directors to enhance their understanding of Fergusons recommendations of the Code, this year the Board and Committee largest market, to meet customers, suppliers and associates and to effectiveness review was externally facilitated.
Further details on the see first-hand how our associates are going the extra mile to provide review, issues covered and key findings and action points can be the best service proposition in our industry.
Further details of the found on page 58, along with a description of how the Non Executive Boards visits to the USA are provided on page 55.
Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, Alan Murray, conducted their annual evaluation of my performance.
The Board reviewed and approved a number of acquisition and capital investment opportunities along with the disposal of Stark Maintaining a corporate culture that is aligned with the Groups Group and two capital returns.
Further information on the acquisitions strategy is fundamental to our success.
Our culture is reflected most completed and the capital returns in the year are provided on pages strongly in the collective and individual behaviours of our associates.
The Groups Better Business framework, detailed on pages 40 and 41, sets out the 13 material issues we consider essential to how we Risk is an inherent part of any business and it is the role of the Board do business.
to determine the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to accept in achieving its strategic objectives and ensuring that Look ahead sound risk management and internal control systems are maintained.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders The effectiveness of these systems is reviewed through the work of the Audit Committee described on pages 62 to 66.
I can confirm for their continuing support.
The Board and I will be available to respond to any questions on this report or any of the Committees that, during the year, the Board and its Committees carried out a robust assessment of the risks facing the business which included a activities at our 2018 AGM in November and I look forward to welcoming those shareholders able to attend.
review of environmental, social and governance risks as appropriate.
The principal risks which the Board has focused on are set out in the Principal risks and their management section on pages 44 to 49.
Board composition and diversity All Gareth Davis Chairman The Board and Nominations Committee continued to focus on ensuring that we have the right talent in our business to enable the Group to achieve its strategic objectives.
I give more details of our work in that area on pages 60 and 61.
Core principles Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration Relations with shareholders Continued close focuson A strong, open and Close scrutiny of risks Prudent oversight of Open engagement strategy anditsexecution.
Pages 52 to 58 Pages 52 to 58 Pages 62 to 69 Pages 70 to 96 Page 59 and 60 to 61 and 60 to 61 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51
