Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE LETTER DEAR SHAREHOLDER We passed the tenth anniversary of Fresnillos listing on the London Stock Exchange this year and continued to reflect on the standards of governance that are necessary and appropriate to a company of the size and nature of Fresnillo.
We continued the dialogue with our largest independent shareholders about the standards of corporate governance that are the most appropriate for our Group.
This is a subject about which we remain as attentive as ever and I would like to reiterate that we are truly committed to having the highest standards of corporate governance considering the nature of the company that Fresnillo is.
At the 2018 AGM, Guy Wilson, who was an independent Non-executive Director and Chairman of our Audit Committee retired from the Board having served on the Board for ten years.
I would like to express my appreciation to Guy for the commendable work that he did in establishing the Audit Committee as a thorough and independent overseer of our financial reporting, risk and internal control frameworks.
Alberto Tiburcio has taken KEY GOVERNANCE over as Chairman of the Audit Committee and is doing an excellent job in ensuring that DEVELOPMENTS IN 2018 the Audit Committee continues to progress in its important role.
STAKEHOLDERS We were pleased to welcome Georgina Kessel to the Board as an independent NonThe Board has begun to consider executive Director following her election at the 2018 AGM.
For the second year running, its engagement with the Groups we were able to appoint a new female member with superb credentials to our Board, key stakeholders.
maintaining our policy of making appointments to the Board on the basis of merit whilst, at the same time, continuing to broaden the gender diversity of the Board.
In the first half of 2018, our Senior Independent Director, Charles Jacobs, supported by members of our senior management team, led a number of conversations with DIVERSITY institutional investors and their representative bodies regarding our Board composition A third female member and membership, particularly focusing on the time and commitment of our Board was appointed to the Board members.
Notwithstanding this dialogue, it is disappointing that some investors did not in 2018. share our assessment and chose to vote against the reappointments of certain Directors.
We note that those institutions represented a minority of our independent shareholders.
We have commented at some length on pages 107 and 108 of this Corporate Governance Report on the basis on which the Nominations Committee and the Board have assessed the current composition, independence and time commitment of the Directors and I INDEPENDENCE hope that shareholders will support the Boards position on this matter.
It is not clear at Steps were taken during the year this stage, following the recent change of the Mexican Government, how the political to enhance the independent situation in Mexico will impact Fresnillo.
It is clear, though, that the Board will benefit representation on the Board.
from having such a diverse and experienced range of skills and insights around the Board table, enabling it to evaluate the current context and guide the management team See page 107. going forward.
Consequently, we maintain our conviction that the current composition of the Board is the best one, and therefore we will continue to press the case for our shareholders to endorse the appointment of all of our Directors at the 2019 AGM.
UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In July 2018, the FRC published a new version of the UK Corporate Governance Code CODE 2018 which will take effect from 1 January 2019.
We have begun considering the implications During 2018, the Board took steps of this new Code for our own corporate governance arrangements and will comment on towards compliance with the 2018 this more fully in our 2019 annual report.
At this stage, where we are able to comment on version of the Code.
provisions of the new Code, we have done so in this annual report.
As ever, my colleagues and I are always willing to discuss our corporate governance arrangements with any shareholder who wishes to engage with us on this topic.
If there are any governance matters which shareholders wish to raise, they should contact our OVERBOARDING London office the contact details are set out on page 250.
The Board and management have engaged with shareholders about Yours faithfully overboarding concerns in 2018.
Mr Alberto Baillres See pages 107-108.
Chairman of the Board BOARD EVALUATION The Board undertook an internally conducted effectiveness review in 2018.
100 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRESNILLOS APPROACH TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE BOARDS LEADERSHIP ROLE The Board provides leadership to the Fresnillo Group, setting the key values underpinning the culture by which the Group will continue to operate.
The Board supervises the management of the Groups activities, including the implementation of both the Groups long-term plans and commercial strategy.
THE BOARD AND CULTURE The Corporate Code of Conduct is approved by the Board and sets down its cultural expectations for the activities of all Directors, executives, employees and related third parties including clients, suppliers and the community in the conduct of the Companys business.
The Corporate Code of Conduct helps to ensure a foundation of values and sets standards for behaviour that encourage an environment of ethics and responsibility for the benefit of the Companys stakeholders.
It serves to complement the internal and external regulations already in force and also to establish corrective measures for anyone who fails to comply with the provisions of the Corporate Code of Conduct.
It also provides the framework for the Companys compliance with the UK Bribery Act and the Mexican anti-bribery and corruption legislation.
BOARD STRUCTURE CULTURE STRATEGY CONTROLS FRESNILLO BOARD Sets strategy Sets policies Sets the tone and provides and monitors Non-independent Independent from the top accountability performance Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors Executive Lead by Initiate Monitor risks Committee example and proposals and and implement communicate report back controls BOARD SCRUTINY AND PROCESS The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval which includes approvals of major expenditure, investments and key policies.
The schedule is regularly reviewed to keep it up to date with any regulatory developments.
The last review and revision was undertaken in October 2017.
The requirements of the roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive Officer have been agreed by the Board and are set out in a written Statement of Responsibilities.
The composition of the Board has been structured to ensure that no one individual can dominate the decision-making processes of the Board.
The non-independent and independent Directors on the Board engage with the business of the Board from two different perspectives which enables two levels of scrutiny to be applied to the Boards decision-making.
1ST LEVEL OF SCRUTINY The Executive Committee meets with the non-independent Non-executive Directors to ensure that any reports and proposals are properly evaluated before they are brought to the full Board for discussion and, where appropriate, approval.
2ND LEVEL OF SCRUTINY The independent Non-executive Directors bring an external perspective to bear when evaluating proposals and conducting the business of the Board.
The different participants therefore contribute to the work of the Board, through its meetings in the following way: PRE-MEETING DURING MEETINGS POST-MEETING PREPARATION OF PRESENTATION OF PRESENTATION THE AGENDA PAPERS AND REPORTS OF MINUTES CEO CFO Company Secretary Executive Committee members Company Secretary PREPARATION OF PAPERS COMMITTEE REPORTS IMPLEMENTATION OF BOARD DECISIONS Executive Committee members Committee Chairs Executive Committee members INTERNAL REVIEW APPROVALS REPORTING BACK Executive Committee members Under Schedule of Matters TO THE BOARD reserved to the board: Non-independent Executive Committee members Non-executive Directors Full Board CIRCULATION Under Relationship Agreement: CEO CFO Independent five days before meeting Non-executive Directors Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMPOSITION: COMPOSITION: All independent Non-executive Directors Majority independent Non-executive Directors KEY CONTRIBUTORS: KEY CONTRIBUTORS: Chief Financial Officer, Internal Audit, Risk Manager, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Company Secretary Company Secretary, External Auditor See the Audit Committee Report on pages 119-129.
See the Nominations Committee Report on pages 116-118.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE HSECR COMMITTEE COMPOSITION: COMPOSITION: Majority independent Non-executive Directors Majority non-independent Non-executive Directors KEY CONTRIBUTORS: KEY CONTRIBUTORS: Chief Executive Officer, Remuneration Consultants, Chief Executive Officer, Head of Sustainability, Line Managers, Company Secretary Chief Legal Officer See the Remuneration Report on pages 130-142.
See the Social and Sustainability Review on pages 66-84.
UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, Fresnillo is required under the FCA Listing Rules to comply with the Code Provisions of the Code a copy of which can be found on the website of the Financial Reporting Council www.
uk or otherwise explain its reasons for non-compliance.
The following statement is therefore made in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 in compliance with such requirement.
For the financial year ended 31 December 2018, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code in all areas, save in respect of Code Provision D. 2.1 which provides that the Board should establish a Remuneration Committee of at least three independent Non-executive Directors.
The composition of the Fresnillo Remuneration Committee is made up of three members including two independent Non-executive Directors one of whom, Charles Jacobs, is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Company, Alberto Baillres, who was not independent at the time of his appointment, is also a member.
The Board believes that Mr Baillres experience and knowledge of the Group and the Mexican market and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration Committees deliberations justifies his membership of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Baillres is not involved in matters concerning his own remuneration.
The following sections of this report explain how the principles of the Code were applied and provide cross-references to other sections of the report and or the Companys website www.
com where more detailed descriptions are available.
