Corporate governance Chairmans introduction Promoting long-term success while maintaining aculture of openness and transparency I am pleased to present Funding Circles first Corporate Governance Report which incorporates reports from the Chairsofeach of our BoardCommittees.
Governance activity Our Corporate Governance Report describes the work we havedone throughout the IPO process to develop our Board and Committee processes and to support the development ofa robust governance structure.
I would like to thank the Board members for their continued support in ensuring timely, robust and constructive challenge around the Board table.
In preparation for listing, the Board either approved existing policies or established new policies, where necessary, with the aim of further strengthening the Companys governance framework.
We consider a sound governance framework key in the creation of value for our shareholders and in growing the Company over the medium to long term.
We aim to maintain open and transparent communication with our shareholders and we laid the foundations for this ongoing shareholder dialogue as we progressed through the listing process this year.
We have held a number of meetings with institutional shareholders prior to and since admission to trading and we look forward to continuing to proactively engage with shareholders in an open and transparent way throughout 2019.
Bringing together an experienced, highly skilled and well-balanced Board was a key aim for our listing.
We are delighted with the addition of Geeta Gopalan and Cath Keers, whose experience complements our existing Board and will be invaluable as we Dear shareholders continue to grow and build a category-defining global company.
The Board and I look forward to an exciting year ahead in the UK Corporate Governance Code evolution of the business and I would like to thank all of our The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate colleagues for their contribution during 2018. governance and, since the date of admission, has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016 the 2016 Code.
Andrew Learoyd Chairman The Board has also considered the impact of the revised 7 March 2019 UKCorporate Governance Code published in July 2018 theNew Code.
The New Code places increased emphasis on culture and stakeholder including workforce engagement.
As people and culture have always been considered fundamental to the success of the business, we believe we are already in a good place in these areas, but intend to spend some time during the coming year to ensure that our approach is in line with the New Code requirements whilst remaining appropriate for our business.
The Corporate Governance Report section of the Annual Report sets out how we have complied with the principles of the 2016 Code during the year, highlighting key areas of focus and challenge for the Board and its Committees.
46 Funding Circle Holdings plc Corporate governance This Corporate Governance Report explainskey features of the Companys governance framework and sets out how the Company has applied the main principles of the 2016 Code.
The 2016 Code can be found on the FRC website, www.
TheBoard considers that theCompany has been compliant with the 2016Code provisions as applied during theperiod since listing.
We discuss our focus for the coming year with reference to the New Code.
This report is set out under the following headings of the New Code: 1.
Board leadership and Company purpose see page 48 2.
Division of responsibilities see page 54 3.
Composition, succession and evaluation see page 55 4.
Audit, risk and internal control see page 56 5.
Remuneration see page 56 Consideration of the New Code The Board has considered the New Code, which applies to financial years commencing on orafter 1 January 2019.
A detailed analysis of the impact of the New Code has been carried out by the Company Secretary, who has identified areas requiring further attention over the coming year including formalisation of the extensive workforce engagement already in place.
The Company Secretary will work with the Board and its Committees in 2019 to ensure that appropriate steps are taken to move towards compliance with the New Code.
We will report further on any changes to the Companys governance framework in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
47 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance
