52 Galliford Try plc Chairmans review The right decisions at the right time for stability and future growth Following my first Chairmans review last Governance developments year, I am again delighted to be reporting The Board is mindful of the introduction to you as Chairman of the Board.
of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code applicable to financial years The Board takes its corporate governance beginning on or after 1 January 2019 responsibilities very seriously and I am and will undertake any further work pleased to confirm the Company has necessary to ensure that it continues fully complied with the provisions of the to operate to the highest standards of April 2016 UK Corporate Governance corporate governance.
Code the 2016 Code during the 2018 financial year.
In March 2018, the Group published its Gender Pay Report for 2018.
Board and Committee changes While the markets we operate in have There were a number of changes to the been traditionally male dominated, Board and its Committees during the year.
we acknowledge the pay gap between On 1 September 2017, Jeremy Townsend men and women is high across the Group.
joined the Board as a Non-executive The Board is committed to addressing Director.
Following the stepping down such under-representation through the of Andrew Jenner as a Non-executive implementation of a long-term strategy Director and Chair of the Audit Committee to increase representation of women in all after the 2017 Annual General Meeting its workforce, including senior positions.
AGM held on 10 November 2017, The strategy has led to the development Jeremy Townsend became Chair of the of a range of programmes to focus on the Audit Committee on that date.
Also, with key areas of attraction, retention and effect from 1 September 2017, I took progression.
These include the promotion over from Terry Miller as Chair of the of careers in construction and targeted Nomination Committee.
recruitment campaigns, the establishment of a womens network forum, promotion of With effect from 10 November 2017, agile working arrangements, career breaks Ishbel Macpherson stepped down as a and women returners programmes, Our ethos of strong corporate Non-executive Director and Chair of the inclusive development and coaching Remuneration Committee.
Terry Miller governance, evidenced by programmes page 45. was appointed Interim Chair of the the successful rights issue, Remuneration Committee from that date.
The second report by Hampton-Alexander further strengthens the Following a review and search process, on gender diversity was published in Marisa Cassoni joined the Board on Groups balance sheet and November 2017 and extended to 1 September 2018.
It is intended that FTSE 250 companies in addition to FTSE supports the Groups strategic Terry Miller will step down as Interim 100 companies the recommendation for growth opportunities.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 33% of leadership roles to be held by following publication of the Groups women.
In addition, the final version of Peter Ventress half year results in February 2019 and Sir John Parkers report into ethnic Chairman Marisa Cassoni will become the new diversity of UK boards was published in Chair of the Remuneration Committee, October 2017.
The report recommends having met the requirements under the that each FTSE 250 board should have 2016 Code.
More details on Marisa at least one director from an ethnic Cassonis appointment and induction minority background by 2024 and that can be found on page 59. recruitment practices, mentoring schemes and leadership programmes are Board performance evaluation reviewed to ensure there is a pipeline of A key requirement of good governance is capable candidates from diverse ethnic that an evaluation of the Board is carried backgrounds.
The Nomination Committee out annually, with an externally facilitated continues to focus on effective succession evaluation undertaken at least every three planning and opportunities to increase years.
The Board undertook an internal the levels of diversity, including gender performance evaluation in April 2018, and ethnicity, at both Board and senior the results of which confirmed the Board management levels.
and its Committees continue to operate Succession planning continues to be at effectively and have the appropriate the forefront with policies strengthened balance of skills, knowledge and and procedures further embedded into experience to draw on.
An update on the the business.
The identification of internal performance evaluation in April successors at Executive, business and 2017, together with recommendations function levels continues, along with and actions from the 2018 evaluation, an integrated approach to leadership can be found on pages 55 and 56. development for both senior and emerging An external evaluation will be carried leaders and six-monthly succession out next year in line with the 2016 Code.
reviews at Executive and business levels have been introduced.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 53 Financial Statements 2018 The EU Directive on disclosure of non-financial and diversity information Group governance structure the Directive, implemented in the UK As at 30 June 2018 in December 2016, applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
Accordingly, we have reviewed the requirements of the Directive and have, as appropriate, disclosed relevant non-financial and diversity information plc Board throughout this Annual Report.
We have included a summary table on page 49 in the Strategic Report highlighting where relevant non-financial information can be found.
Directors: 6 Formal meetings annually: 8 Annual General Meeting The Company will be holding its AGM on 9 November 2018 at the offices of CMS Cameron McKenna Nabarro Olswang LLP, Cannon Place, 78 Cannon Street, London EC4N 6AF, where the Board will be pleased to welcome shareholders, answer questions, listen to suggestions and Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive encourage their participation in the Committee Committee Committee Board business to be discussed at the meeting.
On behalf of the Board, I look forward to meeting with shareholders at the AGM.
Directors: 3 Directors: 4 Directors: 4 Members: 7 Peter Ventress Formal meetings Formal meetings Formal meetings Meetings annually: 10 Chairman annually: 3 annually: 2 annually: 3 Executive Risk Committee Members: 7 Meetings annually: 3 Site visits such as the one to West Calder School in West Lothian help the Board to shape culture Partnerships & Construction & within our Group Linden Homes Regeneration Investments Executive Board Executive Board Divisional Board Members: 8 Members: 7 Members: 7 Meetings annually: 11 Meetings annually: 11 Meetings annually: 12
