42 CHAIRMANS LETTER STRONG CORPORATE G GO OVVEERRNAN NANCCEE Dear Shareholder This was another busy and constructive year for the THE BOARD Board, as we continued to focus on providing the leadership and oversight the Group requires to CONTINUES successfully implement the strategy.
We were TO PROVIDE pleased that this years Board evaluation once again showed that the Board is functioning well.
HIGH-QUALITY LEADERSHIP Last years evaluation identified strategic clarity, TO THE GROUP riskanalysis, succession planning and shareholder communication as priorities for the Board this year.
BOB LAWSON We made good progress in each of these areas, as CHAIR OF THE BOARD this report explains.
We were also delighted to further strengthen the Board, with the recruitment of Lesley Knox and Ian Charles as Non-Executive Directors.
Their comprehensive induction programmes include meetings with senior management to discuss strategy, financial performance, operations, risks andopportunities: site visits and meetings with employees to provide insight into our bovine, porcine and R&D business units: and corporate governance seminars.
This will give them a thorough grounding in Genus and help them to maximise their contribution to the Board.
Genus complied in full with the 2016 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which was theapplicable standard for this year.
We continue tomonitor changes to the governance environment, including the newly released 2018 edition of the Code, 1 to ensure ongoing compliance.
Bob Lawson Chair of the Board 5 September 2018 1 A copy of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council website.
Genus plc | Annual Report 2018 S TR ATE G I C C OR P OR AT E F I NAN C I AL AD D I T I O final 43 R E P OR T G O V E R NAN C E S TAT EM EN T S IN F OR M AT I ON OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We aim to provide genuine insight into the Boards activities and to clearly explain how our corporate governance framework functions.
Set out below is an explanation of how we report on governance, aligned with the Codes five key principles.
Principle Highlights More Information We further strengthened the Board Board of Directors and Company LEADERSHIP by recruiting two Non-Executive Secretary pages 44 to 45 Information on the composition of Directors, adding different The Boards Year in Review the Board and its Committees, the perspectives and experiences pages 48 to 51 Directors roles and responsibilities, totheBoard.
Leadership pages 52 to 54 and their key activities this year.
The annual evaluation confirmed The Boards Year in Review EFFECTIVENESS that the Board continues to work pages 48 to 51 How we ensure the Board has the effectively and highlighted areas of Nomination Committee Report right mix of skills and experience, focus for the coming year.
pages 59 to 61 and the results of the annual Boardevaluation.
The Audit Committee and Board Audit Committee Report ACCOUNTABILITY continued their robust focus pages 62 to 64 An explanation of our risk on risk management and control, Internal Audit and Risk Management management and internal controls, including biosecurity.
pages 55 to 56 and the Audit Committees activities during the year.
The Executive Directors met Relations with Shareholders and RELATIONS WITH institutional investors owning almost Other Stakeholders pages 57 to 58 SHAREHOLDERS 63.2% of our share capital, including 20 of our 25 largest shareholders, as Includes our investor relations well as many potential investors.
calendar, data on the shareholders we met during the year, and the key themes discussed at investor meetings.
The Remuneration Committee Remuneration Report REMUNERATION continued to focus on delivery of pages 65 to 88 Our approach to rewarding and reward within the Policy agreed by incentivising the Directors and a shareholders, effective alignment of report on their remuneration for reward with business outcomes, theyear.
and the structure of reward across the wider organisation.
