66 GSK Annual Report 2018 Chairmans Governance statement Our purpose and values have always been a source of great pride for the Board and our employees.
It is a powerful force in attracting and retaining talented people who, as individuals, want to be part of a company that contributes meaningfully to society.
Dear Shareholder The Reforms came into effect on 1 January 2019 and seek to drive a I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance report for 2018. number of changes to companies underlying corporate governance processes.
As a result, the Board has reviewed our existing practices Our governance structure operates from the Board across the Group to identify where they are in line with the Reforms and implemented and we believe it underpins our ability to deliver our strategy and enhancements where appropriate.
We will report against the create long-term value and benefit for our shareholders and Reforms in next years Annual Report to allow time to embed these stakeholders.
new practices in our corporate governance framework and to monitor I can confirm that throughout 2018 the company complied with their operation and effectiveness.
the requirements of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK However, I wish to highlight in this Report some of the more Corporate Governance Code current Code except that Dr Vivienne significant implementation steps which may be of interest to our Cox was unable to attend the companys 2018 AGM.
She was investors and wider stakeholders.
These include the early publication required to attend a board meeting of another public company as of our CEO pay ratio on page 106 and the designation of Dr Vivienne their Senior Independent Director and Nomination & Governance Cox as our Workforce Engagement Director, which is discussed on Chair.
This resulted in partial non-compliance with current Code page 90.
We have also further strengthened reporting on our provision E. 2.3. stakeholder relationships agenda by: A copy of the current Code is available on www.
summarising our approach and the mechanisms we have in place The following pages set out details on the composition of our Board, to promote stakeholder engagement on page 11: its corporate governance arrangements, processes and activities highlighting the specific role our Corporate Responsibility during the year, together with reports from each of the Boards Committee plays in monitoring, identifying and addressing the Committees.
In addition, related statutory disclosures are set out in evolving views and expectations of our broad range of the Shareholder Information section on pages 251 to 270. stakeholders on pages 92 and 93: and Corporate governance reform describing how we respond to the expectations of our stakeholders to remain commercially successful, protect our During the year, The Companies Miscellaneous Reporting reputation and build trust by: Regulations 2018 were published in conjunction with the FRCs new using our science and technology to reduce health needs Code the Reforms.
The Reforms seek to raise the bar on existing corporate governance practices and encourage companies to making our products more affordable and available demonstrate their broader responsibility within society, in fulfilment of being a modern employer.
the Governments aim to build trust in business.
At their core, they: require boards to report on how they have had regard to matters set out in section 172 of the Companies Act 2006, including stakeholder impacts, when fulfilling their directors duties: introduce new requirements around employee consultation, pay practices, board culture, composition and diversity: and encourage companies to report on how the new Codes principles have been applied each year.
67 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our purpose, strategy and culture Succession process Our purpose is to help people do more, feel better and live longer In closing, I informed the Board at the start of the year of my intention and this is underpinned by our values of patient focus, integrity, to retire from the Board once a successor has been appointed.
Our purpose and values have always been Senior Independent Director, Vindi Banga, is leading the process to a source of great pride for the Board and our employees.
It is a identify and recruit my successor to lead the Board into the next powerful force in attracting and retaining talented people who, phase of its development.
His update on the process and the desired as individuals, want to be part of a company that contributes attributes sought in a new Chairman are set out on page 78. meaningfully to society.
Emma Walmsley was keen to preserve It has been a privilege to serve as Chairman of GSK for the last four this commitment to our purpose and values as she and her team years and to observe the positive impact on the company that Emma developed the companys priorities around IPT, supported by has made in such a relatively short time as CEO.
This Annual Report evolving a culture to foster more pace and performance edge.
The demonstrates the clarity of the current strategy that has resulted in an Board receives regular papers from the CEO, Head of Human improvement in the performance of the business.
However, I feel that Resources and our global businesses, that update it on progress on it is the right time to hand over the reins to a new Chair to have a clear the alignment between our strategy and our performance and run at overseeing the eventual separation of GSK into two worldvalues-based culture that was introduced at the start of 2018. class businesses.
In doing so, I am confident that my successor will Culture change in a complex, global organisation such as GSK takes continue the crucial role of the Chair in promoting and supporting our time and sustained effort.
However, we are seeing some encouraging strategy for the long-term benefit of our shareholders, patients, signs that our new expectations are taking effect and supporting our employees and other stakeholders.
This ultimately should enable swifter progress in getting I commend this report to all of our stakeholders.
new medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products to our patients and consumers around the world.
Philip Hampton Risk management Chairman The Board continues to consider GSKs Enterprise risks and the 11 March 2019 strategies to address them.
Reviews of the risks were undertaken throughout the course of the year, including whether the key Enterprise risks affecting the respective businesses are being managed and mitigated in a proportionate way, and managements commitment to maintain a strong controls culture.
Also of note is the recent decision by the Serious Fraud Office, in the UK, to close its investigation having concluded that no further action is required.
The investigation had focused on commercial practices by the company, its subsidiaries and associated persons.
The companys own findings have led to further improvements in the control environment.
Investigations by the US Securities and Exchange Commission and Department of Justice remain ongoing.
