STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We use a wide range of communication channels Why is good governance important to Are there any material changes to Go-Aheads including social media, thought leadership and Go-Ahead?
new remuneration policy this year?
Q Q roundtable events to engage with our stakeholders.
The Our robust governance framework, which starts with the The remuneration committee undertook a detailed review feedback from these forms part of our decision-making Board and runs throughout the business, supports the of our remuneration policy during the year, which process and helps us continuously improve as we development and delivery of our strategy and risk included alternative approaches to long term incentives.
progress towards our vision and long term objectives.
It ensures that we discharge our duties The committee determined it was not appropriate to effectively and to the highest of standards.
Read more about how the Board listens to our fundamentally change the policy at this time.
The minor stakeholders on pages 68 and 69. changes which have been proposed are intended to bring On 16 July 2018, the Financial Reporting Council the policy further in line with best practice, while also published the new Corporate Governance Code.
We allowing for a modest amount of additional flexibility in Do you consider the Board has the right skills, welcome the changes the new Code brings, where the the way the policy is operated.
Katherine Innes Ker, experience and behaviours?
emphasis is on workforce and stakeholders, culture, Q Remuneration Committee Chair, led the consultation on succession, diversity and remuneration.
These are We have a diverse Board whose members have a mix of the new policy that is subject to approval by shareholders already key areas of Board focus and implementing the skills and experience.
The externally facilitated Board at this years annual general meeting.
We are grateful to new Codes changes will support the work the Board development programme undertaken last year was key to shareholders and their representative bodies for their already plans to do over the year ahead.
helping us understand and leverage the skills already on engagement.
The programme also identified gaps where Read more about the Boards robust governance A summary of the changes proposed is set out on page 83 certain skills, experience and behaviours would framework on pages 56 and 57. andthe full remuneration policy is set out on pages 87 to complement the existing Board.
This formed the basis of 93 inclusive.
our recruitment process to replace Nick Horler who What role does the Board have in shaping the retired as a non-executive director at the conclusion of culture of the Group?
Q How does the Board deliver Go-Aheads The Board plays a key role in the 2017annual general meeting.
Good standards of behaviour start with the Board and we strategic goals?
Q shaping the culture of the Group.
In October 2017, we welcomed Harry Holt and Leanne are committed to leading by example.
Throughout the Board strategy remains focused around our three core Wood to the Board as new non-executive directors.
Good standards of behaviour start year, the Board has monitored the progress of the pillars: to protect and grow the core businesses, to win Together they bring the skills, experience and behaviours Group-wide culture change programme and assessed the new bus and rail contracts and to develop for the future with the Board and we are which support our strategic direction, vision and culture.
extent to which the vision, beliefs and attitudes have been of transport.
In addition to the annual Board Strategy Day, committed to leading by example.
The Board recognises With the changes in Board composition, our female strategy is an integral part of regular Board discussion.
that it is our colleagues who bring the value of culture to representation has increased from 17% to 29%.
The The Boards executive reports are structured to allow for life in their day-to-day roles.
We receive updates on a Board remains committed to improving diversity in the the appropriate time and debate on each of the Groups Andrew Allner, wide range of key culture indicators such as inclusion broadest sense and will continue to monitor the Groups strategic priorities at every meeting.
Regular updates are Chairman and diversity initiatives, colleague engagement survey inclusion and diversity strategies.
received from the executive directors and senior results, succession planning and talent pipelines.
managers on performance against strategic objectives, Read more on pages 72 to 75. and strategic developments.
During the year, the Chairman and non-executive directors visited many of our operating companies which The Board is ever mindful of the Groups contribution to provided an opportunity to hear our colleagues views on society.
Our focus on reputation and stakeholder What were the findings of the Board evaluation a variety of matters.
These visits continue to play an engagement, culture, innovation and developing a Q review this year?
invaluable part in understanding how the culture is sustainable business are just some of the examples of An internal review, led by the Group Company Secretary, changing throughout the organisation.
the work the Board has undertaken to support the I am pleased to present the corporate was undertaken this year.
The review assessed progress delivery of the wider business strategy.
Read about the Boards visit to Brighton and Hove Buses governance report for the year ended against the outputs from last years externally facilitated on page 70.
Italso drew upon the 30 June 2018.
This report should be proposed revisions to the Code, namely culture, sustainable read in conjunction with the section value creation, diversity andstakeholder engagement.
What is the Boards approach to stakeholder on how we have complied with the Q engagement?
The review confirmed that the Board is strong and 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code The services we operate are very important to our collegiate with all members demonstrating behaviours customers and the communities we serve, and we which support our strategic direction, vision and culture.
Ican workcollaboratively with our stakeholders to address Each director has the opportunity to contribute and confirm that the Group has complied expectations, needs and concerns.
Delivering sustainable challenge, which enables a constructive and quality shareholder value and contributing to the wider society debate during Board meetings.
Key themes emerging in full with the Code duringthe year.
are key to the long term success of the Group.
We from the review this year, which have formed the basis understand that it is important to consider the interests ofthe Boards action plan for the year ahead, include of all of our stakeholders when making decisions which continuing the focus on culture and diversity and further may affect them.
One of the focus areas during the year developing our reputation and stakeholder engagement has been to improve theupdates the Board receives on programmes.
Ensuring enough time is set aside to each of our stakeholder groups.
This will continue to be a systematically review the Groups long term strategy focus over the year ahead.
andvalue creation will also be an important focus area, particularly in the context of maintaining our forwardWe discuss the results of our colleague engagement and thinking approach.
customer satisfaction surveys and actively participate in debates and consultations on matters which are important Read more about this years internal Board review on pages 66 and 67. to our business and the communities in which we operate.
52 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
