Governance CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE Grainger has a long and established heritage in residential property and continues to lead the way in the PRS.
The current strategy was launched in January 2016 and the Board and I considered that it was the right time to have a detailed review of Graingers strategy, which we did during the summer of 2018.
We considered issues such as how to materially increase our PRS base through forward funding and direct development opportunities.
We spent time reviewing the operational requirements to support a larger scale PRS business, including the technological and people needs in this regard.
Lastly, we looked at how the business was developing its customer proposition and the degree of cultural change needed to embed it.
The Non-Executive Directors and I challenged the Executive team on their proposals, and as a group we helped shape the strategy to look beyond that articulated in 2016.
As we progress the next phase of our development, the Board will provide continued oversight and advice through this period of change maintaining the appropriate balance between supporting and questioning management.
Good governance also means ensuring we have rigorous risk management and controls.
The Mark Clare application of the skills and experience of the Directors, coupled Chairman with the substantial work of the Audit Committee, provides strong governance for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
To learn more about our Board activity in 2018, please see page 44.
Highlights Culture Full compliance with the Code during the year.
The culture of a business is crucially important to its successful Board review of strategy which focused on increasing the performance over the long term.
The Financial Reporting Council scale of our PRS business and pipeline, how we best utilise FRC 2016 report Corporate Culture and the Role of Boards our development capabilities, achieving operational articulates how directors can influence and contribute to fostering excellence and delivery.
a strong and positive corporate culture.
Whilst the culture of the As part of the Boards continued corporate culture organisation comes up in many aspects of the Boards work, at the programme, details of our employees views on the Company September 2018 Board meeting we spent time specifically and culture were sought and shared with the Board.
As part of this we received a Investor engagement showcasing our product, including presentation from the HR Director on our people strategy, development-focused investor presentation.
employee engagement programme and survey, which included Internal review of Board effectiveness.
details of our employees views on the Company.
We provide further details on our culture and employee engagement on page 28.
During the year, I have also spent time with our employees Dear shareholders, from across the business, which included visits to our Newcastle This is my second year as Graingers Chairman, and I have office.
I took these opportunities to meet with staff and to gauge thoroughly enjoyed being part of this exciting business which is their views on the business, the strategy and its implementation.
leading in the private rented sector PRS and going through much change to deliver its strategy.
Whilst the business continues to successfully execute its strategy and carry out its operations, the Directors and I are committed to applying effective corporate governance and promoting the highest standards throughout the Company.
I am therefore very pleased to introduce this years corporate governance report.
38 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information My impression of the culture of the Company is that its staff are Diversity proud to work for Grainger and it has an open culture.
There is a Grainger believes that a diverse perspective is key to success and strong understanding of the strategic direction of business and a supports the aspiration of the Hampton-Alexander Review to drive to achieve it.
This openness fosters a willingness across the promote greater female representation on listed company boards, business to share ideas and engage with the operational changes and achieve 33% female representation.
As at the date of this that are required to deliver those improvements.
In particular, staff report, Grainger is marginally below this level with 29% Board are enthusiastic about the forthcoming technological changes that gender diversity.
The Board aims to have at least one-third of will enhance the service to our customers.
As a Board, we need to directors being female from 2019 onwards.
continue to encourage this openness and engagement, and ensure we have a culture that puts customers at the heart of our business.
Diversity is of course much wider than gender.
The Board and the Nominations Committee also have regard to the Parker Review on Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance ethnic diversity.
Diversity of thought is also hugely important to the Code 2016 the Code Board.
By bringing together Executive and Non-Executive Directors The governance rules applying to all UK companies on the Official with diverse backgrounds and experience, we gain enormously from List of the UK Listing Authority are set out in the Code, published by varied perspectives across a range of issues.
Please see page 29 for the FRC.
You can obtain copies of the Code from www.
further details of diversity in our business.
The Board fully supports the principles set out in the Code, and confirms we have complied with all its provisions throughout the Board evaluation financial year ended 30 September 2018.
This year the evaluation of Board effectiveness was carried out internally, with 2017 having been externally facilitated.
I also took This report sets out Graingers governance policies and practices, the opportunity to have one-to-one sessions with each of the and includes details of how the Company applies the principles and Directors to obtain their views on the Board and governance of the complies with the provisions of the Code.
We provide further details on page 46.
Throughout 2018 the Board has also been monitoring the Stakeholder engagement consultation and finalisation of the new UK Corporate Governance The Board regards strong engagement with stakeholders and Code which comes into force next year New Code.
The Board and investors as fundamental to understanding their views.
We are also its Committees are working to ensure compliance with the New supportive of the emphasis the New Code puts on the wider Code and look forward to reporting our progress in the coming stakeholder group.
Please see page 55 for examples of our work years.
Board composition and independence Specifically regarding our investors, Helen Gordon and Vanessa In accordance with the Code, all current Directors, with the Simms had regular meetings with the Companys shareholders and exception of Tony Wray, who is retiring, will stand for re-election at analysts throughout the year.
In particular, during 2018 we held a the 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Tony has served on the series of individual and group site visits for investors at the Argo Board for over six years and during his time he also chaired the Risk Apartments PRS scheme in Canning Town, which culminated in a and Compliance Committee.
In particular, Tonys significant successful investor presentation day.
operational expertise has made a substantial contribution to Grainger during a period of material change.
On behalf of the Board, When I met with our major shareholders after my appointment, I I would like to thank Tony for his excellent service to the Company made it clear that I am happy to engage with them should they and wish him well for the future.
We anticipate that we will engage with fund managers and corporate governance officers of our major shareholders in advance Details of the Directors are set out on pages 42 and 43, together of the AGM in February 2019.
We provide further details of our with a summary of their experience and skills.
shareholder engagement programme on pages 56 to 58.
The Board reviews Non-Executive Director independence annually, Mark Clare and takes into account each individuals professional characteristics, Chairman their behaviour at Board meetings, and their contribution to unbiased 13 November 2018 and independent debate.
The Board agreed that I was independent on my appointment as Chairman and this remains the case.
The Board considers all the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39
