64 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Board changes GVC IS NOW IN THE THIRD YEAR In 2018 we have continued the process of refreshing the Board as we grow, this has involved some key announcements about OF ITS GOVERNANCE JOURNEY changes to the membership of the Board including: SINCE JOINING THE MAIN In June we announced the appointment of Virginia McDowell as an independent Non-executive Director.
Virginia has more than 35 MARKET IN 2016.
AS THE GROUP years of experience in the US gambling industry, having been the President and CEO of publicly listed Isle of Capri Casinos until her HAS GROWN WE HAVE SOUGHT retirement in 2016 and she remains the Vice-Chair of Global Gaming Women, a non-profit organisation with a mission to support, inspire TO UPGRADE OUR CORPORATE and inuence the development of women in the gaming industry through education and mentoring.
GOVERNANCE PRACTISES TO In September we announced the appointment of Pierre Bouchut as a Non-executive Director and the new Chairman of the Audit ADDRESS THE ADDITIONAL Committee.
Pierre has 40 years in senior management roles in finance, European retail and European property.
He was previously COMPLEXITY OF THE GROUP the COO for Europe and Indonesia at Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N. V. and the CFO at Delhaize Group SA, Carrefour SA, Schneider AND TO MEET STAKEHOLDER Electric SA and Casino 1995-2003, where he also served as CEO.
He is a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit EXPECTATIONS.
Committee at Hammerson plc and Firmenich SA and a Director and Chairman ofthe Audit, Accounts and Risks Committee of Albioma SA.
He is alsoa Non-executive Director of GeoPost SA.
Pierre succeeded Stephen Morana as Chairman of the Audit Lee Feldman Committee, a position he had held since his appointment to the Chairman Board in February 2016 and the change was made following 5 March 2019 Stephen succeeding Will Whitehorn as the Senior Independent Director in June.
Will had offered to step down as a Director to help GVC deliver on its commitment, as detailed in our 2017 annual report, to bring greater diversity and international perspective tothecomposition of the Board.
In October we announced that our CFO, Paul Bowtell, would be leaving GVC in March 2019 to take up a new position in private equity.
The Board wishes Paul well with his new role and welcomes Rob Wood, GVCs Deputy CFO, who steps up as Pauls successor in March.
Robs appointment demonstrates the strong bench of talent within GVC: and In December Karl Diacono stepped down as a Non-executive Director after ten years of service to GVC.
Id like to take the opportunity again to thank him for his contribution.
The Nominations Committee is in the process of identifying another new independent Non-executive Director, commentary on which iscontained in my Nominations Committee Report on pages 74 and 75.
As a result of these changes, the Board now consists of myself as Chairman, two Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors the Board regards as independent and, as disclosed above and in the Nominations Committee Report we are looking to appoint a further independent Non-executive Director.
The Nominations Committee is cognisant of the expectations of shareholders that ideally women should form at least one third of the membership ofthe Board.
Biographies for the existing Directors are contained on pages66and67.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 65 2018 AGM and Shareholder Engagement CSR Committee At the 2018 AGM a significant minority of shareholders voted against In June the Board formed a new committee, the Corporate Social the approval of the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report and also the Responsibility or CSR Committee.
In recognition of the increased scale re-appointment of Peter Isola, a Non-executive Director.
We engaged and complexity of the Group, with licenses in more than 20 jurisdictions with shareholders in the lead up to the 2018 AGM and later in the and the number of employees increasing from 3,000 to more than year when the Senior Independent Director and I conducted a 25,000 the Board considered it appropriate to delegate oversight of corporate governance roadshow amongst our largest shareholders.
matters relating to regulatory compliance, AML, responsible gaming, I would like to thank all the shareholders that took up our invitation for health and safety, environmental impact, data protection and diversity their feedback.
in the workplace to this new committee.
The committee is chaired by Virginia McDowell.
A report from the CSR Committee can be found Jane Anscombe, GVCs Remuneration Committee Chair, sets out onpage53.
in her statement on pages82to102 the areas of concern some of our shareholders have with our remuneration practices.
Whilst we Engagement understand these issues, it is important that shareholders recognise how far GVC has come.
Jane has done a sterling job since she joined As we head into the busy AGM season, I appreciate our shareholders the Board in 2017, leading the Groups huge transition from a highly will be swamped with the need to digest numerous annual reports, entrepreneurial incentive approach, using fair market value options to AGM notices and proxy advisor reports.
I and my fellow Directors a new remuneration policy and incentive plans that are in line with the and the Company Secretary are available to discuss any matters expected practices of large listed companies.
I appreciate executive shareholders may have about GVCs governance and remuneration remuneration remains a concern for all UK stakeholders and I will practices.
In particular I would welcome shareholders engaging with ensure we continue to engage with shareholders about any concerns usas soon as possible should they be considering voting against around our remuneration practices and seek to strike a balance anyof the resolutions due to be put forward at the AGM on 5 June.
between meeting shareholder expectations, whilst retaining our executive management team and appropriately incentivising them to Lee Feldman continue to drive strong long-term shareholder returns.
Chairman Peter Isola was re-appointed at last years AGM with 57% of the vote, 5 March 2019 however, we were surprised by the 43% vote against.
This stemmed from some of the key proxy voting agencies changing their stance in respect of the previous two years to Peters independence on the basis the Group had paid a Gibraltar law rm associated with Peter 63,199, although this was half what GVC had paid the law rm in the previous year.
It is important for those not familiar with Gibraltar to understand that the jurisdiction has a very limited number of legal rms that can service the largest Gibraltar licensed gambling operator and the country is critical to our online gambling business.
Pragmatically the Board felt that in the circumstances this should not undermine Peters independence, particularly in light of proxy advisor commentary in previous years and the level of fees was actually reduced and was not material.
The Board, however, accepts the concerns expressed last year and Peter stepped down from the Remuneration Committee immediately and the Group no longer retains his law rm for any work.
In the circumstances, the Board continues to regard Peter as independent and his contributions, particularly on regulatory and Gibraltar matters, especially in the context of BREXIT, are important and valued.
Despite the Boards judgement, Peter will not serve as a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees for the time-being to allay any shareholder concerns regarding the independence of these committees.
Following on from the extensive corporate governance roadshow that our Senior Independent Director and myself conducted in the Autumn of 2018 as outlined on page 93 we will be engaging extensively with shareholders again ahead of our 2019 AGM on 5 June.
