68 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED LEADERSHIP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW HOW IS THE BOARD ORGANISED AND DOES IT OVERSEE MANAGEMENT?
CEO CFO Runs the Companys business.
Ensures future business decisions are grounded in solid financial criteria.
Proposes and develops GVCs strategy and overall commercial objectives in conjunction Provides insight and analysis to support withthe Chairman.
the CEO and senior executive team.
Responsible, with the senior executive team Leads key initiatives in finance that for implementing the decisions of the Board supportoverall strategic goals.
Funds, enables and executes the strategy MANAGEMENT setby the CEO.
Promotes and conducts affairs of GVC with the highest standards of integrity, Develops and defines the overall strategy probityand corporate governance.
Manages the leadership team and Presents the organisations progress promotesthestrategic mission and goals onstrategic goals to external stakeholders.
Engages with external stakeholders to explain the corporate goals and progress of the business strategy.
CHAIRMAN Oversees the effective running of the Board.
Ensures that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of GVCs strategy and overall commercial objectives.
Acts as a guardian of the Boards decision-making.
Promotes the highest standards ofintegrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company and particularly at Board level.
Oversees the effective engagement with the Companys various stakeholders.
SID NED As well as performing the normal duties Constructively challenges and contributes expectedof a NED, the SID also: to the development of strategy.
Is available to shareholders if they have Scrutinises the performance of management concerns which contact through the in meeting agreed goals and objectives and Chairman, CFO or CEO has failed to resolve monitors the reporting of performance.
or for which contact is inappropriate.
satisfies themselves that financial information Leads the NEDs in evaluating performance is accurate and that both controls and the ofthe Chairman, taking into account the systems of risk management are robust viewsofExecutive Directors.
Maintains sufficient contact with shareholders Is responsible for determining appropriate to understand their issues andconcerns.
l evels of remuneration of Executive Directors and has a prime role in succession planning, Performs such other tasks and responsibilities OVERSIGHT appointing and where necessary removing as may be contemplated by the code or best senior management.
practice from time to time.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 69 THE ROLES OF THE BOARD The graphic below illustrates how the Board executes its duties through a structured cascade of responsibilities across the Group.
KEY STAKEHOLDERS: SHAREHOLDERS CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS PARTNERS REGULATORS GOVERNMENTS SPORTS LABELS GAMES LABELS US BUSINESS NON-CORE BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY IMPLEMENTATION OUR EMPLOYEES GUIDANCE AND INSTRUCTION SENIOR EXECUTIVE TEAM DAY-TO-DAY MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CSR COMMITTEE DELEGATION THE BOARD As can be seen from the diagram above, the division of responsibilities financial reporting interim and annual financial results and interim between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established and management statements : their respective roles are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
dividend policy: The Board currently comprises of eight Directors and their biographies Shareholder circulars, convening of shareholder meetings and stock are set out on pages 66 and 67. exchange announcements: The Directors have adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved approval of the Groups remuneration policy following to the Board, setting out which issues must be referred to the Board recommendations from the Remuneration Committee : for decision.
These can be categorised into a number of key areas including but not limited to: approval of the Groups risk management and control framework andthe appointment re-appointment of the external auditors long-term business plan, strategy, budgets and forecasts: following recommendations from the Audit Committee : and restructuring or reorganisation of the Group and material acquisitions approval of the Groups policies in relation to corporate and social and disposals: responsibility, health and safety and the environment.
the Groups finance, banking and capital structure arrangements: In addition, the Board has adopted a delegation of authority mandate approval of capital expenditure and financial guarantees above which sets out the levels of authority for the Executive Directors and certain levels: employees below Board level to follow when managing the Groups business day-to-day.
70 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED LEADERSHIP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW UK Corporate Governance Code Diversity The Directors confirm that throughout 2018 and to date GVC complied The Boards membership is diverse geographically, with nationals from with the main principles and recommendations of the UK Corporate France, Gibraltar, UK and the USA.
This aids the Boards discussions Governance Code the Code published in April 2016 by the Financial and decision-making process given our businesses offer into Reporting Council.
The Code is available online at www.
international markets and operate out of 20 countries.
The FRC published an updated Code in July 2018 for accounting Over the last eight years UK listed companies have been encouraged periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, so the Company will to appoint more women as Directors, in recognition that more than report on its compliance with the latest version of the Code next year.
half the worlds population is female and they may facilitate a better Meeting and Exceeding Best Practice board decision-making process, with more insightful and balanced deliberations.
The GVC Board supports the rationale for seeking The Board feel that the size, structure and diversity of the Board greater gender diversity on boards of Directors and considers this is consistent with best practice in all the key areas including in the diversity matter during the recruitment process.
In 2018 a second following regards: The roles of the CEO and Chairman are separate and woman was appointed to the Board, Virginia McDowell, resulting now distinct: there is a majority of the Board whom are independent: the in women making up 25% of the Board.
Gender remains one of the key Chairman was independent upon appointment: there is an independent areas of consideration for the Nominations Committee and the Board, Senior Non-executive Director: the Audit and Remuneration together with a candidates experience, knowledge and skills.
Committees are 100% independent, with executives only attending on invitation: and all Directors hold themselves accountable to shareholder The Committees by putting themselves up for annual election.
The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and understandable KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Directors have a wide range of backgrounds and extensive This responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable knowledge of many sectors: assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, as well as to information required to be Accountancy presented by statutory requirements.
The Board is also responsible Business development for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and as a consequence it Consumer branding has to maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
E-commerce The Board has appointed a committee of independent Directors, Electronic payments the Audit Committee, to monitor these areas and report and make recommendations to the Board.
Please see the Audit Committee Energy Report on pages76 to 81.
The new Audit Committee Chairman joined Entertainment the Group in September 2018 and presents the Audit Committees Report on pages 76 to 81.
Equity research The Board has adopted a formal and transparent procedure for the Finance and investment appointment of new Directors by appointing a Nominations Committee Land-based gaming to lead the process of appointment and make recommendations to the Board.
The Nominations Committee also advises the Board on Law and regulation its structure, size, composition and matters of Director and senior Online gambling management succession.
A report from the Nominations Committee on its work appears on pages74 and 75.
Property The Board is responsible for setting the levels of remuneration for the Retail Executive Directors and the senior executive team.
It is required to set Technology remuneration to be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors of the quality required to run the Company successfully, but should Travel and leisure avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
The Board has delegated these remuneration matters to a committee of independent Non-executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee.
The Directors Remuneration Report prepared by the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages82 to102.
The fees paid to the Non-executive Directors are a matter for the Board on a recommendation from the Executive Directors.
As described on page65, the Board appointed a CSR Committee in 2018.
This new committee has oversight of matters relating to regulatory compliance, AML, responsible gaming, health and safety, environmental impact, data protection and diversity in the workplace to this new committee.
A report from the CSR Committee can be found on page 53.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018
