Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Chairmans Introduction to Governance Mark Reckitt, Chair of the Audit Committee, gives more insight into this in his report on pages 67 to 72.
In January 2018 we considered the findings and conclusions of a review of our strategy, confirming the Boards belief in the continuation of the Groups strategy of developing leading positions in the niche markets of infrastructure products and galvanizing services.
More information on our strategy, our business model and our markets can be found on pages 8 to 17.
As reported last year the Board received the findings of an externally facilitated Board effectiveness review and during the year have considered what actions should be taken to respond to those conclusions, in light of the 2018 Code recommendations.
More information can be found in our report on Board effectiveness on page 59.
In response to market sentiment, the Board has continued its robust consideration of executive remuneration, considering how to best balance the promotion of the Groups long-term success whilst supporting an appropriate internal culture.
Annette Kelleher, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, Jock Lennox explains more in her report on pages 73 to 82.
Chairman Looking Ahead The Governance landscape has changed considerably during 2018, We have used the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code with BEIS statements on executive directors pay, gender pay, CEO to assess our governance arrangements during 2018.
As a premium pay ratios, and guidance on the application of s172 Companies Act listed issuer on the London Stock Exchange and in accordance 2006: the new Corporate Governance Code published by the FRC with the listing rules, Hill & Smith Holdings PLC has assessed along with associated guidance on Board effectiveness: and also its application of the Code under the headings of: Leadership, publication of the Wates Principles for large private companies Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with which will affect three of our UK subsidiaries.
In doing so the Board can confirm that for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 the Company complied fully The Board has and continues to review the 2018 Code to ensure with the requirements of the Code.
that it can comply during 2019 with its principles and provisions.
We have already started a project to formalise the Companys purpose, Board Dynamics culture and values.
The Board leads the business in a way that is honest, transparent Some of the output of this work can be found in our Strategic and accountable and is ultimately responsible for the delivery of report on pages 10 to 11. the Groups strategy and for the management of risk.
The Board is collectively responsible for ensuring that the business acts We have discussed workforce engagement with the management in the best interests of its shareholders and ensures that the teams of our subsidiaries and whilst we are pleased with the level of Group delivers sustainable profitable growth through the supply top-down engagement, we are considering more options to improve of infrastructure products and galvanizing services: generating total engagement to a level which will support our values and our sustainable value for shareholders, whilst preserving the interests mission to deliver sustainable profitable growth.
of its customers, employees and other stakeholders.
The main facets of this responsibility comprise: consideration of the long-term 2019 is an important year as we seek to ensure that our governance direction and strategy of the Company: the values and standards arrangements continue to support our Groups growth, whilst at within the business: subsidiary company management performance: the same time ensuring that we remained focused on delivering resources: health and safety: risk management: and internal controls.
I would like to thank my Board colleagues and all The Board comprises four Non-executive Directors, including myself, employees for their continuing efforts in developing our Group and as Chairman, and two Executive Directors.
Each director brings a delivering innovative solutions from their companies.
set of skills and experiences to the Board discussions ensuring that a frank exchange of views drives positive decision-making and continues the Companys strategy, which has proven successful in delivering value to shareholders.
More information can be found on the Boards effectiveness in the Governance Report see page 59.
Board Activities During the year we continued to make improvements in our risk management processes, see pages 32 to 34 and strengthen our internal controls environment.
54 Stock Code HILS Situated around environmentally sensitive coastal estuaries on the California coastline, this inert fibre reinforced polymer access walkway provides an approach for the inspection and repair of steel electrical transmission structures.
