Corporate governance Message from our Chair Evolving governance Dear Shareholders During 2018, we have successfully advanced the governance of Hikma through role changes, succession developments, dialogue with stakeholders on remuneration and responding to the evolving governance regulatory landscape.
We have evolved from a family company, to a global company with family values.
Chief Executive Officer Earlier in the year, Siggi Olafsson joined Hikma as Chief Executive Officer CEO and became a member of the Board.
Since that point, Siggi and I have worked very closely on transitioning the responsibilities I previously held in the capacity of CEO under the combined role of Chairman and Chief Executive.
Over 2018, a significant proportion of my time has been spent empowering our new CEO and developing strategy together.
I am delighted that Siggi has joined us, he significantly strengthens our team and we have already made significant progress due to his leadership of the executive.
Board composition At our AGM in May we bade Ron Goode Said Darwazah farewell.
Rons retirement brings to a close the Executive Chairman era of the Independent Directors who joined early in Hikmas listed life and were instrumental in developing our capabilities and leadership.
Effectiveness We have evolved from a family Under Rons guidance, the Compliance, Having undertaken an extensive evaluation company, to a global company Responsibility and Ethics Committee and our exercise in 2017 that contributed towards business integrity programme were created.
some of the governance changes that I have with family values.
outlined today, we undertook a shorter form evaluation in 2018.
It was clear from the most I am delighted to confirm that Cynthia recent exercise that the changes we have Schwalm will be joining the Board as an made and the manner in which we have independent non-executive director with executed them were both rated very highly.
Cynthia brings a There are some areas that we will be working wealth of pharmaceutical experience which on over the course of 2019 which are discussed is invaluable following Rons retirement.
Additionally, her appointment ensures that we continue to make progress enhancing Employee engagement gender diversity on the Board.
Our founder, my father, was fundamentally committed to supporting, empowering and Over the course of the next year we will further developing the people who worked for him.
develop our succession planning for both Accordingly, I am delighted that, going forward, the non-executive directors and the Nina Henderson will be engaging with our executive team.
people and bringing further employee perspective to our decision-making.
Committees Our Board Committees undertake a significant If there are any matters that you wish to workload of important governance and discuss, please do not hesitate to contact me.
listing related tasks that enable the Board to concentrate on business performance, strategy and risk related issues.
I am pleased to report that the performance evaluation exercise highlighted that the Committees are operating highly effectively.
I would like to Said Darwazah thank the Chairs of our Committees for their Executive Chairman commitment and dedication.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 63
