Corporate governance overview Introduction Huntings governance procedures Huntings governance framework has remained strong have remained robust, with the during 2018, with key initiatives to enhance the Groups Company becoming fully compliant structure being put in place in the second half of the year, including the formation of an Executive Committee.
This to the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Committee was formed on 30 August 2018 as part of Code in the year.
Further, a number Huntings strategic planning.
The Committee reports directly to the Board and its members align with the of improvements were implemented reporting segments introduced in 2017.
Members of the during 2018, including the formation Executive Committee are noted on page 58. of an Executive Committee, Governance Framework Company Board comprising senior operational and Committees managers of the Group.
After a relationship extending nearly Board of Directors 30 years,  will retire as external auditors at the Companys AGM in April 2019, with Nomination Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Committee Deloitte being proposed as new auditors, following completion of a tender process in 2017.
The Board Executive wish to record their thanks to PwC Committee for their many years of service.
The Executive Committee meets four times a year The Board has evaluated the new and members of the Committee periodically present to the Board, providing a detailed overview to the Directors 2018 version of the UK Corporate on the business strategy for each region of the Group.
Governance Code and is currently Board Composition and Diversity reviewing proposals for compliance.
During the year, two non-executive Directors retired from New stakeholder engagement the Board after nine years of service to the Company.
initiatives are planned, with reporting John Nicholas retired in April, also stepping down as Chair of the Audit Committee.
John Hofmeister retired as Senior to commence in 2019.
Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee in August.
John Jay F. Glick Chairman Recruitment of new Directors commenced in H2 2017.
The Board was keen to maintain the very strong industry knowledge and representation within the skills profile of the Directors, which led to the appointment of Keith Lough, who sits on the boards of a number of UK listed exploration and production companies.
Following John Hofmeisters retirement, Keith has been appointed Senior 29% Percentage of female Directors on the Board 54 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Independent Director.
Carol Chesney was appointed alongside Keith in April 2018 and was appointed Chair of the Audit Committee, following John Nicholass retirement.
Carol is a qualified Chartered Accountant and Chairs the Audit Committees of two other FTSE 350 companies and 100% brings strong financial and UK governance expertise to the Board.
Additionally, Annell Bay has been appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee, following John Compliance with the Hofmeisters retirement.
Annell has been a member of the 2016 Code Committee since 2015.
The Companys Directors now include two female New Governance Developments members, representing 29% of the Board.
With the publication of the new UK Corporate Governance Code in July 2018, the Board of Hunting is considering Board Evaluation new governance procedures to enhance stakeholder During the year, the Board undertook its third externally engagement and comply with the new requirements.
As facilitated performance and effectiveness evaluation.
part of these new arrangements, Annell Bay has been Recommendations raised from the process have been appointed the designated non-executive Director for discussed by the Board for implementation.
employee engagement, as recommended by section 1, provision 5, of the new 2018 Code.
Annell will be working External Auditors Rotation with the Groups Chief Executive and Chief Human After nearly 30 years,  LLP will Resources Officer to develop initiatives and appropriate retire as auditors to the Group at Huntings AGM on Board reporting to address this important area.
Further, 17 April 2019, following an audit tender completed in 2017 new disclosures in the 2019 Annual Report are planned, which led to the selection of Deloitte LLP.
Deloittes to enable the Company to report its compliance with the appointment will be tabled for shareholders approval at new Code.
Deloitte has attended a number of meetings of the Audit Committee during 2018 as transition On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all shareholders arrangements were implemented.
On behalf of the and stakeholders for their support over the past year.
Directors of the Company and its shareholders we thank PwC for their excellent work over this long period of time.
John Jay F. Glick 99% Chairman 28 February 2019 Shareholder approval for 2018 Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy On 18 April 2018, shareholders approved, with a 99% vote in favour, a new Directors Remuneration Policy, incorporating changes which better align Huntings remuneration framework with best practice UK governance principles.
The annual bonus for the executive Directors now incorporates a bonus deferral mechanism by share retention, while the Hunting Performance Share Plan has a two-year mandatory holding period for all vested shares for awards granted from 2018, giving a total of a five-year cycle from grant to final award.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 55
