Corporate Governance statement Wayne Sheppard retired from the Board on 4 April 2018 and was Chairmans succeeded as CEO on that date by Joe Hudson.
Joe had joined the introduction Board on 2 January 2018 as CEO Designate.
On behalf of the Board, I should like to thank Wayne for his immense contribution to Ibstock and his efforts to ensure a smooth transition process.
Jamie Pike stepped down as Chairman and a Director of Ibstock at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 24 May 2018.
As part of its long-term succession planning arrangements, I was appointed Chairman of the Board on that date.
I should like to thank Jamie for Jonathan Nicholls his significant contribution to the Group since the time of the IPO.
Non-Executive Chairman Following my appointment as Chairman, Tracey Graham was Dear Shareholder appointed as the Senior Independent Director, in addition to her role I am pleased to present my first Corporate Governance statement as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, and Justin Read became to our shareholders since my appointment as Chairman of your Chair of the Audit Committee.
Good governance can only be achieved with an On 2 May 2018 the Board announced the appointment of appropriate level of oversight, good communication, a focus on the Louis Eperjesi and Claire Hawkings as independent Non-Executive management of risks, a commitment to transparency, and by ensuring Directors of the Company.
Louis Eperjesi is the Chief Executive a culture of continuous improvement in standards and performance Officer of Tyman plc.
He was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2018 across the business.
As Chairman, it is my responsibility to ensure and, upon appointment, joined the Boards Remuneration that your Board operates both effectively and efficiently, upholding Committee, Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
the high standards of Corporate Governance required for the Claire Hawkings is a member of the Executive Committee of long-term success of the Group.
Tullow Oil plc, where she is Executive Vice President, Organisation Your Board is responsible for the governance of the Group and Strategy and Company Performance.
Claire was appointed to the we recognise the importance of Corporate Governance in assisting Board on 1 September 2018 and, upon appointment, joined the the Group to deliver long-term success for our shareholders and Boards Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and other stakeholders.
It is your Boards view that, throughout 2018, Nomination Committee.
the Company applied the Main Principles and complied with the As announced on 6 February 2019, Kevin Sims will retire from the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 Board in 2019.
Kevin played an extremely important role in Ibstocks the Code in all material respects.
In this Corporate Governance successful listing on the London Stock Exchange in October 2015 section we shall report on how we have applied the Code.
and the Groups subsequent continued development.
He will be We also describe the effective leadership of your Board and how succeeded as CFO by Chris McLeish, who will join the Board in we endeavour to promote the highest standards of Corporate August 2019.
On behalf of the Board, I should like to thank Kevin Governance throughout the Group.
for the significant contribution he has made to the Group.
Your Board manages the Company in a transparent, open and honest manner.
We are ultimately responsible to shareholders for all our activities for delivering our strategy and financial performance Jonathan Nicholls in the long-term interests of the Company: for efficiently using our Non-Executive Chairman resources having regard to social, environmental and ethical matters: 4 March 2019 and for taking account of the interests of our other stakeholders.
We approve the Groups governance framework, taking into account contributions from your Board Committees in their specialist areas such as remuneration policy, internal controls and risk management and succession planning.
On a regular basis, your Board reviews our level of oversight and the monitoring of risks over a variety of areas including strategy, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure on new projects, finance, people, and sustainability matters.
This process will continue to adapt to meet the evolving needs of the Group.
We aim to ensure that good governance extends beyond the boardroom and is continually borne in mind in the successful delivery of the Groups strategic priorities over both the short and long term.
On 16 July 2018 the FRC published the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2018 Code which puts the relationships between companies, shareholders and other stakeholders at the heart of long-term sustainable growth in the UK economy.
I have been working with your Board on the appropriate implementation of the recommendations of the 2018 Code.
We shall be reporting fully upon our application of the 2018 Code in the Annual Report and Accounts to be published next year.
58 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Governance in action As discussed in the CEOs Report on page 14, the Groups strategy has been revised and the new strategic priorities are Driving sustainable performance, Market-led innovation and Selective growth.
We shall report on our progress in these areas in next years report.
In this years report we shall be discussing the progress made against the strategic priorities in place at the beginning of the year under review.
Strategic priority The Boards governance role Achievements in 2018 Strategy The Board is responsible for setting Conducted a strategic review of the Groups the Groups strategy and for the review US operations.
of subsequent delivery and progress.
Completed the disposal of Glen-Gery in November 2018.
Further information may be found in Paid a Supplementary dividend.
the Financial Review on pages 52 to 55.
Safety The Board oversees the framework Oversaw a reduction in the number Continuing to focus on a safe within which the Group manages Health of Lost Time Accidents.
working environment, systems and Safety, and environmental risks.
Led the culture of visible leadership on safety matters, and behaviours that have the with regular site visits by members of the Board Further information may be found development of employees and and the Executive Leadership Team.
in Resources and relationships customer service at their core.
Encouraged management to communicate on page 32 to 41. lessons learned from safety and environmental incidents effectively.
Invest The Board reviews and approves the During the year the Board oversaw the successful To maintain existing Groups annual operating and capital delivery of a number of capital projects across capacity and invest in new expenditure budget.
the Group: capacity to optimise output Further information may be found Eclipse soft mud brick factory, Leicester and take advantage of Resources and relationships Lodge Lane blue brick factory, Cannock structural imbalances on pages 32 to 41. in the Groups markets.
Innovate The Board oversees and encourages Award-winning products as recognised at the Brick To support our customers the Groups development of innovative Development Associations annual Brick Awards.
through the development products and ways of doing business.
Ibstock Kevingtons MechSlip brick slip cladding system, of innovative products.
which was developed in conjunction with a specialist Further information may be found in metal fabrication and cladding.
in Resources and relationships on pages 32 to 41.
59 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance statement continued Board statements The Company was subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code in the financial year under review.
The Code is publicly available on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
The Board is required to make a number of specific statements on certain governance matters.
These statements are set out in the following table: Requirement Board statement Where to find further information Compliance with the Code It is the Boards view that, throughout 2018, Application of the Main Principles of the Code on pages the Company applied the Main Principles and 61 and 62.
Pages 75 and 63 include an explanation of complied with the relevant Provisions of the how we applied Code Provisions C. 3.1 and E. 1.1, Code in all material respects.
respectively, through a time of transition for the Board.
Going concern basis The Directors have made a Going Concern Financial review on pages 52 to 55.
Strategic Report on statement that can be found on page 56. pages 1 to 56.
Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 42 to 47.
Going concern in the Audit Committee Report on page 79.
Viability statement The Directors have made a Viability Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 42 to 47. statement that can be found on page 56.
Internal controls and Risk Management in Audit Committee Report on page 79.
Robust assessment The Directors confirm that they have carried Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 42 to 47. of the principal risks out a robust assessment of the principal Assessment of principal risks in Accountability on facing the Group risks facing the Group, including those that pages 73 and 74. would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Directors also assessed, with the support of the Audit Committee, their appetite with respect to these risks and considered the systems required to mitigate and manage them.
Annual review of systems During the 2018 financial year, the Board Systems of risk management and internal control of risk management and monitored the Groups systems of risk Effectiveness review in the Audit Committee Report internal control management and internal control with on page 77. the support of the Audit Committee and carried out a review of their effectiveness.
The conclusion was that these systems were effective.
During the year KPMG were engaged to undertake a detailed review of the Groups risk management approach, which included an assessment of the Groups attitude to risk at both a strategic and operational level.
Fair, balanced and The Directors consider that this Annual Fair, balanced and understandable review in the understandable Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Audit Committee Report on page 79. understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
60 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
