Governance Report CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors believes that Board members have continued to good-quality corporate governance benefit from an ongoing education underpins IGs ability to deliver programme focussed on topical sustainable future growth and create areas of interest which, this year, has long-term value for shareholders.
I would included sessions on cryptocurrencies, like to thank Board colleagues for their our People Strategy, and client continued support in ensuring robust segmentation and profiling.
and constructive challenge and debate around the Board table, in support of The success of the Board is dependent timely and informed decision-making.
on a shared vision and common purpose.
The relationship between the Chairman The Board continues to be focused on and the Chief Executive Officer is central setting our strategy and monitoring to this, and Peter and I continue to share performance against that strategy, consistent views on culture, values, ethics creating an environment to promote the and inclusion, which helps drive our identification of new opportunities for approach to strategic development.
future growth, and ensuring we have the right talent to succeed in the achievement The quality of materials provided to the ANDY GREEN of our objectives and targets.
Board and its Committees continues to Chairman improve, although we are always looking As your Chairman, it is my The debate at our November Strategy at ways to do better.
Our Company responsibility to lead the Day was excellent, resulting in a Secretary continues to provide support renewed focus on ensuring that the and guidance to paper producers and Board, creating the right business continues to lead the market, presenters, to ensure they provide conditions to ensure the while at the same time developing materials that facilitate timely and Boards effectiveness value-enhancing strategic initiatives.
informed decision-making, and that in all aspects of its role.
they understand the expectations Underpinning our results is The Board has been considering of the Board and its Committees.
various ways in which to foster an an enduring and embedded environment that is supportive of its The manner in which the Group has corporate governance people, by creating opportunities applied all aspects of the UK Corporate culture, based on IGs core for growth and development.
Governance Code is set out in the values of championing the following Corporate Governance Report.
client, leading the way and Last year I confirmed that the members of the Board were focused on succession loving what we do.
planning throughout our business, particularly at executive management level, where we continue to seek diversity of experience and thought.
Andy Green To this end, I am delighted to welcome Chairman Bridget Messer and Jon Noble to the Board as additional Executive Directors, effective 1 June 2018.
Both Bridget and Jon bring a wealth of IG experience to the Board.
I am confident that they will contribute towards further enhancing the quality of debate around the Board table and provide valuable support to Peter and Paul, enabling them to continue their focus on strategic development and execution.
The Board is continuing its search for additional Non-Executive Directors to complement the skillsets of the current Board.
46 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018
