54 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate Governance introduction Chairmans Governance letter Governance highlights Following a rigorous selection process supported by Russell Reynolds that included both internal and external candidates, the Board agreed to appoint Roy Twite as IMIs next Chief Executive.
The new chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees were fully inducted and have made an excellent start in their roles.
Following wide ranging search processes led by the Nominations Committee, Thomas Thune Andersen and Katie Jackson were appointed to the Board as non-executive directors.
A review of the Directors Remuneration Policy was completed by the Remuneration Committee following stakeholder consultation and the resulting proposals were approved by the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
We continued to refine the detailed plans behind the Groups strategy and to oversee progress in the implementation of the strategy at a business level.
Dear Shareholder We completed the significant, complementary acquisition of Bimba Manufacturing Company for 138m and following the Bimba acquisition, I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance the Board visited the principal manufacturing site near Chicago.
As Chairman, my focus continues An audit tender process was run by the Audit Committee which resulted to be on ensuring that the Board provides effective in a decision to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor subject to leadership and maintains the highest standards of annual shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
corporate governance and integrity at all times.
In the Corporate Governance Report on pages 55 to 79, We continued to maintain good investor relationships and the we describe our governance arrangements and the directors met with major shareholders as part of our ongoing practical workings of the Board and its committees.
Leadership Compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2016 Code I am now in my fourth year as Chairman and very much enjoying my role.
During the year two new non-executive directors joined the Board bringing I am pleased to report that IMI complied with the principles of the 2016 Code considerable and relevant experience as well as fresh perspective.
We also complied with the 2016 Code provisions save The Board is fully engaged, able to both support and challenge the executive for a period when our Remuneration Committee membership was reduced team, and has the skills and experience to oversee governance, financial to two while we brought other non-executives on board following the sad controls and risk management.
The quality of debate at meetings is high death of Bob Stack late in 2017. and we get valuable input from all of our non-executive directors.
I benefit We acknowledge the introduction of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance from a strong working relationship with the Chief Executive and we keep Code the 2018 Code and during the year we took appropriate steps to in close contact on a weekly and more frequent basis as necessary.
prepare for compliance with the new requirements which came into effect from 1 January 2019.
In November 2018, we announced the appointment Culture of Birgit Nrgaard as non-executive director with responsibility for workforce The Board sets the tone at the top and has established clear leadership values engagement.
We have also revised our corporate governance framework and behaviours which are underpinned by a comprehensive Code of Conduct and and the business cycles for the Board and its committees to reflect the governance framework.
The IMI Code of Conduct is given to every employee 2018 Code and appropriate training has been provided to the Board.
and features in induction and other training and the annual IMI Way Day.
Our values and expected behaviours are built into our leadership development Yours faithfully programmes and performance assessment processes.
Excellent leadership behaviours are a pre-requisite for satisfactory performance and career Lord Smith of Kelvin advancement in the Group.
We have also embedded policies and processes Chairman to set clear standards for compliance and doing business in the right way.
28 February 2019 During 2019 the Board will commence an increasingly formal review of the Groups culture by reference to a range of key indicators including Group-wide employee survey data and other stakeholder feedback.
