OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The image part with relationship ID rId2 was not found in the file.
CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE DELIVERING GOOD GOVERNANCE Good governance underpins our strategy and supports our drive for sustainable quality growth in tobacco and NGP.
MARK WILLIAMSON Chairman DEAR SHAREHOLDER ENSURING OUR ANNUAL REPORT IS FAIR, BALANCED The Board is responsible to shareholders and other stakeholders AND UNDERSTANDABLE for the long-term sustainable delivery of our strategy.
A number of long-established and embedded processes The Board again spent a significant portion of its time this past underpin the key compliance requirement for our Annual Report year discussing the best allocation of resources to continue driving to be fair, balanced and understandable.
This included ensuring we maximise the drafting of the Annual Report by appropriate senior opportunities of our tobacco business and take advantage of the management who monitor regulatory changes, are briefed considerable opportunities offered by NGP as we pursue our regarding the fair, balanced and understandable regulations purpose of creating something better for the worlds smokers.
and ensure consistency throughout the report: These discussions included the divestment programme which an extensive verification process undertaken to ensure we announced at the half-year, with the subsequent disposal of factual accuracy and a fair presentation of our performance: a further 9.99 per cent of our holding in Logista S. A. reviewing the use of adjusted measures and their The Board also considered potential investments, including appropriateness in aiding users of our financial statements to the acquisition of Nerudia Ltd and the opportunity to take a better understand our performance year-on-year: stake in Oxford Cannabinoid Technologies Ltd, enhancing our consideration and review of an advanced draft by NGP innovation capacity and understanding of the cannabis Internal Audit and the Disclosure Committee to ensure market respectively.
accurate and balanced disclosure: The Board and its Committees are mindful of the revisions comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual Report contained in the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code which undertaken by members of the OPEX and other senior applies to the Company from its accounting period starting management: 1 October 2019.
We have commenced a review of the Codes the Audit Committee discussing the draft Annual Report updated provisions and the enhancements which will be with both management and our auditors PwC and, required to our current reporting and processes.
where appropriate, challenging the content and any Details of the Companys governance framework and how it judgements and assumptions used: underpins the delivery of our sustainable growth agenda are set all Board members receiving drafts of the Annual Report out in the following sections.
with sufficient time for review and comment prior to the year-end meetings in October 2018: and the Audit Committee reviewing the final draft at its meeting in October 2018 at which time it was required to express its opinion prior to consideration by the Board.
MARK WILLIAMSON After consideration of the above processes and review of the Chairman Annual Report, the Directors confirm that they consider, taken as a whole, that it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
