BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXPERIENCED AND EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP Nigel Stein Stefan Bomhard Richard Howes Jerry Buhlmann Rachel Empey Non-Executive Group Chief Chief Financial Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Executive Officer Director Director Appointed to the Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Board: April 2015 April 2016 March 2017 May 2016 October 2015 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Appointed as Stefan has senior Richard has a wealth Jerry has over Rachel was Chairman: level experience of experience across 30 years experience appointed Chief May 2018 gained in a wide the financial and in the media and Financial Officer range of retail and commercial sectors, advertising industries.
Skills and experience: FMCG businesses.
working for multi-site He was CEO of KGaA, a top Nigel was Chief Prior to joining the businesses with Dentsu Aegis from healthcare company Executive of GKN plc Group, he was substantial global 2013 until earlier this listed on the DAX until his retirement in President of Bacardi footprints.
He joined year and prior to its index, in August 2017.
He Limiteds European the Group from acquisition by Previously Rachel has a wide range of region and has held Coats plc where Dentsu Inc, Jerry was Chief Financial international, general a number of senior hewas Chief was the CEO of and Strategy Officer management and positions at Cadbury Financial Officer.
of Telefnica finance experience Plc, Unilever PLC, Richard is Jerry is also a director Deutschland Holding gained in various Diageo plc, Burger a chartered of Madison Sports AG Telefnica roles at GKN plc and King and Procter & accountant.
Rachel is a chartered in the automotive Other appointments: Committee accountant.
Non-Executive Committee Director of membership: Nigel is a chartered Remuneration, CompassGroup PLC.
CSR and Nomination Audit and Committees.
Chair of the Nomination Committee and member of the CSR Committee.
Full biographies, including past employment history, can be found on www.
com 48 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018
