60 Governance | Chairmans introduction Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chairmans introduction to Governance During 2018 there were no changes in Board We are committed membership.
In January 2019, we were delighted to the highest standards to announce the appointment of an additional female Non-Executive Director, Tracy Clarke, of governance set who joined the Board on 1 February.
More is provided on this appointment and the proposed at the Board level and re-election of all existing Directors in the implemented throughout Nominations Committee Report on page 72. the Company As Chairman I am able to call on a broad and diverse range of skills and experience from all my Directors.
The blend of experience, The Board approves the Groups governance nationalities and range of cultural experience framework with the Board Committees within the Board is valuable to us as we fulfil contributing their specialist focus to key our duties.
The diversity already on our Board areas such as financial reporting, allows us to be culturally aware and respond remuneration policy, internal controls where there are areas which need greater focus.
Succession planning for the Non-Executive Directors remains a key focus for the Our governance framework reflects Nominations Committee and the Board.
the requirements of the UK Corporate We will review the size and composition of the Governance Code the Code and the Board over 2019.
The Board will consider this Large and Medium-sized Companies and year the recommendations in the FRCs report Groups Accounts and Report Amendment about Chair succession planning and start Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
the process for this search.
The Financial Reporting Councils FRC We hope the information in this Report 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code puts will help you to understand how your Board the relationships between companies, runs the Company, manages risks, monitors shareholders and stakeholders at the heart internal controls, and how decisions taken of long-term sustainable growth.
The Board ANDREW SUKAWATY over the year have been made.
recognises how the right corporate culture CHAIRMAN underpins how a company creates and sustains value over the longer term, which is a key element of maintaining a reputation for high ANDREW SUKAWATY standards of business conduct.
CHAIRMAN In 2018, we engaged with our investors, 18 March 2019 As Chairman I am customers and suppliers on a wide range of sustainability issues for a second time.
able to call on a broad This exercise provides insight into our relevant and diverse range of business impacts and their effect on our ability to generate and preserve value over skills and experience the longer term.
We believe our continued engagement in this way will foster a deeper from all my Directors more relevant disclosure on key issues affecting our businesses sustainable prospects whilst reducing less value-relevant disclosures.
More information on the 2018 materiality assessment can be found on page 42.
As we look forward to the year ahead, we will continue this policy of deeper engagement with all stakeholders to ensure we understand and recognise the needs of our shareholders and stakeholders.
