38 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT Letter from the CHAIRMAN KEY GOVERNANCE ACHIEVEMENTS Supporting Benot Durteste as our new CEO Continuation of the process of refreshing the composition of the Board to include a wider range of skills and backgrounds, including the appointment of a new Senior Independent Directive and our first US Board member Adoption of a new, simplified remuneration policy Considering diversity, inclusiveness and stakeholder engagement KEVIN PARRY OBE CHAIRMAN performing entrepreneurial culture operating female executives to share their experiences DEAR SHAREHOLDER to high ethical and regulatory standards.
and our senior management team has In last years report, I described the More work will be undertaken in FY19 to undergone unconscious bias training, which process to appoint Benot Durteste as our define those broad principles.
will be expanded to the rest of the business in Chief Executive.
His appointment was the the coming year.
The Board has committed to catalyst for the Board to revise governance We have considered how to express the signing up to the Women in Finance initiative in procedures and practices at ICG to serve purpose of ICG.
The Board has adopted the coming weeks.
the third stage of the Groups development.
as a working draft, the following purposes: In 1989, ICG started as an Investment Governance: Board composition, Board To provide capital for businesses to grow, Company.
From 2009 to 2017, it transitioned committees, regulation and management including by the transition of ownership from an investment company to an asset Your Board continues to manage the Company To build value by generating returns for our manager.
We have now established the in the long term interests of stakeholders, clients pension funds, insurers, sovereign appropriate governance for a fully fledged and we remain committed to maintaining high wealth funds and foundations specialist asset manager with a balance sheet standards of corporate governance: we have aligned with the needs of our investors.
The Board is committed to diversity and been in compliance with the requirements inclusion.
We are strong on employing a broad of the UK Corporate Governance Code Strategy and operational excellence range of nationalities, skills and experience throughout the year.
We are supportive of The Board places great emphasis on the but recognise we have much to do on gender the continued enhancement of governance Groups strategy and operational excellence.
and ethnic diversity: we have historically standards that are currently being finalised.
Every meeting of the Board considers one or under invested in this important aspect of This years Board and Committee review more strategic issues and reviews part of the a contemporary business.
We therefore built on the prior external review by using Groups operations.
This year our work has commissioned an external audit of the Groups structured self assessment questionnaires been complemented by a number of more diversity and inclusiveness practices in developed by the external reviewers.
informal sessions prior to Board meetings conjunction with a small number of broadly Key matters of focus are set out in page 47. to debate matters of future significance.
comparable companies operating in the These debates will be supported by a private equity and loan markets.
Whilst our In the last 12 months, we refreshed the dedicated Board strategy session in July.
Board level initiatives have proved successful, composition of our Non-Executive Directors, Business unit heads attendance at Board our operational practices have considerable and following this years AGM, we join the 30% meetings ensures the Board has a good scope for development.
Fully worked through club with 33% of our Directors being women.
overview of operational developments and transformation plans are being developed Further details on Board and Committee issues.
Further details are on pages 44 to 45. but in the meantime we have continued and compositions are set out in the report of the commenced some tactical improvements.
Nominations and Governance Committee on Culture, purpose, diversity and inclusion For example, we support and engage with page 64.
To address the needs of our investors, staff Level 20, an organisation aimed at attracting and other stakeholders, we have commenced The Board has adopted a new Board charter women into private equity which was coa review of our culture.
Early in the year, available at www.
com which sets out founded by one of our portfolio managers: Directors attended a bespoke session the Board reserved responsibilities and the our female Non-Executive Directors have held facilitated by an outside specialist following delegations to individuals and committees.
discussion forums with our existing senior which we reasserted our desire for a highThe committees responsibilities are similarly ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 39 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS defined together with those of the Chairman, process.
The Nominations and Governance A working party has been established to look Senior Independent Director, CEO, CFO and Committee is committed to strong succession at this issue and, with a view to increasing our Directors generally.
The Remuneration Committee is charitable giving, the Board will be considering have been drawn up taking account of operating the approved remuneration policy in its recommendations.
We will in due course the anticipated changes to the Corporate the interests of our stakeholders.
The reports consult with shareholders on the future Governance Code and the future introduction of the Committees address their work, quantum of charitable donations.
of the Senior Managers and Certification on behalf of the Board.
Communications Regime of the FCA applying to asset Managerially, two Steering Committees have We appreciate the desirability of strong managers.
When those regimes are finalised, been established to advise the Executive communications with shareholders.
This year we will consider our governance procedures Directors.
The result is that many more we have continued our practice of holding further and make any necessary amendments executives are involved in general management executive meetings with shareholders and to ensure conformance with requirements.
This reflects the breadth analysts following the annual and interim The volume of applicable law and regulation of our investment strategies, distribution results.
The Chairman once again hosted a relevant to asset managers continues to requirements and the infrastructure that working dinner with institutional shareholders increase and this year we have also had to supports the business.
attended this year by the two Executive address Brexit.
Your Board took a pragmatic Directors and the incoming chairman of the Environmental and social issues view of Brexit and did not delay actions whilst Remuneration Committee.
We also offered In addition to governance considerations we people debated the merit of the outcome of meetings to shareholders with or without continue to consider environmental and social the UKs referendum.
We have historically executive management: the Chairman and the issues.
For some time the consideration of passported services from the United Kingdom chairman of the Remuneration Committee met ESG issues has been part of our due diligence to the rest of the EU.
We have now established with shareholder representative bodies and a procedures prior to investing in portfolio and staffed a base in Luxembourg providing number of shareholders to discuss governance companies.
ICG itself has a low environmental fund management services to ICG Europeanrelated issues, notably the remuneration policy impact see page 36. domiciled funds and passporting these and CEO succession.
In February, the Board funds throughout the EU.
We are satisfied This year the Board considered whether we hosted an investor day to update the market on that our preparations for Brexit will avoid play a full enough role in the societies in which business developments and to provide ready any disruption to our important European we operate.
Whilst we are significant indirect access to those charged with governance.
Apart from Brexit, we have also tax payers, we benefit from a low effective We are currently considering how to formalise implemented compliance with Markets in corporation tax rate because, in common with the Boards engagement with our employees.
Financial Instruments MiFID : amended much of our industry, we operate through We are still of a size where communications are policies and procedures to comply with the transparent vehicles whereby tax falls either not too difficult but we recognise the benefit of Fourth Money Laundering Directive: and on our portfolio companies or our investors.
additional formal and informal interaction.
undertaken a risk assessment and introduced The Board is satisfied that our tax practices new policies and procedures as required are conservative and that we do not undertake The year ahead by the new UK Corporate Tax Evasion aggressive tax planning.
The focus on governance will continue in the requirements: and are close to completing year ahead.
We shall continue to develop the Apart from paying tax, society benefits from our compliance with General Data Protection Companys strategy and our interaction with the work of private sector charities.
Outside Europe, we and, obligations to, our various stakeholders.
for the last five years supported disadvantaged have implemented the Manager-in-Charge There will be a focus on our culture and how children in London through ThinkForward, a regime in Hong Kong and enhanced policies this supports the delivery of sustainable charity working with young people to reduce and procedures in compliance with the new shareholder value without compromising our the risk of them becoming NEET not in Outsourcing Regulations in Singapore.
ethical standards and responsibilities to the education, employment or training.
ICGs We have commenced work on FCAs Senior Groups stakeholders.
investment has enabled a full time coach to be Manager and Certification Regime and in placed into the Tower Hamlets Pupil Referral particular how to embed its responsibilities I am very happy to respond to any questions Unit PRU to work with young people most in the business controls of risks.
you may have, either at the AGM or otherwise.
at risk of becoming NEET and to provide Procedures against bribery and corruption mentoring opportunities.
In common with many and financial crime, and the support of KEVIN PARRY companies, we also match monies raised by CHAIRMAN whistleblowers remain an important focus of our staff for a wide range of other charities.
The Audit Committee will However, we believe we can be more coherent in the next financial year, conduct a thorough and more generous in our charitable giving process to recommend external auditors to and align it with the Companys purpose.
act with effect from the end of the 2020 audit
