Governance Chairmans Governance Statement Sir Peter Bazalgette Chairman In the Governance section This section of the Annual Report contains a statement from our Chairman and information about the Directors and Management Board.
Itexplains our governance structure, approach to corporate governance and the work of the Nomination Committee.
It includes reports fromthe Audit and Risk, and Remuneration Committees, and theDirectors Report.
Dear Shareholder We believe that a comprehensive induction programme is important for all of our I am pleased to present our Corporate new Board members as well as a process Governance Report for 2018.
The report for evaluation for the Board to assess its During 2019 we will provides you with an insight into how effectiveness.
Full details of our evaluation be focusing on how the theBoard operates and evaluates its and induction processes in the year and effectiveness.
In addition, it summarises asummary of the evaluation outcomes Board engages with and our activities during the year and provides and actions are set out on page76.
information on how we comply with the assesses stakeholder principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Board succession engagement and the Governance Code the Code.
This year has seen a change in Board membership, which builds on our already culture at all levels Board effectiveness diverse Board and brings additional Following the publication of the 2018 UK experience, ensuring there is an appropriate across the Group.
Corporate Governance Code the 2018 Code balance of skills and knowledge as the we have reviewed compliance and will business evolves.
The current Board ensure that appropriate renements to consistsof a strong team with a wide our processes are made.
The Board is fully range of experience across various engaged with these matters and committed industries andterritories.
to ensuring we remain an effective and entrepreneurial group and continue to meet Following the departure of Adam Crozier, our obligations under Section 172 of the Carolyn McCall joined us as Chief Executive Companies Act 2006 to ensure we promote in January 2018.
Following the decision by the success of the Company for the benefit Ian Grifths to step down from the Board of shareholders but also with regard to the atthe end of 2018, Chris Kennedy joined interests of all our stakeholders.
usas Group CFO in February this year.
64 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Chairmans Governance Statement John Ormerod and Andy Haste stepped Provision B.
7.1 Independence John down from the Board in May 2018 at which Ormerod had served on the Board for point Margaret Ewing became Chair of the more than nine years before he stepped Audit and Risk Committee having served down in May 2018.
Our stakeholders, as a member of the Committee from Provision A.
2.1 Separation of Chairman particularly our October 2017.
During the year we undertook and CEO Following Adam Croziers a process to replace John and Andy and employees, are very departure, I was Executive Chairman for were pleased that Duncan Painter and a six-month period until Carolyn McCall Edward Bonham Carter agreed to join important to us and joined the business in January 2018. as Non-executive Directors in May and weremain committed October 2018 respectively.
Edward is Further information on corporate also our Senior Independent Director.
governance can be found on our website.
to maintaining Directors other commitments are kept under regularopen dialogue review to ensure that they have sufficient www.
com investors governance and effective time to dedicate to our business.
Details of appointment dates and length of tenure for communication A copy of the Code and the 2018 Code are each director can be found on page71 and available on the FRC website.
details of other commitments can be found withthem.
uk Our-Work CodesOur stakeholders, particularly our colleagues, Standards Corporate-governance are very important to us and we remain committed to maintaining regular open Looking ahead dialogue and effective communication Throughout 2018, we have been developing with them.
Continued engagement is highly our strategy which we presented to the beneficial to all parties as it helps to build market in July with further information at a greater understanding of their views, our Capital Markets Day in September 2018. opinions and concerns and enables ITV to 2018 wasa challenging year economically respond accordingly.
We have a group of and politically and this is expected to Ambassadors in place across the business continue into 2019 but we are in a strong to assist with colleague engagement and position, supported by an effective Board, our Senior Independent Director, Edward to face the challenges ahead particularly in Bonham Carter, will act as a conduit for a competitive and rapidly changing industry.
the Board by regularly attending meetings and engaging with this group.
Further I look forward to working with the Board information on how we engage with all of and the senior executive team in 2019 our stakeholders can be found on page 78. as wecontinue to develop and implement ourMore than TV strategy.
More During 2019, we will be focusing on how information on our Board programme theBoard engages with and assesses for 2019 is set out on page 73. stakeholder engagement and responds tostakeholder feedback and assesses Sir Peter Bazalgette theculture at all levels across the Group.
Chairman 27 February 2019 Compliance with the Code ITV is required to report on how it has complied with the principles of governance set out in the Code.
The Board considers that during 2018 the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code but notes the following: 65
