Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Letter from the Chairman Tim Stevenson Chairman This section of the annual report describes our corporate governance Culture structures and processes and how they have been applied throughout A key part of the boards role is to take effective steps in shaping and the year ended 31st March 2018. embedding a healthy corporate culture throughout our organisation.
This is fundamental to being able to build sound governance behaviours and practices, all of which support the success of our My role as Chairman company and its strategic objectives.
The board recognises that it has My most important role is to ensure that Johnson Matthey has a board a responsibility to act with integrity and lead by example to create our which works effectively under my leadership.
This is particularly desired corporate culture.
important as the company continues to evolve and grow.
I believe we have an effective board.
We report on pages 94 to 95 on our board Succession planning and diversity and committee review, which we conducted externally this year.
Open and constructive evaluation is integral to our effectiveness.
Ensuring that the group employs a process of thoughtful, strategic and practical succession planning is a key role for the board in nurturing our culture, sustaining our operating model and delivering our Governance and strategy strategy.
The board itself needs to be refreshed over time, drawing on During the year we have refined our strategy and business model, an appropriately diverse talent pool.
We recognise the benefits of including organising our business into four sectors, driving further bringing greater diversity throughout the organisation and in the synergies for customers and our stakeholders.
We have reviewed our boardroom.
We explain our approaches to this component of board governance arrangements and concluded these continue to be right effectiveness in this report.
They effectively support our strategy and will enable us to respond to any challenges we may face.
For me, ensuring the The UK Corporate Governance Code right board dynamics is vital.
I am pleased to say that we have strong contributions and challenge from all our directors in an open and We are reporting against the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 constructive atmosphere.
This is in large part created by having a the Code.
We report on how we have applied the Codes main board comprising directors with a broad range of skills, expertise principles and complied with its relevant provisions.
Except in one and attributes.
As Chairman, I lead the setting of the boards agenda respect which is explained on page 98, Johnson Matthey has and I pay considerable attention to ensuring we have a plan which complied with all relevant provisions throughout the year ended allows for appropriate time to discuss all necessary items, particularly 31st March 2018 and from that date up to the date of approval of the development of strategy and the consideration of risk.
Risk management Looking forward Risk management is an important part of our wider discussion It has been a privilege to be Chairman of Johnson Matthey for the last of strategy and our operating model.
In this report, we aim to show how seven years and I am immensely proud of what we have achieved.
It is our strategy is underpinned by a robust risk management framework.
a great company with excellent people and a robust strategy.
I would like to thank our customers, our employees and our shareholders for their support.
I wish the business every success for the future.
Stakeholders The board recognises the importance of balancing the needs of our stakeholders with the long term strategic aims of our business.
We ensure effective engagement with our stakeholders so as to ensure their views are understood and appropriately taken into account.
