50 GOVERNANCE Chairmans introduction CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION DEAR SHAREHOLDER As announced in February Charlotte Jones, At Jupiter we believe good our CFO, has resigned to accept the CFO corporate governance is an role at RSA Insurance Group plc, where essential component to driving she is currently a Non-Executive Director.
the long-term sustainable success This is anticipated to be effective in August of a company.
A recruitment process has been commenced and further information on demonstrated, not only in our the process can be found on page 61. governance practices, but by our fund managers who actively There was only one change to the Board during 2018, as highlighted in last years engage with their investee report Lorraine Trainer stepped down from companies on governance the Board at the 2018 AGM, following eight matters.
I am pleased to report years service as a Non-Executive Director.
on the governance of your The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code Ensuring the Board has company during 2018. introduces a new requirement relating to a a clear understanding nine year term limit for Chairmen although EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP of the views of our this can be extended for a limited time, The Board is responsible for the Groups particularly where the Chairman was stakeholders, including long-term success and it is essential an existing Non-Executive Director.
The to have a highly engaged Board, that our clients, shareholders Nomination Committee, led by the Senior understands the business and the and employees, is central Independent Director, has considered challenges it, and the industry as a whole, this during the year, as I was appointed to the effective discharge face.
The Board must both support and a Non-Executive Director in May 2010 of our duties.
challenge management whilst overseeing and Chairman in September 2014.
The an effective framework of governance, Committee has determined that it is controls and risk management.
We believe important to have continuity in the role that having a Board with diversity of of Chairman for the time being, given the COMPLIANCE STATEMENT thought and perspective and a balance transition to a new CEO and will continue of skills and experience is critical to Jupiter supports the principles of with the succession process during 2019. ensure effective leadership.
The Directors' corporate governance as set out in Further information can be found in the biographies can be found on pages 54 the 2016 version of the UK Corporate Nomination Committee Report.
to 55 and a summary of the skills and Governance Code the Code issued experience of the Board can be found by the Financial Reporting Council.
As at the date of this report 44% of on page 53.
A copy of the 2016 version of the Code our Directors and 25% of the Executive can be found on the FRC website at: Committee are women and we are In early 2019, we took an important step www.
delighted to have been, once again, in our succession planning, by appointing included in the FTSE 250 top ten performers Andrew Formica as our Chief Executive Having reviewed the provisions in the Hampton-Alexander Review.
Our Officer effective from 1 March 2019.
Andrew of the Code dated April 2016 the Diversity and Inclusion Statement, confirms has extensive experience in the investment Board is satisfied that throughout our aim to employ the best people from the management industry, and was Chief the accounting period ended 31 widest pool of applicants and support their Executive of Henderson Group plc for nine December 2018, Jupiter complied with career aspirations.
We view diversity in its years and Co-CEO of Janus Henderson all of the provisions of the Code.
More broadest sense including gender, social Group plc until 2018, following the merger information on how the Company background, race, sexuality, age, disability, in 2017.
The Board regards Andrew as an applied the principles of the Code is learning style or religion.
Details of our outstanding candidate ideally equipped set out in this Governance section.
initiatives in this regard, can be found on to lead the Company in the next phase of page 29. its development.
Andrew will be standing for election at the 2019 AGM and his Following the external evaluation biography and further details can be undertaken in 2017, we conducted an found in the Notice of AGM.
internal evaluation, supported by the Company Secretary during 2018. www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 51 DEAR SHAREHOLDER The evaluation considered the performance The Chairman of the Committee, engaging with our employees.
We of the Board and its Committees during Polly Williams, is responsible for the established an employee forum in 2017, the year and identified areas of focus for oversight of the Groups whistleblowing which consists of employee representatives 2018.
Further information on the evaluation policies and practices.
During the year the from each function.
This forum has been can be found on page 57 and in each of Committees work included oversight of the used to seek employee views on a wide the respective Committees reports.
The implementation of the Groups preparations variety of matters.
The forum reports to the evaluation identified that the Board and its for Brexit, a review and challenge of the HR Director and is regularly attended by Committees were operating effectively.
Companys security defences and recovery the CEO, both of whom provide feedback plans in the event of a cyber-attack, and a to the Executive Committee and Board.
During the year we also engaged with deep-dive review of the assurance over a Going forward, in addition to the existing external consultants to assist in enhancing critical third-party supplier.
arrangements, the forum will formally the quality of our Board reporting and report into the Executive Committee and clearly defining the Boards priorities for The Nomination Committee continued the Chairman of Connections will report the next 12-18 months, which have been to focus on succession planning for the directly to the Board twice per year and scheduled into the rolling agendas for our Board, the Executive Committee and the Remuneration Committee once a year.
Board and Executive Committee meetings.
other members of senior management, ensuring, where possible, a diverse pipeline At the 2018 AGM we had two resolutions THE COMPANY PURPOSE, VALUES of talent.
This resulted in the Committee's with slightly less than 80% support.
Following AND CULTURE recommendation to appoint Andrew this we held a further round of engagement During the year we engaged with Formica as the Group CEO from 1 March with our significant shareholders and have employees to develop a new purpose 2019.
The Nomination Committee reviewed published an update on the outcome of statement which articulates the Companys the skills and experience of the Board and our engagement which can be found at purpose and its place in society.
We will be its Committees, to ensure that there is an www.
Further information rolling out the revised purpose statement appropriate balance.
The performance can be found on pages 61 and 71. during the course of 2019.
We have of the Board, its Committees and the In addition to our ongoing engagement with clearly documented corporate values, contribution of each individual Director shareholders, during 2018 we commissioned with an overview of the key behaviours has been evaluated and confirmed to be an independent investor perception report.
expected from our staff in order to support effective and valuable.
This enabled our significant shareholders these values for the benefit of clients, The Remuneration Committee is responsible to provide their views on an unattributed shareholders and our wider stakeholders.
for ensuring that Jupiter can continue to basis.
The report demonstrated their Our culture values high performing attract and retain talented individuals and support of our strategy and management individual talent, who demonstrate that remuneration practices are fair, reward and highlighted the key priorities for our independent thought and act with good performance and do not encourage significant shareholders.
integrity and accountability at all times.
The Remuneration CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REFORM BOARD AND COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES Committee Chairman, Bridget Macaskill, In July of this year the FRC published its The Boards role is to set the Groups continued to engage with shareholders on revised 2018 UK Corporate Governance strategy and purpose, ensure it has the the revised Directors Remuneration Policy Code, which was effective from 1 January right leadership and culture, monitor the which was passed, with over 80% approval, 2019.
We fully support the new code both performance of the business and oversee at the AGM in May.
Subsequent to the as an investor and as a listed company.
An overview of the key AGM the Committee has focused on the A detailed analysis of the 2018 Code and items discussed at the Board meetings held implementation of the revised policy and its implications for the Group was reviewed during the year is provided on page 56. remuneration across the Group.
and considered during the year.
The Board The work of the Board is supported by our STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT will report on its compliance with the 2018 Committees and detailed information on Ensuring the Board has a clear understanding Code in next years annual report.
the work undertaken by each Committee can of the views of our key stakeholders, including I look forward to meeting with you and be found in the relevant Committee reports.
our clients, shareholders and employees, answering any questions you may have is central to the effective discharge of our The Audit and Risk Committee continued at our AGM on 15 May 2019. duties.
Details of how we have engaged with to effectively oversee the Groups financial our stakeholders can be found on page 58. reporting, risk management, internal controls and compliance frameworks.
LIZ AIREY In order to comply with the revised UK It also ensured an effective relationship Chairman Corporate Governance Code 2018 we with the External and Internal Auditors.
have formalised the processes for 28 February 2019 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
