CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance introduction I mentioned in my Chairs Statement earlier in this report that the past year has, in many ways, been transformational for the business.
Behind these changes, of course, are significant decisions taken by the Board and its Committees.
This has meant that our corporate governance structures and procedures have been ever important.
They provide the framework within which the entrepreneurial drive in the business can continue to flourish.
They establish an environment in which the strategy and growth of the business are both supported and steered.
They enable our aim of maximising shareholder value and stakeholder interests over the long term to come to fruition.
Whilst these structures and procedures were in place when I joined the Board in March, over the following year we have developed, enhanced and, where appropriate, changed them to meet the developing needs of the business.
Just Eat has come a long way since its IPO in 2014.
As we increase the momentum of the business on We consider our aim of continual this continuing journey well into the future, we must continue to adapt and improve, where possible, the internal development tobe as important environment that enables this journey to take place.
to our governance as it is to Amongst the more significant initiatives we undertook in the past year, I want to highlight the following: ourbusiness.
Appointment of Chair After my appointment to the Board as Chair elect in March 2018, I reached out to over 20 of our largest shareholders to make initial contact with them and toset out my plan to meet with them once I had beenin the post for some time.
My tenure as Chair commenced in April.
Consultation on 2018 LTIP targets Our Remuneration Committee commenced consultation on our 2018 LTIP targets after our Annual General Meeting at the end of April.
This consultation also involved over 20 of our largest shareholders and concluded following responses toasecond consultation letter.
F urther details of the consultation process and the grant of the 2018 LTIP awards are included in the Report of our Remuneration Committee commencing on page 64.
Changes to Committee memberships In July, following consultation with each of the individual Non-executive Directors, we reconstituted the membership of our standing Board Committees tomake better use of the talent and experience available on the Board.
Current Committee memberships are shown on pages 40 and 41.
38 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Board meeting in Paris UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 The Board spent two days in Paris in September, meeting the Code compliance with the local management team as well asreviewing This Corporate Governance Report, including the sections the French business.
The Board was pleased to see that follow, sets out how the Group has applied the main first hand the shared Just Eat enthusiasm and principles of good governance contained in the Code.
passion in the Paris team.
The Board considers that the Group was in full compliance with the Code provisions that applied during the year.
Chairs roadshow They also set out some of the actions already taken Following on from my introductory communication during the year in light of the UK Corporate Governance earlier in the year, around 18 of the largest investors Code 2018 being applicable from 1 January 2019.
We took up invitations to meet with me over the autumn will report on that more fully next year.
I received a diverse range of views from shareholders and a comprehensive report was issued Future developments to the Board and the Remuneration Committee, each I look forward to reporting to you in next years of which carefully considered and drew on the AnnualReport on the coming year.
This will include themes arising from this.
theappointment of a permanent Chief Executive Strategy meeting Officer, ongoing succession planning for the Board As part of a process of strategic development, andmanagement, and other corporate governance weheld a dedicated strategy meeting in October.
developments over the next year.
We consider our aim Thisincluded comprehensive presentations from of continual development to be as important to our keymembers of management and agreement to governance as it is to our business.
We view good follow up with particular actions.
governance as a key element of the ongoing success ofJust Eat.
Consultation on 2019 LTIP targets After my meetings with shareholders, I advised that the Remuneration Committee would be consulting Later in this Corporate Governance Report: them in connection with the 2019 LTIP targets.
This process was started in December and concluded in 1.
An introduction to our Board is given in the February 2019 with the results included in our Remuneration Committee Report commencing biographies of our Directors on the next pages.
More detail on the role and activities of the Board starts on page 42.
Non-executive Director appointment In December, Helen Weir joined the Board as an 3.
Andrew Griffith, the Chair of our Audit additional Independent Non-executive Director.
Committee, reports on its work commencing Anoutline of her recruitment process is set out onpage 52. onpage 60 and a summary of the induction Helen undertook is set out on page 49.
Mike Evans reports, in his role as Chair of the Nomination Committee, on that Committees Appointment of designated Director activities commencing on page 60.  In December, Roisin Donnelly was appointed 5.
Gwyn Burr reports on the remuneration of thedesignated Director in respect of workforce ourDirectors in her capacity as Chair of our engagement in line with the recommendations of Remuneration Committee, commencing on theupdated UK Corporate Governance Code.
will help ensure that the voice of our people is taken account of by the Board and its Committees and will be meeting regularly with employee representatives.
Engagement with our people at all levels is very important to us.
Board evaluation As we closed the year, the Board reviewed the results of its internal evaluation which I had facilitated personally through interviews with each Director and the Company Secretary.
This is summarised in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 62.
Change in Chief Executive Officer In January 2019, Peter Duffy was appointed Interim Chief Executive Officer and a Director after Peter Plumb stepped down from these roles.
The process towards a permanent appointment commenced immediately.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 39
