Corporate governance overview Governance for all stakeholders Dear shareholder, I am pleased to introduce this report on the Companys corporate governance procedures following the completion of my first year in the role of Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director of the Company.
As explained in our annual report last year, the Deputy Chair role expands on the authority and responsibilities of my previous role as Senior Independent Director.
Since the start of 2018, I have led on Board governance matters, including the annual review of Board effectiveness, chaired the Nomination Committee and acted as an intermediary between non-executive Directors and the Chair.
The Deputy Chair role also provides a point of contact between the Company and independent shareholders, and I have held several meetings with such shareholders during the year.
The execution of our growth The Board has conducted a review of the scope of the roles and responsibilities of the Directors a year after the Board changes took strategy is underpinned by solid effect, to ensure that they remain appropriate, with the conclusion that the roles continue to be well-defined with a clear division of governance structures and responsibilities between the Chair, Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chair.
processes, to ensure It is clear to me that we are a Board that is committed to transparency and to manage the maintaining good governance for the benefit of our stakeholders.
During the year, one of the most important decisions made by the Board was on the Baimskaya acquisition.
The independent non-executive Directors considered the results of the due diligence Michael Lynch-Bell process as it progressed and evaluated the risks and opportunities Deputy Chair and of this acquisition.
We were mindful of this transaction being a Senior Independent Director material investment in a new jurisdiction and a major construction project over a number of years, which would require additional financing.
We are fortunate to have a Board with extensive experience in the mining sector and the extractives industry across the globe, including Russia, and we ultimately concluded that the acquisition of Baimskaya was for the long-term benefit of our shareholders.
We are delighted to have completed this acquisition early in 2019 and look forward to the future development of a world-class copper mine.
Following the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs review of the UK Corporate Governance Code and ensuing consultations, the FRC published a revised UK Corporate Governance Code and accompanying Guidance on Board Effectiveness in July 2018 the New Code which applies to companies with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange with accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2019.
For the Company, the New Code is applicable to the financial year ending 31 December 2019.
We have begun our review of the New Code and are putting in place processes where necessary, to ensure that we are in compliance during the 2019 financial year.
This 2018 Directors Report has been prepared in accordance with the April 2016 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which applied throughout the 2018 financial year.
During the 2018 financial year, the Company complied fully with the provisions of the Code, other 74 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS than provision A.
3.1 of the Code which applies to the appointment year and more detail can be found in the Corporate responsibility of a chief executive as chair of the same company, more detail on report on page 60 and on page 84 of the Governance which can be found in the Nomination Committee report.
Governance framework report on pages 78 to 96 sets out the ways Stakeholder engagement in which the Company has applied the principles and complied with As a Board, we engage with our stakeholders throughout the year, the provisions of the Code and describes the activities of the Board so that in running the business, we remain informed of their and its Committees and the matters which they have considered interests and mindful of our duties towards them under section 172 during the financial year.
As part of our preparations for the Committee framework New Code, we conducted a review during the year of our key KAZ Minerals corporate governance framework is in place to stakeholders and how the Board engages with them to ensure we support the Board in delivering long-term, sustainable growth for had appropriate methods of engagement with them in place, which shareholders in a transparent and ethical manner.
The five Board included my appointment as the first Designated Non-Executive committees are Audit: Health, Safety and Environment: Director for the workforce, a role which I am looking forward to Remuneration: Nomination and Operations Ramp Up Assurance undertaking during 2019.
Further information is set out in the pages or Projects Assurance Committee as applicable.
Each deals with that follow and in the Corporate responsibility report on pages 47 specific aspects of the Groups affairs and has an important role in to 64. internal control and risk management within the Group.
The interim We are holding our Annual General Meeting on Thursday Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee met for a period of 2 May 2019 in London and I hope that many of our shareholders will nearly two years until October 2018 but now that the Groups two attend.
My fellow Directors and I will be available to discuss any major operations, Bozshakol and Aktogay are fully ramped up, it has questions that shareholders may have about the Company.
The Board has re-formed the Projects Assurance I look forward to overseeing Board governance as we develop our Committee, which will oversee the construction of the Aktogay near and long-term growth opportunities over the coming year as expansion and the development of Baimskaya.
Further information set out in more detail in the pages that follow this overview.
on the Groups Board Committees, including the roles and remit of each Committee and the activities they have undertaken during the year, is set out in their respective sections of the Governance Michael Lynch-Bell Framework report which follows.
Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director Diversity and Equality Diversity and equality of opportunity is something that I champion and KAZ Minerals is committed to diversity and equality in the workplace, priding itself not only on diversity of social background and ethnicity but also on the strong female representation throughout the Groups workforce at all levels of seniority, relative to its mining peers.
We continue to build on the successes that we have achieved with a number of positive initiatives on diversity this Board committee membership The current membership of the Boards committees is shown in the table below: Audit Health, Safety and Nomination Remuneration Project Assurance Committee Environment Committee Committee Committee Committee Oleg Novachuk Andrew Southam Lynda Armstrong Alison Baker Vladimir Kim Michael Lynch-Bell John MacKenzie Charles Watson Chair of committee Member of committee The Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee was replaced in October 2018 with a re-formed Projects Assurance Committee.
