Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction Q&A WITH PHILIP COX CBE The Board aims to support and challenge management, whilst also overseeing the Groups governance, systems of risk management and financial performance.
In this part of the Annual Report, we Have there been any changes to the As the Chairman, what is your view describe governance at Kier, the principal Board during the year?
on the role of governance?
activities of the Board and its committees On 1 August 2018, we announced the As the Group continues to grow, it is throughout the year and how Kier has appointment of Claudio Veritiero as important that the Board supports and applied the principles of, and complied Chief Operating Officer, a role which we challenges the executive management team, with, the UK Corporate Governance Code identified as being key to delivering the engages with a range of stakeholders, April2016 edition the Code.
We will be Future Proofing Kier programmes so as to be able to reflect their views in its reviewing our governance structure to objectives.
We also announced that Nigel decision-making, and has the range of skills ensure that it reflects the requirements of Brook and Nigel Turner would both stand and experience required to oversee the the July 2018 version of the Code which down from the Board.
I look forward to Groups governance, systems of risk will apply to the Groups financial year working with Claudio in his new role and I management and financialperformance.
commencing on 1 July 2019. would like to thank Nigel and Nigel for their hard work and contributions to the Board The contracting sector is a and the business.
Governance challenging environment how has Having completed nine years on the Board, 57 Corporate Governance the Board led the Group through Nick Winser has decided not to offer Statement theyear?
himself for re-election at the November 57 Chairmans introduction The Boards principal focus during the year AGM.
Nick has played an important role on 59 Governance in action has been to oversee the delivery of both the Board, in particular as the Chair of the 60 Board statements operational excellence and the Groups SHE Committee.
I would like to express 62 Leadership financial targets, whilst regularly reviewing my thanks to Nick for his support following its principal risks, our risk appetite and the 64 Board of Directors my appointment as Chairman and, on Groups systems of risk management and 66 Effectiveness behalf of the Board, wish him well for the internal control.
Kirsty Bashforth will take over the 71 Accountability The challenging market environment role of Chair of the SHE Committee with meansthat we must be at the top of our effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
73 Risk Management and game the Future Proofing Kier programme Ilook forward to working with Kirsty in her AuditCommittee report demonstrates the Boards commitment to new role.
81 Safety, Health and Environment streamlining and further strengthening the Committee report What were the key issues identified Group.
In particular, during the year the 83 Relations with shareholders by the 2018 Board evaluation?
Board has focused on increasing the andother stakeholders Groups cash flow and the resilience of its The 2018 Board evaluation confirmed balance sheet, with the principal objectives that, overall, the Board continued to 86 Directors Remuneration of maintaining a sound capital structure perform effectively.
Report and reducing both year-end and average The feedback identified that the Board had, 86 Annual statement of the Chair month-end net debt.
in particular, made good progress with ofthe Remuneration Committee The Board is therefore extremely active, respect to reviewing and developing the 89 Remuneration at a glance with each member having visited a number Groups strategy, overseeing the 92 Annual report on remuneration of the Groups sites during the year, management of contract risk and 102 Directors remuneration enabling the Board to hear employees implementing a series of measures policy summary views on a range of matters.
designed to reduce the Groups net debt.
108 Directors Report 110 Statements of Directors responsibilities Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 57 Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction continued The Board agreed that its priorities in 2019 What engagement with would include a continued focus on the shareholders has the Board had reduction of the Groups net debt, a review during the year?
of the Vision 2020 goals, developing the During the year, I have met a number of pipeline of future Board members, shareholders to discuss a range of matters, increasing diversity within the business and including the Groups performance, a continued review of the Groups risk governance and progress against the management processes.
I have found these Further details of the 2018 Board meetings useful in assisting me to evaluation are set out on page 68. understand shareholders views, which we have then discussed as a board.
At the The Board is accountable for the March 2018 meeting, the Board took the Groups management of risk.
In opportunity to assess how it engages with light of Carillions insolvency, how shareholders and other key stakeholders, comfortable is the Board that it so as to be able to take into account their interests in its decision-making.
members of the Board for example, the During the year, the Board reviewed the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and Groups principal risks and its overall risk the Senior Independent Director have also appetite and, through the Risk met a number of shareholders during the Management and Audit Committee RMAC, year and, following their meetings, reported closely monitored how those risks are back to the Board on the issues which managed.
By way of example, the Board, werediscussed.
through the RMAC, commissioned a review of the Groups key commercial controls by Further details about the engagement KPMG, our Internal Auditor at the time, in undertaken by the Board with its key light of the importance of contract stakeholders during the year are set out on administration to the Groups operations.
The review made a number of proposals to I look forward to meeting shareholders at simplify and or streamline the controls.
TheBoard will oversee managements development of those controls throughout the 2019 financial year.
Further details of how the Group manages risk are set out on pages 36 to 43 inclusive.
Philip Cox CBE Kier received a significant vote Chairman against its Directors Remuneration Report at the 2017 AGM.
How has 19 September 2018 the Remuneration Committee taken this into account?
The Board was disappointed to receive a significant vote against its 2017 Directors Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration Committee understands that the principal concern of shareholders related to the increase in the base salary of the Chief Executive with effect from 1 July 2017.
The Remuneration Committee took into account this feedback in its decision not to award the Chief Executive an increase in base salary for the 2019 financial year.
Details of the decisions taken by the Remuneration Committee during the year are summarised in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 107 inclusive.
58 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018
