Letter from the Chairman of the Nomination Committee Committee members Dame Alison Carnwath Chairman Edward Bonham Carter Chris Bartram Simon Palley Stacey Rauch Highlights Full compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code Two awards in recognition of our governance and reporting Focus on Board composition and succession Key responsibilities Structure, size and composition ofthe Board and its Committees Succession planning of the Board and Senior Management Monitors corporate governance, including section 172 Companies Act obligations 70 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Dame Alison Carnwath Chairman Governance Having served nine years as Chairman, the Finally, the Committee supports the Board in Dear shareholder Company announced my intention to retire itswork to secure the long-term health of the during 2018.
The process to find my successor, Company and its strategy for success in a I am pleased to present which started in late 2017, has been led by the fast-changing world.
This can only be achieved Committee and supported by Egon Zehnder, an with the right people in the organisation.
the Nomination independent search consultancy with particular This year, the Committee considered the likely expertise in this field.
Obviously, I have had business needs of the Company, its management Committee report no involvement in the search process.
The capability and succession plans at Executive and whichreviews our work appointment of a Chairman is a major decision Senior Management level.
We also recognised for any company and I can assure you that the and supported the extensive leadership over thepast year.
Committee was thorough in its approach to development work being undertaken with all finding the best candidate.
management levels, which addresses both Governance what we need to do and how we go about it.
I can report that we complied in full with the I am delighted that Cressida has been appointed This cultural focus is important.
principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance to succeed me as Chairman, taking over following Code throughout the year.
Her experience of being part Independence and re-election to the Board of Landsec for over three years, combined with The independence, effectiveness and The Nomination Committee oversees the her broader business expertise, are strengths commitment of each of the Non-executive governance agenda on behalf of the Board.
she can use at the Board in the years ahead.
Directors has been reviewed by the Committee.
Itconsiders the papers and proposals issued by Cressida is also joining the Nomination We were satisfied with the contributions and Government and regulatory bodies and it agrees Committee with effect from 15May 2018. time commitment of all the Non-executive the scope and nature of our submissions in Directors during the year.
It then ensures that decisions taken by the Board composition and succession Committee, I conducted a specific review in Board and its delegated Committees are made With the changes made during the year, we relation to Stacey Rauch as she has been in in the best interests of the Company and that believe that the current composition of the office for more than six years.
The Committee they address any relevant wider implications.
Board and its Committees remains appropriate was confident that Stacey, and each of the for the time being.
We keep this under regular other Non-executive Directors, remains Corporate governance received much attention review, however, and the range of skills and independent and will be in a position to during the year following the Governments capabilities at Board level are assessed for discharge their duties and responsibilities in consultation and Green Paper and, more theirrelevance to the execution of our strategy.
With the exception of Scott recently, the consultation on the UK Corporate We held a Board strategy session in February and Colette, whose appointment is being Governance Code led by the FRC.
Added to and the wide range of business experience at ratified for the first time, and me as I am this, some high-profile corporate failures have Director level really contributed to the breadth retiring from the Board, all the Directors will brought into sharp focus the wide impact of that discussion.
stand for re-election at the Annual General such events have on employees, pensioners, Meeting with the support of the Board.
partners, suppliers and the wider community.
The Committee supports the ongoing We responded to both consultations.
Most development of Directors and the Executive Committee effectiveness importantly, we promote the spirit of good team to ensure that we retain and recruit the I am pleased to report that the recent internal governance within the business and we are best talent for our needs.
As a matter of Board performance evaluation concluded that already taking measures to address some of prudence, we monitor a range of candidates the Nomination Committee operated well.
the changes anticipated in the revised Code who may be suitable replacements for existing Ithink the way that we debated the appointment to be issued later this year.
Directors because it is impossible to predict of new Executive Directors to the Board and the when people may move on.
We believe that manner in which the Committee has handled I am delighted to report that we were Non-executive Directors should generally my succession planning has been excellent.
As recognised again for the standards we set, stay for nine years, with the appointment has the Committees ongoing work to lead the winning Britains Most Admired Companies of new Directors providing an opportunity attitude and approach to corporate governance Award corporate governance and the to add diverse perspectives and skills.
We were innovative too, ICSAAnnual Report of the Year 2017 award.
as Inoted last year in my letter to you, it is proposing the separation of the Boards You willfind more detail regarding our important we ensure that experience gained performance review which was led by Edward as compliance, governance and effectiveness through one property cycle is available for the Senior Independent Director and the Directors elsewhere in thisreport.
Therefore, the Committee may determine performance appraisals, which Ihandled.
The occasionally that it is in the Companys best Board accepted this proposal and I believe that Board and Committee changes interests for a Non-executive Director with our internal evaluation process this year was We announced the appointment of Colette particular skills to stay beyond the nine-year the better for it.
OShea and Scott Parsons as Executive Directors term identified in the UK Corporate Governance during the year.
Both manage significant You will find more information on these topics, Code.
Should this occur, we would explain our portfolios in their own right and their attendance the other work of the Committee, and more rationale to shareholders and address any has brought added property expertise to the details of the Board evaluation process and its governance concerns.
Their views enrich our discussions, outcomes, on the following pages.
especially their perspectives on the impact of changing consumer behaviour and the Dame Alison Carnwath evolution of the workplace on the property Chairman, Nomination Committee sector.
On behalf of the Committee, I am delighted that we were able to propose their nomination to the Board.
