Letter from theChairman of the Audit Committee Committee members Nicholas Cadbury Chairman Chris Bartram Stacey Rauch Kevin OByrne until 27 September 2017 Highlights New Committee Chairman Oversight of significant property acquisitions and disposals In-depth review of risk and internalaudit Key responsibilities Monitors the integrity of the reporting process and financial management Oversees risk management and internal control Scrutinises annual and half-yearly results 76 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Nicholas Cadbury Chairman Audit Committee Governance The Groups Executive Committee regularly replacement.
Kath was appointed following Dear shareholder reviews the risk register and this is used by the aselection process led by me.
The fee basis Committee as the basis of its risk assessment.
forEYs services are contained on page 80 I am pleased to report on Additionally, the Audit Committee reflected intheAccountability section.
Based on the on changes at a macro-economic and political Committees recommendation, the Board the key activities and focus level as context against which it assessed risk.
isproposing that EY be reappointed to office During the year, the Company engaged in a atthis years AGM.
of the Audit Committee bottom-up risk process involving all the functions during theyear.
Fair, balanced and understandable within the organisation to improve the quality The Committee assessed and recommended and thoroughness of the review.
This involved to the Board that, taken as a whole, the I was delighted to become Chairman of this seeking views from across the business on Companys 2018 Annual Report is fair, balanced Committee on 28 September 2017 following existing, new or emerging risks.
Kevin OByrnes planned retirement as Chairman also sought the views of its Directors, Executive of this Committee after more thannineyears Committee and senior leaders to inform the Viability Statement as a Director of the Company.
Iwould like to discussion on risk and risk appetite.
The output The Viability Statement, together with the thank Kevin for his support during the transition was discussed first at the Audit Committee and rationale behind the chosen five-year time period and for all his work leading this Committee.
subsequently by the Board at its risk session in horizon, is set out on page 58.
The Committee December including the review of risk appetite.
again considered whether there should be any The role of the Audit Committee has not change to the period chosen for the Statement, changed.
It monitors the integrity of the Groups Internal audit as it will do every year, but remained of the reporting process and financial management.
The Company maintains its own risk management opinion that five years was appropriate taking Itensures that risks are carefully identified and internal audit function.
The Committee into account the balance sheet and financial andassessed and that robust systems of risk again reviewed the scope, skills and competencies strength of the Company and its current management and internal control are in place.
of this function, and the level of resource exposure to development risk.
It scrutinises the annual and half-yearly financial available to it, and listened to fresh ideas from statements before proposing them to the Board the newly appointed Director of Risk UK Corporate Governance Code FRC for approval, and reviews in detail the work of Management and Internal Audit.
We decided Guidance on Audit Committees the external auditor and external valuer and that the knowledge, skills and resources of our The Committee considered its compliance any significant financial judgement made by internal audit team, and their understanding of with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code management.
The Committee receives detailed the business, were appropriate.
However, there and the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees.
reports from management supplemented by are occasions when we require and benefit from We believe that we have addressed both other conversations and meetings as appropriate the expertise that can be offered by specialist the spirit and the requirements of both: this during the year and ensures that it allocates external advice such as IT and security conclusion is supported by our external auditor.
sufficient time on the agenda to both financial and, accordingly, the Committee considered and risk matters.
when such advice was appropriate.
We believe Committee effectiveness that the combination of internal and external The internally facilitated evaluation of the Acquisitions and disposals: liability advisers continues to provide us with the Committees performance, conducted as management best insight into areas of risk and appropriate part of the overall Board effectiveness review, The Company made a number of property controls, and allows us to report to the Board confirmed that the Committee continued to acquisitions and disposals during the year in line that the system of internal processes is robust.
operate at a high standard, with clear priorities, with its strategy.
The largest disposal, measured well-defined responsibilities and clarity around by capital value, was that of 20 Fenchurch The internal audit function has an annual plan its workplan.
I will continue this approach Street for 634m our share, following which of work that is approved by the Committee.
475m was returned to shareholders by way The plan is assessed against the risk register of capital repayment: we also acquired three which is reviewed in detail twice yearly.
Internal The year ahead outlet centres for 333m to add to our Retail audit reports are received by the Committee The Committee achieved a consistently high Portfolio.
The Committee reviewed the accounting and any follow up recommendations or actions performance during a busy year, highlighted by treatment of all material transactions and are tracked until completion.
some large and well-publicised transactions and ensured that it was appropriate in each case.
underpinned by a robust and inclusive approach External valuations and CBRE as valuer to identifying risk and assessing risk appetite.
During the year, the Company continued its CBRE was appointed in 2015 to act as the Groups The Committee will continue to work with review of its debt financing and this resulted in valuer and we remain pleased with the level management, and provide clear reports to the the redemption of some bonds and the issue of of support they provide to the business, the Board, to ensure that it addresses these issues new bonds as part of its liability management rigorous process that they apply to their ina way that is consistent with the Companys work.
This financing activity, and its accounting work and their broad industry expertise and culture and values, it retains its focus on customers treatment, was considered by the Committee.
For Landsec, as a property company and supports the governance regime in place.
whose share price is influenced by the net asset Risk value of its total portfolio, this is an important I would like to thank the other members of the The risk landscape evolves every year but, for relationship and one that the Committee Committee, together with management and Landsec, the principal risks have remained assesses carefully.
EY, for their support during the year and I hope much the same over the comparative period.
that you find this review, and the report that These are set out on pages 54-57 of this Annual External auditor follows, a helpful explanation of the work of Report and include market cyclicality, structural Ernst & Young LLP EY was appointed as the the Committee.
changes in customers and customer behaviours Companys auditor in 2013.
This years internal and information security.
It is also appropriate review of their effectiveness and performance Nicholas Cadbury that we include in our register risks relating to concluded that they continue to operate at a Chairman, Audit Committee health, safety and security of employees, high standard.
After five years in post, Eamonn customers and partners and data protection McGrath will be stepping down as our audit including General Data Protection Regulation, partner following the publication of our 2017 18 and the longer-term nature ofsustainability risks.
results, and we welcome Kath Barrow as his Landsec Annual Report 2018 77
