Governance Letter from the Chairman Sir John Kingman Chairman Welcome to my 2018 Corporate Governance report.
Board changes The Board is responsible for leading the company and overseeing the Our Board has continued to evolve in 2018 with the appointments of governance of the group, and for setting the tone for the groups culture, Henrietta Baldock and George Lewis on 4 October and 1 November, values and ethical behaviours.
As Chairman, it is my role to ensure that respectively, providing the Board with further deepening of expertise.
the Board promotes the highest standards of governance and that these Henrietta is Chair of the Companys principal operating subsidiary, standards cascade throughout the group.
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited LGAS and has continued Corporate governance underpins how we conduct ourselves as a Board, to chair LGAS following her appointment to the Group Board.
Henrietta our culture, values, behaviours and how we do business.
For the year has brought to the Board extensive knowledge of the financial services ended 31 December 2018, the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and insurance sectors through her 25 years experience in investment the Code remained the standard against which we were required to banking, most recently as Chairman of the European Financial measure ourselves.
I am pleased to report that we have complied with Institutions team at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
all principles of the Code throughout the year.
George brings to the Board significant experience in international In recent years, corporate governance best practice has continued to financial services and in particular a focus on asset management evolve, most recently with the publication of the 2018 UK Corporate following a 30 year career with the Royal Bank of Canada RBC.
Governance Code the new Code.
We will endeavour, and have George was a member of RBCs Group Executive board from 2007 already made steps, to apply the updated principles of the new Code to 2015, with responsibility for RBCs wealth and asset management as soon as possible.
We expect to be fully compliant with all principles businesses and, from 2012, for insurance.
His experience in growing of the new Code in 2019.
Further details on the new Code and on our RBCs global asset management businesses in the US, UK, Asia and compliance against the 2016 Code can be found on pages 62 and 63. other international markets will be important as the group further We continue to strive to remain at the forefront of best practice and develops the LGIM business globally.
consistent with the standards our investors, including LGIM which plays I should like to take this opportunity once again to thank Carolyn Bradley a key role in setting the standards for investor stewardship, require.
who served on the Board and retired at the end of 2018.
She has made Our approach to governance a strong contribution to the Board and I am very grateful to her.
Governance is at all times an important aspect of our Board Succession planning environment and our governance helps us test whether we are making Succession planning was an area of focus for the Board in 2018. decisions in the right way.
Our governance framework means we have Boththe Nominations Committee and the Board have continued to a robust decision making process and a clear framework within which consider the leadership needs of the group, together with the skills decisions can be made.
Our delegated authority framework ensures andexperience needed from its directors going forward.
We need that decisions are taken by the right people at the right level with tomaintain a well-balanced Board, with diversity of expertise, skills, accountability up to the Board, and enables an appropriate level of experience, background and perspectives, in addition to independence debate, challenge and support in the decision making process.
of thought and actions, informed by the perspectives of our customers, Our business continues to evolve as we pursue our strategic objectives employees and wider stakeholders.
and respond to the changing regulatory environment and market These considerations go beyond Board level and the Board is strongly uncertainty.
In this ever-changing environment, it remains important for committed to continuing to develop the pipeline of talent through us to ensure that our governance framework evolves with us, and as a thebusiness.
Board we work hard to ensure that this framework is always providing the strong foundation needed for effective management of the group.
A strong framework alone is not enough to deliver our strategy.
Thisframework needs to be managed by an effective Board that setsthe tone for the groups culture, values and ethical behaviours.
56 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Letter from the chairman Subsidiary Boards Guiding principles are in place for the relationship between the As a Board we are conscious of the impact GroupBoard and the Board of the groups principal subsidiaries.
that our business and decisions have on Thisframework promotes full and effective interaction across all levels of the group to support the delivery of strategy and business objectives ouremployees, customers, and suppliers within a framework of best corporate governance practice.
aswell as our wider societal impact.
IT and cyber issues It is vital that we doallwe can as a business to mitigate potential risks, Sir John Kingman Chairman especially with the continued rise in cyber crime.
Technology is increasingly fast-paced and we need to ensure we stay ahead of the curve to ensure we are delivering the best service for our customers and providing the best support for our employees.
In order to ensure sufficient focus on this critical area for the business, a Group Information Technology Committee of the Board was established at the beginning of2018.
The Committee enables the Board to have greater oversight ofthe companys IT programmes and the implementation of improvements during 2018 to ensure the group is operating within itstargeted access management, information security and cyber riskappetite.
This Committee has met regularly throughout the year and has proven to be a successful forum in which progress on IT and cyber projects andstrategy can be properly tracked and management can be held toaccount against tangible deliverables.
Recognising the critical importance of IT and cyber security on our business, we have made thisCommittee a full committee of the Group Board, covering a broad remit of IT and cyber security issues across the group.
Stakeholder engagement We place great value on the close engagement we have with our shareholders: the investor community continues to be a strong and influential force in shaping corporate governance.
I have met with a range of our shareholders over the year providing investors with the opportunity to discuss particular areas of interest or to raise any concerns.
The AGM is a particularly valuable opportunity for the Boardto meet our shareholders in person and hear their views.
I look forward to seeing as many shareholders at the 2019 AGM as we have inprevious years, and would encourage as many shareholders as possible to attend the AGM on 23 May 2019.
As a Board we are conscious of the impact that our business and decisions have on our employees, customers, and suppliers as well asour wider societal impact.
In October 2018, we announced the appointment of Lesley Knox asourdesignated non-executive director for engagement with the companys workforce, in line with the provisions of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board welcomes the early adoption of this governance model and Lesleys appointment to this position.
Sir John Kingman Chairman Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57
