Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 A letter from our Chairman Building robust stakeholder relationships During the year, the Board continued to ensure corporate governance was embedded into the thinking and processes ofthe business.
Lord Blackwell Chairman Anita Frew stepped down as Chairman of two years in which we had undertaken internal Chairmans letter the Remuneration Committee in September reviews of board effectiveness.
This process This Corporate Governance Report details and was replaced by Stuart Sinclair.
Anita will ran between August 2018 and January 2019, our approach to governance in practice, how continue to be a member of the Committee, and was overseen by the Nomination and the Board operates and the key activities and remains as the Groups Deputy Chairman Governance Committee.
The process which of the Board during the year, together with and Senior Independent Director.
Further was undertaken and the findings of the review information on the annual Board evaluation to the announcement in October that can be found on pages 62 to 63, together with process.
It also includes the reports from each George Culmer would be retiring from the information about our progress against the of the Boards principal Committees.
Group in the third quarter of 2019, the Group 2017 review actions.
Strong Board oversight is vitally important announced, in February 2019 that, subject to Corporate Governance Code alongside the executive governance regulatory approvals, William Chalmers will During the year under review, the Group framework.
A major focus over the last succeed George as Executive Director and applied and was fully compliant with year has been the implementation of our Chief Financial Officer.
the UK Corporate Governance Code strategic transformation programme, Governance and the ring-fenced 2016.
Additionally, in preparation for our following extensive Board engagement in adoption of the UK Corporate Governance the conception and design of the strategy to bank structure Code 2018 from 1 January this year, the deliver the Bank of the Future.
Building on the work carried out last year to Group undertook a review of its Corporate This transformation programme is managed create our non-ring fenced bank, Lloyds Bank Governance Framework.
We also considered through multiple workstreams and initiatives, Corporate Markets plc, the Group has now our approach to workforce engagement.
and the scale and pace of change is highly completed the new regulatory requirements Furtherinformation on workforce demanding.
It has involved a significant shift in by establishing new governance around its engagement can be found on page17 and64.
organisational decision-making and controls ring-fenced banking activities Lloyds Bank plc Wewillreport on our application of the UK from business and functional lines to cross and Bank of Scotland plc together the RingCorporate Governance Code 2018 in next divisional workstreams.
It has also required Fenced Banks.
These companies serve the years annual report.
a substantial investment in colleague skills Groups personal and business clients in the The Board has engaged with the Groups and culture to support the re-shaping of roles UK and contain the vast majority of the Groups stakeholders during the year, and further around the new ways of working.
The Board UK banking activities.
Further information on details on this can be found on pages 16 to 18. has devoted considerable time to reviewing the governance structure for the Ring-Fenced the way this is being implemented, with Banks can be found on page58.
particular attention to the management of the Group Directors are also Directors of the risks arising from the implementation of new Ring-Fenced Banks and, in addition, we have technologies, the new ways of working and appointed three Non-Executive Directors to Lord Blackwell the overall pace of change.
the Ring-Fenced Banks, who are independent Chairman of the Group the Ring-Fenced Bank only Board and Committee changes Directors.
These three Ring-Fenced Bank only Strategy There have been a number of changes Directors were recruited during 2018 and took to the Board and Committees during the The Board has been engaged with the up their formal roles on 1 January 2019.
Amanda Mackenzie was appointed Groups strategy through multiple touchpoints are Nigel Hinshelwood and Brendan Gilligan, to the Board in October, and became a throughout the year.
These have included: who both have extensive experience of the member of the Board Risk Committee and the annual cycle of two offsite meetings financial sector, and Sarah Bentley, who has the Responsible Business Committee.
She to debate priorities and agree significant experience in consumer-focused is also joining the Remuneration Committee implementation plans: industries as well as in digital technology.
Also, a suite of formal Board metrics and information is provided in the Nomination and NickPrettejohn is joining the Nomination qualitative reporting to monitor Governance Committee report on pages 67 to and Governance Committee with effect progress and risks: 69.
Nigel Hinshelwood has been appointed as from 1 March 2019.
After three years on the Deep dive sessions on key areas see the Senior Independent Director of the RingBoard, Deborah McWhinney decided to page 56 for more information : Fenced Bank Boards.
leave the Group, for personal reasons, with Gallery Walk sessions with workstream effect from 31December 2018.
Deborah Board evaluation teams in the Lab environment more provided valuable insight to the Board In accordance with the UK Corporate information can be found on page 17 : and during her tenure, especially in respect of Governance Code the Board engaged a wide range of informal interactions to IT infrastructure and cyber security.
She left EgonZehnder to facilitate the annual review feel the pulse.
with our thanks and best wishes for the future.
of the Board and its Committees, following
