LondonMetric Property Plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Introduction from the Chairman The Corporate Governance report which follows provides insight into our governance processes and activities in the year and demonstrates ourcommitment to upholding theprinciples andprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code theCode.
Good governance is embedded into members of the 30% Club Investor our day to day business operations and group to consider and share our underpins the way we manage our diversity aspirations and to discuss business.
It guides our ability to operate the challenges we face.
We support At LondonMetric in a way that is both legally compliant initiatives to promote gender diversity and also responsible andsupports in the real estate sector and have we recognise that the successful delivery ofour strategy.
recently become a member of the maintaining the high We strive to operate in a transparent Real Estate Balance group whose and responsible way and foster a objective is to improve gender standards of corporate culture of appropriate decision making diversity by promoting and supporting at all levels in the organisation.
the development of a female talent governance we have pipeline.
Low staff turnover at senior Through the close involvement of levels signies a loyal, content and developed over the the Executive Directors, our culture motivated workforce and something permeates through the wider we are proud of.
However it also years is critical to organisation, promoting good constrains the pace of change as governance practices beyond PMh[]KKM[[N]T LMTQ MZa opportunities are dependent upon the boardroom.
Performance evaluation To the extent that we have the I am pleased to report the findings opportunity and as evidenced by Patrick Vaughan Chairman of the external board performance our most recent Board appointment, evaluation that was undertaken by we will seek to improve our gender Independent Audit this year.
The Board diversity throughout the Company.
was praised for its exceptional Succession planning cohesion and culture of openness.
The mutual respect and confidence Succession planning and developing of individual members and the strong talent continues to be a key area of and supportive relationships formed focus for the Nomination Committee over many years working together to support the Companys long term were noted as particular strengths and plans.
Two years ago we instigated I thank my colleagues for engaging in a phased refreshment of the Non open and constructive conversations.
Executive Board in light of members However, in seeking continued tenure and the best practice improvement to our performance, recommendations of the Code.
we welcome suggestions for This year we are delighted to improvements to Board processes to welcome Suzanne Avery to the enhance boardroom debate and Board and as a member of the challenge, including varying the Audit Committee.
Suzanne brings pace of discussion and agenda, by a fresh perspective and wealth of involving other managers and staff and complementary financial, banking, occasionally changing the format and sustainability and real estate location of meetings.
experience and expertise to the Board as former Managing Director Diversity of Real Estate Finance Group and The Board believes in the benets Sustainability at RBS.
of diversity and strives to operate in a working environment of equal opportunity.
This year we met Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Stakeholders agenda item at each Board meeting, As advised to the market on highlighting changes in the Groups 9 November 2017, Valentine Beresford, Our approach to business builds exposure to risks and prompting Investment Director, has taken a and maintains the trust of our key further debate.
leave of absence from the Company stakeholders including investors, following an operation.
He continues to business partners, customers, suppliers We are mindful of the need to ensure make a good recovery and we expect and employees.
Furthermore we are that evolving risks are considered which him to return to the office towards the committed to enhancing the business this year included cyber risk and the end of the summer.
environments in which we operate as impact of Brexit.
discussed in detail in the Responsible Whilst Valentines day to day The Audit Committee has challenged Business section of the Strategic report.
responsibilities have been covered the going concern principal underlying by other members of the Companys We have a comprehensive investor the preparation of these accounts and executive team and senior colleagues, relations programme and regular considered the Companys longer term he has remained in close contact with communication with investors viability.
It has reviewed the processes the Company and we have been continues to be a key priority for the in place followed by management to able to benefit from his wide skills Executive Directors.
Understanding the ensure that the financial statements and experience.
views of shareholders is fundamental are fair, balanced and understandable to the Companys strategic direction and has scrutinised and challenged Looking ahead and ultimate success.
This year the significant accounting judgements We look forward to another busy we commissioned our first investor made by management, including and rewarding year ahead whilst Responsible Business survey and those concerning the valuation remaining mindful of the ever were reassured by the positive results.
The Committee also changing economic and political The Executive Directors met with over considered the likely impact of challenges.
We will seek to ensure 200 shareholders, fund managers, adopting new accounting standards the business remains resilient to such private wealth investors and other on revenue, financial instruments and challenges and adapts to regulatory interested parties during the year to leasing that become mandatory over and legislative changes including the discuss the Companys performance the next two years.
impact of Brexit and implementation and plans.
This year we welcomed a new lead of the EU Withdrawal Bill as well as The Board is aware of its responsibility audit partner, Georgina Robb, to the proposed revised UK Corporate to other stakeholders when making replace the previous partner who Governance Code.
business decisions and actively retired by rotation and was no longer Succession planning and diversity engages with and welcomes considered independent, given her remain high on the Boards agenda feedback from suppliers, tenants prior role as audit partner to Metric.
for 2019 and we will endeavour to and employees.
During the year we Given that 2019 will be Deloittes sixth implement the recommendations undertook our biennial customer consecutive year in office, we will from this years external satisfaction survey and our first consider whether to re-tender the audit performance evaluation.
employee satisfaction survey to better during the next two financial years.
understand our key stakeholders The Company received a letter from views.
In addition we have introduced the Financial Reporting Council FRC exible working practices for staff to concerning its review of its 2017 Annual help improve employees work life Report.
I am very pleased to report that balance.
The success of the Company no questions or queries were raised.
is dependent upon the hard work and Patrick Vaughan A few improvements to disclosures Chairman dedication of a small team here at were noted and have been taken into 30 May 2018 LondonMetric and on behalf of the consideration in the preparation and Board I would like to thank each and review of this years Annual Report.
every employee for their contribution and commitment.
Remuneration Statement of Compliance Accountability The Board remains committed to attracting and retaining talented The Audit Committee continues to The Board has considered the individuals to deliver outstanding play a key oversight and assurance Companys compliance with the results.
The Remuneration Committee role, assisting the Board and ensuring provisions of the UK Corporate continues to promote a fair reward shareholder and other stakeholder Governance Code the Code structure that adequately incentivises interests are protected by monitoring published by the Financial Reporting and retains the executive team to the processes that support financial Council in 2016, publicly available deliver long term growth and success reporting and control.
This year the The Committee has undertaken The Board considers that the Committee reviewed the variable its annual comprehensive review Company has complied with the elements of remuneration and has of principal risks and the internal main provisions set out in the Code recommended annual bonuses for control framework and no significant throughout the year under review theExecutive Directors at 71% to 79% weaknesses were identied.
The risk and to the date of this report.
dashboard continues to be a standing
