25 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 GOVERNANCE SUPPORTING STAKEHOLDERS: CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW companies to appoint a female director and Following the external independent with strong female representation over the evaluation last year, this years Board last decade.
Review was conducted by our Group Secretary.
A summary of this As a result of the departures of Miranda and the actions for the year ahead are Curtis and Helen Weir, at the time of set out on page 33 of this report.
publication of this report, we are below our target of 30% female directors.
COLLEAGUE ENGAGEMENT In May 2018, we announced that Katie Engagement with and feedback from Bickerstaffe and Pip McCrostie would join our colleagues across the business is vital, the Board, subject to their election at the especially as we drive our transformation.
Annual General Meeting in July 2018.
A culture of transparency and open As we embark on the Following these appointments, female dialogue is key to this, which is why I spend directors will comprise 30% of our Board.
journey ahead it is my time as Chairman hosting numerous listening groups with colleagues from important we have a highly BOARD ACTIVITIES stores, distribution centres and offices.
engaged board: one that During the year we complied with all of We were delighted to invite the chair of the provisions of the UK Corporate is close to the business, our Business Involvement Group BIG, Governance Code.
In keeping with the which represents the interests of all our able to both support and rest of this Annual Report, this years 81,000 colleagues, to attend one of our Governance section is more concise, with challenge the executive Board meetings and share with us colleague greater detail on the Board moving online to team and is well-equipped perspectives on the issues under discussion.
com thecompany to oversee governance, in support of our future digital ambitions.
Going forward, we have agreed that the Chair of BIG will be invited to attend two financial controls and We will continue to drive the digital Board meetings a year and will also be experience for our shareholders and risk management.
invited to attend at least one Remuneration reduce the clutter in our written reports Committee meeting each year.
ARCHIE NORMAN CHAIRMAN going forward.
A summary of the Boards activities and discussions during the year Good engagement with our colleagues is is presented on pages 28-29. vital as we embark on this period of change, AN ENGAGED BOARD and to support this we will look at ways Over the last few months, the Board has to step up our communication with them As we embark on the journey ahead it is reviewed its activities and the roles of its during the year ahead.
Details of the ways in important we have a highly engaged committees to ensure that it can focus on which we engage with our stakeholders are board: one that is close to the business, driving transformational change at pace.
available on pages 30-31. able to both support and challenge the In particular, the Remuneration Committee executive team, and is well-equipped to was asked to increase its remit to cover RETAIL SHAREHOLDERS oversee governance, financial controls senior leadership reward, pay policy, and risk management.
gender pay and employee engagement.
Our Private Shareholder Panel had a good This change was implemented ahead of first year, meeting with members of the There have been a number of changes the FRCs consultation on the revised Operating Committee and Board and to the Board this year.
In July, Humphrey UK Corporate Governance Code.
discussing a diverse range of topics Singer will join as CFO following Helen Weirs The Committees activities and its covering Brexit preparedness, food pricing, departure at the end of March.
In April, considerations on remuneration are customer trends and our Plan A community Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne stepped outlined in detail on pages 42-62. challenges.
The candour, challenge and down from the Board, following the insights provided by these discussions incorporation of the marketing teams into SUCCESSION, AUDIT AND TALENT validates this initiative as part of our broader the Clothing & Home and Food businesses.
Finally, Miranda Curtis left the Board in The Audit Committees activities, February.
More information on these considerations and judgments, including We have an active programme to drive the changes is available on pages 34-35. its review of our cyber and data protection panels engagement in the year ahead.
environment, incident management and We have a strong non-executive team with a health & safety processes are set out on breadth of experience and perspectives.
We pages 36-41. recently added to this with appointments of Katie Bickerstaffe and Pip McCrostie.
The Board and Nomination Committees M&S has long championed the benefits of senior talent changes to build a first-class ARCHIE NORMAN CHAIRMAN a diverse board, being one of the first listed team to succeed in the retail environment of the future are set out on page 34.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
