STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS PROF DR ROBERT LEU MS NANDI MANDELA MR TREVOR PETERSON Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Nationality: Swiss Nationality: South African Nationality: South African Committee memberships: Clinical Performance Committee membership: Clinical Performance Committee memberships: Audit and Risk and Sustainability Committee, Nomination and Sustainability Committee Committee, Nomination Committee, Committee, Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Ms Nandi Mandela was appointed as an Prof Dr Robert Leu was appointed as an independent non-executive director of the Mr Trevor Petersen was appointed as an independent non-executive director of the Company on 15 February 2016.
Prior to independent non-executive director of the Company on 15 February 2016.
Prior to the the combination of the businesses of the Company on 15 February 2016.
Prior to combination of the businesses of the Company Company then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc the combination of the businesses of the then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and and Mediclinic International Limited in 2016, she Company then Al Noor Hospitals Group plc Mediclinic International Limited in 2016, he served as an independent non-executive director and Mediclinic International Limited in 2016, he served as an independent non-executive director of Mediclinic International Limited from 2012.
She served as an independent non-executive director of Mediclinic International Limited from 2010. is a director of Linda Masinga & Associates, a of Mediclinic International Limited from 2012.
He is Professor Emeritus of the University of Bern town planning and consultancy fi rm, since 2003.
In 1996, he resigned from the University of Cape in Switzerland.
Complementary to his academic Prior to that, she worked as a marketing offi cer Town to take up a partnership in the merged career as full professor in economics at the at the Tongaat-Hulett Group from 1992 to 1997, fi rm of  Inc.
He served Universities of St. Gallen and Bern, he has acted before joining BP, where she worked in various as a partner of the national fi rm from 1997 to as economic adviser to executive and legislative sales and public aff airs positions from 1997 2009 and served as the partner-in-charge of bodies on all policy levels in Switzerland and to to 2003.
Cape Town and as Chairman of the Western international institutions, in particular the WHO, Cape region.
He is an independent non-executive Quali cations: Ms Mandela holds a Bachelors the OECD and the World Bank.
He is a director director on the board of Media24 Pty Ltd degree in Social Science from the University of Visana AG since 2009 and serves as the a subsidiary of Naspers Limited and is currently of Cape Town B. Soc.
: completed the Vice-President of the company since 2014, the managing trustee of the Woodside Village Associate in Management Programme at is President of the Alliance for a Free Health Trust.
He has served professional membership the University of Cape Town: and obtained a Care System in Switzerland since 2013, and a associations such as the South African Institute Certi cate in Strategic Management from the director of Medgate Integrated Care Holding AG of Chartered Accountants, and was elected the New York New School University.
He was a prior Chairman of the National Body in 2006 and 2007. director of Hirslanden AG and past President of Note: Ms Mandela will be retiring as a director Quali cations: Mr Petersen holds an Honours Arcovita AG.
after the annual general meeting of the Company degree in Accountancy from the University scheduled to be held on 25 July 2018.
Quali cations: Prof Dr Leu holds a Masters of Cape Town B. Comm.
Hons : and is a degree in Economics: and a Doctorate in quali ed Chartered Accountant with the South Economics Ph.
D., both from the University African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Note: Prof Dr Leu will be retiring as a director after the annual general meeting of the Company scheduled to be held on 25 July 2018.
