Corporate governance report Chairmans introduction The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which are fundamental to discharging our responsibilities.
It is my responsibility to ensure that Meggitt is governed and managed in the best interests of shareholders and wider stakeholders.
This includes encouraging open discussion and constructive challenge.
In this report, we set out our governance framework and explain how our activities as a Board throughout the year have supported our strategy.
Leadership As part of the planned and continued evolution of the Board, there have been a number of Board changes in 2018.
In September 2018, we announced that Louisa Burdett would join the Company as Chief Financial Officerdesignate in late October, and succeed Doug Webb as Chief Financial Officer and join the Board as an Executive Director from 1 January 2019.
Louisa brings significant relevant financial and commercial experience to the role.
Most recently she was Group Finance Sir Nigel Rudd Director of Victrex plc from January 2014 until April 2018.
Doug Chairman of the Board of Directors Webb retired with effect from 31 December 2018 after five years at Meggitt.
In October 2018 we announced that Paul Heiden will retire from his position as NonExecutive Director, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 25 April 2019, immediately prior to the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Guy Berruyer, who has been a NonExecutive Director since 2012, will become Senior Independent Director, and Alison Goligher, who has been a NonExecutive Director since 2014, will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Alison has gained relevant experience of current remuneration trends and practices as a member of the Remuneration Committee since 2014.
Guy Hachey was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees with effect from 1 January 2019.
Guy was President and Chief Operating Officer of Bombardier Aerospace from April 2008 to his retirement in 2014.
Over a period of six years, Guy led the transformation of the entire product portfolio of Bombardier, overseeing product programme investments in excess of $8bn.
He is currently a NonExecutive Director of Hexcel Corporation, a global leader in manufacturing advanced composite materials for the commercial aerospace, space and defence, and industrial markets.
Guy will bring valuable sector experience to the Board.
We recently announced that Caroline Silver will join the Board as a NonExecutive Director on 25 April 2019, immediately prior 2018 Board attendance to the AGM.
Caroline will also join the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Caroline is a Senior Managing 1 Sir Nigel Rudd Mr A Wood Director at Moelis & Company, a leading global independent 7 7 7 7 Chairman Chief Executive investment bank, where she specialises in financial institutions 2 and fintech advisory and capital raising.
She has previously held Mr G S Berruyer Mr C R Day 7 7 6 7 Nonexecutive director Nonexecutive director senior investment banking roles at Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley.
She started her career as a Mrs N L Gioia Ms A J P Goligher 7 7 7 7 Nonexecutive director Nonexecutive director chartered accountant with .
Caroline is currently NonExecutive Chairman of FTSE 250 consumer Mr P E Green Mr P Heiden products group, PZ Cussons plc, and NonExecutive Director of 7 7 7 7 Executive Director, Nonexecutive director Commercial & BUPA, the global healthcare company, where she serves on the Corporate Affairs audit and risk committees.
Caroline will bring significant investment banking experience to the Board.
Mr D R Webb 7 7 Chief Financial Officer 1 Met the independence criteria on appointment as Chairman on 23 April 2015.
2 On personal leave of absence during one of the scheduled Board meetings.
Meggitt PLC 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Effectiveness In this section The Board conducted an internal evaluation for 2018.
The positive progress made in Board succession, including improving the diversity of the Board and increasing domain knowledge in aerospace and defence was highlighted.
Areas for Board of Directors improvement in 2019 include making sure that the 2019 agenda This introduces our individual Board planner dedicated sufficient time for presentations during Board members by providing details of the skills visits, continuing evolution of risk management and increasing and experience they bring to the Board and the amount of customer satisfaction data visible to the Board.
the Committees on which they serve.
The evaluation also highlighted the importance for Board members to experience high performance culture sessions.
See more on page 76 Accountability In 2018, the Audit Committee discussed the 2017 viability statement process and confirmed that it was appropriate to Corporate governance report retain the same process for the 2018 viability statement.
The The Corporate governance report analyses the impact of the UKs vote to leave the European Union was taken leadership provided by the Board, the steps into account in the assessment of viability.
A description of taken to ensure that the Board is an effective the process and the resulting statement is set out in the risk one and the framework by which the Board management report.
That report also includes our annual manages relationships with shareholders.
confirmations on risk management and internal control.
See more on page 80 This year we also held detailed briefing sessions on the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2018 Code.
A summary of our approach to implementing the 2018 Code in 2019 is Audit Committee report included in this report and also in the Corporate Responsibility Report see page 61.
Introduced by its Chairman, Colin Day, this report describes the Audit Committees work The Board has confirmed that this Annual Report and Accounts, during the year by reference to the principal taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and responsibilities of the Committee for financial provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess reporting, external audit, the risk management the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
You can process, internal controls and internal audit.
find an explanation of the process we have used to make this See more on page 86 determination on page 118.
Remuneration During the year, executive management reviewed the structure Nominations Committee report of Group wide incentive plans: a number of recommended Introduced by its Chairman, Sir Nigel Rudd, this changes were proposed as a result, however none of these report outlines the Committees philosophy on impact the executive directors for a summary of the changes appointments and diversity and describes the below executive level see page 103.
The Committee also activities of the Committee during the year.
considered the impact of the 2018 Code and other reporting regulations and proxy advisor and investor guidance on See more on page 90 remuneration governance.
This is described in more detail in the Directors remuneration report see page 110.
Directors remuneration report The Directors remuneration report includes an introduction from its Chairman, Paul Heiden, summarising the Committees overall approach to remuneration and the link between our strategy and remuneration plans.
It also includes Sir Nigel Rudd the remuneration policy which was approved by Chairman of the Board of Directors shareholders at the 2017 AGM and describes 25 February 2019 how the policy has been applied in 2018.
See more on page 92 Directors report The Directors report is prepared in accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006, and sets out information that the directors are required to present in accordance with the Act.
See more on page 115 Meggitt PLC 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
