Governance overview Introduction from the Chairman As part of this approach, the Board has supported, applied and complied with the applicable Main Principles, the Supporting Principles and the respective related provisions of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC and available to view on the FRCs website at: www.
In support of this commitment, the Board carried out a number of key governance activities during 2018 designed to ensure that Melrose remains compliant with the provisions of the Code and to enable continuous improvement in line with best practice corporate Justin Dowley governance guidelines and to ensure that Melrose complies with Non-executive Chairman the new UK Corporate Governance Code that was published in July2018 and applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Board remains committed to Succession planning maintaining the high standards of Succession planning was an area of focus for Melrose in 2018.
The Nomination Committee and the Board has considered the corporate governance required to leadership needs of the Group, present and future, together with ensure that the Company can continue the skills, experiences and diversity needed from its Directors going forward.
We recognise that succession planning is an to deliver on its strategic goals and ongoing process and is critical to maintaining an effective and high-quality board.
to achieve long-term success for Following the Companys elevation to the FTSE 100 and in the benefit of its shareholders.
compliance with amendments to the Code, a review and refresh of the Board was undertaken.
I was elected to the inaugural role of Non-executive Chairman of the Board, effective 1 January 2019.
Further detail about my appointment, background and experience can be found on page 72.
The previous Chairman, co-founder Mr Christopher Miller, who had held the position of Chairman since Melroses establishment in 2003, will continue in a full-time executive capacity as Executive Vice Chairman alongside fellow co-founder Mr David Roper.
Ms Liz Hewitt, who has served as a Non-executive Director since 2013, was elected to the role of Senior Independent Director of the Board as my replacement, while continuing to perform her role as the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Ms Hewitt is the second-longest serving Non-executive Director and brings with her extensive business, financial and investment experience gained from a number of senior roles in international companies, including as independent member of the House of Lords Commission, and as non-executive director of Novo Nordisk A S and Savills PLC.
Mr David Lis stepped down as Chairman of the Nomination Committee and was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee as my replacement, having served as a member of the Remuneration Committee since joining the Board as a non-executive director in March 2016.
Further detail about Mr Lis appointment, background and experience can be found on page 73.
Mr Archie G. Kane was appointed as Chairman of the Nomination Committee in replacement of Mr Lis, having served as a member of the Nomination Committee since his appointment as a Nonexecutive Director in May 2017.
70 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Governance Further detail about Mr Kanes appointment, background Engagement with shareholders and experience can be found on page 73.
During 2018, the Company continued its programme of engagement with major investors and the governance bodies Following a review by the Nomination Committee of the in respect of our Directors Remuneration Policy and incentive composition of the Board and a subsequent recommendation arrangements.
Inparticular, although the 2017 Remuneration by the Committee that the number of independent Directors Report received strong support from shareholders, it also received be increased, external recruitment consultants, Stonehaven significant votes against.
Recognising this, the Chairman of the International, were retained to identify suitable candidates for Remuneration Committee and other members of the Board met the Boards consideration.
Stonehaven International provided an with major shareholders in the months following the 2018 AGM to initial list of potential candidates which the Committee reviewed discuss shareholders views in respect of executive remuneration.
and produced a shortlist of candidates, from which several The Board is pleased with the support and constructive feedback candidates were invited to interview with members of the received throughout these discussions, which is set out in the Nomination Committee.
Ms Charlotte Twyning was identified Directors Remuneration report on pages 92 to 112, and it is our as the Boards preferred candidate and was appointed to the intention to continue this programme for the foreseeable future, Board with effect from 1 October 2018.
In accordance with the especially ahead of seeking approval for the renewal of the Articles, Ms Twyning will stand for election at the 2019 AGM.
long-term incentive plans next year.
Further engagement with key shareholders and governance bodies was a central part Remuneration of our bid for GKN and has continued since its acquisition The Directors Remuneration report, comprising the Annual Report and the 2018 AGM.
on Remuneration, is available on pages 92 to 112.
After the renewal of the Companys former long-term incentive plan in 2017, the second tranche of options over 2017 Incentive Shares was allocated in 2018 as planned.
As further detailed in the Directors Remuneration report, having Justin Dowley undertaken a detailed engagement process with key shareholders Non-executive Chairman following the 2018 AGM see below we are making some 7 March 2019 adjustments to the implementation of the Directors Remuneration Policy for 2019 see pages 104 to 107, to ensure that it remains appropriate and compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
No material changes are required to the Directors Remuneration Policy or its implementation in 2019, and all other elements will remain the same as approved at the 2017 General Meeting.
Melroses remuneration philosophy remains unchanged in order to align senior management with shareholders: executive remuneration should be simple, transparent, support the delivery of the Melrose value creation strategy and only pay for performance.
Risk management and compliance Melrose has implemented a uniform Enterprise Risk Management programme across all its business units including the newly Main responsibilities of the Board acquired GKN businesses.
Brush and the Nortek businesses Effectively manage and control the Company via a formal have fully embedded our processes and procedures.
schedule of matters reserved for its decision Determine and review Group strategy and policy and provide The Groups compliance policies have been fully implemented strategic leadership to the Group across all GKN, Nortek and Brush business units and continue to Consider acquisitions, disposals and requests for major be monitored to ensure their effectiveness for the enlarged Group.
capital expenditure Taken together, these initiatives have enhanced the GKN, Nortek Review financial and trading performance in line with the Groups and Brush businesses effectiveness at identifying and managing strategic objectives risks and have promoted and embedded a more risk-aware Ensure that adequate funding and personnel are in place culture.
Further details on the Groups management of risk can be found on pages 50 to 51 of this Annual Report.
Report to shareholders and give consideration to all other significant financial matters Melroses reputation for acting responsibly plays a critical role in its Agree Board succession plans and consider the evaluation of the success as a business and its ability to generate shareholder value.
Boards performance over the preceding year We maintain high standards of ethical conduct and take a zeroReview the Groups risk management and internal control systems tolerance approach to bribery, corruption, modern slavery and Determine the nature and extent of the risks the Group is willing to take human trafficking and any other unethical or illegal practices.
Agree the Groups governance framework and approve Group Supporting our updated compliance policies are a comprehensive governance policies online training platform and an industry-leading whistleblowing Monitor, assess and review cyber security and fraud risk for the Group reporting facility.
The integrity of the compliance framework is Delegate and oversee responsibility for entrepreneurial leadership and further reinforced by the use of independent assurance and strategic management of the Group to the Group senior executives compliance audits.
Challenge, review and exercise robust managerial oversight across key decisions, actions and processes performed by the Groups business units Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 71
