CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW David Arden, Company Secretary and Chief Financial Officer Continuing to provide prudent oversight as we grow I set out MetroBanks Corporate Governance Statement, We have made significant headway in refreshing the Board andmy first report since being appointed in March 2018. during the year.
We appointed two new independent Itsbeen a busy and rewarding year for MetroBank, although Non-Executive Directors NEDs, Catherine Brown, on not without its challenges.
Im pleased with the progress 1 October 2018, and Paul Thandi on 1 January 2019.
Their weare making as we mature as a listed company.
unique knowledge and skills complement and refresh our already strong and experienced Board.
For both Paul and MetroBank has a premium listing on the London Stock Catherine, we created tailored and detailed induction Exchange and is required to comply with the 2016 UK programmes to fully integrate them into our business and Corporate Governance Code the Code or to explain any enable them to contribute effectively at Board meetings.
I am pleased to report that during Wewill continue to seek high-calibre independent Board the period under review, we fully complied with the Code.
members as part of our ongoing succession plans.
Looking forward, we welcome the implementation of the Following nine years of service, Lord Howard Flight retired new 2018 Code the New Code.
At MetroBank we are, from the Board on 1 April 2019 and Keith Carby will retire andalways have been, a purpose-driven organisation.
They therefore will not be Ourpurpose is to create FANS.
We put the customer at the standing for re-election at the 2019 AGM.
The Board would heart of everything we do and our pervasive culture and like to thank Howard and Keith for their significant AMAZEING values permeate every area of our business.
This contributions to MetroBank during that time.
has naturally put us ahead of the curve on some areas of the New Code.
We have spent significant time this year analysing the New Code and preparing for its implementation.
Progressively refreshing our Board to ensure that it has the right mix of skills, independence, experience and diversity toprovide oversight of the Bank as it continues to grow in anevolving and challenging environment is our top governance priority.
54 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As a relatively young organisation, a number of our NEDs As we reported last year, we carried out an externally reached nine years tenure in March 2019 and we no longer facilitated Board evaluation in late 2017.
During 2018, the treat those NEDs as independent.
The appointment of two Board reviewed the recommendations from the external new Non-Executive Directors gave us the opportunity to evaluation and implemented an action plan to address these.
refresh the membership and chairs of our Committees and In addition, we also carried out an internal evaluation during our Committees are in compliance with the UK Corporate 2018 to ensure our Board and its Committees continue to Governance Codes provisions from 1 April 2019.
Our operate at maximum effectiveness.
More details on the Committee Chairs are available to shareholders upon Board evaluation process can be found on page 65. request for any questions they have.
I am pleased to report that at the 2018 AGM all resolutions We fully support the recommendations of the Code for were passed by a majority of 93% or above.
While our balance of Independent engaging with our investors and stakeholders is very NEDs is currently slightly below the 50% minimum, this will important to us.
We met with investors and proxy advisers be short lived as Keith Carby retires from the Board on during the year and we welcomed their feedback as we 30 April 2019. prepared for the year ahead.
Our Committee Chairs are also available to shareholders upon request for any From 1 May 2019, the Board excluding the Chairman questions they have.
will be made up of 10 Directors of which five 50%, are independent NEDs, in line with the requirements of the In 2019 and beyond, MetroBank will continue to grow New Code.
The Board continues its proactive search for andincrease its digital and geographic footprint.
As always, additional independent NED candidates and we expect our focus is on bringing the revolution in British banking tomake another appointment this year.
through our exceptional customer service.
Our corporate governance framework will continue to provide prudent More detail on the makeup of our Board, Committees and oversight of the Bank on thisjourney.
individual Directors can be found in the Nomination Committee report on page 79.
David arden company Secretary 10 April 2019 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 55
