STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Chairmans introduction to governance Dear fellow shareholder It gives me great pleasure to update you on our progress in corporate governance over the past year.
One of the key roles for the Board of Directors at Mitchells & Butlers The remainder of this report contains the narrative reporting required is to provide leadership for more than 44,000 employees and maintain by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Listing Rules and the the highest possible standards of corporate governance.
In doing so, Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
I hope that you find this due regard is paid to the Financial Reporting Councils report of July 2016 report to be informative and helpful in relation to this important topic.
Corporate Culture and the Role of Boards, in particular the need to align We are committed to maintaining an active dialogue with all our values and incentives, and the assessment and measurement of company shareholders, and we continue to offer our institutional investors access culture.
The Board also regularly considers the need for diversity as set to key senior management and our Investor Relations team via our out in the Davies Report of 2011 and the follow up Hampton-Alexander Investor Roadshow programme.
I would like to encourage shareholders Review published in November 2016. to attend our Annual General Meeting, details of which are set out in the The Board continues to monitor developments in corporate governance separate Notice of AGM sent out with this Annual Report.
The use of our and reporting regulations.
The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 45 includes Retail Support Centre in Birmingham as a venue for our AGM has proved the Groups strategy, progress and performance for the year.
to be a success as well as a cost saving and so we intend to use the same facility for the 2019 AGM and we look forward to welcoming you, where During the year the Board as a whole has continued to work together I hope you will take the opportunity of meeting our Executive and to implement the Companys strategy in a cohesive way.
Our broad range Non-Executive Board Directors.
of Board talent covers a variety of professional skills and our diverse group of Non-Executive Directors continue to bring much experience and I look forward to the year ahead, confident in the knowledge that the challenge to the Board.
In September 2018, we announced that Stewart Company is led by a highly competent, professional and motivated team.
Gilliland, who joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in May 2013 I also look forward to the support of you, our shareholders, as our senior and was appointed as Senior Independent Director in February 2015, management team continues to focus on driving future profit growth had informed the Board of his intention to step down from the Board and creating additional shareholder value.
in order to concentrate on his other roles outside the Group.
The Board has already commenced a process of identification and recruitment of Bob Ivell Chairman a replacement for Stewart following which it will confirm the date for him to step down and make an appropriate announcement.
This is likely to be by the end of December 2018.
My focus continues to be on maintaining For the Companys latest financial information a strong team, with a broad range of professional backgrounds and skills go to: www.
com investors to drive further improvements where possible.
In line with the best practice recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, last year we committed to carrying out an externally facilitated review of the Boards effectiveness.
The results of the 2018 externally facilitated review can be found on page 63.
