Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CHAIRS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE The membership and leadership of the Board Committees were Committee Chairs reviewed during 2018 to ensure the Committees continue to operate effectively and have the skills required to support the increasing complexity of the Group.
The current membership We consider our Board to be diverse in of each of the Committees is set out in each of the Committee terms of background, skills and experience reports on pages 49, 54, 58 and 74.
Sally James, Chair of the Risk to support the strategic and operational Committee, is a member of each of the Committees to ensure that risk is appropriately considered in each Committee.
With the changes outlined above, the composition of the Board continues to be appropriate to the Groups requirements with the right diversity of experience and technical expertise to support Robin Freestone Bruce Carnegie-Brown the strategic and operational direction of the Group.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Succession planning and diversity We recognise that in order to maintain an effective and diverse Board, it is essential to plan for the future and to ensure the right Our governance individuals are appointed to the Board from a diverse pool of talent.
As a Board of Directors we aim to establish a Im delighted that we have met our target to have a minimum female representation of 33%.
governance structure which provides effective control and oversight of the Group whilst at the same time promoting the entrepreneurial We consider our Board to be diverse in terms of the background, skills and experience which each individual brings to the Board.
spirit which has been central to the Groups success in striving to help every household More detail on the work of the Nomination Committee and on our Andrew Fisher Sally James diversity policy can be found in our Nomination Committee Report save money.
Remuneration Committee Risk Committee on pages 54 to 56.
Details of the proportion of women on the Board, In our Corporate Governance Report on in senior leadership positions and within the whole organisation can be found on page 35 of the Corporate Responsibility Report.
pages 42 to 47, we aim to provide a clear Board tenure and meaningful explanation of how we as a Board lead the Group and discharge Bruce Carnegie-Brown 8-9 years Board effectiveness our governance duties, including how we During 2018 we conducted an internal evaluation of the Board and Sally James 5-6 years apply the provisions of the UK Corporate the Committees.
The evaluation process involved the completion Governance Code 2016 edition.
It also Andrew Fisher 4-5 years of questionnaires and interviews by the Chair and the Senior Bruce Carnegie-Brown outlines the governance initiatives we have Independent Director, followed by a round table Board discussion, Chair Genevieve Shore 4-5 years undertaken during the year.
Our statement including a review of progress against actions from the 2017 of compliance with the UK Corporate external Board evaluation.
More information on the process 3-4 years Robin Freestone Governance Code is set out on page 47. and the key action areas are set out on page 45.
2018 highlights Mark Lewis 1-2 years tracked progress against the Groups new strategic priorities which were Leadership Ethics and governance Scilla Grimble 1 year launched in February 2018, further details of which are set out on pages 8 to 9: Following a formal, rigorous and transparent There is a strong relationship between ethics and good governance.
Sarah Warby 1 year approved the acquisition of Decision Tech: search process, we are delighted to confirm We remain committed to operating ethically, demonstrating integrity that Robin Freestone will succeed me as reviewed the content of the Annual Report to ensure it is fair, balanced and and acting responsibly in our undertakings with our customers, Chair with effect from 9 May 2019. understandable and in line with best governance practice: our shareholders and our wider stakeholders.
Our Code of Conduct Board composition as at 13 February 2019: held deep-dives to cover a specific strategic priority at each meeting.
incorporates additional guidance for employees and each In August 2018 we announced the This included deep-dives into each of MoneySuperMarket, employee completes an e-learning module on the Code of Conduct.
appointment of Scilla Grimble as our new Gender Role Further information on ethics and social responsibility is contained MoneySavingExpert and TravelSupermarket, key risks and controls, Chief Financial Officer and Scilla joined the in our Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 34 to 37. cyber security, data protection and customer experience optimisation: Group on 4 February 2019.
Scilla brings reviewed the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code significant experience of leading finance Board operation July 2018 version, which we will be required to report upon in our 2019 teams in several consumer facing public 12.5% Annual Report, with various workstreams now underway, in particular, companies and has a strong background We continue to operate a clear line of distinction between 50% enhancements to our engagement with employees: in commercial finance and banking.
management, led by the Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible 25% She succeeds Matthew Price who left for the day to day running of the business, and the Board, acting appointed Sarah Warby, one of our independent Non-Executive Directors, 50% the business in October 2018. under my leadership, which provides constructive challenge to as our Employee Champion: 62.5% management ensuring an open culture of debate that creates appointed Scilla Grimble as Chief Financial Officer which also enabled us to Sarah Warby joined us as an Independent and preserves value for our shareholders.
achieve a balanced Board of 50% men and 50% women, ahead of our 2020 Non-Executive Director in June 2018. target of 33% minimum female representation: Sarah is a valuable addition to the Board, During 2019, Robin and I will ensure that the Board continues to held Q&A and breakfast sessions with employees, providing the opportunity with experience of leading marketing engage with its stakeholders and operates in a constructive and Femal e Chai r for employees to engage directly with our Non-Executive Directors: teams within retail and consumer open manner, with honesty and integrity as its core principles.
reviewed the balance of experience, skills and diversity of the Board: and Mal e Executive Director s continued to enhance our effectiveness by: Bruce Carnegie-Brown focusing on talent, succession and diversity both at Board and senior Non-Executive Director s Chair management level: 13 February 2019 reviewing our annual agendas and revising meeting schedules as part of the review of the Groups strategic priorities in readiness for 2018: and completing an internal evaluation of the Board.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 38 39
