Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chairmans letter to shareholders T he Board has been strengthened and our corporate governance framework is keeping pace with the new governance requirements as we focus on the implementation of our strategy.
The Board meeting in September 2018 Dear Shareholder was convened at the Morgan site in After six years as our Chairman, Andrew Shilston Waldkraiburg, Germany and incorporated retired from the Board on 31 December 2018. a demonstration of the facility and a Using his wealth of experience, Andrew renewed presentation, which provided an the Board during his tenure, driving Board understanding of the market, the technology development, and supported executive and the processes.
It also gave the Board an managements pursuit of the execution priorities.
opportunity to meet local management in a I am excited and privileged to continue in Andrews less formal environment.
A similar visit was footsteps to enhance the breadth and depth of arranged for the November 2018 Board skills, knowledge and diversity of the Board.
meeting at the Technical Ceramics business I am pleased to report to you on the Boards in Corby, UK.
development and activities, including some of Following briefings from the Company the governance matters reviewed and Secretary and the Companys corporate considered, at the Board meetings that took lawyers, the Board discussed aspects of place during 2018: corporate governance and the corporate We continue to focus on safety, environment environment, including future requirements and health matters.
At every Board meeting and how best to embrace the essence of there is an update on this key area, either by these within Morgan.
the Chief Executive Officer, or with specific The Board discussed the feedback from the updates on safety and environmental issues, independent, externally facilitated 2018 by the Director of EHS.
Board performance review, conducted by With active engagement from the Board, the Jack Telfer of Auxesis Consulting.
The annual Committee approved the introduction and performance reviews continue to give the roll-out of the Morgan Code of Conduct, Board insight into potential areas for setting the tone from the top.
Reviewed and approved the 2018 It is evident from the results provided in this Modern Slavery Act Transparency report that the strategies formulated of recent statement, a copy of which is available times are working.
In 2019, we will continue to on the Companys website.
implement those strategies within the culture Douglas Casters appointment as Chairman embodied in the Morgan Code and wider created a vacancy on the Board for a new corporate governance.
The Nomination Committee in conjunction with the Douglas Caster CBE FIET Executive Directors decided it could Chairman strengthen the Board by recruiting a new Director with direct specific experience of operating in Asian markets.
Spencer Stuart were engaged to help with the search process.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 43
