Corporate Governance 46 Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance Dear fellow Shareholder I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance report for the year underreview.
The existence of strong governance, both Sir John Armitt CBE inside and outside the boardroom, and Chairman strong culture throughout the organisation, remain a key commitment and high priority of the Board.
At the same time, we encourage the Executive Directors and The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of good governance, culture management to take a long-term view and and stakeholder engagement are in place and consistently applied in the boardroom invest in the future of the business.
I believe and throughout the Group.
The following pages set out our approach in this regard we are making good progress along this and cover the following: balanced path as can be seen from this Leadership report and the Groups excellent results for the year which clearly demonstrate that our How the Board and its Committees Read more p48 business continues to grow.
The recent operate within a well established recognition of National Express as Britains governance structure and lead from the Most Admired Transport Company in the front, and the key activities of the Board 2018 Management Today Awards as voted during the year.
on by our peers, analysts and commentators is testament to the reputation we have established and theprogress we have Effectiveness made under the leadership of Dean Finch, and the hard work of all our employees.
How the governance framework Read more p52 operates and the Directors perform Board their duties, and the outcome from There were no changes in Board this years internal Board and membership in 2018.
However, the two Committee evaluation.
Executive changes we made last year have bedded in well with both Chris Davies Group Finance Director and Matt Ashley Accountability President and CEO, North America making solid contributions in the first full How the Board maintains effective Read more p62 year of their new roles.
systems of internal control and risk management and manages safety and Collectively, the Board and its Committees environment matters, and the outcome remain well-structured and balanced and from our succession planning review.
continue to operate effectively, as confirmed in the results from this years internal evaluation of their performance.
Nevertheless, recognising the benefits that Remuneration a regular refresh can bring and the fact that How we align Executive Directors Read more p74 three of our Non-Executive Directors are pay with our performance, the approaching their nine-year tenure on interests ofshareholders and the theBoard, we have reflected on our long-term success of the Company, succession plans, including skill set and the implementation ofour requirements and timings, in relation to Directors Remuneration Policy.
I expect these will be carried out over the next two Relations with Shareholders to three years.
How we maintain and manage our Read more p100 Details of this years internal Board and relationships with equity institutional Committee evaluation can be found in the anddebt investors and individual Effectiveness section on pages 52 55. shareholders, and our investor relationsprogramme.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 47 The existence of strong governance, both inside and outside the boardroom, and strong culture throughout the organisation, remain a key commitment and high priority of the Board.
Culture In the business, we continue to make good communities, as stakeholders in our A strong culture is crucially important to the progress in embracing the benefits of an business, with respect.
This is a key factor performance and long-term success of any inclusive and diverse culture and during the in seeking to protect and deliver sustainable business.
While the tone of our culture is set year, under the increased impetus of the value for our shareholders.
With that in from the top down, its strength lies from the executive team, a wealth of new activities mind, the Board welcomes the new Code, bottom up in the heart of our business.
were undertaken and initiatives launched issued by the Financial Reporting Council During the year, I have spent time with our inall divisions as we seek to drive lasting FRC in July last year, which applies to employees from across the Group, which change over time in this important area.
the Company from 2019. included visits to various UK locations on Further details on Board diversity and what my own and to Boston in September with Over the past few months, the Board and is happening in the business can be found my Board colleagues.
These visits provide its Committees have been reviewing in the Nominations Committee Report on the Directors with a valuable opportunity to activities and working with management to pages 58 61. engage with staff and gauge an insight into assess our approach to the changes and their views on the business, our leadership, increased emphasis introduced under the Governance our strategy and its implementation.
new Code, in particular on how best to I am pleased to confirm that throughout the formalise and strengthen the taking into year, we applied the principles and complied Our impression is that staff are proud to account of stakeholder views more with the provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate work for National Express in their locations, generally in our decision-making process Governance Code Code, a copy of which believe in our Values and what they stand and address the workforce voice and is available at www.
The following for, have respect for our leaders, engagement requirements.
Our review has pages of this report explain our governance understand the strategy and are committed highlighted that we are already compliant framework and the robust processes and to achieving it.
This openness fosters a with a number of the new Code principles procedures we have in place to achieve this willingness to work hard, share ideas and and provisions: for example, our Policy has under each of the five main principles of the best practice across the Group and engage a strong link to Group strategy and Code, namely: Leadership, Effectiveness, in operational changes aimed at improving long-term success and the Directors Accountability, Remuneration and Relations efficiency and effectiveness.
Staff are actively engage with local management with Shareholders.
Included as part of this enthusiastic about the changing and employees when the Board visit are reports from the Chairs of the technological and digital landscape and operations each year.
Additionally, we Nominations, Audit, Safety & Environment excited about the opportunities it presents have already taken some steps to meet and Remuneration Committees detailing the to enhance our service to customers.
As a compliance: for example, we have work and activities of each Committee Board, this tells us that if we want to established an emerging risk register during the year.
continue growing, we must continue to to supplement the significant risk one encourage this openness and engagement at both Group and divisional level.
A new Directors Remuneration Policy amongst the workforce and ensure that our Policy, which we consulted on in draft culture has customers at the forefront of We will continue our assessment work form with many shareholders and advisory our business, an area which is of during 2019, for what will undoubtedly be a bodies, was overwhelmingly approved at increasing focus for the Executive.
journey of transition over the coming years, last years AGM and the Remuneration and report on progress and our compliance Committee has applied and operated Diversity against the new Code in next years within it since then.
A summary of the We take the issue of diversity in the Corporate Governance report.
Policy can be found in the Directors boardroom and senior management very Remuneration Report on pages 80 and 81 seriously as it improves effectiveness, Annual General Meeting and it appears in full on the Companys encourages constructive debate, delivers At this years AGM, to be held at 2.00pm website at www.
strong performance and enhances the on Thursday, 9 May 2019 in the Horton com about-us corporate-governance success of the business.
Accordingly, Suite of the Burlington Hotel, 126 New remuneration.
weremain committed to the objective Street, Birmingham, B2 4JQ, all Directors ofincreasing the Boards female will be seeking re-election to office.
As the The Board is aware of the continued focus representation from its current 17% status AGM provides an opportunity for you to by the Government and regulators on the to 33% by 2020, in line with the Hamptonmeet with and ask questions of your need to strengthen corporate governance Alexander recommendations, and we Directors regarding the business, this and requiring companies to demonstrate believe the phased Non-Executive Director Annual Report and the matters before the higher standards of corporate behaviour, rotation identified above represents a meeting, I would encourage you to attend and to fully recognise their obligations to all natural opportunity to consider and and look forward to meeting you.
As per my introduction, good influence our Board diversity, in its widest governance is an integral part of our sense, including gender and ethnicity.
In the corporate culture and our business Group Executive Committee GEC principles, commitments and long-term membership and their direct reports, the decisions are based on a responsibility female representation has much improved Sir John Armitt CBE totreat the views and interests of our over the past few years as they both now Chairman colleagues, customers, suppliers and stand at 29%.
28 February 2019 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
