Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance It also supports its core values, policies and Angela Seymour-Jackson as Nonand procedures, which in turn, creates Executive Directors in the second half of a culture in which our business and 2017.
Throughout 2018 both have added employees can act effectively and with additional strength and depth to the integrity, while driving profitable growth.
Sylvias extensive 2018 has been a significant year in experience in finance and general terms of the development of corporate management has proven invaluable to governance standards, and as a Board the Board.
Angelas knowledge of service we have considered and welcome the focused organisations and her financial changes set out in the new Corporate service sector experience, in both an Governance Code.
The following pages executive and non-executive capacity, has of this Corporate Governance Report been a material addition to the work of the David Lowden, set out how the Company has complied Board and the Remuneration Committee, Chairman with the UK Corporate Governance which she chairs.
Dear Shareholder, Code 2016, the work and activities of Danuta Gray decided not to offer herself each Board Committee and the annual I am pleased to present the Companys for re-election at the Annual General evaluation process.
Corporate Governance Report for the Meeting on 7 June 2018 and I would like financial year ended 31 December Having a Board that can draw upon a to thank her for her contribution to the 2018.
Your Board believes that sound wide range of experience to discharge Company.
governance, embedded throughout the its responsibilities is also a pre-requisite I hope you find our Corporate Group, is fundamental to the long-term for any companys success.
The Board is Governance Report informative.
I will be sustainability of the business.
It remains confident that it has built a strong and well available at the 2019 Annual General committed to the highest standards of balanced team, able to assess the current Meeting to respond to any questions you corporate governance and throughout environment in which the Group operates, may have on this Report.
the year under review it has continued but also able to consider and address to focus on fostering an effective future challenges.
This framework The Board made key additions to its underpins the Boards ability to set the Chairman membership by appointing Sylvia Metayer overall strategic direction of PageGroup.
5 March 2019 Our Corporate Governance Framework The Board The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
More details on pages 47 to 50 Chief Executive Chief Financial Nomination Officer CEO Officer CFO Committee Key responsibility is to develop Responsible for managing the Responsible for ensuring that the and deliver the Groups strategy financial risks, reporting and Company has the executive and nonwithin the policies and values planning of the Group.
executive Board leadership it requires.
Details on page 51 Audit Committee Executive Board Responsible for the integrity of the The Executive Board is chaired Companys financial statements and by the CEO and includes the performance, ensuring the necessary CFO.
The Executive Board is internal controls and risk management responsible for overseeing systems are in place and effective.
operations in our regions and for Details on page 53 overseeing business operational functions Group-wide.
General Counsel & Remuneration Committee Details on page 46 Company Secretary Responsible for the review, Responsible for ensuring the recommendation and implementation Board complies with all legal, of the Groups remuneration strategy, regulatory and governance its framework and cost.
Details on page 61 41 | Corporate Governance
