B1 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dear Shareholder I am delighted to introduce the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts for the first time.
As you know, I have been a member of the Board since 2012 and appreciate Paragons values generally and in respect of corporate governance specifically.
My intention is to continue to uphold the strong tradition of good corporate governance that was operated by my predecessor and, where necessary, introduce evolutionary not revolutionary change.
This includes responding appropriately to regulatory or legislative requirements, including, potentially, those of the new UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 the 2018 Code.
Fiona Clutterbuck I would very much like to thank Bob Dench for his support to me personally over the years and for his Chairman excellent leadership of the Board since 2007.
I would also like to thank Alan Fletcher and Patrick Newberry, as they step down from the Board, for their support and dedication in the development of both Paragon Banking Group PLC and Paragon Bank PLC, Alan since 2009 and Pat since 2014, and I wish them well in their future endeavours.
I would also like to thank the Nomination Committee for their clear and transparent process in respect of my appointment and I appreciated the robustness of the process.
During the upcoming year work will be undertaken to ensure that the Company complies, as appropriate, with the new 2018 Code from the year ending 30 September 2020 and with other upcoming regulatory and legislative changes in respect of corporate governance which are due to come into force for the Company and its subsidiaries over the next couple of years.
I am very pleased to state that the Board has adopted the Hampton-Alexander Review target that a third of the directors on the Board will be female by the end of 2020 and I look forward to managing this future development.
An overarching learning and development framework has been adopted during the year and I fully endorse the Groups emphasis on training, including induction for all the Board.
I am currently in the process of an induction tailored to my new position as Chairman which will be ongoing for the next year and which has been thorough, detailed and enjoyable.
A programme of induction for the directors appointed on 20 September 2017 was undertaken during the year which included meetings with members of senior management and heads of business areas as well the opportunity to meet with the auditors.
PAGE 64 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts During the year ended 30 September 2018 in addition to its regular business items the Board has: Discussed, considered and approved the Groups acquisitions of Iceberg and Titlestone, and the disposal by Idem Capital of a portfolio of wholesale funded assets Monitored the integration of acquired businesses Reviewed the Groups funding strategy and position in the light of changes in the business and market conditions With the Nomination Committee, considered the appointment of a new Chairman and other changes to the Board structure With the Nomination Committee, reviewed the targets for gender and ethnic diversity and other statements in relation to the Groups commitment to the Women in Finance charter and considered gender pay reporting and relevant next steps Begun to address the impact of the new 2018 Code and other governance regulation changes Kept under review potential new business opportunities Considered the potential impact of Brexit and other macro-economic uncertainties on the Group I intend to regularly meet with shareholders to discuss general matters affecting the Group and, on an annual basis, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and I meet investors to discuss governance and remuneration matters.
These meetings assist in the development of governance within the organisation and ensure proper account is taken of shareholders views.
I would like to thank shareholders for their continued interest in the Group and the challenges they raise at these discussions.
The Company will be holding its AGM on 14 February 2019 and I look forward to welcoming all shareholders.
Fiona Clutterbuck Chairman 21 November 2018 PAGE 65 Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
