Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 78 Governance overview Delivering on our strategic priorities Pearson has identified three strategic priorities: Chair Sidney Taurel To grow market share through digital transformation To invest in structural growth markets To become a simpler, more efficient and more sustainable business.
One particular theme arising from our 2017 Board evaluation was that, as a Board, we planned to spend even more time considering our long-term strategy during 2018 including to ensure that we remain aligned on process and deliverables.
During the year, Board members and other senior leaders from across the business In this Governance section participated in facilitated strategic discussions and, building on this Leadership & effectiveness p8095 work, we continued to evolve our strategy through a number of Accountability p96105 focused Board sessions during the year.
As part of this process, Engagement p106109 the Board reviewed and updated the way in which we consider and undertake our strategic and financial planning, including helping to Remuneration p110126 refine Pearsons five-year strategy what we will do and our threeAdditional disclosures p127131 year plan how we will do it.
As a Board, we have agreed that our three strategic priorities remain appropriate, and underpin Pearsons strategic vision of delivering lifelong learning to customers, leading to Dear shareholders, increased employability and work-related skills, as part of a wider ecosystem of delivery partners and stakeholders.
As I say elsewhere, 2018 was a pivotal year for Pearson and, as our operational and financial performance continues to improve, Crucial to successful delivery of our strategy is developing an the Board can focus more on future prospects for the business.
inclusive and innovative culture and attracting and retaining strong, Throughout the year, we have continued to pay close attention diverse talent.
During the year, the Board discussed talent and to the simplification of our portfolio and investment in our succession planning including consideration of succession plans for transformation programmes, including The Enabling Programme the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and all members of the TEP and the Global Learning Platform GLP.
We are now in a Pearson Executive.
We also considered the wider pool of talent in position where, in addition to regularly monitoring performance our senior leadership group, and the themes of talent, succession, and simplification, the Board has turned its attentions towards diversity and inclusion have formed a thread throughout the Board longer-term strategic opportunities in areas which enjoy structural and Committees sessions during the year.
growth, digital transformation and in the lifelong learning sector.
Board meeting focus As a Board, we continue to organise our work around five major In addition to our focus on our three strategic priorities, and on the themes where we believe we can add value: strategy, performance, talent and culture needed to support them, the Board also visited leadership and people, governance and risk, and shareholder Milan, Italy and Cape Town, South Africa, during the year, where we engagement.
We are committed to the highest standards of held meetings focused on our Core and Growth markets.
Our Core corporate governance and the following pages set out details on and Growth markets present opportunities for products such as Board composition, corporate governance arrangements, processes BTEC and Pearson Test of English Academic, and the visits allowed and activities during 2018, together with Board Committee reports.
us the chance to engage with a wide range of stakeholders, A summary of the key items covered by the Board throughout the including on the subjects of employability and lifelong learning.
year appears on p85, and I have set out below further detail on our particular areas of focus during 2018.
During the year, the Board also monitored progress on the proposed sale of our US K12 Courseware business, and our Audit Committee provided support on the appropriate accounting treatment, Leadership & effectiveness See full section on p8095 determining that it was correct to continue to treat the business as In my letter to shareholders at this time last year, I explained that held for sale at 31 December 2018.
In February 2019, we announced the Boards main focus for 2018 would be to pivot towards our that we had reached an agreement to sell this business.
We also longerterm growth opportunities by delivering on Pearsons three oversaw the conclusion of our sale of the Wall Street English strategic priorities and to continue to monitor progress against business, which completed in March 2018, and considered financial our dashboard and key milestones for 2018.
I am pleased to report policy in the round including our balance sheet, our debt and equity that good progress has been made on all fronts, summarised investors, and working capital requirements as we discussed the below, and with further detail given throughout this report.
In addition, we considered the businesss ongoing preparations for Brexit.
The Board is supported in this role by a steering committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, with representatives from across the UK business and enabling functions.
You can read more about Pearsons preparations for Brexit on p66.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 4 Governance 79 79 Board changes engage with the wider stakeholder population, including employees, customers and partners, both through formal Board events and by Pearson has a fully engaged Board, including a strong Non-Executive way of individual contributions to internal and external initiatives.
team with a breadth of experience and perspectives.
We were The Reputation & Responsibility Committee will lead the Boards pleased to welcome Michael Lynton to the Pearson Board, following oversight of Pearsons stakeholder engagement framework from his appointment as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 2019, as required by the updated UK Corporate Governance Code.
Michaels experience leading businesses through times of digital disruption has further strengthened our capabilities During 2018, Board members engaged with the workforce at in this area, and Michael is already making a valuable contribution structured talent events as well as through initiatives such as the to our deliberations as a Board, and to the Audit and Reputation & Pearson Innovation Jam.
As a Board, we are delighted to be able to Responsibility Committees.
You can read more about Michaels help support our talent pipeline through the introduction of a new induction to the Pearson Board on p89.
You can read more about our employee engagement and talent initiatives in the Nomination & Governance During 2018, we also said goodbye to Harish Manwani, a NonCommittees report, which begins on p90.
Executive Director of Pearson since 2013, who retired from the Board at the AGM in May 2018.
The Board joins me in thanking Harish for his commitment and contribution to Pearson.
Remuneration See full section on p110126 Board evaluation With the release of the updated UK Corporate Governance Code in July 2018, Elizabeth Corley, who chairs the Remuneration The 2018 Board evaluation, which was overseen by our Nomination Committee, has led work to review how Pearsons remuneration & Governance Committee, confirmed that we have an effective policy complies with the code and can more closely align with and well-functioning Board, which has an appropriately balanced emerging best practice while remaining simple, transparent and agenda, and which has made progress during the year in continuing closely linked to Pearsons strategy and business performance.
to develop and articulate Pearsons strategy.
Progress on This included continuing to engage with investors and shareholders recommendations arising from our annual Board evaluations is as the Committee prepares to review the Directors remuneration reported at each Committee meeting until such recommendations policy in 2019 ahead of a policy vote at the 2020 AGM.
Pearsons are completed or embedded to the Committees satisfaction.
current approach to Executive remuneration is explained in more Focus on shareholder returns detail in the remuneration section of this report on p110.
The Board continues to pay attention to ensuring an optimal allocation of capital, and our policy in this regard remains Conclusion unchanged: to maintain a strong balance sheet and a solid I hope this report clearly sets out how your company is run, and investment grade credit rating, to continue to invest in the business, how we align governance and our Board agenda with the strategic to have a sustainable and progressive dividend policy, and to direction of Pearson.
We always welcome questions or comments return surplus cash to our shareholders.
In line with this policy, from shareholders, either via our website www.
com or we completed a 300m share buyback in February 2018 following in person at our AGM.
our disposal of a 22% stake in Penguin Random House in 2017.
Details of other actions taken in support of our capital allocation policy are set out in my introductory statement on p08.
Accountability See full section on p96105 Sidney Taurel Chair As a Board, we are accountable for Pearsons successes and addressing its challenges.
We aim to communicate to you in a transparent manner the steps we have taken to ensure that we have UK Corporate Governance Code a clear oversight of the business and the work we have undertaken This year, we are reporting against the 2016 edition of the in respect of Pearsons strategy throughout the year.
Our Audit UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Board believes Committee, led by Tim Score, plays a key role in monitoring and that during 2018 the company was in full compliance with all evaluating our risk management processes, providing independent relevant provisions of the Code, and this Governance Report sets oversight of our external audit and internal control programmes, out how the Codes principles have been applied throughout accounting policies, business transformation projects, such as the year.
A detailed account of the provisions of the Code can be TEP, and in assisting the Board in reporting in a fair, balanced and found on the FRCs website at www.
uk and we encourage understandable manner to our shareholders.
readers to view our compliance schedule on the company website at www.
Engagement See full section on p106109 The Board is mindful of the changes to the corporate governance In common with most large, public companies, we have a wider range and reporting landscape introduced during 2018, including the of stakeholders than just traditional investors, and our Reputation & publication of a new edition of the UK Corporate Governance Responsibility Committee monitors our sustainability and social Code.
You can read more about our preparations for the new impact initiatives, government and public affairs matters, and landscape on p93.
engagement with the education community.
