PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Chairmans letter to shareholders Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce the corporate governance report for 2018 onbehalf of the Board.
This is the principal method of reporting to ourshareholders on the Boards governance policies and the practical application of the principles of good corporate governance.
At Pennon we consider that strong governance is central to our successful management of the Group.
It provides the framework for effective delivery of our strategy, the creation of shareholder value andthe ongoing development of our sustainable business.
In my third year as Chairman of Pennon, I remain committed to ensuring that we continue to operate to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Additional complexity is added to Pennons governance structure as aresult of our ownership of a regulated water and wastewater business, South West Water, alongside our non-regulated businesses.
In order to comply with the requirements of Ofwat, South West Water is required to have its own independent board of directors and to operate as if it were a publicly listed company in its own right.
We consider that our board and committee framework has enabled us successfully to streamline our decision-making processes such that we We are committed to carrying out our avoid duplication.
The South West Water board, which includes all of the business in a responsible way for the Pennon Non-Executive Directors, as well as three South West Water only non-executive directors, convenes before each Pennon Board benefit of all our stakeholders.
meeting and considers South West Water strategy, performance and regulatory planning.
In its meetings the Pennon Board concentrates Sir John Parker onstrategic forward-looking matters for all parts of the Group, as well Chairman asoverseeing the Viridor businesses.
Role of the Board and its effectiveness My primary role as Chairman is to provide leadership to the Board and toprovide the right environment to enable each of the Directors and the Board as a whole to perform effectively to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its stakeholders.
It is my view that the Board is highly effective with a good understanding of the Groups opportunities for growth as well as the threats facing the business.
This view is supported by the results of this years Board and Committee performance evaluations.
Further details are provided on page 71 and 72.
Stakeholder engagement The Board understands the part the Group can play in bringing resources to life and creating a more sustainable UK.
We are committed to carrying out our business in a responsible way and remain focused onimproving the provision of water and waste services for benefit of all of our stakeholders.
We actively engage with our customers, our communities, our people and our suppliers, as well as with our investors, and maintain appropriate and regular dialogue with those stakeholders to ensure that the rationale for our strategy and our performance objectives reflects theirexpectations.
It also allows stakeholders to provide feedback onthe matters they consider to be important and any issues which require addressing.
Further information about the stakeholder engagement mechanisms we use to gather feedback is available on our website.
co. uk sustainability 64 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Our shareholders are a key stakeholder group and we have a In addition, as the holding company of South West Water Limited, the comprehensive investor relations programme.
During the year Company has complied with Ofwats principles for holding companies some81meetings and conference calls were held.
Pennon attended inrespect of Board leadership, transparency and governance.
eight cityconferences and sales force briefings and six road shows, My introduction to this corporate governance report and the following includingin the USA and mainland Europe.
This engagement covered sections are made in compliance with the UK Code, Financial Conduct both current and prospective shareholders, the majority of which are Authority FCA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 and FCA Disclosure and Transparency institutional, with the remainder being a selection of large private client Rules 7.1 and 7.2 and cover the work of our Board and its Committees, investment managers.
our internal control systems and procedures including risk management, The Chief Financial Officer continues to report to the Board regularly our corporate governance statements relating to share capital and onmajor shareholders views about the Group, and every six months control, our confirmation of the Company as a going concern and theCompanys corporate brokers present to the Board on equity Directors responsibility statements.
Finally, in accordance with reporting marketdevelopments and shareholder perceptions.
This ensures that requirements, on page 105 the Board confirms to shareholders that the Board is fully briefed on the views and aspirations of shareholders.
theAnnual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary to assess the It is always pleasing to be part of a well-attended AGM and I welcome Companys performance, business model and strategy.
questions on any business issues affecting the Group.
At our 2018 AGM on 5 July, all of our Directors intend to be present together with a number of other senior executives of our businesses to meet shareholders and further explain developments at Pennon.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and other requirements I am pleased to report that throughout the year the Company complied Sir John Parker with the provisions and applied the main principles set out in the UK Chairman Code with no exceptions to report.
The UK Code is published on the Financial Reporting Council FRC website, www.
In accordance Pennon Group plc with the FRCs requirements, we have reported against the April 2016 24 May 2018 version of the Code, which is effective for reporting periods commencing on or after 17 June 2016.
Beddington energy recoveryfacility 65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
