Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 51 DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LISTENING TO STAKEHOLDERS AND PREPARINGFOR A NEW GOVERNANCE CODE It is my pleasure to introduce the 2018 corporate governance report, my first since being appointed Chairman on 1 June 2018.
Since becoming Chairman I have familiarised myself with the operation and culture of the Group, I received a comprehensive induction on my appointment which included meeting with a number of senior management.
I have also attended a number of offices and sites and witnessed first-hand the skill, professionalism and hard work of theCompanys employees.
During these visitsI had the opportunity to meet some ofour customers.
I also met with a number of the Companys advisors and many of our largest shareholders to listen to their views on the Company.
The culture at Persimmon is one of hard During the year, the Board placed work with a drive for excellence.
Management particular focus on continuing to improve lead by example and all employees work toachieve high standards in all areas of the our performance, including the quality business.
The Group has an entrepreneurial ofservice we deliver to customers, the spirit within a structure of centralised control and a meritocratic environment.
amenities and service we create for local The operational and financial performance communities, opportunities for rewarding ofthe business was strong in 2018.
This is inno small part due to the skill and careers for our employees and returns dedication of the senior management team, toshareholders.
our employees and wider workforce.
The vesting of awards under the Companys Roger Devlin 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 LTIP Chairman attracted significant attention.
Despite the Executive Directors agreeing to substantially reduce their awards and increase the holding periods attaching to certain of the shares they acquire under the 2012 LTIP, there was continuing distraction around the scale of Jeff Fairburns remuneration resulting from the 2012 LTIP.
Consequently, the Board agreed that there should be a change of leadership and Jeff Fairburn left the business on 31 December 2018.
Dave Jenkinson, previously Group Managing Director, was appointed Interim Group Chief Executive.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 52 DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Nomination Committee appointed The work of the Remuneration Committee The Financial Reporting Council published anexecutive search firm, EgonZehnder, during the year included agreeing the an updated UK Corporate Governance toassist with the search for a permanent details of the surrender of shares and Code in 2018, which is applicable to Group Chief Executive.
The search has extension of holding periods of awards that accounting periods starting on or after nowconcluded with the appointment of vested under the 2012 LTIP.
During the year the Board Dave Jenkinson as Group Chief Executive AGM 48.5% of shareholders voted against worked towards ensuring the Companys from 26 February 2019.
We conducted the 2017 Remuneration Report and 30.9% compliance with the new Code.
In particular: athorough search, both within the of shareholders abstained from the vote.
We have recently established an Employee housebuilding sector and more widely.
The Board recognised that a sizeable Engagement Panel.
The Board looks It was clear to the Board that Dave is number of shareholders remained forward to working with the Panel during thebest candidate for the role.
concerned over the level of remuneration 2019 and beyond: that ultimately resulted from the vesting The work of the Nomination Committee of2012 awards.
The Board conducted The Remuneration Committee has agreed during 2018 included focus on succession extensive engagement with major the members of the senior management planning.
The Committee considered shareholders in 2018 to listen to and team it will have remuneration responsibility succession in relation to the 2012 understand their views.
The Remuneration for: and LTIPparticipants and formalisation of Committee has a new Chairman and during succession plans throughout the Group.
The Board has reviewed its agreed values the year both myself and Rachel Kentleton Since the vesting of the 2012 LTIP there and culture for the Group and how it will were appointed to the Committee.
has been no discernible increase in senior assess and monitor the alignment of management turnover.
During 2018 no member of the Board behaviour throughout the business with received a salary or fee increase and the agreed culture.
The Board understands the importance Executive Directors did not participate ofdiversity, both on the Board and within Maintaining good relations with our inannual bonus awards.
During 2018 the Group stakeholders is important to the Board and has agreed that there will be no change established a Gender Diversity Panel, to the success of the Company.
With that tohis remuneration upon his appointment madeup of four of the Groups most senior inmind, and in light of the new 2018 UK asGroup Chief Executive, his remuneration female employees.
The Panels remit is Corporate Governance Code, we have set was also unchanged on his appointment tomake recommendations to the Board out how we engage with our stakeholders toInterim Group Chief Executive.
onhow the Group can increase the number on pages 54 and 55.
Jeff Fairburns settlement terms were ofyoung women coming into the business theminimum permissible.
Further details The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 and for improving the progression ofthe Remuneration Committees work was applicable to the financial year ending offemales into senior roles.
inthe year and on how the current 31 December 2018.
I am pleased to report The Audit Committee carried out its remuneration policy will be implemented that the Company has complied with the regular oversight activities in the year, in2019 are set out in the Remuneration UK Corporate Governance Code 2016. reviewing the Groups financial reporting, Report on pages 71 to 85. reviewing the effectiveness of external The Board and its committees undertake Roger Devlin audit and monitoring the Group Risk Chairman aperformance evaluation each year.
The Committee also conducted 25 February 2019 The evaluation in 2018 was externally an in-depthreview of the Groups Risk conducted by Clare Chalmers, who is Register and Principal Risks and conducted ahighly experienced and independent a reviewof the Groups Viability Statement.
Ms Chalmers Further information can be found in the has no other connections to the Group.
The evaluation involved individual interviews with all Board members and the Company Secretary and Ms Chalmers also attended the Groups Strategy Meeting to understand how the Board members operate together.
I consider that the evaluation was thorough and provided valuable insight for the Board.
The Board will implement recommendations made bythe external evaluation.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 53 DIRECTORS REPORT OVERVIEW KEY SECTIONS WITHIN THE GOVERNANCE SECTION LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION Our Board, structure Report from the Oversight of executive and activities AuditCommittee remuneration There are seven members of the During 2018 the Audit Committee: During 2018 the Remuneration Board.
Our Chairman, two Executive Committee: reviewed the annual report and the Directors and four Independent half year report and related regulatory made preparations for the Non-Executive Directors.
announcements: requirements of the revised UK Roger Devlin was appointed Chairman Corporate Governance Code: assessed the significant financial on 1 June 2018 and Dave Jenkinson issues facing the Group and the key had extensive engagement with asGroup Chief Executive from risks of misstatement of the Groups shareholders regarding the vesting 26 February 2019. financial statements: ofawards under the Companys 2012 During the year the Board placed Long Term Incentive Plan: reviewed the Groups Strategic particular focus on: RiskRegister, Principal Risks and considered Jeff Fairburns continuing to improve our Viability Statement: settlementterms on his departure performance, including the quality from the Group: and monitored the external audit and ofservice we deliver to customers: reviewed its effectiveness: and considered the structure of the amenities and service we create Executive remuneration.
reviewed the work of the Group for local communities: and Riskfunction.
opportunities for rewarding careers for our employees and returns to shareholders.
Read about the structure, role Read our Audit Committee report Read our remuneration report and activities of the Board See pages 63 to 67 See pages 71 to 85 See pages 56 to 62 Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018
