84 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE PROGRESS DRIVEN BY CONSTRUCTIVE & CONTINUED DIALOGUE Alan Jackson Chairman Playtech has grown rapidly since its inception and is In keeping with our commitment to have a dedicated Dear Shareholder now a company with more than 5,800 employees in in-house function, we continued to strengthen our I am pleased to present Playtechs Governance 17 countries.
To meet the changing demands of the Internal Audit Team in 2018, and this underlines The Board believes open Report to shareholders.
Company, the Board has also evolved significantly our focus on the increasing levels of complexity and constructive dialogue This has been an extremely important year in in that time and has played an important role in in relation to internal controls and processes.
the growth and development of Playtech.
The shepherding the Company through its rapid change.
The historical Internal Audit Relationship with with its shareholders has year has produced many challenges for Playtech As part of this ongoing progress it was announced,  LLP PwC remains in and our industries, and the Board continues to in July, that Susan Ball would join the Board and place and Playtech is therefore a co-sourced been central to Playtechs evolve to ensure that we have the necessary Chair the Audit Committee.
Susan brings experience arrangement, with PwC continuing to provide skills and strategic leadership in order to continue of the European online gambling space, having support to the Internal Audit Team given their progress and growth, and to successfully shepherd the Company.
I would previously been on the board of Kambi Group plc experience of the Group and the specialist like to pass on my gratitude for the enthusiasm and before that having served as CFO of Unibet services they offer.
in 2018 the Board has and dedication which the Directors and senior Group plc.
Further to the appointment of Susan, We have set out in the following sections how management have demonstrated throughout 2018. in August former Sportech PLC CEO Ian Penrose continued its track record we seek to manage the principal risks and joined the Board and has taken over as Chair of the Central to Playtechs progress and growth has been uncertainties facing the business with further Remuneration Committee, leading high levels of of engagement.
a track record of open and constructive dialogue details on our governance framework, to explain shareholder engagement.
Ian brings deep sector with its shareholders and 2018 has seen the Board how our corporate governance practices support experience having led a strategic repositioning and continue high levels of engagement to continue our strategy.
business turnaround at Sportech PLC.
Susan and important progress on Corporate Governance.
Since Ian represent two important steps forward for the The Annual General Meeting AGM is an important the voting results on our Remuneration Report at Board in 2018 and the Board continues to look to opportunity for the Board to meet with shareholders, the Annual General Meeting in May 2018 we have add high-quality non-executives in 2019 to match the particularly those who may not otherwise have led focused engagement with our top institutional Companys needs.
the chance to engage with the Board and senior shareholders to fully absorb the reasons for the vote management.
Our 2019 AGM is scheduled for and have taken the feedback into account in the The Board has confidence in the future of the Group 10.00 am on 15 May 2019 at The Sefton Hotel, implementation of our remuneration policy for 2018 and sees significant growth opportunities ahead.
Douglas, Isle of Man and we look forward to and beyond.
The operational progress reported in 2018 in new seeing you there.
and existing regulated markets is a testament to The Board is cognisant of the need to strike a Playtechs leadership in regulation and compliance careful balance to ensure that shareholders and in the gambling industry, as well as our commercial other stakeholders are appropriately protected by capabilities.
The Board plays an essential role robust processes and procedures while providing in upholding the highest levels of regulations, Alan Jackson an environment that fosters an entrepreneurial compliance and responsibility and we continue Chairman spirit that allows our senior management team and to work closely with regulators in various markets employees to continue to deliver the year-on-year to ensure our compliance with local laws and 20 February 2019 growth that we have achieved in recent years.
The Board continues to strive to ensure balance enables us to clearly focus on the key risks that the Groups governance structure protects the facing the Group but to be flexible enough in our sustainability of its businesses and the communities approach to accommodate changes resulting from in which it operates, while maximising shareholder developments in our strategy or changes in the value and treating all shareholders fairly.
also sets the tone for the Company.
The way in which it conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its definitions of success and the assessment of appropriate risk, all define the atmosphere within which the executive team works.
