96 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT cont.
STATEMENT BY THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN SIMPLE & TRANSPARENT PLANS The Committee confirms that any During the year the auditors Internal control necessary action will be taken to undertook certain specific In recognition of the increasing remedy any significant failings or pieces of non-audit work, levels of complexity in relation weaknesses identified from any including work in relation to to internal controls and a Internal Audit reviews.
The system tax matters, the evaluation of desired commitment to have of internal controls and audit is potential acquisition targets and a dedicated in-house function, designed to ensure local legal as reporting accountants on the Ian Penrose our Internal Audit Team was and regulatory compliance and Class 1 Circular in connection further strengthened during Non-executive Director manage, rather than eliminate, with the Snaitech acquisition.
The historical Internal the risk of failure to achieve BDO were selected to undertake Audit relationship between business objectives.
It can these tasks due to their familiarity Remuneration philosophy  LLP therefore only provide reasonable with the gambling industry, in Our Remuneration Policy is designed to reward PwC and Playtech continues and not absolute assurance particular their familiarity with We have a fixed the contributions of senior management as well as and is therefore a co-sourced against material misstatement the unique Italian B2C gambling incentivise them to maintain and enhance Playtechs arrangement, with PwC continuing remuneration policy or loss.
industry where they have a position as the software and services provider of to provide support to the strong local presence and prior choice to the gambling sector and deliver in line Internal Audit Team given their coupled with simple Auditors independence M&A experience in that market.
experience of the Group and the In order to maintain BDOs The Audit Committee, on behalf specialist services they offer.
and transparent Remuneration is delivered via fixed remuneration independence and objectivity, of the Board, undertakes a formal and simple and transparent incentive-based plans During the year, the Internal BDO undertook its standard assessment of the auditors incentive-based plans.
enabling the Executive Directors to be rewarded Audit Team performed a number independence procedures in independence each year, for delivering strong financial performance and of reviews over both individual relation to those engagements.
which includes: sustainable returns to shareholders.
In fast-moving entities and central functions Further details of the non-audit A review of non-audit related Dear Shareholder sectors such as ours we need to apply the policy across the Group.
The results of fees are included in Note 6 to flexibly in order to deliver the right level of overall services provided by BDO these audits were reported to the financial statements on On behalf of the Board, I welcome the opportunity and related fees pay to Directors.
the Audit Committee on a regular pages 148 to 149. to present the Remuneration Committees report on basis, with recommendations Directors remuneration for the year to 31 December A discussion with the auditor The Audit Committee continually How we operated our policy in 2018 made by Internal Audit and of a written report detailing all 2018.
This is my first report since joining the Board assesses the effectiveness and corresponding management and the Remuneration Committee on 1 September In our 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration we relationships with the Group independence of the external actions being reviewed and 2018.
I was appointed Chairman of the Committee set out a statement of how we intended to operate and any other parties which auditors.
During the year, the challenged, where appropriate.
on 1 November 2018. the remuneration policy in 2018.
More recently, could affect independence Committee considered a formal In addition to regular feedback the Committee has determined the following: or the perception of tender process in accordance The Committee has reflected at length on the of audit results, the Internal Audit independence with the provisions of the Code, strength of investor feelings on our approach to There should be no LTIP award in 2018, Team monitor completion of A review of the auditors and in compliance with the executive remuneration in FY 2017, which led to in view of market uncertainty management actions and provide own procedures for ensuring Competition Commission Order our Remuneration Report vote being defeated at updates of these to the Audit The Committee determined in May 2018 that independence of the audit relating to the statutory audit the AGM in May 2018.
the Chief Financial Officers salary should be firm and partners and staff market for FTSE 350 companies.
increased from 350,000 to 400,000 as part Since joining the Board and the Committee, I and involved in the audit, including An Internal Audit Plan for 2019 Given the current uncertainties of a phased approach to deliver the required other Board members have met several of our the periodic rotation of the was developed by the Internal around the CMA review of market positioning and in recognition of the largest shareholders to better understand their audit partner Audit Team and agreed with Audit Reform and the material CFOs continued growth in the role.
The Committee has also undertaken a the Audit Committee at the acquisition made during the Obtaining written confirmation appointment in January 2017, the CFO has full review of the entire Directors remuneration November 2018 Audit Committee year, the Committee concluded from the auditors that they are performed to a high standard and is important policy and practice, as part of our response to the meeting.
Internal Audit will carry that BDO remained the optimal independent to the Companys development and strategy.
2018 vote result, and we will give shareholders the out audits in accordance with this provider of audit services and The Committee has been keen to ensure that A review of fees paid to the opportunity to vote on a new policy at the 2019 plan using a risk-based approach should remain as auditor for this is recognised with a salary which is auditors in respect of audit AGM.
We believe that the proposed new policy and continue to maintain effective 2018.
The position will continue appropriate for a CFO of a FTSE 250 company and non-audit services and, more importantly, how we propose to operate lines of communication with to be monitored throughout the in our sector it, will ensure that the pay our executives receive is the Audit Committee and key year as new regulations and aligned to our shareholders long-term interests.
The Internal Audit guidance emerge.
confident that the changes we are making are right Team will also be utilised to for Playtech and for our shareholders and will help provide assurance over corporate reduce the level of concern that has been identified governance matters and for ad Susan Ball in previous years.
Chairman of Audit Committee There will also be the usual advisory vote on the 20 February 2019 adoption of the Annual Report on Remuneration and this Statement.
