INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN The Board is conscious of the increasing importance which corporate culture plays in delivering longterm business success and the role it should play in monitoring and overseeing culture.
Ron Marsh Independent Non-Executive Chairman DEAR SHAREHOLDER, The following pages of this report and the CULTURE Directors Remuneration Report set out I am pleased to present the Companys The Board is conscious of the increasing in greater detail how the principles and Corporate Governance Report for the year importance which corporate culture plays provisions of the UK Corporate Governance ended 31 December 2018, on behalf of in delivering long-term business and Code April 2016 the UK Code have the Board.
economic success and its role in shaping, been applied and how the Board and its monitoring and overseeing culture.
There This year has seen two further changes to Committees have fulfilled their responsibilities was regular interaction during the year the Board, with Paul James being appointed during the year to ensure that robust between the Board and members of the as Chief Financial Officer on 5 March 2018 governance practices are embedded across senior management teams across the Group, following the appointment of the former the Group.
The report also serves to provide and careful consideration was given during CFO Martin Payne as Chief Executive Officer insight into how the Board and management the due diligence process to the potential in October 2017, and the appointment of team run the business for the benefit of cultural impact of the acquisitions made Louise Hardy as a Non-Executive Director shareholders and other stakeholders.
This brings the Board up always, we welcome questions or comments BOARD DIVERSITY to full complement following the changes from shareholders either via our website over the last 18 months and I believe that at www.
com or in person at the The Board is committed to and supports we have a strong and diverse Board in Annual General Meeting AGM.
diversity in the widest sense, acknowledging place with the necessary motivation and an the advantages that come from having BOARD EVALUATION appropriate balance of experience and skills diverse viewpoints in the decision-making Following the externally facilitated review to lead the Company in its next phase of process at Board and senior management of our Boards performance in 2016, an development.
level and across the wider workforce.
The internal review of the Board, its Committees Board is committed to working towards During the year the Board has placed much and individual Directors was carried out in achievement of 33% women on the Board focus on the consistent leadership of the 2018 using an evaluation questionnaire.
and in senior management positions by 2020 Group through this period of change, as The results of the evaluation, which were as set out in the Hampton-Alexander Review.
well as its strategic development, in light of discussed by the Board at its meeting which presentations by the Groups financial Ron Marsh in November 2018, concluded that the advisers and brokers and the annual strategy Chairman Board continues to function strongly and day proved very valuable.
Suggestions for minor improvements were made, and the outcome of the evaluation process is discussed in more detail on page 65 of this report.
