CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Successfully delivering our strategy Premier has established a clear vision and core values that complement and support the Boards strategy.
These values are at the heart of all Premiers activities, and good corporate governance provides a sound framework for embedding them throughout the organisation.
Roy A Franklin Chairman Dear shareholder, I am pleased to report that your Company delivered good operational and financial Our governance framework performance during the year, which Compliance overview resulted in improvements to its capital structure and balance sheet, and positioned Leadership Accountability it for the next phase of development.
The Company is led by a Board with The Board monitors risks and controls on significant collective experience across an ongoing basis and conducts annual Having completed my first full year as the oil and gas industry.
Non-Executive assessments of the effectiveness of its Chairman, I have been impressed by the Board members challenge the Executives systems of risk management and internal level of hard work and dedication shown on all aspects of the Company's business control.
The Board has also taken steps by the Groups management and employees to ensure high quality decisions are during 2018 to ensure that the Company's and I firmly believe that we are well placed taken at the right time and in the best risk management procedures enable to tackle the immediate challenges whilst interests of our stakeholders.
effective identification and management being in a position to create value for all of of emerging risks.
our stakeholders over the medium and The roles of Chairman and Chief longer-term.
Executive Officer remain separate, PAGE 36 with a clear division of responsibilities Our governance framework Shareholder engagement between them.
Premier has established a clear vision and Regular dialogue takes place with core values that complement and support PAGE 60 institutional investors, retail investors the Boards strategy.
These values are at and analysts at meetings, presentations Effectiveness the heart of all Premiers activities and and conferences.
The Board has a diverse range of skills, good corporate governance provides a knowledge and experience and includes PAGE 70 sound framework for embedding them two female Directors 22 per cent of the throughout the organisation.
The ongoing process of succession Our Remuneration Policy is designed Our governance framework not only planning, overseen by the Nomination to ensure alignment with our immediate ensures that the right decisions are taken Committee, aims to ensure that the and long-term strategic objectives.
at the right time: it supports and informs Board continues to be properly balanced, Details of how the Policy has been all that we do.
This report describes that with the necessary skills, knowledge and implemented during the year are framework and will help you to understand experience to successfully deliver the included in the Directors Remuneration how the Company has been run, risks are Companys strategy.
managed, controls are monitored, and key a majority of Non-Executive Directors, all decisions taken during the year.
PAGE 79 An  Board evaluation was undertaken during 2018 to review Board and Committee performance in a structured manner and provide recommendations for improvement.
PAGE 68 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 56 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 57 Board focus during 2018 With Premier well positioned for future Board composition Following the successful refinancing of growth and with a number of new Nonnumber of Directors as at 6 March 2019 the Groups credit facilities in 2017, one of Executives having joined the Board in 2017, Chairman the Boards primary areas of focus has including myself, your Board took the Executive Directors been debt reduction and ensuring ongoing decision during the year to commission an Non-Executive Directors compliance with our banking covenants.
externally facilitated health-check of the With a portfolio of assets currently business to get an objective view on the producing in excess of 75 kboepd Premier Companys governance, organisation, 1 is generating significant free cash flow, processes and culture, with the overall which has accelerated debt repayment objective of preparing the Company for its 3 and will give the Company increasing next stage of growth.
In June, the Boston flexibility to invest in growth projects.
Consulting Group BCG were appointed to carry out this review, further details of Achieving the contractual maximum which can be found in the Nomination production rates at Catcher during 2018 was Committee Report on page 78. a significant milestone for the Company and I would like to pay tribute to all those 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code involved in the successful completion of In July, the Financial Reporting Council this project.
After the end of the reporting published the new Corporate Governance period, we were very pleased to negotiate an Code.
Over the latter part of the year, the 5 increase to the maximum rate which has Board carefully considered the key areas allowed us to increase production above of focus in the Code, in particular the issues nameplate capacity.
We now look forward of workforce and stakeholder engagement, to capturing further upside opportunities culture, succession, diversity and in the Catcher area thereby extending remuneration.
Various actions have been the production profile and growing the taken by the Board to ensure that the reserve base.
Company applies the principles of the new Code from January 2019 and we Elsewhere in the UK, the Board sanctioned will report on our compliance in the 2019 the development of the Tolmount Main gas Annual Report.
field which will extend the Companys medium-term production profile via a Further details about some of the actions high-return, capital efficient project.
We that have been taken to prepare for the look forward to working with all of our new Code can be found in the Nomination, partners and stakeholders to deliver this Remuneration and Audit and Risk project on time and on budget.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION CONTINUED Board effectiveness Engagement with our shareholders Compliance statement As indicated in my statement in last I have taken the opportunity to meet a This report, together with the Nomination year's Annual Report, the Board conducted number of our major shareholders during Committee Report, the Audit and Risk an externally facilitated review of its the year to solicit their views on the Committee Report, the Directors Remuneration effectiveness during 2018.
The evaluation business and our growth plans.
I have been Report, the Directors' Report and sections of the Strategic Report incorporated by reference, was carried out by Lintstock Limited and encouraged by the number of new investors describes the manner in which the Company has involved one-to-one interviews with all who have taken long-term positions in the applied the main principles of governance set Board and Committee members as well as Company over the past year, and we look out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 360 reviews of each Director's performance.
forward to building on our engagement published in April 2016 the Code and complied with the individual Code provisions.
with them as the Company moves in to its Further details about the evaluation The Code can be found on the Financial next phase of development.
During 2019, process and the actions arising can be Reporting Councils website at www.
the Board will continue to engage with found on page 68.
It is the Boards view that the Company has fully shareholders as we formulate our complied with the Code throughout the financial Board changes remuneration policy to be put to year ended 31 December 2018.
Jane Hinkley, the Company's Senior shareholders in 2020.
Aligning the interests Independent Director and Remuneration of management with our stakeholders Committee Chair, has indicated to the Board interests remains a key focus for the that she intends to stand down as a Director Board as we commence this process.
at the end of 2019, having served on the Board focus during 2019 Board since 2010.
At the Company's 2019 Debt reduction continues to be a priority AGM, the Directors will propose the election for the Board as we look to strengthen of Barbara Jeremiah to the Board as an the balance sheet to ensure we have independent Non-Executive Director and the flexibility to pursue growth successor to Jane as Remuneration opportunities, both in the existing Committee Chair.
Barbara brings with her a wealth of We will continue to ensure that our strategic and commercial experience governance framework supports the obtained in the strongly cyclical achievement of our strategy, and HSES environment of the resources sector, remains central to our decision-making.
which will enable her, if elected, to make a valuable contribution to our Board and as On behalf of the Board, I would like to Chair of our Remuneration Committee.
express my thanks to our employees and to all other stakeholders for their Further details regarding the appointment continued support.
process for Barbara can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 78.
Diversity Roy A Franklin Your Board recognises the benefits of Chairman diversity in enhancing the quality of its performance, therefore, all Board appointments are made on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity in its widest sense, including gender diversity.
Further details on our Board Diversity Policy can be found on page 78.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 58 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 59 The Board The Board provides leadership to the Group with a view to As at 31 December 2018, the Board of Directors comprised the delivering long-term value to shareholders and other Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, two other Executive Directors stakeholders.
It sets the strategy and oversees its execution and five independent Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical within an agreed framework of internal controls, ensuring that details of each Director in service as at 6 March 2019, including risk is appropriately managed.
membership of Board Committees, are set out on pages 60 to 63.
Roy A Franklin Robin Allan Anne Marie Cannon Iain Macdonald Chairman Director, North Sea Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Exploration Tony Durrant Jane Hinkley Mike Wheeler Chief Executive Officer Dave Blackwood Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Richard Rose Finance Director The Committees Executive Committee The Executive Committee supports the Chief Executive Officer with Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee the development and Iain Macdonald Chair Roy A Franklin Chair Jane Hinkley Chair implementation of Group strategy, management of Dave Blackwood Dave Blackwood Dave Blackwood the operations of the Mike Wheeler Anne Marie Cannon Anne Marie Cannon Group including Tony Durrant Mike Wheeler succession planning, Keeps under review the financial planning, risk Jane Hinkley effectiveness of the Groups management, internal Ensures that there is an Iain Macdonald risk management and control, HSES and appropriate reward strategy Mike Wheeler internal control systems .
in place for Executive and the programme of Directors with the intention reviews coordinated by Considers Board and of aligning their interests Group Audit and Risk: Committee structure, with those of shareholders.
monitors the integrity of composition and succession This Committee also the Companys financial planning and oversees oversees reward strategy for statements and the overall succession planning and senior management.
fairness of the Annual development of senior Report and Financial management.
Statements: oversees the Companys relationship with the Auditor and assesses the effectiveness of the audit: takes responsibility for the appointment or reappointment of the Companys Auditor ensuring that the process follows the required best practice and legal obligations.
FULL COMMITTEE REPORT FULL COMMITTEE REPORT FULL COMMITTEE REPORT ON PAGES 72 TO 76 ON PAGES 77 TO 78 ON PAGES 79 TO 107 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements
