91 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Chairmans introduction I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Statement for 2018, myfirstas Chairman, which explains how the Company has applied the principles of corporate governance as set out in the 2016 edition of the UKCorporate Governance Code the Code as published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and available on its website www.
Patrick Snowball Chairman Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code For the year ended 31 December 2018, the Board considers that appropriate corporate governance standards were in place throughout 2018.
For the period under review, the Board believes it had complied infull with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except for those set out on page 142.
This report explains the main aspects of the Companys governance structure to give a greater understanding of how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions intheCode.
The Corporate Governance Statement also explains compliance with the FCAs DisclosureGuidance and Transparency Sourcebook.
92 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Chairmans introduction continued Dear shareholder Risk, governance and business oversight I am pleased to introduce, on behalf of the Board, our first As reported last year, a key priority for the Board for 2018 CorporateGovernance report since my appointment as Chairman.
was to address certain risk and governance issues which had been identified and ensure effective oversight of the Groups On 21 September 2018 I succeeded Stuart Sinclair, who had operating businesses.
latterlyled the Board as Interim Chairman for seven months, undertaking the role at a time of uncertainty for the Company.
Throughout this year, Malcolm and the Board have led various On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Stuart for his initiatives to strengthen our risk management and governance dedication, guidance and stewardship.
I believe good progress has been made, as the Board and management have spent time reviewing and clarifying roles The Board is responsible to shareholders for the effective oversight and responsibilities across the Board, its Committees and the of the Company and its businesses: it determines the Companys widerGroup, including our subsidiaries.
This work is also an strategic direction and objectives: its viability: and governance important precursor to the implementation of the Senior Managers structure.
The Board remains committed to the highest standard and Certification Regime in our Home Credit and Moneybarn of corporate governance when delivering in these areas and divisions during 2019.
At its December meeting, the Board in delivering longterm, sustainable value to our stakeholders.
approveda Board Governance Manual and Delegated Authorities The last year has seen the Board focus on addressing a number Manual and reviewed the Executive Governance Manual, which ofoperational, regulatory, risk and governance priorities, as we arekey elements of the Groups governance framework.
ledthe Groups recovery and steered it to a position where it could continue its valuable role in providing credit and delivering financial The reconstituted Executive Committee, comprised of senior inclusion to parts of the market which are under served.
management from across the Group, is now playing a greater andmore proactive role in overseeing operational performance During April 2018, we completed a rights issue Rights Issue and delivering our vision through enhanced information flows tobolster the Groups regulatory and capital position following the and collaboration.
The Executive Committee receives updates provisions required within the financial results for 2017 in respect on the performance of each of the Groups operating businesses of the FCA investigations into ROP and Moneybarn and losses at each meeting and also has a key role to play in relation to the due to the disruption within the home credit business, as well Groups governance, strategy and culture.
Further detail of the astostrengthen its balance sheet, and reestablish normal access workoftheExecutive Committee can be found on page 111. tofunding.
We describe the role of the Board and its committees during the Rights Issue process on page 100.
In addition to our usual ongoing oversight of the Groups risk management and internal control systems and assessment of our Regulation principal risks, there has also been a focus on the Groups risk framework led by the Group Interim Chief Risk Officer and a new centralised Through 2018, the Board has focused on the rectification of key risk team, overseen by the Group Risk Committee and the Board.
It has monitored and kept under This has included review, challenge and approval of a redesigned review the progress on implementing the Home Credit operational Group Risk Appetite Framework, Risk Policy Framework and Risk recovery plan: the Vanquis Bank Repayment Option Plan ROP Policies.
The Board also renewed and approved a comprehensive refund programme following resolution of the Financial Conduct conduct risk assessment, which was submitted to the FCA.
You can Authoritys FCA investigation in February 2018: and constructive read more about the Group Risk Committees work on page 132. engagement with the FCA in respect of their investigation at Moneybarn.
Driving culture through our purpose Whilst I am pleased with the progress made on regulatory  issuesduring 2018, which are set out in the Chief Executive Officer CEO review on pages 12 to 17, Malcolm and I remain focused Promoting a culture of openness and debate is one of my key on continuing to develop our constructive relationship with our responsibilities as Chairman, and as a Board we play an important regulators and enhancing our reputation with them, as we seek leadership role in promoting the desired culture throughout tolead by example.
As the market leader, we see this as part the organisation and making sure that good governance, which of ourongoing commitment to strengthening our governance underpins a healthy culture, is established.
and the control environment, and embedding the right culture, The events of 2017, upon which we reported last year, focusedonthe customer.
demonstratedthat, although the Groups intentions were good in what it was seeking to do for customers, the culture and governance around them had not always been set at the highest standards.
I firmly believe that the right culture and governance can support us in achieving our purpose and strategic priorities, delivering sustainable value to our shareholders and other stakeholders.
This year, the Board has supported Malcolm in his work to address these issues, with significant activity focussed on continuing torealign the Groups culture more closely to the developing needs of the customer, and to collaborate more effectively across our businesses to deliver better customer outcomes.
The Board will havean important ongoing role in setting the right tone from the topin terms of the Groups culture.
93 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance As announced in November 2018, Andrew Fisher stepped down Engaging our Stakeholders and section 172 as Finance Director, and was replaced by Simon Thomas who was Meeting our commitments to the highest standards of corporate appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer CFO with effect governance and alignment with best practice will require ongoing from 3 December 2018.
Simon has a strong financial services focus as the corporate governance landscape continues to evolve.
background, including consumer, retail banking and insurance As a Board, we have reviewed and discussed compliance under the experience.
We also announced in December 2018 that after 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 Code and will oversee overnine years on the Board, Rob Anderson had confirmed any changes needed to address the new shorter, sharper 2018 Code.
hewould stand down as a director of the Company with effect The Board also recognises the importance of our wider stakeholders from11 December 2018. and takes its responsibilities and duty to them under section 172 The Board would like to express its thanks to Andrew and Rob of the Companies Act 2006 very seriously.
We have set out in fortheir contribution to the Group and Board: their knowledge our business model on pages 4 and 5 who our key stakeholders andinsight has been invaluable to us over many years.
are andwhy they are important to us.
We have also set out on As announced in January 2019, John Straw informed the Board pages 101 to 108 how we engage with them.
Engagement with our thathe does not intend to stand for reelection at the 2019 AGM stakeholders, in a way that is best suited to the Group, continues andwill step down as a director with effect from 20 May 2019 to be an important priority for us, and as noted above, we are in order to spend additional time on his other commitments.
implementing the changes necessary to our culture to place On behalfof the Board, i would like to thank John for the the customer firmly at the heart of the Groups strategy and we contributionhe has made throughout his time with the Group.
will remain focused on continuing the good progress made in As noted on page 11, we have also decided to reposition the developinga positive working relationship with our regulators.
roleofthe Chairman of Vanquis Bank.
Following the conclusion In December 2018 the Board reviewed and approved proposals of theongoing appointment process for the role, the Chairman toenhance the way it engages with the workforce.
You can read ofVanquis Bank will also join the Groups Board as a non more about this on page 104. executivedirector, which will help improve decision making andensure greater coordination between the two Boards.
A strengthened leadership team Management have also made good progress in strengthening the  central Group functions, with the appointment of a Group Human As Chairman, I am responsible for leading the Board and ensuring Resource Director, Group Chief Information Officer and Group that it is effective in all aspects of its role.
The right board composition is essential to its effectiveness.
The Group believes that diversity amongst directors helps contribute As evidenced in this report, significant progress has been made towards a high performing and effective Board, and diversity is and during 2018 to strengthen the Board, meeting one of the key remains a key consideration of the Board appointment processes.
objectives identified in our annual report and financial statements Further details on diversity are set out on page 122. last year.
As reported last year, following a process led by Stuart Last year we reported on a number of areas of focus identified in the Sinclair and engagement with key shareholders and the FCA, 2018 Board effectiveness evaluation.
I am pleased to report good we werepleased to appoint Malcolm Le May as Group CEO in progress on these, which is set out on page 117.
Malcolm has a wealth of existing knowledge of the Group, a deep knowledge of the business and sector, regulatory Looking ahead understanding and turnaround and leadership skills.
The Board and I will continue to focus on the effective oversight The Board was also pleased to appoint three new nonexecutive ofthe Group and our progress against our purposeduring 2019. directors on 31 July 2018: Angela Knight, ElizabethChambers and Paul Hewitt.
The appointments add to the Boards financial services, consumer finance, regulatory and general nonexecutive Patrick Snowball director skill set.
You can read their biographies on page 94 to 97 Chairman and get more detail on our induction programme on pages 115 13 March 2019 to 116.
The Nomination Committee report on page 120 provides more information regarding the Board appointment processes which havebeen undertaken this year, including in respect ofmyappointment as Chairman.
94 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Leadership and purpose Our Board Patrick Snowball Malcolm Le May Simon Thomas Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Andrea Blance ElizabethChambers Paul Hewitt Senior Independent Director SID Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Angela Knight John Straw Kenneth Mullen Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director General Counsel and Company Secretary Skills key Chairmanship Executive Non-Executive Accounting Banking Change C ED NED A B CM director director Audit management Culture Customer Digital and Financial Services Fintech Growth CUS DT FS FT GS CUL technology experience Strategy Investor Marketing PLC Regulator I M PLC R 95 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Patrick Snowball 68 Malcolm Le May 61 Simon Thomas 55 Chairman Chief Executive Officer CEO Chief Financial Officer CFO Appointed: 21 September 2018 Appointed as CEO: 1 February 2018 Appointed: 3 December 2018 Joined the Board: 1 January 2014 Tenure: Less than 1 year Tenure: Less than 1 year Tenure: 5 years Career and experience Career and experience Career and experience Patrick has extensive boardroom and financial services Malcolm has extensive experience and knowledge of Simon is an experienced and proven public company experience.
Before joining the Board, Patrick was a the financial services and investment banking sectors.
Chief Financial Officer within the financial services nonexecutive director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson He joined the Group as an independent nonexecutive sector.
Prior to joining the Group, he was Group Chief Group plc from 2008 to 2009, Deputy Chairman at director, becoming Interim Executive Chairman in Financial Officer of Just Group plc, a FTSE 250 financial Towergate Partnership between 2007 and 2009 and November 2017.
Malcolm provided effective leadership services company.
Simon began his career at Price a member of the FSA Practitioner Panel from 2006 to to the Board, working with them to redefine roles Waterhouse in 1985, where he qualified as a Chartered 2008.
He is Chairman of Sabre Insurance Group plc and and responsibilities, and initiated a process to ensure Accountant.
In 1990, Simon joined the Nationwide was Chairman of IntegraFin Holdings plc from 2017 to the Board had the right mix of skills, experience Building Society, becoming Group Financial Controller and diversity.
Through his role as Interim Executive in 1995.
Following his role at Nationwide, Simon was 2018.
Prior to this Patrick was CEO of Suncorp Group Limited, an ASX20 Australian financial services group, Chairman, the Board observed Malcolm in action and Head of Finance at the Equitable Life Assurance Society between 2009 and 2015 where he successfully led the decided his management style and extensive relevant and HECM Ltd between 2000 and 2003.
He was then turnaround of the group following the global financial experience made him best placed to be appointed approached by Canada Life UK and joined as Finance crisis.
Patrick started his career in the Army serving as Group CEO.
Prior to joining the Group, he held a Director in 2003, becoming Finance & Customer number of senior positions within banking, including Services Director from 2004 to 2006.
In 2006 Simon for almost 20 years and joined Ajax Insurance which became part of the Aviva group in 1988 progressing as CoHead of Banking for Barclays in New York: joined Just Retirement Ltd as Group Chief Financial to hold executive director roles between 2001 and Head of European Investment Banking at UBS: and Officer, until its merger with Partnership Assurance 2007, including UK GI CEO where he played a key role deputy CEO at Morley Fund Management now Aviva Group plc in 2016, when it was rebranded to the inmerging and consolidating a number of businesses Investors.
Malcolms experience in the boardroom JustGroup.
includes being a Nonexecutive director of RSA plc into Aviva General Insurance.
Simons contribution to the Board and his key and Hastings Group plc, Senior Independent Director Patricks contribution to the Board and his key strengths and skills are summarised below: of Pendragon plc, as well as his current position as strengths and skills are summarised below: Simons strong financial services background, including aSenior Independent Director at IG Group Holdings Patricks unique career and experiences bring a wealth consumer, retail banking and insurance experience plc.
In addition, he is a Trustee of the Grange Festival, of skills to the Board.
In particular, as Chairman, his a partner at Juno Capital LLP and Opus Corporate are central to his role as Chief Financial Officer.
Hehelped lead considerable growth and change at previous leadership and demonstrable success in Finance, and he was previously a senior advisor driving change, strengthening governance, creating Just Retirement, and through his various roles he has toEYand Heidrick&Struggles.
strong and efficient Boards, and instilling stability delivered on both cost and culture initiatives.
At Just Malcolms contribution to the Board and his key through a positive culture, are key strengths he brings Group he led the Groups initial subordinated debt strengths and skills are summarised below: to the Board.
issuance, successfully raising 250 million and led the Malcolms extensive career, his deep knowledge of negotiations which resulted in the completion of a Experienced Chairman, nonexecutive director various businesses and sectors, his understanding of 200million revolving credit facility and the attainment andChief Executive Officer.
the regulatory environment and turnaround situations of the first credit rating for the business, rated A.
Extensive experience of the financial services and his proven leadership skills are considered by Proven public company Chief Financial Officer.
the Board to be invaluable qualities that made him Experience in both growth and turnaround situations, best placed to lead the business in the development Wealth of knowledge of the challenges faced contributing to successful strategic change, including of its purpose and delivery of its strategy, as well by thefinancial services sector, acquired over in challenging environments.
aseffectively contributing to the Board.
Deep understanding of the financial services industry As an experienced CEO and nonexecutive director he has: Long track record in leading companies to develop and the challenges faced in a regulatory environment.
A deep knowledge and experience of the financial Extensive experience leading financial and services industry and regulatory environment.
Change project management, typically involving management reporting, investor relations,  and brandbuilding.
Driven change by redefining roles and responsibilities financialsystems and reporting to the regulator.
Building strong customer relationships, leveraging Built strong relationships with stakeholders, data and insights, as well as leading and developing Built relationships with key stakeholders, such as includinginvestors, analysts and other banks.
investors and the Groups banks, including leading the rights issue process which has enabled the Group Current External Appointments Current External Appointments access to funding from bank and debt capitalmarkets.
None Chairman of Sabre Insurance Group plc.
Led the strengthening of the Groups governance Committees Committees framework and the realignment of the Groups culture Disclosure Committee more closely to the developing needs of the customer.
Nomination Committee Chairman Reestablished and developed an ongoing Example of key skills Example of key skills and transparent relationship with the Groups regulators enabling the Group, inter alia, to achieve ED A B CM CUL CUS FS GS C ED NED B CM CUL CUS DT authorisation of its Consumer Credit Division, the resolution ofthe FCAs investigation into the Vanquis I PLC R Banks ROP product and made significant progress FS GS I PLC R ontheMoneybarn investigation.
Current External Appointments Senior Independent Director of IG Group Holdings plc.
Trustee of the Grange Festival.
Partner at Opus Corporate Finance and Juno CapitalLLP.
Committees Disclosure Committee Chairman Example of key skills C ED NED B CM CUL CUS FS GS I PLC R NonEquity.
96 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Leadership and purpose continued Our Board continued Andrea Blance 54 ElizabethChambers 56 Paul Hewitt 62 Senior Independent Director SID Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Appointed: 1 March 2017 Appointed: 31 July 2018 Appointed: 31 July 2018 Tenure: Over 1 year Tenure: Less than 1 year Tenure: Less than 1 year Career and experience Career and experience Career and experience Andrea has extensive Board and financial services Elizabeth is an experienced board director, senior Paul is an experienced Chief Financial Officer, Chairman, experience.
She is currently a nonexecutive director financial services executive, strategist and marketing Nonexecutive Director and Audit Committee Chair and Risk Committee Chair at Scottish Widows Group leader inthe UK and globally.
Her previous board who operates in a number of different sectors.
He and Lloyds Banking Groups Insurance Division experience includes being a nonexecutive director is currently also a nonexecutive director and Audit at Dollar Financial Group, Hibu plc formerly Yell and a nonexecutive director at The Mentoring Committee chair at Charles Taylor plc and Chairman Foundation.
She spent her executive career at Legal Group and The Home and Savings Bank.
Pauls past nonexecutive director & General Group plc, where she was a member of these roles, Elizabeth served on the boards relating to roles include chairing audit committees for Tokio the Group Executive Committee and held a range consumer finance joint ventures between Barclaycard Marine, Kiln, NEST Corporation, Tesco Bank, Collins of senior leadership roles, including Divisional Chief and other brands, such as Argos and Thomas Cook.
Stewart Hawkpoint, Cooperative Banking Group and She is currently a nonexecutive director at Smith & Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group GMT Global Aviation.
He is also a past nonexecutive Chief Risk Officer and Strategy & Marketing Director.
Williamson, the wealth management and professional director of Playtech plc and past chairman of several During2016 Andrea was a member of William & Glyns services firm, and Hastings Group Holdings plc, a major private equity backed businesses.
home and auto insurance provider to consumers executive career in finance working for over 20 years and businesses in the UK.
Elizabeth is also on the as a finance director of various companies, culminating Andreas contribution to the Board and her key Advisory Boards of several fintech and software in becoming Deputy Group Chief Executive and CFO strengths and skills are summarised below: startups.
She has extensive executive experience ofthe Cooperative Group from 2003 to 2007.
Andrea brings a wealth of relevant experience, through roles including Chief Marketing Officer at Pauls contribution to the Board and his key includingher understanding of governance, the Barclays and Barclaycard: Chief Marketing and Business strengths and skills are summarised below: regulatory environment and conduct risk.
She has Development Officer at Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer extensive experience of strategy and customer LLP: Partner at McKinsey & Company : and recently Pauls varied and wideranging career is built on a marketing, complex change, finance & reporting, successful career in finance.
He has a track record serving as Chief Strategy, Product and Marketing Officer investor relations and stakeholder management.
of creating and realising value for shareholders and at Western Union.
has worked across a number of sectors including Experienced Senior Independent Director, Elizabeths contribution to the Board and her key financial services, technology, healthcare, retail and nonexecutive director, Board Committee Chair strengths and skills are summarised below: business services.
Through his nonexecutive roles andsenior leader.
Elizabeth brings more than 25 years of experience in he has helped several management teams adapt their Deep understanding of the financial services industry.
strategy, marketing and product development across business models to respond to, and anticipate, changes a range of financial services.
As an executive, she has a in their competitive and regulatory environments.
Track record of working with businesses at different long track record of driving revenue growth and solving Inboth his executive and nonexecutive career he has stages of development and supporting both growth complex business challenges at major global financial hadextensive experience of transactions and ensuring and recovery strategies.
In various roles she has led businesses that businesses have an appropriate financial structure.
Current external appointments: through brand and reputation transformations, Experienced nonexecutive director, Nonexecutive director at Scottish Widows Group strengthened customer acquisition and engagement, ChairmanandChief Financial Officer.
andLloyds Banking Groups Insurance Division.
built innovative digital businesses, and led major Broad experience of the financial services business turnarounds.
Nonexecutive director at The Mentoring Foundation.
Csuite marketing executive, board director Committees Strong track record in delivering good returns andstrategist.
Remuneration Committee Chairman Proven people leader.
Audit Committee Extensive marketing and communications Broad experience as both an executive and Group Risk Committee functionalbackground.
anonexecutive of developing and challenging Nomination Committee Broad and deep knowledge of financial services, businessstrategies.
including credit cards and payments products, a wide Example of key skills Has helped several management teams adapt range of customer loan segments andmarketing in a business models in anticipation of changes regulated environment.
C ED NED A B CM CUL CUS intheirenvironments and markets.
Current external appointments: Wide exposure to international operations DT FS GS I M PLC R Nonexecutive director and Audit Committee andtheunique challenges of leading them.
Chairman of Charles Taylor plc.
Current external appointments: Chairman of Kintell Limited.
Nonexecutive director of Smith & Williamson.
Committees Nonexecutive director of Hastings Group Audit Committee Chairman Holdingsplc.
Remuneration Committee Committees Nomination Committee Audit Committee Group Risk Committee Group Risk Committee Nomination Committee Example of key skills Remuneration Committee C ED NED A B CM CUL CUS Example of key skills FS GS I PLC R C ED NED B CM CUL CUS DT FS FT GS I M PLC 97 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Angela Knight 68 John Straw 59 Kenneth Mullen 60 Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed: 31 July 2018 Appointed: 1 January 2017 Appointed: 16 July 2007 Tenure: Less than 1 year Tenure: 2 years Tenure: 11 years Career and experience Career and experience Career and experience Angela has extensive experience in both the public and John is a digital veteran with 33 years in IT and Ken is an experienced Legal Counsel and Company private sectors.
Prior to joining the Board, Angela was marketing.
Before joining the Board, he was involved Secretary of many years who has held roles for a Senior Independent Director of Brewin Dolphin plc from in a range of digital initiatives across a number of number of UK listed companies, including Premier 2008 to 2017 and has held a number of nonexecutive industries.
John was also a founder and nonexecutive Farnell plc, Silentnight Holdings plc and Whessoeplc.
directorships at a variety of companies, including Lloyds director of Linxdex, a leading SEO platform firm, He qualified as a lawyer in Scotland in 1983 having TSB plc: South East Water: and Scottish Widows.
He is currently a non graduated in law.
Ken joined PF in 2007 from current roles include being a nonexecutive director of executive director and investor at CTRLio, which he Hagemeyer UK Limited and is a member of the GC100.
Taylor Wimpey plc and Senior Independent Director at joined in 2013, and is a Senior Advisor at McKinsey After more than 11 years as Group General Counsel TPICAP plc.
Angela has had a broad range of executive &Company and IBM Watson.
and Company Secretary, Kenneth has decided to retire roles, including a number as Chief Executive Officer Having used his experience to help the Group resolve from the Company and will step down from this role CEO.
She was CEO at Energy UK: British Bankers some of the issues it has faced over the last two years, with effect from 31 March 2019.
Association the BBA, now UK Finance : and APCIMS John has decided not to stand for reelection at the Kenneths contribution to the Board and his key now Personal Investment Management and Financial 2019 AGM and will step down as a Director with effect strengths and skills are summarised below: Advice Association.
Angela started her career training from 20 May 2019 in order to spend time on his other as an engineer with Air Products Limited and set up the Ken is an experienced General Counsel and commitments.
specialist metal heat treatment company, Cook & Knight CompanySecretary who has worked for a number Johns contribution to the Board and his key Metallurgical Processors Ltd. She was previously a ofUK listed companies.
Member of Parliament and Treasury Minister between strengths and skills are summarised below: Experienced General Counsel and 1992 and 1997 and was the Chair of the Office of Tax John brings a wealth of knowledge and digital expertise CompanySecretary.
Simplification from December 2015 to March 2019. to the Board.
In particular, as a nonexecutive director Deep understanding of the financial services industry and digital entrepreneur, he has led and advised on Angelas contribution to the Board and her key and the challenges faced in a regulatory environment.
critical digital transformations across a number of strengths and skills are summarised below: sectors: has contributed to a number of startups Played a leading role in the stabilisation of the Group Angelas varied career brings a wealth of knowledge martech and searchtech and exits including one following events in 2017 and the Rights Issue process inboth the private and public sectors as a result to Microsoft : and led the digital transformation of in April 2018. of over20 years experience in nonexecutive ThomasCook.
Contributed to the rebuilding of the Groups director andCEO roles.
Her experience in the public Experienced nonexecutive director and governance and its relationship with the Regulators.
sector means she has a strong understanding of digitalentrepreneur.
the expectations of regulators and other public Adept negotiator who negotiated the Heads of Terms stakeholders.
This combination means she is a skilled Extensive experience of the digital, marketing to secure the redevelopment of the premises adjacent director who knows how to manage organisations andITindustries.
to the Groups head office in Bradford.
and how to challenge management to deliver.
Angelas Deep understanding of technology disruptors Oversaw the Groups participation in the Legal Social thought leadership, technical and policy skills, as andassociated economics.
Mobility Partnership Work Experience Programme well as a deep understanding of the financial sector, for26 students from local schools in Leeds.
are demonstrated through her leadership of the Current external appointments: repositioning of Energy UK in the energy sector and Current external appointments: Nonexecutive director of CTRLio Ltd. ofthe BBA through the banking crisis respectively.
Chairman of Rexel UK Limited Pension Scheme.
Senior advisor at McKinsey & Co.
Experienced Government Minister, CEO, Senior advisor at IBM.
Senior advisor at Bought By Many Ltd.
Member Disclosure Committee Wealth of knowledge of the financial services sector.
Committees Deep knowledge of regulated industries, the public Secretary sector and of science and engineering.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Adept at solving difficult problems with Nomination Committee Audit Committee effectivesolutions.
Group Risk Committee Group Risk Committee Built strong relationships with wider stakeholders Nomination Committee Example of key skills inavariety of sectors.
Understanding of public presentation, in particular ED NED CUS DT GS I M PLC asa proficient public speaker.
Current external appointments: Senior Independent Director of TPI CAP plc.
Nonexecutive director of Taylor Wimpey plc andArbuthnot Latham & Co.
Committees Group Risk Committee Chairman Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Example of key skills C ED NED A B CM CUL CUS FS GS I M PLC R
