Chairmans introduction Robust and transparent governance supporting the delivery of our strategy Dear Shareholder of change.
It is one of our objectives to ensure and confirmed that it believes it to be in Good governance encourages decisions that the Group continues to be guided by its shareholders best interests for me to to be made in a way that is most likely to values and behaviours and demonstrates continue to serve in the Chair role in order to promote the success of the Company for the ongoing commitment to our stakeholders oversee the Board during this time of change benefit of its members, taking into account and to innovation, performance and and ensure that the Prudential Group is the views and interest of the Groups wider excellence in execution.
strongly established in its post-demerger stakeholders.
We aim to achieve this through state.
I am fully committed to this challenge.
The Board approved changes to its terms a governance framework that supports of reference in 2018 to make explicit Further details of the agreed timeframe for decision-making, is continuously updated reference to its role in establishing the my departure and plans for identifying and to meet the Groups business needs, makes Groups purpose, values and strategy.
appointing a successor are set out in a report room for challenge and encompasses a from Mr Remnant, as part of the Nomination prudent system of internal controls and Looking after our stakeholders & Governance Committee report on processes for identifying, managing and and wider community initiatives page 111.
The Committees report includes mitigating key risks.
At Prudential, we recognise that our a description of the Groups approach to stakeholders are key to our long-term success.
Set out below are some of the key strategic succession planning more widely.
We seek to engage proactively with them, to and governance items the Board has Lord Turner has announced that he will retire understand their views and to take these considered over 2018. from the Board at the 2019 Annual General views into account when making decisions.
I want to thank him for his Demerger The Board is cognisant of the emphasis that significant contribution to the Board over the Following the announcement in 2017 of the the new Corporate Governance Code puts last three and a half years, as a Non-executive combination of our asset manager, M&G, on stakeholders more broadly than Director and member of the Risk Committee.
and Prudential UK & Europe to form shareholders.
The Board considered this M&GPrudential, early in 2018 the Board We have also looked at our Board in two separate meetings during the year announced the intention to demerge composition as part of our progress towards and is developing mechanisms to ensure M&GPrudential from the remainder of the demerger.
As Chief Executive of stakeholder views, and in particular the Prudential Group.
During the year the Board M&GPrudential, Mr Foley will naturally stand employee voice, make their way to Board has therefore been focused on the execution down from the Board as part of the demerger level in an effective way.
Having taken into account the I remain immensely proud of our international changed shape of the Prudential Group In preparation for this major transaction, the volunteering programme, the Chairmans post-demerger and the reduced number Board looked at its ways of working at the Challenge, which continues to grow with of business units, the Board has taken a end of 2017 through our annual effectiveness over 9,000 colleagues having given 49,000 decision that the roles of Chief Executive review.
The feedback from that review was hours to supporting the community in 2018.
Prudential Corporation Asia and Chief used to ensure that the right environment for Executive Officer of Jackson Holdings LLC critical decision-making continued to be in You can read more about our corporate will no longer be Executive Director roles on place, and this has proved very helpful and social responsibility actions in the corporate the Board, although will continue to serve effective groundwork as the Board was responsibility review on pages 70 to 86 on the Group Executive Committee.
As asked to consider a number of demergerand in our 2018 ESG report which will be announced to the market on 28 February related items through the year.
published on our website in May 2019.
2019 all of these Board changes will take In relation to the governance of both the effect from the conclusion of our 2019 Succession planning and Board Prudential and the M&GPrudential Groups, Annual General Meeting.
My thanks go to composition changes work has been undertaken to help ensure Mr Foley, Mr Nicandrou and Mr Falcon for It has been a privilege to serve on the Board a smooth transition and ensure that both of Prudential plc since October 2010 and to their service.
Groups have boards properly composed to have served as Chairman since July 2012.
I would also like to thank Ms Richards and meet their future strategic needs.
Most Mr Stowe, as Executive Directors having I and my fellow members of the Nomination importantly this has included establishing & Governance Committee agree that it is stepped down during 2018, for their valuable a separate M&GPrudential board and the contributions to the Board and to the Group important that leadership of the Board is appointment of the first independent during the year.
refreshed appropriately and that succession non-executive director, Mike Evans, planning for my role as Chairman takes place as chairman of that board.
I hope that this report and the reports of my in an open and transparent way.
fellow Committee Chairs will demonstrate to Further information about the demerger you the work we have undertaken over the Our Senior Independent Director, is set out in the Strategic report.
course of the year as well as the tangible and Mr Remnant, has therefore been consulting Culture and values with major shareholders on my tenure positive impact this has had on our business.
The Board spent time in 2018 focusing on extending to May 2021, subject to rePrudentials culture, recognising that it is election each year.
We are mindful of the an important contributor to the Groups provisions of the Corporate Governance success and sustainable growth and the Code which state that a chair should not Board made further progress on considering remain in post beyond nine years from how our Groups culture is articulated, the date of first appointment to the board, communicated, rewarded and recognised.
which in my case would be October 2019.
However, given the Groups planned In light of the upcoming demerger, the Paul Manduca demerger of the M&GPrudential business, Chairman Groups culture has taken on extra and in light of the shareholder support we significance as we navigate through a period have received the Board has considered 88 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
