Governance Chairmans introduction on corporate governance We believe that outstanding corporategovernance adds value forallof ourstakeholders.
That conviction hasguided the design .
Glyn Jones Chairman Dear Shareholder, The table below shows the Board meetings held during 2018: An effective system of corporate governance, with appropriate Scheduled Ad hoc Board and checksand balances to assess, manage and mitigate risks, is Board Board Committee important in any organisation to enable it to anticipate and adapt meetings meetings tochanging internal and external circumstances.
For a young, newly Glyn Jones 10 10 5 6 standalone, listed company operating in a fast growing but highly Paul Feeney 10 10 7 7 regulated environment a robust governance framework, overseen Rosie Harris 10 10 5 6 bya skilled and experienced Board, is absolutely critical.
We believe Moira Kilcoyne 10 10 0 1 that outstanding corporate governance adds value for all of our Jon Little 9 10 1 1 stakeholders.
That conviction has guided the design of our Ruth Markland Appointed 25 06 2018 4 4 N A governance framework.
George Reid 10 10 6 6 Tim Tookey 10 10 8 8 My first priority on being appointed Chairman was to assemble Cathy Turner 9 10 0 1 astrong Board of Directors and to work with my Board colleagues Suresh Kana Appointed 08 08 2018 2 3 N A andour Company Secretary to design and implement a governance Paul Matthews Appointed 08 08 2018 3 3 N A structure tailored for our transition from a subsidiary company Bruce Hemphill Resigned 19 04 2018 3 4 1 1 through to a standalone listed company.
We also conducted a review Ingrid Johnson Resigned 19 04 2018 3 4 0 1 of the skills and experience available within our executive leadership Mark Satchel Resigned 19 04 2018 4 4 4 4 team to ensure that it too was equipped for this transition and the The ad hoc Board and Board Committee meetings reported above related to delivery of the strategy approved by the Board.
The executive team the oversight ofManaged Separation, the Listing of the business and the sale has continued to evolve during 2018 with some key hires that were of the Single Strategy asset management business.
Meetings were often supported by the Board.
Your Board and the Quilter leadership team arranged at short notice.
was, and continues to be, fully prepared therefore to guide and Board activity oversee the delivery of the exciting opportunities that exist in our business in a safe and considered way that gives due consideration CEO Report 11% tothe duties we owe toour shareholders, employees, regulators, CFO Report 16% customers and the wider communities in which we operate.
Sale of Single Strategy 2% Business The Managed Separation of Quilter from Old Mutual plc involved Quarterly CRO Report 6% considerable work to enable our business to be standalone.
This Investment Performance 5% involved clearly defining the perimeter of the business, establishing Reports new functions such as treasury and investor relations that were Committee Reports 8% previously provided to us, and transferring certain systems to our Strategy 23% control.
The most significant issue was to determine a Day 1 balance Managed Separation 29% sheet that ensured we had the right amount, structure and quality and Listing ofcapital, debt and liquidity to stand alone in a robust and prudent manner.
Within a clearly defined conflicts of interest framework, we 44 Quilter Annual Report 2018 and the Old Mutual plc executive and board worked well together The role of your Board and our corporate toexecute our Managed Separation and Listing.
I would like to thank governanceframework our ex-colleagues atOldMutual plc for their professionalism and The Quilter Board is responsible to our shareholders for creating teamwork.
anddelivering sustainable shareholder value through the effective oversight and direction of the Groups businesses.
The Board In preparation for our Listings in London and Johannesburg, therefore determines the objectives and policies of Quilter that theBoardreviewed and approved the Prospectus prepared in webelieve will deliver long-term value, providing overall strategic connection withthe admission of our shares to trading.
In doing so, direction within a framework of rewards, incentives and controls.
the Board thoroughly reviewed our readiness for Listing including in TheBoard ensures that management strike an appropriate relation to our compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code balancebetween promoting long-term growth and delivering 2016.
We were pleased to be fully compliant with that Code on Listing .
and have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 since 1January 2019.
As noted, Quilter was compliant with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the 2016 Code when we listed the business In reviewing and challenging the strategies of the business, the on25 June 2018 but that does not tell the full story.
For example, Boardconcluded in 2017, and after discussion with the relevant inaddition to the Board Committees recommended by the Code, management teams that our single strategy asset management wealso created a Board IT Committee.
Moira Kilcoyne, the Chair business was not core to our business and our customers needs.
ofthe Board IT Committee provides a description of the Committees Considerable effort went into separating and selling this business role and activities on pages 62 and 63.
Our creation of a Board IT now branded Merian Global Investors in a competitive sale Committee emphasises the significant role that technology plays processto obtain the best value for our shareholders.
The sale inhow we run our business and how we serve our customers.
closedshortly after our Listing and, after the repayment of the Inparticular, that Committee has exercised close oversight of our outstanding 300 million senior unsecured term loan, we distributed critical UK Platform Transformation Programme.
the surplus proceeds to shareholders via a special interim dividend in September2018.
To ensure there is clarity in both the roles we expect our Directors todischarge and the behaviours we expect them to exemplify we In launching Quilter as a standalone business, we were cognisant have adopted a Board Charter that is available at quilter.
ofthe need to design and build a resilient business with a strong Toensure that the Quilter Board is as effective as possible, early in balance sheet.
That resilience has enabled the Board to continue 2019we commenced our first Board effectiveness review as alisted toplan for profitable growth despite the uncertainties created by company.
The review is being facilitated by Professor Rob Goffee, increasing political and economic clouds.
Brexit, growing tensions Emeritus Professor of Organisational Behaviour at London Business inglobal trade, the increasing likelihood of a slowdown in the School, who has considerable experience of undertaking such globaleconomy and the possible end to the long bull equity market reviews.
The scope and design of the review has been approved areallchallenges that our business is robust enough to face with byour Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
confidence because of the prudence of decisions taken as part The Board Effectiveness Review comprises a detailed questionnaire ofourplanning tobecome a standalone listed company.
to be completed by each Director covering the performance oftheBoard and the Board Committees which is followed by indepthinterviews between Professor Goffee and each Director anda number of senior Quilter executives.
The results of the Board Effectiveness Review will then be reported to the Board and the Board Committees, as appropriate.
Professor Goffee has no other relationship with Quilter beyond the conduct of the Board review.
Glyn Jones Chairman 11 March 2019 Governance | Chairmans introduction on corporate governance Quilter Annual Report 2018 45 Governance | Chairmans introduction on corporate governance continued Reshaping our business We made it clear, as part of our Listing, Where your Board has focused its time in 2018 that Quilter is not yet the finished article and consequently we have continued to oversee the reshaping of our business.
During 2018 the In undertaking its duties in 2018 your Board has continued to Board has overseen the completion of the sale of the Single Strategy bemindful of the need to appropriately balance the interests asset management business, continued to make small distribution andexpectations of our shareholders, our people, our customers, acquisitions to support the growth in Private Client Advisers and ourregulators and the wider communities in which we operate.
scrutinised the build out of Quilter Investors.
The work to optimise our business to enhance long-term returns for shareholders has For our shareholders received significant Board attention.
Appropriately pacing and timing Delivering on strategic priorities Having approved the strategy the delivery of this programme of work has been an area of intense ofour business that was communicated in our Prospectus and discussion, given theother strategic priorities for the business in Showcase presentations, the Board received quarterly updates 2019, especially ourUK Platform Transformation Programme.
Our onthe key non-financial deliverables that support the delivery of Optimisation programme is designed to drive out the synergies thestrategy and challenged management when there were areas available fromsimplifying and unifying processes across our Group ofconcern, and particularly as the external environment became where appropriate whilst not materially distracting those who directly morechallenging.
In addition to the work of the Board IT Committee, serveour customers from their primary purpose.
This is especially the Board has also remained close to the progress on our UK important in a period of uncertainty when we need more than ever Platform Transformation Programme receiving regular reports tostay close to our customers and deliver on organic growth and frommanagement and also meeting with the chief executive of theUK Platform Transformation Programme.
FNZ, the main supplier involved, to hear his perspective on the progress of the programme.
For our people The Quilter leadership team have developed a culture dashboard that Maintaining sustainable financial performance Having approved allows management and the Board to track the levels of engagement the business plan for 2018, the Board has reviewed a comprehensive amongst our people and the actions that are being taken to address suite of financial information and analysis at each regular Board areas where deeper engagement is desired.
This reporting will be meeting.
That enabled the Board to ensure that financial performance further developed to allow the Board to understand the level of is in line with the plan and other external commitments made, or, alignment between our strategy and the culture of our business.
ifnot, to review the corrective actions proposed.
TheBoard gave Toensure that the voice of our people is heard clearly at our Board, regular feedback to management on the form of themanagement Cathy Turner, an independent Non-executive Director, has been information and key performance indicators required to allow the appointed to act as a point of contact for our people and she will Board to better track the delivery ofkey financial and performance beworking withthe employee forums that already exist across priorities.
As the equity market environment became more ourbusiness toprovide an important link between the Board challenging in the second half of 2018, theBoard supported andourpeople.
These changes have positioned us well for the management in taking the required action tomanage costs to newrequirements of the Code.
Wehave more to do in this area ensurethat in year performance would meet expectations without butwe have madeagood start.
taking actions that would cause damage to ourbusiness long term orundermine the delivery of our strategy.
For our customers Investment performance Quilter can only succeed if the Business plan 20192021 The business plan approved by your investment performance delivered for customers represents good Board for 2019 to 2021 reflects the increasing challenges that will value.
The Quilter Board therefore receives quarterly reports on faceour business in 2019 onwards.
The plan has been considered investment performance delivered by Quilter Cheviot and Quilter ata series ofBoard meetings from September to the early part of Investors.
That performance is assessed against both market 2019 and is reflective of the greater political, economic and market benchmarks and the risk-based expectations of customers.
uncertainty experienced at the end of 2018 and positions our business well to respond to a more uncertain world.
Customer outcomes The Board has also received regular updateson the work of our Customer Outcomes Forum.
The Forum, which includes external representation, provides valuable insights toidentify areas where we can better serve our customers.
Customer reporting In addition to the reporting to the Board on customer outcomes, work is also under way to enhance the more granular reporting the Board receives on customer issues more generally.
We want to ensure that our customer service and the quality of advice we provide continue to be strong differentiators forour businesses.
46 Quilter Annual Report 2018 For our regulators confirmed that the conduct of Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Building and maintaining open, constructive and respectful Limited did not warrant enforcement action.
The pace of regulatory relationships with our regulators is essential and the Board and the change continues unabated and significant management and executive have worked hard to ensure this is achieved.
In addition Boardtime has been taken up during 2018 in planning for and tothe reporting fromthe executive on key regulatory issues, I and implementing regulatory changes such as the new General Data myBoard Committee Chairs meet regularly to brief our regulators Protection Regulation, MiFID II and the application of the Senior onimportant new developments in our business and to listen to Managers andCertification Regime to certain parts of our business theirperspectives on ourbusiness and any concerns they may have.
aswell as addressing other requests from regulators.
Preparations At the start of 2018, and having considered thematter alongside the forBrexit have also intensified these requests.
Board of Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited, the Quilter Board concluded that a voluntary customer redress scheme should be For the wider community initiated to address historic issues relating tothe fair treatment of Our Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee has long-standing customers in the life insurance sector.
This was well taken on the responsibility of overseeing our Responsible Business ahead of the conclusion of the FCAs investigations into fair treatment agenda and the Shared Prosperity Plan which is described in more of long-standing customers in the life insurance sector.
In September detail on pages 12 to 15.
2018, the FCA announced the closure of their investigation and Governance in action Overseeing Managed Separation The Managed Separation and Listing of Quilter plc was a major The Managed Separation of Quilter from Old Mutual plc was activity during the year that was overseen by the Board and its acomplex and far reaching project that involved every part of Committees but involved many of our people at all levels and we ourbusiness and all of our central functions.
This was a multi-year are grateful for the strong support we have received.
Set out project successfully delivered in time to List Quilter on 25 June 2018. below are some of the main activities overseen by the Board.
The Investor Showcases Preparing our business for Listing We committed significant time to overseeing the development Transforming our business from being a subsidiary of a global ofthe Quilter Showcase materials that were the markets first view organisation into a standalone company listed on the London of Quilter as a standalone business.
An off site strategy session and Johannesburg Stock Exchanges involved a significant inAugust 2017 was used to agree the strategic priorities for the amount of work by the Quilter executive team, with close business and further Board sessions refined, challenged and oversight from the Board of Quilter and its Committees.
tested the investment story that supported the Listing of Quilter.
Earlyonin the process it was agreed that the Board would focus The Board also ensured that the due diligence and verification on overseeing the Managed Separation from Old Mutual plc tosupport the Showcase materials and the Prospectus that andthe strategy to be articulated in the Prospectus and other followed it was thorough and effective.
Appropriate Board Committees were then asked tofocus their energies on other parts of the Prospectus The Quilter Day 1 balance sheet and the other documentation that supported our Listing.
The Quilter Board were particularly mindful of the need to launch OurBoard Risk Committee focused on completing the build Quilter as a standalone listed company with a resilient balance outof our risk management framework and reviewed and sheet that prepared it for most eventualities given the increasing challenged the risk factors in ourProspectus.
The Board likelihood of more challenging trading conditions.
The Board Remuneration Committee designed our remuneration policies appointed an ad hoc Committee comprising the Chair of the for a public company environment and oversaw the necessary Board, the Board Audit Committee Chair and the Board Risk remuneration disclosures.
The Board Audit Committee focused Committee Chair to oversee the detailed technical analysis.
on the Historical Financial Information and the Operating TheCommittee was well supported with independent advice andFinancial Review and the Board Corporate Governance fromJP Morgan Cazenove and high quality analysis of the andNominations Committee focused on completing the structure of the balance sheet, thedebt and capital requirements recruitment for the Boardand designing our corporate of the business and the risk scenarios that evidenced the resilience governance framework.
Taken together, this was a great of the proposals.
The final balance sheet proposals that were example of teamworkin action.
approved by the Board included a 125 million revolving credit facility, which remains undrawn, a 200 million subordinated debt security in the form of a 10-year Tier 2 Bond anda 300 million unsecured term loan facility that was fully repaid post-Listing in June2018 from the proceeds of sale of the single strategy asset management business.
The successful issuance of this debt and the prudent approach in building our balance sheet has positioned our business well for the challenges ahead.
Governance | Chairmans introduction on corporate governance Quilter Annual Report 2018 47
