70 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Governance Chairmans introduction to corporate governance Role and activities of the Board Our corporate governance focus My role is to lead the Board, ensuring that it carries out its principal functions effectively: providing leadership for the in 2018 has been based around Group, overseeing its strategy and the management of risks to its delivery, and ultimately being accountable for delivering removing complexity and appropriate financial returns to shareholders over the long-term.
This report sets out how the Board carried out its principal increasing transparency for functions during the year, and summarises its activities and those of its Committees during that time.
It also explains in more detail our stakeholders through the the Groups simplified corporate governance arrangements, and how the Company has applied the main principles of the 2016 UK completion of the Corporate Corporate Governance Code the Code during the year.
The Board continues to prioritise corporate governance across RELX, and Simplification, and reviewing the views this as essential in underpinning the Groups ability to deliver long-term success for its shareholders.
I am therefore requirements of the new pleased to report that the Company complied with each of the provisions of the Code during the year.
Corporate Governance Code As part of its leadership role, the Board is responsible for developing a corporate culture across RELX which promotes which apply to RELX in 2019. integrity and transparency, and an understanding of RELXs responsibilities to its stakeholders and the societies in which it Simplification of our governance framework operates.
In this regard, the Board sets the tone from the top 2018 was a significant year for RELX in respect of its corporate of the organisation, by establishing comprehensive systems of governance arrangements.
After receiving overwhelming corporate governance, and approving policies and procedures support at both shareholder meetings held in June, the Group which promote corporate responsibility, transparency, simplified its corporate structure by way of a cross-border accountability and ethical behaviour.
Central to these policies merger of RELX NV into RELX PLC.
As a result, the Group moved is the Groups Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, which sets from a dual parent holding company structure to a single parent out clearly the standards expected for corporate and individual company, with RELX PLC as the sole parent company of the behaviour.
In 2018, following a comprehensive management Group the Simplification.
This Simplification has removed review process, the Board approved an updated Code of Ethics complexity and increased transparency for our stakeholders, and Business Conduct, which applies to all Directors and and followed the significant measures completed in 2015.
It was employees of the Group, is embedded into the Groups operations the natural next step in the evolution of our corporate governance through complementary policies, procedures and training, and arrangements.
This has resulted in a simpler structure, with is available on our website at www.
one Board of Directors, one market capitalisation, one class of shares and a single tax residence, whilst maintaining a Board changes robust, effective governance framework vital for delivering During the year, the Nominations Committee continued to our long-term strategy.
keep the compositions of the Board and its Committees under review to ensure that they remained appropriate.
There have Following the full harmonisation of the RELX PLC and RELX NV been a small number of changes to the compositions of our Boards in 2015, the Simplification did not change our Board Committees, and a change of chairmanship of the Audit composition or governance framework, and the Board delegates a Committee, with Adrian Hennah succeeding Ben van der Veer number of its responsibilities to four principal Committees so that with effect from April 2018.
Adrian was also appointed, alongside it may continue to dedicate adequate time to fulfilling its remaining Marike van Lier Lels, as a member of the Nominations Committee responsibilities within its scheduled annual Board programme.
from September 2018, with Ben van der Veer stepping down as a The Boards Committee structure is set out on page 73. member of the Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee at that time.
Having served on the Board for nine years, Ben van Following the completion of the Simplification, the Companys der Veer will step down as a Non-Executive Director at the securities are listed in the UK, US and the Netherlands, and conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in April therefore the Company is subject to applicable corporate 2019 and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Ben for governance and regulatory requirements of those jurisdictions.
his dedication and major contributions during that time.
In These requirements, which are continually evolving, are reviewed January, we announced that Andrew Sukawaty will join the Board and monitored by the Corporate Governance Committee.
as a Non-Executive Director, subject to shareholder approval.
Andrew has considerable international experience in the technology sector, acquired through his experience in technology-led businesses throughout his career in both executive and non-executive roles.
He will be a valuable addition to our Board.
Biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on pages 66 and 67.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance 71 Succession planning The New Code The Nominations Committee will continue to monitor Board The Board has noted the changes made by the new UK Corporate and Committee composition and review succession planning Governance Code the New Code, published by the Financial arrangements on an ongoing basis, ensuring that appointments Reporting Council in July 2018, and particularly its increased continue to be based principally on merit, with due regard for the emphasis on relationships between a company and a wide range benefits of diversity.
It will be led by the Senior Independent of its stakeholders.
The Board has historically recognised and Director with respect to succession planning as it relates to the acknowledged that stakeholder relationships, such as those with role of the Chairman.
It will also ensure that an appropriate suppliers, customers and our employees, are an important balance between continuity of service and the need for progressive consideration at all levels of business interaction, and this has refreshing of the Board, in a controlled and structured manner, consistently been reflected in the Boards decision-making.
In light of the new requirements, with effect from 1 January 2019, Marike van Lier Lels has been appointed by the Board as a Board evaluation and effectiveness designated Non-Executive Director to facilitate engagement As Chairman, I am also responsible for ensuring that the with the RELX workforce.
In her role, Marike will provide an open effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and each individual channel of communication with representatives of our workforce, Director is evaluated annually.
An externally facilitated evaluation through which issues can be raised directly with the Board, and was completed last year and therefore for 2018 19, an internally discussed and considered in the Boards decision-making process.
conducted evaluation process has been carried out, overseen by the Corporate Governance Committee.
The outcome of the All requirements under the New Code will apply to RELX from evaluation confirmed that the Board and its Committees continue 1 January 2019, and therefore the Company will report on these to function effectively, and that all of our Directors continue to be in its 2019 Annual Report.
effective and demonstrate commitment to their role.
The results of the evaluation are set out on page 79.
Sir Anthony Habgood Chairman Having considered the results of the review, and taking into account 20 February 2019 the changes made to the Board and Committees during the year, I believe that the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively, and have an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge of the Group and diversity to ensure that they continue to do so.
I remain satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to undertake their roles.
