GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT We remain committed to achieving the highest standards COLIN MATTHEWS Chairman of legal compliance, environmental protection and safety Introduction growth and increased returns.
In particular, are intended to sharpen the current Code and, if enacted, would facilitate greater On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to the Board ensures that the Group as a whole alignment between UK and US corporate present our Corporate Governance Report remains committed to achieving the highest governance laws and regulations.
The and confirm our compliance with the UK standards of legal compliance, environmental proposed revisions are focused on changes Corporate Governance Code for the year protection and safety.
in the areas of leadership, division of Board ended 31 March 2018.
We believe that both the and management responsibilities, Board Board collectively and directors individually The Board is required to confirm that the composition, succession and evaluation, have a responsibility to set and demonstrate Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a audit, remuneration, risk and internal control.
high standards of corporate governance.
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable The final revised Code is set for publication The following pages outline the structures, and provides the information necessary in Summer 2018 and to then enter into force processes and procedures by which the for shareholders to assess the Groups for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 Board ensures that these high standards are performance, business model and strategy.
January 2019. maintained throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee has again assisted the Board in their assessment of these matters The Board will continue to monitor The non-executive directors, all of whom together with those of Going Concern and developments and are confident that they will the Company regard as independent, bring Viability Statement disclosures.
The full Audit be able to report their compliance with any considerable international experience to Committee Report is set out on pages 86 to 89. revised governance provisions in next years the Board across a number of sectors.
play a full role in constructively challenging Both the Nomination and Remuneration and developing strategic proposals, as Committees had busy agendas during the year well as chairing and being members of as set out in their Reports on pages 90 to 91 Board committees.
The executive directors and 92 to 107 respectively.
implement Board strategy, with a view to driving margin expansion, investing in In December 2017, the Financial Reporting infrastructure and actively managing the Council published proposed revisions to Colin Matthews portfolio of businesses, all to deliver profitable the UK Corporate Governance Code which Chairman OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTING MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK RENEWI PLC BOARD Principal Board Committees AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION EXECUTIVE Executive Management COMMITTEE CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SHEQ SAFETY, HEALTH, Specialist Committees RISK COMMITTEE ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY COMMITTEE GREEN FINANCE COMMITTEE OPERATING Divisional Management DIVISIONS Additional reporting line to Renewi plc Board For investors: www.
com 82 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
