Governance Chairmans governance review T hrough effective corporate governance, your board seeksto embed and sustain aculture that will enable RioTinto to fulfil its purpose andachieve its long-term strategicobjectives.
At the core of our approach to corporate governance is the need to We have changed how we are reporting this year ensure the long-term, sustainable success of your company.
Our We have changed the structure of our reporting around success enables us to invest in the future, to meet our obligations to our employees, our customers, our suppliers, our local communities Governance this year to make the information more and our host governments, as well as generating superior returns for accessible.
The main body of the report sets out the our shareholders.
key activities of the board of directors in promoting effective governance during 2018.
As a mining company, we are acutely aware of the broader impact that our business has on our many stakeholders and the wider responsibilities thatthis brings.
We have created a separate compliance section, set out on pages 97 to 100, which describes how we have All businesses exist at the will of society, but mining companies are complied with the: particularly dependent upon maintaining the goodwill of their host communities and governments, because mining projects typically involve UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 version the large upfront capital costs with long pay-back periods.
You cannot relocate Code, focusing on the application of the principles a mine, so when we invest, we do so for the long term.
But we also ASX Corporate Governance Councils Corporate recognise the need to balance the inherently long-term nature of our Governance Principles 3rd edition the ASX business with the shorter-term imperatives of many of our stakeholders.
Principles Through effective corporate governance, your board seeks to embed and sustain a culture that will enable Rio Tinto to fulfil its purpose and achieve Both the UK and Australian frameworks contain a set its long-term strategic objectives, by building durable partnerships and of principles.
While it is not mandatory to comply with upholding its core values of safety, teamwork, excellence, respect and integrity.
But we also acknowledge our limitations.
We know that the all the provisions, any non-compliance must be culture and reputation of Rio Tinto depends upon the day-to-day behaviour disclosed and explained.
of every single one of our 47,500 employees and 100,000 contractors around the world.
We seek to influence that behaviour through training In addition, Rio Tinto plc is a foreign private issuer FPI and communication of our purpose, strategy and values, by recruiting and promoting executives who lead by example, and above all, by trying with American Depositary Receipts ADRs listed on to create an environment where everyone feels empowered to speak up the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
There are when things go wrong.
differences between the approach that is recommended by the principles we follow, as set out In the pages that follow, we set out how our corporate governance arrangements work, and how we have developed them over the course by the Code and the ASX Principles, as compared with ofthe past year to link with wider developments within the Group and the NYSE listing standards.
Therefore, as required acrossour industry.
under the NYSE listing standards, we also report any significant corporate governance differencesfrom these standards please see page 97.
com Governance External context Changes to the board We face significant geopolitical uncertainties, particularly on trade.
The In our succession planning, we aim to bring a diverse and complementary markets for many of our products are growing relatively slowly, and there range of skills, knowledge and experience to the board, so that we are are rising inflationary cost pressures.
In this context, our short-term equipped to navigate the operational, social, regulatory and geopolitical prioritycontinues to be the safe, continuous improvement of our operating complexity in which our business operates.
Achieving the right blend of and capital efficiency, driving increased productivity from mine to market.
skills and diversity to support effective decision-making is a continuing process.
Further details of our succession planning are set out in the But the board is also focused on the longer-term challenges and Nominations Committee report on pages 88 and 89. opportunities that face our company.
New technology is transforming ourindustry, helping us to extract valuable resources more efficiently During the year, there were a number of changes on the board.
We need to ensure that our workforce has the skills welcomed Moya Greene and Simon McKeon as new non-executive andcapabilities to respond to this rapid technological change.
They bring valuable business expertise and a deep knowledge of Canada and Australia, respectively.
We said farewell to Jan du Plessis, Peoples expectations about the role of business in society continue to rise, who retired as chairman in March, Paul Tellier who stepped down as and we must respond.
Mining has a profound impact on wider society, both non-executive director in May, and Chris Lynch, who retired as executive positive and negative.
We produce materials essential to human progress, director and chief financial officer in September.
Chris was succeeded by create jobs, pay taxes, and contribute to the social and economic Jakob Stausholm, previously at Maersk and Shell, who has spent the past development of our host nations.
But our activities also have environmental few months visiting many of our operations and major shareholders.
and social impacts at the local, regional and global scale that must be managed responsibly.
At the Rio Tinto Limited Annual General Meeting AGM in May 2019, Ann Godbehere will step down as senior independent director and chair Over the past year, we have revised and updated our approach to of the Audit Committee.
Sam Laidlaw will succeed her as senior environmental, social and governance ESG risks to meet these challenges independent director, and Simon Henry will succeed her as chair of the and to ensure that ESG considerations are fully integrated into our strategic Audit Committee.
I would like to thank Jan, Paul, Chris and all the current and operational decision making.
At the heart of our ESG strategy is a directors for their support, commitment, insights and wise counsel during recognition of the importance of partnerships, with customers, suppliers, my first year as chairman.
local communities, civil society and governments.
Our aim is to forge enduring partnerships that create mutual benefits and secure our license Over the past year, I have met shareholders, employees, customers, to operate over the long-term.
suppliers, government officials and civil society representatives across four continents.
I look forward to meeting many more of our shareholders at our AGMs in April and May 2019, in London and Perth respectively.
Simon Thompson Chairman 27 February 2019 Chairmans governance review Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
