Royal Mail plc | Corporate governance Corporate governance As a Board, we highly value good governance and believe that it is essential for the sustainable growth of our business.
Moya will step down as CEO on 1 June 2018.
Chairmans introduction I endorse our Groups cultural ethos, She will step down from the Board on 19 July which is: Dear shareholder, 2018, the date of the Companys AGM, and On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to will not be standing for re-election.
Moya will We are proud to work for Royal Mail.
present this years corporate governance What we do matters to people.
remain at the Company until 14 September report.
There are considerable changes going We are trusted.
2018 in order to provide advice and counsel, on in the corporate governance environment, We go the extra mile for our customers working closely with Rico to ensure an principally with the proposed introduction of and for each other.
a new UK Corporate Governance Code the and works together to deliver our Code.
This aims to ensure companies such promises, finding ways to be more How is diversity taken into as ours are focused on their stakeholders, successful faster and better than before account when considering corporate culture and diversity.
Why is good governance How key is stakeholder As a Board, we know how important a diverse important to Royal Mail?
workforce and a culture where people feel engagement to continually We require first-rate governance principles included and respected are to ensure a positive developing a successful and practices that are adhered to and impact on business performance.
I strongly embedded throughout the organisation.
believe that the business benefits from a Board Undoubtedly, a robust and well considered and senior management team that is diverse As a Universal Service Provider and as we governance framework enables us, the in all aspects not just gender and that this grow our business outside of the UK, our Directors, to discharge our duties and facilitates better decision-making.
stakeholders are becoming more diverse.
As a oversee the Groups performance for the customer-led operation, effective stakeholder Our Equality and Fairness Policy ensures benefit of all of our stakeholders.
engagement is extremely important to us.
transparency, diversity and fairness at all It plays a critical part in the success and onI am very conscious that governance is not stages of employment.
I am proud that we going sustainability of the business and helps just a box-ticking exercise but is required employ a diverse mix of people.
We are our understanding of material issues.
for a company to keep up with a changing committed to ensuring that our workforce business environment.
During the year, we reflects the communities it serves.
As a See page 64 for further details on considered various developments in the Board, we will continue to promote diversity our stakeholder engagement and our corporate governance arena and how we will in its broadest sense.
address some of the requirements of the Read more on our Diversity Policy and revised Code to ensure its spirit is embedded What have the changes been initiatives on page 66 and on the skills in our Board behaviours.
to the Board composition and experience of our Board members on pages 58-60. this year?
Why is culture an important We have continued to refresh the Board.
success factor for Compliance with the UK Corporate I discuss this on page 6 as well as in the Governance Code 2016 Royal Mail?
Nomination Committee report on page 65.
We recently announced changes to our Board.
As I mentioned last year, our Board Royal Mail complied in full with the The Board and Moya Greene have agreed is committed to promoting a culture provisions of the Code published in April that she will retire in September 2018, after of uncompromising ethical standards 2016, which applied throughout the more than eight years as CEO.
Rico Back will throughout the business, based on honesty, financial year ended 25 March 2018.
The assume the role of Group Chief Executive integrity, openness and effective debate.
Code is issued by the Financial Reporting Officer and join the Board on 1 June 2018.
We appreciate that a strong culture within Council FRC and is publicly available for Sue Whalley will join the Board and take on the organisation can both protect and review at http: www.
the role of Chief Executive Officer of Post and generate value.
Parcels, Royal Mail UK, at the same time.
54 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information They continue to make an effective contribution for appointments to the Board from the How is the effectiveness of to the leadership and progression of the Group.
The Nomination the Board and Committees The findings are discussed in more detail on Committee also considers appointments to page 67. the senior executive team taking into account evaluated?
the challenges and opportunities facing Under my personal direction, an evaluation of What drives the the Company.
the Board, its Committees and the individual Directors is carried out annually.
I, together Boards approach to What is on the agenda for with the Chairs of the Committee, find this succession planning?
Succession planning, both at Board level and other senior management to provide effective The activities of the Board for 2017-18 and within our senior management community, and constructive observations.
It ensures our objectives for 2018-19 are set out in the is vital to the stability of the Group.
We have continuous improvement in our performance table below.
During the reporting year, we developed a clear and robust skills matrix as leaders of the business.
have focused considerably on our strategy to ensure all appointments and promotions and identifying new growth opportunities.
Following an internal evaluation last year, maintain the focus on the delivery of We also worked closely with our unions and and in anticipation of a more in-depth our strategy.
It is very pleasing that our employees to reach a successful conclusion external evaluation in the autumn of 2018 succession planning recently enabled us to our pay and pension negotiations.
by Independent Board Evaluation, the Board to make two major internal promotions.
carried out a lighter touch evaluation in Alongside Rico Backs appointment as Peter Long March 2018.
This was also facilitated by Group Chief Executive Officer, we were Chairman Independent Board Evaluation.
The results delighted to welcome Sue Whalley onto 16 May 2018 of this evaluation found that our Board and the Board.
We receive recommendations each of the Committees function very well.
Board Activities Activity Board objective 2017-18 What we have done Board objectives 2018-19 Group strategy Finalise negotiations and agreements Favourable agreement reached with Oversee the delivery of the changes under with unions on pension and pay unions and ongoing Group-wide cost the new agreement.
Continue to optimise avoidance objectives achieved our network processes to reflect changes Continued focus on cost reduction in the in customer demand and automation UK business capability and continued cost reduction Revenue growth Grow in new areas through targeted GLS acquired the Spanish express Develop a broader revenue base and opportunities and focused acquisitions as well as parcels delivery company Redyser grow in the UK and overseas leveraging our existing assets Transporte and the US overnight parcel delivery company Postal Express Technological Refresh our approach to technology to Postal Digital Assistant PDA was Continue to deploy technology to drive developments improve operational performance successfully completed, with the PDA efficiency and increase the pace of Service Transformation Project now change throughout our operation being rolled out Introduction of technological solution to ensure compliance with General Data Protection Regulation GDPR Digitalisation of Define a digital strategy which identifies Appointment of Non-Executive Director Increase our digital capabilities across Royal Mail and embraces technology relevant for with significant digital experience the Group, particularly in e-commerce our future Board composition Review the Board composition and Refreshed the Board skills matrix to Ensure the smooth transition of the ensure there is the appropriate skill and facilitate the identification of suitable newly appointed Directors expertise candidates during the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors Succession planning Focus on succession planning and Appointed Rico Back as Group Chief Continuously review the skills matrix and talent pipeline talent pipeline Executive Officer, Stuart Simpson and and succession for Board and senior Sue Whalley as Executive Directors and management Keith Williams and Simon Thompson as Non-Executive Directors Security, including Review controls around security in Undertook a security review.
Assessed Continue to monitor cyber risk and cyber risk and data particular, including cyber risk and the controls around cyber risk as well assess the Groups resilience protection data protection as disaster recovery and business continuity plans Health and safety Continue to prioritise health and safety Board reviews monthly health and safety Raise awareness of the importance of in the Group KPIs at each Board meeting health and safety across our operations Rolled out compulsory mental health training to managers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 55
