62 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Overview of 2018 This year has seen a large amount of activity in terms of legal and regulatory developments most notably proposals around changes to corporate governance.
The governments response to the Green Paper on corporate governance reform I am pleased to introduce the that had been originally published in November 2016 led to a comprehensive Governance section of this review of the Code by the FRC, the proposals of which were released in December of last year.
The The Board has been kept informed as these events have unfolded during the maintenance of an appropriate year and therefore whilst this years compliance and governance report has been assessed and produced against the existing Code, the Board is in the process governance framework that of considering the impacts and actions required to achieve compliance with the supports the Groups new Code when it is finalised and published in the summer.
long-term strategic objectives Revised governance framework is a key responsibility of the RPC, like other companies continues to operate under an increasingly complex array of laws, regulations and best practice.
There is a growing and Board.
In this report and consistent requirement for companies to be able to demonstrate not only their compliance in these areas, but also be in a position to show how this those of the principal compliance has been achieved.
As a result of this and the increase in scale of committees that follow, we RPC, both organisationally and geographically over the last few years, the Board completed a review of the Groups governance arrangements in order to ensure explain how we applied the that RPC continued to meet all of its obligations in this area.
principles of the Financial The review looked at RPCs existing policies, procedures and processes and resulted in a number of recommendations that were reviewed and approved Reporting Councils FRC UK by the Board in March 2018.
Work is now fully underway to complete the Corporate Governance Code implementation of these recommendations as well as updating existing policies and procedures where necessary.
the Code, published in April 2016, during the year as well as providing key information regarding RPCs Board of Directors and the Company.
Jamie Pike Chairman Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Governance Board Changes and planning for succession The Board remains firmly committed to addressing those challenges that arise as part of the governance of a large organisation.
Focus remains firmly on ensuring that we have a Board that will work effectively and collaboratively and that possesses the correct balance of skills and experience to provide the right stewardship for the Group, now and in the future.
Martin Towers, who has been a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2009 will be stepping step down from the Board at the Annual General Meeting AGM in July 2018.
This reflects the Boards consideration and compliance with those requirements of the Code covering a non-executive directors length of service and their ability to continue in their role with a necessary level of independence.
I am extremely grateful to Martin for his support and contribution over the last nine years and, on behalf of the Board, wish him well for the future.
Kevin Thompson, currently the Group Finance Director at Halma plc, was appointed on 7 September 2017 and assumed responsibilities for chairing the Audit Committee at the beginning of 2018.
Lynn Drummond, the current Chair of the Remuneration Committee, will take over the role of Senior Independent Director, subject to her re-election, following the AGM.
The change means that we will need to appoint an additional non-executive director to join the Board who will take over Lynns current responsibilities for remuneration as the Company head into a full review of the Remuneration Policy in the Autumn.
It is envisaged this process will be started as soon as possible.
Further information on the search and appointment processes in respect of both of these changes can be found in the Nomination Committee report on page 72.
As in previous years all other directors, with the exception of Kevin Thompson who will be seeking election, will be seeking re-election at this years AGM and full details can be found in the separate circular containing the Notice of AGM Notice.
Remuneration Further information can be found in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 78 to 90 but having listened to our shareholders, and as announced on 19 July 2017, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the operation of the Companys various incentive plan structures, within the existing shareholder-approved Remuneration policy.
The outcomes of this review have led to a number of changes to the construct of performance conditions for incentive awards to be made in the financial year ending 31 March 2019.
I am pleased to say that investors were broadly supportive of the direction we have taken and I am hopeful this will continue as we embark on a full review of the Remuneration policy in the autumn for submission to the AGM in 2019.
Compliance statement The Board has considered and is of the view that the Group has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2018.
Jamie Pike Chairman 6 June 2018 64 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY Jamie Pike N Simon Kesterton Non-executive Chairman Group Finance Director Term of office: Term of office: Appointed as non-executive Chairman on 23 July 2008.
Joined RPC on 1 April 2013 and was appointed Group Finance Director with effect from 1 May 2013.
Experience: Experience: Jamie joined Burmah Castrol in 1991 and rose to become Chief Executive of Burmah Castrol Chemicals before leading the buy-out of Foseco in 2001 and its subsequent A member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, Simons career flotation in 2005.
He was Chief Executive of Foseco plc until it was acquired by in finance began in the engineering and manufacturing industry in the 1990s and Cookson Group plc in April 2008.
He is currently non-executive Chairman of Spiraxdeveloped into leading financial roles in British Federal and the European business of Sarco Engineering plc.
Jamie was formerly non-executive Chairman of both Tyman automotive supplier Collins & Aikman Inc.
In 2006 he was appointed Chief Financial plc and Ibstock plc and a non-executive director of RMC Group plc, Kelda Group plc Officer of IAC Group Europe headquartered in Dsseldorf, and in 2011 as Chief and the Defence Support Group.
He was also Chairman of a US plastics recycling Strategic Officer, European CFO and director of IAC Group Global until August 2012. business, MBA Polymers Inc and Lafarge Tarmac Holdings Limited.
IAC Group is an international, multi-billion dollar, leading tier 1 supplier of automotive components and systems.
Pim Vervaat Martin Towers A R N Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Term of office: Term of office: Joined RPC as Finance Director on 1 November 2007 and was appointed Chief Appointed as an independent non-executive director on 1 April 2009 and Senior Executive with effect from 1 May 2013.
Independent Director with effect from 1 April 2012.
Experience: Experience: Pim joined Dutch metals producer, Hoogovens Groep in 1987 and held various finance A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, Martin positions in the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium before working for Dutch ship began his career with Coopers & Lybrand now PwC.
Appointed Group Finance propulsion producer Lips Group as Chief Financial Officer in 1996.
In 1999 he returned Director of McCarthy & Stone plc in 1990 and subsequently, Group Finance Director to Hoogovens Groep acquired by Corus and in 2004 became Finance Director of of The Spring Ram Corporation plc, Allied Textile Companies plc and Yorkshire Group the 3bn turnover Corus Distribution and Building Systems Division.
Martin was also Group Finance Director of Kelda Group plc from 2003 until its Pim also chaired the Supervisory Board of a Norwegian joint venture, Norsk Stal.
He was Chief Executive of Spice plc from June 2009 until He is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Avon its sale in December 2010.
He is non-executive Chairman of Norcros plc, Restore plc, and Tyman plc, where he was previously the Audit Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
He was previously a non-executive director of Homestyle Group plc from 2004 to 2006 becoming Audit Committee Chairman, Senior Independent Director, a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of KCOM Group PLC between 2009 and 2015.
Key Audit Committee Nomination Committee A N member member Remuneration Committee Denotes Committee R member Chairman Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Governance Dr Lynn Drummond A R N Dr. Ros Rivaz A R N Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Term of office: Term of office: Appointed as an independent non-executive director with effect from 16 July 2014, Appointed as an independent non-executive director with effect from 30 March 2017.
Lynn is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Experience: Experience: Ros is Senior Independent Director at Computacenter plc where she is Chair of the Lynn was a Managing Director at NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd until 2010, having joined Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
the investment banking division in 1994, establishing and growing the advisory M&A She is a non-executive director of Convtec Group plc, where she is a member of the practice in the pharmaceutical and life sciences sector.
She previously worked in the Nomination and Remuneration Committees and Boparan Holidngs Limited, where she Cabinet Office as Private Secretary to the Chief Scientific Adviser.
is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Lynn is currently the non-executive Chair of consumer healthcare company Venture She also serves on the Board and Remuneration Committee of the MoD Defence Life plc.
Previous appointments include non-executive director of Shield Therapeutics Equipment & Support group.
Ros was previously a non-executive director and Chair Limited and Iron Therapeutic Holding AG, non-executive director and member of the of the Remuneration Committee at Rexam plc until the completion of its acquisition Audit and Nomination Committees at Consort Medical plc, non-executive director of by Ball Corporation on 30 June 2016.
Ros served as Chief Operating Officer of Smith Allocate Software plc, and non-executive Chair of InFirst Healthcare Limited.
& Nephew plc and has held senior management positions at Exxon, Diageo, ICI and Tate & Lyle in the areas of supply chain management, logistics, manufacturing, IT, procurement and systems.
Prof. Godwin Wong N Kevin Thompson A R N Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Term of office: Term of office: Appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 16 July 2014.
Kevin was appointed as independent non-executive director on 7 September 2017 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Experience: Experience: Godwin is a Business professor on MBA programmes at various universities including Mannheim Business School, Germany and the University of California, Berkeley.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, Kevin began He has lectured internationally in Executive MBA and other executive training his career with Price Waterhouse now PwC.
Kevin is currently Group Finance Director programmes and was appointed Chief Expert Adviser for economic development, of Halma plc, a position he has held since 1998.
Halma is a decentralised FTSE strategies and management by the Beijing City Government.
Godwin has also been 100 manufacturing and technology business that has an established track record of adviser to various companies, government organisations and institutional entities in delivering strong growth over the long-term both organically and through acquisitions.
the USA, Germany, Hong Kong, China, Asia, Russia and Ukraine.
He has served on the Board of Directors of a number of US banks and other companies and was a director of Ace Corporation Holdings Ltd until its acquisition by RPC Group Plc.
Nick Giles Company Secretary Term of office: Appointed as Company Secretary on 31 March 2016.
Experience: Before joining RPC, Nick was Corporate Services Director and Company Secretary at Dialight plc, and was previously Company Secretary at Charter International plc, Corporate Secretariat Manager at Allied Domecq plc and Assistant Company Secretary at Emap plc.
He is Secretary tothe Board and its principal Committees.
