CORPOR CORPORA AT TE E GO GOVE VERNANCE RNANCE Chairmans Governance Letter The primary responsibility of the Board is to provide effective, entrepreneurial leadership to ensure that it promotes the long-term success of the Company for the bene t of its members as a whole.
This year, the Group has continued to The primary responsibility of the Board is to DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE work towards the ambition of delivering provide effective leadership to ensure that GOVERNANCE REPORT improvements and ef ciencies across it promotes the long-term success of the Chairmans Governance Letter 44 customer service, underwriting effectiveness Company for the bene t of its members as a and technology and digital.
The Board is responsible for setting the Board of Directors 46 recognises that it has been a trying year Groups strategy and oversees the Executive Executive Committee 48 for the Group and I would like to extend my in the delivery of this ambition.
It monitors the Board and committee structure 49 thanks to my Board colleagues and the Groups performance and the commitment management team for the constructive way Board activities during 2018 50 to bestin-class with careful consideration in which we have engaged and collaborated of the interests of the Groups shareholders, Board and committee composition and on these issues during the year.
As while having regard to the Companys other attendance in 2018 52 announced in February 2019, Scott Egan stakeholders.
Leadership 53 was appointed CEO, UK & International Effectiveness 54 and Charlotte Jones was appointed Group Commitment to governance CFO.
Both appointments are subject to Accountability 55 The Board is committed to effective regulatory approval.
governance, sound risk management and a Engagement 56 In further response to the challenges in the robust control environment.
This report sets Remuneration 56 UK & International business, the Board has out RSAs framework for good governance.
Group Audit Committee Report 57 received deep dives to understand and The Board believes this framework provides Group Investment Committee Report 61 review underwriting and ensure suf cient the necessary structure in order to ensure risk management processes are in place.
effective decision-making and robust Group Nomination and Governance Alongside this focus, the Board and its governance and risk management throughout Committee Report 62 committees have considered the following the Group.
Board Risk Committee Report 64 key areas: During the year, the UK Corporate Directors Remuneration Report 66 1.
Customers and people: Governance Code the Code was updated Annual Report on Remuneration 70 to put the relationships between companies, 2.
Strategy and execution: Summary of Directors shareholders and stakeholders at the heart of 3.
Finance, capital and investor relations: Remuneration Policy 85 long-term sustainable growth.
received a number of updates in preparation Directors Report 92 for the new Code applying to the Group Further information on the above areas of in 2019. focus is set out later in this report.
Culture, purpose and values RSA is a people-centred business which aims for a culture of high performance, where working together as a team is valued and the business invests in its people.
As part of the Boards two-day strategy meeting, we discussed the Groups positioning around its purpose, vision and values, as well as the results of the cultural survey which the workforce completed in the year.
As a result, we approved a re-invigorated articulation of our purpose, values and strategy which can be found on page 05.
44 44 RSA RSA A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 18 8 rsa rsag gr ro oup up.. c com om STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS DIVERSITY OF THE BOARD During the year, the Board re-approved the Stakeholder engagement Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunities Open and collaborative dialogue and A Group Policy which outlines the importance interaction with all our stakeholders is in the A.
Male 70% of diversity of gender, social and ethnic best interests of the Company and helps us B.
Female 30% backgrounds, and of cognitive and personal to make a positive contribution to society.
In strengths to the Board.
For further information 2018, the Group Nomination and Governance on our approach to succession planning, Committee undertook a stakeholder mapping B appointments and diversity, see pages 62 exercise to review the current engagement and 63. between the Board and its stakeholders and to identify opportunities to improve further the Board effectiveness Boards engagement with its key stakeholders BOARD TENURE in 2019 and beyond.
This year the performance and effectiveness evaluation of the Board and its committees A The activities undertaken in 2018 and planned was conducted internally.
0 to 3 years 37.5% for 2019 include increased direct engagement was undertaken using online questionnaires B.
3 to 6 years 25% with employees, such as employee town which were then complemented by individual halls and employee breakfasts with Board C. 6 to 9 years 37.5% interviews with each of the Board members.
members, which the Board views as the most The process was facilitated by the Senior effective way to gain a deeper understanding Independent Director and the Company of the views of the workforce.
The results of the evaluation C looks forward to increased engagement with B concluded that respondents had unanimously the Companys stakeholders, particularly concurred that the Board is highly engaged more direct engagement with shareholders, As at date of this report.
As required by the customers, employees and regulators.
Code, an externally facilitated evaluation of Communication with shareholders is the Board will be undertaken in 2019.
Further extremely important to the Board.
By information is presented on page 54. maintaining dialogue with you, we aim to ensure that your views are considered and Remuneration our objectives are understood.
I would like to Executive remuneration remains an important thank you for your support and look forward topic in the UK and is evaluated by the Board to discussing the Groups progress with you and the Remuneration Committee.
Further at our forthcoming Annual General Meeting information on the work of the Remuneration AGM on 10 May 2019.
Further information on Committee can be found on page 66. the Boards engagement with its stakeholders can be found on pages 08, 09 and 56.
Board composition, diversity and succession planning In addition to Scott and Charlottes Martin Scicluna appointments, the Board was pleased Chairman to announce the appointment of Sonia 27 February 2019 Baxendale as an independent non-executive director with effect from 1 March 2019.
Further information relating to the appointment process for Sonia can be found on page 62.
Hugh Mitchell stepped down from the Board with effect from the 2018 AGM and Joseph Streppel has decided to retire from the Board and not seek re-election at the 2019 AGM.
I would like to thank Joseph for his signi cant contribution.
The Board values the breadth of perspective that diversity brings and is committed to maintaining a board that is diverse in its widest sense.
As at the date of this report, women make up 30% of the Board.
Following Sonias appointment and Josephs retirement, women will make up 40% of the Board.
This exceeds the recommendation for women on boards set out in the Davies Review.
This is good progress, and we will maintain and seek out opportunities to further improve gender equality on our Board and across the Group.
