Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 33 CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE LETTER Following the Companys first full year The Board be found on page 38 of the Governance Report.
operating as a listed entity on the London The Board of Directors consists of seven The Board have agreed to conduct an external Stock Exchange, it is my pleasure to present directors, who have the appropriate balance Board evaluation within two years.
our second Corporate Governance Report.
of skills, experience, independence and 2019 Annual General Meeting This report explains our current governance knowledge of the Company to oversee the The Companys 2019 AGM will provide framework, how we have applied the strategy of the Group, review management shareholders with the opportunity to vote provisions of the Code and includes performance and set the Companys values on the resolutions put to shareholders and, committee reports from the Audit and and standards to ensure that its obligations for those shareholders who attend, to ask Risk Committee, Nomination Committee to its shareholders and other stakeholders questions of the Board of Directors, including and Remuneration Committee.
During the year, the Company the Chairmen of the Committees.
The Notice announced that Matthew Tooth the nominated Governance of AGM will be sent to shareholders in Non-executive Director for funds advised by The Board is committed to the highest a separate document and the result of BC Partners BCP under the relationship standards of corporate governance.
Whilst the the AGM voting on all resolutions will be agreement between Sabre and BCP resigned Group was already regulated by the Financial published on the Companys website.
On behalf of the Board, Conduct Authority FCA and the Prudential I would like to thank Matthew for his We look forward to engaging with you in Regulation Authority PRA prior to the contribution to Sabre, both during its time the future and to meeting shareholders at Listing, the governance practices in place as a private business and through its main our forthcoming AGM, which will be held were enhanced with the implementation market listing on the London Stock Exchange.
at 10am on 23 May 2019 at the Companys of the policies and procedures expected We wish him the very best going forward.
offices at Old House, 142 South Street, of a public limited company following I am pleased to confirm that all of the Dorking, RH4 2YY.
admission to the premium segment Non-executive Directors who serve on of the London Stock Exchange.
the Sabre Insurance Group plc Board The Board has worked hard to ensure are independent, in line with good application of all the main principles of the corporate governance.
During the Further information about our Directors and the Patrick Snowball year Andy Pomfret was appointed as Senior experience they bring to the Company is set Chairman Independent Director, and has significantly out on pages 34 and 35 of this Annual Report.
contributed to the Board during this period.
27 March 2019 During the year the Board held its first Board Also during the year, the Board appointed Effectiveness Review, reviewing the work of Anneka Kingan as Company Secretary and the Board, the Committees and each Director.
Head of Internal Audit, in recognition of the The review was held internally and run by need to split the role from the Chief Financial myself with support from the Company Officer to ensure independence of the role Secretary.
More information on the process, and to strengthen the Boards commitment the conclusions and recommendations can to strong corporate governance.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
