CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A STRATEGIC ENABLER Donald Brydon There has been much focus on Chairman corporate governance in the recent past and the landscape continues to change.
Nevertheless, the core principles remain intact and I am pleased to share the way we see the role of the Board.
74 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE It is important that we all remember the The Board also sets the tone for the Board is not a committee where individuals Company.
The way in which it conducts Compliance represent distinct interests but rather a risk itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its with the UK managing and capital allocation body which, definition of success, and the assessment Corporate in addition to shaping the framework for of appropriate risk, all definethe Governance strategic development, participates in and is atmosphere within which the executive Code accountable for the taking of appropriately team works.
The Board has ultimate calibrated risks.
responsibility for ensuring an appropriate April2016 culture in the Company to actas the Code The Board of the Company is committed to abackdropto the way in which Throughout the ensuring that it provides effective leadership theCompanybehaves towards financial year and promotes uncompromising ethical allstakeholders.
One of the ways in which the September 2018 Board achieves this is by requiring that Good corporate governance is not about and to the date of goodgovernance principles and practices adhering to codes of practice although this report, Sage are adhered to throughout the Company.
adherence may constitute a part of the has complied with evidence of good governance but rather the provisions of Good governance is about helping to run about the exercise of a mindset to do what the Code.
It involves being satisfied is right.
One of the challenges facingany is publicly available that an effective internal framework of Board is the way in which the Non-executive at the website of systems and controls is in place which and the Executive Directors interact.
It is the UK Financial clearly defines authority and accountability clear that they each have the same legal Reporting Council and promotes success whilst permitting the responsibility but it is generally unrealistic at www.
management of risk to appropriate levels.
to expect Executive Directors to speak This corporate individually with the same freedom as the It also involves the exercise of judgement governance section Non-executive Directors.
Equally, Executive of the Annual asto the definitions of success for the Directors who just toethe executive line in Company, the levels of risk we are willing to Report & Accounts contradiction totheir own views may not be describes how we take to achieve that success, and the levels effectively contributing to good governance.
of delegation to the executive.
The exercise have applied the Awell-functioning Board needs to find principles of the of this judgement is the responsibility of the right balance between hearing the theBoard and involves consideration of Code.
The new collective executive view, being aware UKCorporate processes and assumptions as well as ofthe natural internal tensions in an outcomes.
It also involves the creation Governance Code executive team and allowing independent published in July of a sensitive interface for the views of input from the Non-executive Directors.
shareholders and other stakeholders to 2018 2018 Code will apply to Sage begiven appropriate consideration One of the consequences of both whenreaching these judgements.
inthe financial increasing the watchdog role of the yearending Boardand finding this balance between Last year I reported that the Board had 30September 2020. individuality and team behaviour is driving created the new position of Board Associate We are already more Boards to have fewer and fewer to enhance the voice of employees in the considering the Executive Directors.
This has proved extent to which successful and the Board plans to appoint Notwithstanding the tensions created wealready apply asuccessor Board Associate after the first the principles and bymany external expectations, which may 18-month term extended from the original be wholly or in part unrealistic, asuccessful provisions of the one year has concluded.
The role has proved 2018 Code and will Board should, ideally, becomposed of a valuable in providing two-way communication.
diverse group of respected, experienced report on progress in our 2019 Annual and competent people who coalesce The Executive Team is required to provide around a common purpose of promoting Report & Accounts.
the information to the Board that the Board the long-term success of the Company, needs to enable it to exercise its judgement.
provide a unified vision of the definitions It must also evidence appropriate process.
ofsuccessand appropriate risk, endeavour There is a very fine distinction between the to support management i. e. those who approval of processes and their definition.
honestly criticise at times but encourage all Only exceptionally would the Board the time and who create confidence inall intervene to initiate or define.
stakeholders in the integrity of thebusiness.
