Governance Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans introduction to governance Governance continues to support our strategic priorities in a practical way as we seek to grow.
he governance framework helped us remain Key features focused through the challenges of 2017 and provided support to plan for the future.
Our Our internal governance Tstrategic priorities continue to evolve as procedures must support our outlined on pages 1-51 as we focus on our customers strategic priorities needs and on growing our core businesses.
Corporate governance report: An explanation of how In defining the key areas of focus and strategy for governance works to support our growth, we reviewed strategic initiatives and strategic priorities as we seek to considered how we could improve the mechanisms by become increasingly customerwhich we attract and retain our customers.
As always, centric and invest for growth.
we considered our stakeholders and built feedback in to How performance is reviewed to our plans.
We invited customers to participate in focus ensure that our stakeholders are groups to help us design our new ship, Spirit of listened to and long-term Discovery, and considered our customers comments, relationships are developed needs and lifestyles in designing our membership with our customers.
Board discussion topics: The Board spent time considering how operational How to reward our customers efficiencies could be improved and agreed to invest through Possibilities, our in the continuing improvement of core systems.
new insurance and travel platforms will enable greater Strategy how to grow our Retail product differentiation and more tailored offerings for Insurance and Travel businesses our customers.
and invest in our capabilities.
We reviewed key policies throughout the year.
discussed the modern slavery policy and statement, How we can continue to develop which was published on our website.
Details of Board our people.
activities during the year and how the governance Risk appetite.
structure supported key decisions, such as the decision Brand and reputation.
to build our second ship, can be found on page 59.
How to maintain an efficient operating model.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 52 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Audit, Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Board evaluation We conducted our second externally facilitated Board Committees Committees also played an important role throughout the year.
The Risk Committee and Committee evaluation during the year.
The exercise focused on areas identified during last years review considered how our principal risks and uncertainties could affect our strategy and discussed our risk as opportunities for further development.
The review concluded that progress has been made in numerous appetite and tolerance levels.
This analysis played an important part in the formulation of the viability development areas, particularly in relation to the quality of information supplied to the Board which statement see page 73.
The Audit Committee considered the approach taken and the viability facilitates good quality, strategically focused discussion.
The business will continue to structure information to statement see page 54, and provided assurance that appropriate systems, controls and processes were in provide a clear explanation of key drivers, so that the Board can ensure that growth and initiatives remain on place and advised the Board that they supported the statement that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and track.
A full explanation of the evaluation exercise can be found on page 65. understandable.
Details can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 74-77.
The Remuneration Report was approved by shareholders Our brand and reputation at our AGM: over 90% voted in favour.
The full Remuneration Report can be found on pages 83-121.
Our brand and reputation for outstanding levels of customer service are core to our business and are key UK Corporate Governance Code considerations in every decision made by the Board, Our governance framework is reviewed by the Board every as are the needs of our stakeholders.
year against best practice and regulatory requirements.
Board composition and changes Governance continues to support our strategic Philip Green left the Board in March 2017 and was priorities in a practical way as we seek to grow and replaced as Senior Independent Director and Chair of enhance long-term returns to our shareholders through the Nomination Committee by Orna NiChionna, one a sustainable dividend policy.
of our existing Non-Executive Directors.
A summary of how we have applied the Principles of the I announced my intention to retire in October 2017 Code is set out overleaf.
Our approach to leadership is and I will leave the Company on 30 April 2018.
The detailed on page 57, effectiveness on pages 64-65, Nomination Committee, led by Orna, conducted a accountability on pages 69-73, and relations with search for my successor and appointed Patrick shareholders on page 82.
OSullivan, who will join the business as Non-Executive Director and Chairman with effect from 1 May 2018.
Our shareholders and our AGM Patrick has extensive experience of growing businesses Our Executive Directors, Senior Independent Director in the financial services and insurance industries and is and I met with key shareholders throughout the year, a good choice for the business and the next stage of its heard from our brokers and discussed how we could evolution.
For more details of the process see page 67. improve communication and explain our strategy.
At our third AGM at our head office in Folkestone, Kent In March 2018, it was announced that Jonathan Hill, on 22 June 2017, all resolutions were passed with a Group Chief Financial Officer, will leave the Company significant majority and all Directors standing for in September 2018.
A search for his replacement began re-election were reappointed.
Jonathan has been with the Company since April 2015.
I thank him for his commitment during I welcome Patrick OSullivan as my successor and that time and wish him every success for the future.
leave the Company with my best wishes for success in the future.
We comply with the recommendation in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 Code that at least half of our Board members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
For full details of Board composition see pages 62-64.
Our people Andrew Goodsell Our people and culture are core to our success.
Chairman Talent development and succession planning is 11 April 2018 discussed in detail by the Nomination Committee and the Board throughout the year, including bi-annual formal reviews.
The Board is committed to developing our employees and creating future leaders.
During the year we approved the introduction of a Leadership degree and the extension of the Saga Way leadership development programme to our wider group of senior leaders see page 20 for more details.
We awarded eligible employees free shares for the third year running to reward their hard work and encourage a sense of ownership of the business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 53
