Governance Chairmans Introduction Dear Shareholder Board changes In my capacity as Chairman, I am pleased to present the There have been a number of changes to the Board this year.
James Ireland was appointed Chief Financial Officer CFO in July 2018, replacing Spencer Daley who took up the post of Head The Board places considerable emphasis on corporate of Mergers & Acquisitions and subsequently resigned from the governance as it believes it will provide the sustainable foundations Board in October 2018.
Phil Godley stepped down from the for the continued success and growth of the Group.
The Board Board on 1 January 2018 and Mel Carvill joined the Board on the is committed to building the Groups corporate governance same day and was appointed Chairman of the newly formed framework to deliver the Groups strategic aims and performance.
Julia Chapman and Yves Stein have both joined the Board as Non-executive Directors, in July and October 2018 respectively.
In January 2019, Martin Schnaier was appointed to UK Corporate Governance Code the Board and announced as the successor to Dean Godwin, Chief SANNE, as a premium listed company on the London Stock Executive Officer CEO, who is due to retire at the close of the Exchange, is subject to the provisions of the UK Corporate Annual General Meeting AGM on 16 May 2019.
More information Governance Code the Code published by the Financial Reporting on these changes is available in the Nomination and Governance Council FRC in April 2016.
SANNE complied with the Code throughout 2018.
Board committees The main committees of the Board are Nomination & Governance, Stakeholder voice Audit, Risk, and Remuneration.
The committees have an The Board recognises the importance of taking account of all important role in supporting the Boards work.
They are provided stakeholder interests and, following the publication of the revised with the resources they need to discharge their role, including version of the Code in July 2018, which applies to our financial administration support and access to professional advisers.
period beginning on 1 January 2019, the Board has put in place a Information about the committees can be found in this report on number of new initiatives.
Amongst those steps taken, the Board pages 64 to 100. has introduced a workforce advisory panel and appointed three designated Non-executive Directors to liaise with the panel to As reported in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, with assist in gathering the views of the workforce.
effect from 1 January 2018, the remit of what was known as the Nomination Committee was expanded to include governance Furthermore, the Board has also overseen the revision of the in order to review regulatory changes and to make necessary terms of reference of all Board committees to ensure that modifications to the application of SANNEs corporate governance each committee is responsible for giving due consideration to systems and processes.
the interests of, and the impacts on, the workforce and other key internal and external stakeholders when making decisions.
Furthermore, the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee Additionally, a number of action points have been initiated separated with effect from 1 January 2018 to allow the Group to which ensure compliance with the guidance notes published by have an enhanced focus on risk reporting and monitoring.
the GC100 on the practical steps that can be taken in order to We continually review our corporate governance and the following effectively implement section 172 of the Companies Act 2006. report covers our approach and provides insight into discussions held at the Board and its committees.
indd 46 08 04 2019 11:50:03 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Remuneration Diversity Nicola Palios, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, presents SANNEs people are from wide and diverse backgrounds, the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 78 to 100.
During nationalities, ages, and ethnic and religious groups.
With continued the year the Remuneration Committee has conducted an global expansion, diversity amongst our colleagues has increased, extensive review of our remuneration policy to assess whether it and will continue to increase, as we foster international talent remains appropriate for our business strategy, the greater maturity and we seek to create the same opportunities for all employees of the business since IPO in 2015 and the current environment across the globe.
We respect cultural differences, and learn about in which we operate.
Following a shareholder consultation, the and embrace these differences in each territory within which we Board proposes a new remuneration policy, full details of which are operate.
Details of our Board Diversity Statement can be found on contained within the Remuneration Committee Report, which will our website at www.
be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM on 16 May 2019.
In 2018, we have improved our overall position in the ranking ofFTSE Women Leaders conducted by Hampton-Alexander.
Board effectiveness SANNE is now ranked in the top 10 best performers amongst FTSE250 firms.
The external Board evaluation for 2017 was followed by an internal evaluation for 2018.
This evaluation involved an in-depth review of the Boards activities and those of its committees, the Directors Shareholder communications interaction and their effectiveness in carrying out their role.
Overall Our communication and engagement with shareholders over the the evaluation was positive and we have introduced some changes last 12 months included investor roadshows.
All shareholders had to the way we operate together as a Board.
Further information on the opportunity to engage with senior management either at these the evaluation is provided on page 59. events, directly, or at our AGM.
The Non-executive Directors are available to discuss any Culture matter shareholders might wish to raise, and the Chairman Good governance is at the heart of our business.
Our culture and independent Non-executive Directors attend meetings is one of transparency and openness and we constantly seek with investors and analysts as required.
On an annual basis, to develop our governance framework to take into account the Iapproach all our larger shareholders to provide an opportunity Groups changing circumstances and developments in the wider fordirectinteraction.
Communications have been delivered to the organisation to reinforce the required standards and I am grateful to all of our shareholders for their support.
It has been another successful year for the business.
We have further developed our governance framework and built on our structure to suit the needs of our business.
We will continue to build a sustainable successful high growth business.
Rupert Robson Chairman 21 March 2019 47 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
