Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Chairmans introduction Nicholas Ferguson CBE, Chairman The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance, which are fundamental to discharging our responsibilities.
The Main Principles of the Code provide the framework for the reporting model which we have continued to use this year our reporting format will change next year, when we will report in accordance with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
highest standards of governance are Our approach to: promoted by the Board and to ensure Leadership is set out on pages that the Group is governed and 49 to 52 managed in the best interests of shareholders and our broader Effectiveness is described on pages stakeholder group.
This includes 53 to 55 encouraging open discussion and Relations with shareholders are constructive challenge.
We set out our described on page 56 governance framework in this report Accountability is described on pages and explain how robust and effective 56 to 62. corporate governance practices enable the Group to deliver its strategy and The Board is committed to maintaining create long-term shareholder value.
the highest standards of corporate Further information on our strategy and governance, which are fundamental to business model can be found on pages discharging our responsibilities.
Chairman, it is my role to ensure the 40 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements We recognise fully that at the heart of of all sections of society and for each year career at Savills, 11 of them as Group every successful organisation is a strong employee to feel respected and able to Chief Executive.
I would like to thank and healthy culture supported by a robust give their best.
The Companys policy on Jeremy for his enormous contribution to governance structure.
As custodian of diversity applies across all levels of the Savills over many years.
Savills culture the Board demands Group and further details of the policy can Risk management remains a fundamental openness and transparency to maintain an be found in the Strategic Report on pages element of the Board and Audit environment in which honesty, integrity 4 to 39.
Committees agendas and our governance and fairness are valued and practised by The Board is collectively responsible for the efforts across the Group as a whole.
The Boards long-term success of the Group and how it Audit Committees Report on pages 57 behaviour and the values it demonstrates is directed and controlled, so we test the to 62 sets out in more detail the systems set the tone to guide our peoples Board effectiveness and performance of risk management and internal control.
approach and ensure that we live by and annually through a formal evaluation.
This Details of our principal risks and demonstrate the right values which in turn years evaluation was conducted in-house, uncertainties can be found on pages enable our entrepreneurial approach led by the Senior Independent Director and 24 to 28. coupled with prudent management to facilitated by the Group Legal Director & deliver long-term success for the Group The 2018 Remuneration Report pages 66 Company Secretary.
The process, key and its stakeholders.
Our Code of Conduct to 84 provides a summary of the Policy conclusions and areas of focus for 2019 are is readily accessible in all local languages to approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM set out on page 55.
Following this review, I all staff to support their day to day decision and a detailed review of the Remuneration am satisfied that the Board continues to making.
We demand the highest Committees activities, and bonus and perform effectively and in particular I am professional standards from all of our share scheme performance, in 2018. confident that the Board has the right people all of the time and we have a zero balance of skills, experience and diversity tolerance approach to breaches of the We believe that engaging with our of personality to continue to encourage Code of Conduct.
shareholders and encouraging an open, open, transparent debate and challenge.
meaningful dialogue between shareholders Ensuring that we do the right thing in the and the Company is vital to ensuring During the year, the Nomination & right way requires the right leadership and mutual understanding.
We are in regular Governance Committee and the Board it is a fundamental part of my role as contact with our major shareholders and agreed that it would be appropriate to Chairman to ensure that the Board has the potential shareholders through a regular, appoint additional Non-Executive Directors right blend of skills and experience.
As an scheduled programme of meetings as part to further expand the range of skills, international business, we benefit from our of our continuing commitment to this open experience and knowledge available to the Non-Executive Directors knowledge of and transparent dialogue.
I am pleased to report that, and involvement with other businesses in more about shareholder engagement on following an extensive search process Hong Kong and China, Europe and the US.
page 56 and in the meantime, my fellow supported by an independent specialist All of the Non-Executive Directors are Directors and I look forward to continued search firm as set out in detail in the considered by the Board to be dialogue and meeting with shareholders at Nomination & Governance Committee independent, including Charles McVeigh, our AGM in May when I will be happy to Report on pages 53 to 55, on 1 October notwithstanding his long service, meaning answer any further questions.
2018 Stacey Cartwright and Florence that at least half of the Board members Tondu-Mlique were appointed as throughout the year were independent Overall I remain happy with the Boards additional independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors excluding me, as activity across our governance agenda.
Both Stacey and Florence have Chairman.
The details of their skills and However, we will continue to challenge extensive experience which will experience are, along with those of the ourselves and the business and to consider complement and further enhance the other Board members, set out on pages and to learn from our decisions to ensure wide-ranging skills and experience of the 42 and 45. that we build upon the existing strength of Board and its Committees.
Stacey will our governance structure.
In accordance with the Code, all of the succeed Liz Hewitt as Chairman of the Directors, with the exception of Liz Hewitt Audit Committee from the conclusion of and Charles McVeigh who have announced the 2019 AGM.
their intentions to retire from the Board at The Board announced in September 2018 Nicholas Ferguson CBE the conclusion of the 2019 AGM, will stand that Charles McVeigh, who has served on for re-election at the 2019 AGM on 8 May Chairman of Savills plc the Board since 2000, would retire at the 2019.
The Board also reviews Non- 13 March 2019 conclusion on the Companys AGM in May Executive Director independence on an 2019.
I thank him for his enormous annual basis and takes into account the contribution to the Board over many years.
individuals experience, their behaviour at Liz Hewitt, who has been on the Board since Board meetings and their contribution to 2014, will also retire at the conclusion of the unbiased and independent debate.
I would like to Board considers that all of the Nonthank Liz for her considerable contribution Executive Directors bring considerable to the Group and, in particular in Chairing management expertise and strong the Audit Committee since 2015. independent oversight.
As announced in January 2018, Mark The Board is committed to a culture that Ridley, formerly CEO of Savills UK and attracts and retains talented people to Europe, became an Executive Director on 1 deliver outstanding performance and May 2018 joining the Board initially as further enhance the success of the Group.
Deputy Group Chief Executive and then The Board recognises the benefits of succeeding Jeremy Helsby upon the having diversity across all areas of the latters retirement as Group Chief Executive Group.
We aim to be truly representative Officer effective 1 January 2019 after a 39 41
