Corporate Governance Report Chairmans governance overview This report sets out how Serco is governed and the key activities of the Board of Directors in promoting effective governance during 2018.
Further information on how the Company complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2018 is set out on pages 104 and 105.
Sir Roy Gardner Dear Shareholders Chairman I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for 2018.
The Board believes that good governance is key to the long-term success of the Group and is committed to achieving high standards of governance.
2018 Highlights As in previous years, we report against the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Continued refreshment of the Board through Council on 27 April 2016 the Code.
I confirm that, during the appointment of Eric Born following the 2018, the Company has complied fully with the provisions of resignation of Mike Clasper.
Details of how the Company has complied with the Code are set out on pages 104 to 105.
Appointment of John Rishton as Senior Independent Director.
The Board has reviewed the UK Corporate Governance Code published in July 2018 by the Financial Reporting Council Continued refreshment of Committee the 2018 Code which applies to accounting periods membership with changes to the Audit, beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Corporate Responsibility and Nomination The Company already complies with the vast majority of the Committees.
2018 Codes provisions and, with some changes in processes Improvements to internal procedures to and procedures and additional disclosure relating to existing improve Board effectiveness following the processes and procedures, the Board believes that full compliance will be achieved and so reported in the annual internal Board evaluation undertaken in 2017. report for the year ending 31 December 2019.
External Board evaluation undertaken by The most significant change is in respect of workforce ICSA Board Evaluation Limited.
The Company already enjoys good employee relations, the mechanisms for which are set out in the Directors Report on pages 132 to 138, and to meet the requirements of the 2018 Code, the Company has appointed Kirsty Bashforth, one of our Non-Executive directors and the Chair of our Corporate Responsibility Committee, as the lead employee voice representative on the Board and the Group HR Director will take executive responsibility for activity that will ensure two-way communication.
In addition, our current internal communication methods will be reviewed to support such a way of operating and amongst other changes, a forum comprising the nominated Non-Executive Director, the Group HR Director, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and a representative from each Division will be established to discuss a range of issues that have relevance to the Board agenda to ensure a two-way dialogue.
| 86 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Effectiveness Contract site visits As Chairman, I am responsible for providing leadership to Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to continually ensure that the Board operates effectively.
I have been increase their knowledge of the Company and its operations.
supported in this by all the Directors, in particular Mike This includes visits to contract sites which enables them to Clasper, our Senior Independent Director until his resignation witness the excellent day-to-day service provided by our on 31 December 2018.
The annual reviews of Board contract teams.
The visits provide a deeper level of effectiveness help the Board to consider how it operates and understanding of the risks and opportunities faced by our how its operations can be improved.
This year, the review was contract teams on a daily basis, together with the Groupexternally facilitated by ICSA Board Evaluation Limited.
The wide challenges regarding the scale and variety of our findings of this review have provided us with ideas to further operations.
During the year, our Non-Executive Directors improve the manner in which the Board operates, which, have visited sites operated within each of the Companys together with progress against recommendations from the divisions including at HM Naval Base, Clyde Faslane, previous internal evaluation, are set out on page 90.
Northlink Ferries, International Nuclear Services, Caledonian Sleepers, Compass in Glasgow and Liverpool, Norfolk and Norwich Hospital, the Norfolk Naval Shipyard in Portsmouth, Changes in the Board Virginia, the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, The Board continued to review Board composition and Washington, Fiona Stanley Hospital, Western Australia, the succession planning with assistance from the Nomination Dubai Metro, HMAS Watson, Sydney, Brisbane Immigration Committee.
Transit Centre, Fleet Marine Services, Southern Queensland Correctional Centre and Villawood Immigration Detention During the year, the Nomination Committee, as part of its Centre.
routine business, reviewed the composition of the Board and, to ensure continued refreshment of the Board and the Diversity appropriate breadth of experience, recommended that an additional Non-Executive Director with international The Board is committed to ensuring the development experience should be recruited.
of gender and ethnic diversity amongst Sercos senior management population and annually reviews its Korn Ferry was appointed to assist with the recruitment recommendations on gender and ethnic diversity for process and several individuals were identified as suitable senior management roles.
candidates, of whom five were interviewed by myself and by my executive and non-executive colleagues, following which More information is provided in the Nomination Committee Eric Born was invited to join the Board and become a member Report on pages 100 to 101. of the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees with effect from 1 January 2019.
Shareholder engagement The Board continued to engage in an open and meaningful Eric, who is currently Chief Executive Officer of Swissport way with its shareholders during the course of 2018.
In International Limited, has considerable international, strategic addition, I attend the results announcements in the City and operational experience.
and meet many of our stakeholders.
I hope shareholders will take the opportunity to meet with Board members at Mike Clasper, who joined the Board in May 2014, and who was the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, stood down on 31 December 2018.
As a result of these changes to the Board, John Rishton, who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 2016, Sir Roy Gardner assumed the role of Senior Independent Director and joined the Nomination Committee on 1 January 2019.
In addition, Chairman Kirsty Bashforth, who was appointed as a Non-Executive 20 February 2019 Director in 2017, replaced Mike Clasper as Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 1 January 2019.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 87 Corporate Governance Report Chairmans governance overview continued What the Board has achieved in 2018 Reviewed and challenged the strategy of the Group and Received operational deep dives from across the supported the Executive management in the Groups Divisions.
Reviewed the Operating Model and Finance Received, discussed and reviewed regular reports from Transformation plans.
the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Reviewed and challenged the Centres of Excellence.
Considered succession planning both for the Board Reviewed and agreed budgets.
and the senior management team, including diversity.
Focused on the ongoing performance of the Group.
Reviewed the Gender Pay position.
Reviewed employee engagement, as well as receiving Reviewed, challenged and refreshed the Tax and regular People reports.
Focused on further embedding the Corporate Engaged with the Companys stakeholders.
Considered the UK political environment and its Focused on further embedding the Corporate Renewal potential impact on the Company.
Received regular reports from the Head of Investor Reviewed and challenged management on the progress Relations.
of the Groups business development pipeline.
Received regular reports on ethics, compliance and Received regular legal and governance reports, Health, Safety and Environment.
including diversity and governance developments and Received detailed reports of the proceedings of each received training as a Board.
Focused on and reviewed key individual material bids Received a progress report on the implementation and acquisitions over the year.
of General Data Protection Regulation.
Continued to drive improvements in Health and Safety Continued enhancement of risk management.
and, specifically, to challenge measures put in place to Considered and implemented recommendations support the reduction in physical assaults in prisons.
Changes to Board and Committee membership.
Spent time with the Divisional management teams and met regularly with senior management responsible for the delivery of the Groups key opportunities and existing contracts, including a number of contract visits in the UK and overseas.
Board priorities for 2019 Continue to assess and challenge the Groups strategy.
Support and challenge management on embedding the Groups transformation initiatives.
Continue to support and challenge improvements in contract execution and cost efficiency, together with Budget and financial performance reviews.
seeking to ensure the utilisation of capabilities across Monitor changes to relevant legal, regulatory and the Group.
Ongoing review and challenge of the bid pipeline and Continue to oversee employee engagement.
new business opportunities, together with the Continued focus on governance developments development of the Centres of Excellence.
Continued focus on enhancing risk management.
Continue to oversee ethics, compliance and Health, Focus on Board and Senior Management succession Safety and Environment.
Implementation of recommendations arising from Further embedding of the Serco Values within the Board evaluations.
Further review of Divisional operations and ensuring the ongoing transformation and strengthening of the Group.
| 88 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
