Governance Governance report Chairmans introduction to governance Leadership & Effectiveness Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce our Governance report for 2018 on behalf of your Board in accordance with the April 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This report reflects the themes of the Code and provides details on the activities and governance processes of the Board and its Committees and refers you to other areas of the Annual Report and Accounts where further relevant information can be found.
The Board has had a diverse agenda during the year: from Andrew Duff addressing the challenges of the upcoming Ofwat Price Review Chairman PR19 without losing focus on other key strategic and operational priorities: to ensuring that Dee Valley Water is operating effectively as a standalone, licensed business within the Group.
PR19 is a The Board provides strong key strategic item for the business that has required a robust governance process to ensure the right level of debate and leadership and support to the oversight without allowing this topic to dominate the strategic business.
In summary, the Boards principal areas of focus have been: passion for the business and there PR19: is a sense of creating a legacy Customer service: Water quality: forthose who come after us.
Environmental performance: Manchester Square Partners Financing our businesses: Board Effectiveness Report Dee Valley integration: and Profitable growth of the non-regulated business.
Board Focus 2017 18 Customers continue to be at the forefront of our attention, as our strategic focus on such topics as delivering Upper Quartile Sector Performance and Customer Experience demonstrate.
Customer Delivery, Water Quality and Environmental Performance have been the subject of regular performance review items on the agenda.
Financing has been addressed through the continuing important work of the Treasury Committee, through the Chief Financial Officers regular reports to the Board and via specific finance related items on the agenda.
The cost of debt methodology for PR19 has been a key consideration due to its wider impact for the business as a whole.
See Board activities on pages 76 and 77.
Finance & Risk 16% Specic Finance Items and CFOs report Alignment on strategy and clarity on individual roles have Strategy 44% allowed clear strategic focus for the Board during the year, and items for discussion approval produced robust challenge where appropriate.
There is a positive Governance 10% Governance items, Company Secretarys report, dynamic in the Boardroom but we are by no means complacent and Committee reports and recognise that there are still many challenges to tackle.
Performance Review 19% Standing items excluding CFOs report We continue to foster a culture of ownership, stewardship and Other 11% always doing the right thing, sharing the wider company values: Procedural Business TOTAL Mins 100% we put our customers first: we are passionate about what we do: we act with integrity: we protect our environment: and we are inspired to create an awesome company.
66 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information UK Corporate Governance Code ComplianceStatement The version of the Corporate Governance Code applicable to the current reporting period is the April 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils FRC website www.
We are pleased to confirm that Severn Trent Plc was compliant with all ofthe provisions set out in the Code for the period under review.
In December 2017, the FRC published proposals for a revised code, which The Board has continued to keep the Groups risk we expect to apply to our financial year ending 31 March 2019, to reflect the management and internal control systems under close changing business environment and help in achieving the highest levels scrutiny during the year and believes the quality of risk of governance.
As the revised code is not yet finalised, we are reporting management and reporting, and in particular the risk against the 2016 Code in this report but are looking closely at the new identification, mitigation plans, business ownership and proposals and assessing what more we can do to align with best practice tracking, are excellent and continue to evolve and improve.
principles to further engender trust in our business.
In terms of the principles of the 2016 Code, you can find out more In respect of the Companys stakeholders, there has been information on the following pages: oversight of, and a very active, engagement with shareholders, regulators, customers, pension trustees, communities and employees alike.
There have been regular communications Leadership 68 to 74 with shareholders and open lines of communication with Details of the Board are available including their skill set and our regulators: Ofwat, CCW and the DWI.
In particular, the experience and an overview of the governance structure, distinguishing between leadership by the Board and by Executive Corporate Responsibility Committee has overseen a broad Management.
The differing roles of the Chairman, Executive range of well received community initiatives detailed in its Directors and Non-Executive Directors is also set out.
All the Board members have multiple formal and informal opportunities to engage with customers Effectiveness 80 to 82 and employees and are constantly impressed at the quality An overview of the process for appointment, induction, and of Severn Trents people, wherever they work in the Group evaluation of the Directors is provided here and further and whatever their role.
Engagement scores from the annual detail is set out in pages 80 to 82 covering the work of the employee engagement questionnaire are excellent and this is Nominations Committee.
mirrored in the Boards communication with employees at and Accountability 83 to 89 below management level.
The report of the Audit Committee details the corporate We continue to strive for comprehensive talent development reporting, risk management and internal control measures and succession planning at all levels of the business.
thatare overseen by the Board.
Whilst much has been done in this respect and plans are in place, with well regard to graduate and apprenticeships Remuneration 96 to 128 programmes and strong external hiring and internal The Directors Remuneration Report provides full details promotions, we are keen to make further progress in on remuneration.
identifying, developing and progressing top talent through the Relations with shareholders 94 to 95 organisation and making further improvements in respect Details of the Groups engagement with shareholders is set out of management and leadership development.
The focus on in this section.
improving diversity remains strong and, whilst we have made good progress on gender diversity in line with the HamptonGovernance of subsidiaries Alexander Review, we are looking to make further progress in terms of wider diversity.
The membership of the Board of the listed Company, Severn Trent Plc, is the same as that of Severn Trent Water Limited.
This structure was Looking forward, Severn Trent has a strong unified Board implemented in 2007 to make sure that the highest standards of corporate with the broad range of professional backgrounds, skills governance are applied at the regulated subsidiary level and to foster and perspectives needed to take the Company into the next greater visibility and supervision by the Severn Trent Plc Board.
Severn Trent Water Limited complies with the Code and our regulators Finally, on a personal note, whilst I hope you find this Principles of Leadership and Governance to ensure the highest standards of governance.
reportprovides insight into governance within Severn Trent, I always welcome feedback if you feel there is more we could Taking into account the Code and Ofwats Principles of Leadership and Governance, we have undergone a programme of change during the year in do to enlighten shareholders.
We encourage participation Dee Valley Water Limited, and have appointed a majority of new independent at our AGM and look forward to meeting with many of our non-executive directors to its Board.
Dee Valley Water Limited also shareholders in July.
complies with the Code to ensure the highest standards of governance.
Andrew Duff A more detailed explanation of the Governance Framework and Company structures which apply to each of our regulated subsidiaries can be found Chairman intheir respective Annual Reports, available on their websites.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67
