Introduction to governance Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to introduce on behalf of the Board, SIGs corporate governance report for the financial year ended 31 December 2018, and to update you on actions we have taken throughout the year.
As a Group we are committed to strong ethical values, integrity and professionalism in everything we do.
As a Board we recognise the essential role that we play in embedding these values through strong leadership underpinned by an effective governance structure.
This year has seen further changes to the Board with the retirement of Chris Geoghegan and Mel Ewell after many years of service.
The Board has subsequently been further strengthened by the appointment of Alan Lovell, our new Senior Independent Director, and Cyrille Ragoucy, both of whom bring extensive construction industry and turnaround experience in the UK and Europe.
The governance standards we wish to retain are part of the induction process for all new directors.
As we disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report, accounting irregularities were identified in two areas early in 2018 requiring adjustment to the historic results for the year ended 31 December 2016 and prior years.
Following the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP, the Group has identified additional prior period restatements set out in this 2018 Annual Report.
Whilst the requirement to restate financial results for a second year is not acceptable, the business has applied Your Board is significant effort throughout 2018 to ensure that material financial reporting control weaknesses are identified and remedied.
The control environment has been significantly improved through committed to the investment in internal resource and external support, the institution of new processes including a key controls framework, and increased highest possible senior management focus and attention.
Further actions are planned for 2019 in order to further improve the control environment within standards the business to a high standard.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 10 May 2018, of corporate Resolution 11 Re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys Auditor was not passed by shareholders and there was a significant governance.
vote against Resolution 1 To receive the Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
Good governance The Board acknowledged these voting outcomes in the announcement of the results of the AGM, noting that it took the is essential to the views of shareholders extremely seriously, and confirmed that it was committed to carrying out an EU Audit Regulation compliant tender for the role of external Auditor, as soon as practicable the 'Audit effective running Tender'.
of the business as Through its engagement with key shareholders, the Board understood that the AGM voting results were primarily attributable to the accounting irregularities which the Group announced earlier we continue the in 2018.
The Board also engaged with key shareholders in relation to the timing and process for the Audit Tender.
turnaround and On 4 July 2018, the Company announced that Ernst & Young LLP had been appointed as the Groups external Auditor.
The Board deliver the strategy believes that the completion of the Audit Tender further detail on which is set out in the Audit Committee report, and the appointment for the future.
of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors, addresses the concerns raised by shareholders, but intends to keep the situation under review.
Andrew Allner Chairman 62 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Female representation on the Board has remained at 25% Compliance with the UK Corporate throughout the year.
This is something we keep under review and we Governance Code acknowledge the findings of the third Hampton-Alexander review on The Board considers its corporate governance policies and FTSE women leaders and the target of 33% female representation on procedures are appropriate and that, throughout the year under FTSE 350 boards by the end of 2020. review, the Group has complied with the provisions of the 2016 All appointments to the Board will continue to be made on merit.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial However, differences in background, skills, experience and other Reporting Council FRC available at www.
"qualities as well as gender and ethnicity will be considered in The Board has considered in detail the requirements of the new determining the optimum composition of the Board and the aim will UK Corporate Governance Code published in July 2018 ""the 2018 be to balance them appropriately."
"Code"" and supports the FRCs approach to building long-term The Board diversity policy is published on the Group's website sustainable growth in the UK economy."
We note the emphasis on www.
businesses building trust by forging strong relationships with key stakeholders and the call for companies to establish a corporate Governance within SIG culture that is aligned with the company purpose, business strategy, As Chairman, I take responsibility for ensuring that good governance promotes integrity and values diversity.
The Board has taken a is operated at SIG in order that we can maintain the highest number of actions to address the requirements of the 2018 Code standards of corporate governance to which we continually aspire.
and, throughout 2019, work will continue on articulating and The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders and embedding corporate culture, developing the succession pipeline overall to its stakeholders for good governance and this Report, to achieve the diversity objectives of the business, and building on the Directors remuneration report on pages 84 to 105, the existing mechanisms to better engage with the workforce and other Audit Committee report on pages 76 to 80 and the Nominations key stakeholders.
Committee Report on pages 81 to 83 describe how the principles of The Board has also considered the new reporting requirements good governance set out in the Code are applied within SIG.
being introduced in relation to the performance of the directors' The Group's external Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, is required to Section 172 duty contained in the Companies Act 2006, employee review whether the above statement reflects the Group's compliance engagement and consideration of relationships with suppliers, with the provisions of the Code specified for their review by the customers and others.
In connection with these new reporting Listing Rules as contained within the Financial Conduct Authoritys requirements, the Board received training on Section Handbook and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No 172 earlier this year and when making decisions, the Board ensures such report has been made.
that the interests of stakeholders are considered appropriately.
Preparations are underway to enable the Group to report in Andrew Allner accordance with these new reporting requirements in the Group's Chairman next annual report.
7 March 2019 Board evaluation An external review of Board effectiveness was undertaken by Condign Board Consulting during the year.
I am pleased to be able to report that the review fundamentally concluded that this has become a much more functional and effective Board in the last year and that it comprises committed, experienced and perceptive individuals.
Further details of the evaluation, including areas for improvement, are set out on pages 68 to 69 of this corporate governance report.
Further details of the evaluation are set out on page 68 of this Diversity corporate governance report.
The Board of SIG acknowledges the importance of diversity across our colleague base and in the boardroom.
Diversity encompasses diversity of perspective, experience, background, psychological type and personal attributes.
The right mix of skills and experience on the Board is essential for the Board to operate effectively and to deliver the improvements we are seeking in the business.
Compliance statement 1 2 3 4 5 Our Governance sections over the Leadership Effectiveness Relations with Remuneration Accountability following pages explain how the shareholders Group has applied the principles and complied with the provisions See pages 64-68 See pages 68-70 See pages 76-80 See pages 84-105 See pages 70-71 of the Code.
We are fully compliant with the Code.
