Corporate governance report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Chairmans overview The UK Corporate Governance Code Code provides the standard for corporate governance in the UK.
The Financial Conduct Authority requires listed companies to disclose whether they have complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the financial year.
The Code currently applicable to the Company is the 2016 edition and we are reporting our compliance with that edition.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions and applied the main principles of the Code for the whole of the year ended 30 June 2018.
This section of the Annual Report along with the Directors remuneration report on pages 46 to 60 and the Directors report and other On behalf of the Board it gives me great pleasure to introduce this years statutory disclosures on pages 61 to 67 provide details of how the Company corporate governance report.
I would like to take this opportunity to has applied the main principles of corporate governance, in particular those provide you with some direct insight into the Boards view of Corporate laid down in the Code.
The Code can be accessed at www.
Offers for Sky As a Board, we are the stewards of the Company.
It is our responsibility Independent Committee to ensure that the Companys strategy is aligned to the interests of Following the approach by 21st Century Fox on 7 December 2016 with an our investors and takes account of the interests of all the Companys initial proposal to acquire the fully diluted share capital of the Company stakeholders.
As individuals, we believe that effective corporate that it does not already own, the Board appointed a committee comprising governance is based on honesty, integrity and transparency and can the Independent Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors only be fully realised within an environment of open, robust and effective the Independent Committee, all of whom the Board considers to be debate.
This is the Board culture we foster at Sky and it is my personal free from conflicts of interest with regard to the offer.
The Independent responsibility as Chairman to ensure that we continue to live this culture Committee is chaired by Martin Gilbert and has the authority to exercise and promote it within our business.
all powers of the Board in relation to both the 21st Century Fox Offer and In December 2016, 21st Century Fox where I am Chief Executive Officer the Comcast Offer together, the Offers.
The Independent Committee, approached the Deputy Chairman of Sky with an initial proposal whose members constitute a majority of the Board, are exercising their to acquire the shares in the Company that it does not already rights and powers to manage the governance of the Board during this own.
Following this approach, specific governance arrangements period in the best interests of all shareholders.
This includes taking such were put in place to protect the interests of all shareholders.
These steps as they consider appropriate to regulate the attendance of Directors governance arrangements have continued to operate in relation to the connected with 21st Century Fox at meetings of the Board and information offer by Comcast, and are described further in this report.
they receive relating to the Company that is deemed relevant to the The Board has established arrangements to evaluate whether the 21st Century Fox Offer or Comcast Offer.
This ensures that all matters information in the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
relevant to the Offers including matters relating to the future prospects Further details of these arrangements can be found on page 42. or strategy of the Company are dealt with by the Independent Committee.
As a result the Board considers the Annual Report, taken as a whole, These arrangements will continue for the duration of the Offers or until is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information the successful completion of any transaction the Offer Period.
The necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and Independent Committee met on 15 occasions between 1 July 2017 and performance, business model and strategy.
During the year we have continued our work in promoting greater and Developments in relation to the Offers more effective engagement with our shareholders.
The Executive On 15 December 2016, 21st Century Fox announced that it had reached Directors meet our investors and analysts and discuss a wide range agreement with the Independent Committee on the terms of a of topics.
As described on page 39, Martin Gilbert and Andy Sukawaty recommended pre-conditional cash offer of 10.75 per share for the have engaged with shareholders on issues in relation to the 21st Century fully diluted share capital of the Company which it did not already own Fox Offer and Comcast Offer and Tracy Clarke, Chair of the Remuneration the Original 21st Century Fox Offer.
Committee, has also engaged on remuneration issues.
We will continue to On 27 February 2018, Comcast Corporation announced a possible offer engage with our shareholders over the course of the coming financial year.
for the Company, and on 25 April 2018 announced a firm pre-conditional cash offer for the Company at an offer price of 12.50 per share for the James Murdoch entire issued and to be issued share capital of the Company the Original Chairman Comcast Offer.
As a result of the Original Comcast Offer, the Independent Committee withdrew its recommendation of the Original 21st Century Fox Offer.
On 15 June 2018, the final regulatory pre-condition to the Original Comcast Offer was satisfied.
On 11 July 2018, 21st Century Fox and the Independent Committee announced that they had reached agreement on an increased preconditional cash offer for the fully diluted share capital of the Company which 21st Century Fox does not already own of 14.00 per share, which included an amount in lieu of a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2018 the 21st Century Fox Offer.
The Independent Committee recommended the 21st Century Fox Offer given it represented a substantial increase in value relative to the Original Comcast Offer and the Original 21st Century Fox Offer.
34 Sky plc Governance Subsequently and also on 11 July 2018, Comcast Corporation and the Board and Committee framework Independent Committee announced an increased cash offer of 14.75 per share which included an amount in lieu of a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2018 the Comcast Offer.
The Comcast Offer Board represents a significant increase in value relative to the Original Comcast Offer and the 21st Century Fox Offer and, as such, the Independent Committee withdrew its recommendation for the 21st Century Fox Offer and recommended the Comcast Offer.
Audit Remuneration On 12 July 2018 21st Century Fox announced that all regulatory preCommittee Committee conditions to the 21st Century Fox Offer had been satisfied or waived.
On 13 July 2018, the offer document for the Comcast Offer was published and posted to Sky shareholders and other persons with information rights.
Bigger Picture Corporate Chain principle Committee Governance On 12 April 2018, further to the proposed acquisition of 21st Century Fox by & Nominations Committee Disney, the Takeover Panel Executive ruled that Disney must make a chain principle mandatory cash offer for Sky at 10.75 per Sky share following the closing of the Disney acquisition of 21st Century Fox if, at that time, 21st Century Fox had not acquired 100% of Sky shares or Comcast Corporation The Group Chief Executive Officer Group CEO or another third party had not acquired a majority of the Sky shares.
Jeremy Darroch is responsible and accountable to the Board for the On 13 July 2018 and subsequent to the increased offer by Disney for management and operation of the Company, advancing long-term 21st Century Fox, the Takeover Panel Executive announced that the price shareholder value, supported by the management team.
He is also payable pursuant to any required chain principle bid would be 14.00 in involved in the management of the social and environmental cash.
The Hearings Committee of the Panel will be hearing an appeal of responsibilities of the Company.
Deputy Chairman Leadership Martin Gilbert deputises for the Chairman as appropriate, provides a Role of the Board sounding board to Non-Executive Directors and is an additional point The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction and of contact for shareholders.
The Deputy Chairman in particular plays a performance of the Company and provides leadership within a framework key role in situations where the Chairman has a conflict of interest, such of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be appropriately as the current 21st Century Fox Offer and Comcast Offer.
During the Offer assessed and managed.
The Board sets the strategic direction, ensuring Period he is acting as Chairman of the Independent Committee and has that the necessary resources are in place for the Company to meet its held a series of meetings with the Companys largest shareholders.
objectives and deliver sustainable performance.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director The Board takes a long-term outlook and sees itself as responsible to Andy Sukawaty is responsible for providing support to the Chairman and a wide range of stakeholders, whilst pursuing its objectives in a manner provides an independent point of contact for shareholders, particularly consistent with its statutory duties, for the benefit of the Companys if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal members as a whole.
channels or for which such contact is inappropriate.
He also plays a key role in ensuring the Board has a balanced understanding of the issues The Directors of the Board are selected on the criteria of proven skill and concerns of major shareholders.
and ability in their particular field of endeavour and a diversity of outlook and experience which directly benefits the operation of the Board as the Non-Executive Directors custodian of the business.
A full biography of each Director is provided Chase Carey, Tracy Clarke, Martin Gilbert, Adine Grate, James Murdoch, on pages 32 and 33.
John Nallen, Matthieu Pigasse, Andy Sukawaty and Katrin Wehr-Seiter, collectively, are responsible for constructively challenging the Executive Roles and responsibilities Directors and overseeing the delivery of the Companys strategy within The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer are separate the risk and control framework.
and have been so since the Companys shares were admitted to listing in 1994.
The roles and expectations of each Director are clearly defined Company Secretary and recorded within their letters of appointment or service contracts.
Chris Taylor is responsible for the following in respect of effective Board The roles and responsibilities of the Board members are explained below.
operation: To ensure good information flows within the Board and its Committees, The Chairman between senior management and Non-Executive Directors: James Murdoch is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
The Chairman To facilitate Director induction and assist with professional development: is responsible for creating an environment for open, robust and effective To advise the Board through the Chairman of all corporate governance debate.
This includes ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that the obligations and developments in best practice: and Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The significant commitments of the Chairman are detailed in his biography on page 32.
To be responsible for communicating with shareholders as appropriate.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who advises on corporate governance matters, Board procedures and other relevant rules and regulations.
In addition, Directors have the right to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
