Governance Chairmans Introduction around all sites and offices several times a year to meet and greet staff and discuss whatever they see fit.
However, to strengthen the Boards mechanism for two-way dialogue with the workforce, the Board agreed that during 2019 there will be a series of exchange forums whereby a cross section of individuals, representative of the Companys diverse workforce, will be invited to participate in aninformal listening exchange session hosted by the Chairs of theRemuneration or Nominations Committees or the Senior Independent Director.
These forums will be organised at different Company locations and will include a virtual meeting with the non-UK based workers to create meaningful engagement with thewhole workforce.
It is intended that three forums will take placeduring 2019.
The aim of these sessions will be to gather workforce views on a number of topics including but not limited tosafety, culture, pay and conditions, communication and RUSSELL SCRIMSHAW leadership, enabling the voice of the workforce to be taken Chairman backtothe Boardroom.
The Board recognises the importance of sound corporate governance.
Its role is to provide leadership of the Company and its executives with myself, as Chairman, being responsible for leading Compliance with the UK Corporate the Board and ensuring its effectiveness, whilst promoting a culture of openness and debate.
It is therefore important that the Board Governance Code has the correct composition, balance of skills and experience and that its members work together effectively and lead by example in pursuit of our corporate goals and displaying our corporate values.
The Company has complied in full during 2018 and Given the importance of health and safety to the Board and the to the date of this report with the provisions of the Project as a whole, the Board constituted a formal Health and UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2016.
Safety Committee during the year to assist the Board in ensuring The Code is publicly available at the website of the compliance in this area.
Keith Clarke, a very experienced NonFinancial Reporting Council at www.
Executive Director, is the Chair of the Health and Safety Committee with Louise Hardy, Chris Fraser and Simon Carter Chief Development Officer as fellow members.
The Committee will meet Dear Shareholder formally at least twice a year and will report to the Board after each I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for the meeting.
More information on the Health and Safety Committee year ended 31December 2018. can be found on page 49.
The report sets out our approach to corporate governance usingthe In 2018 a review of the performance of the Board and its Committees five mainprinciples of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, was carried out internally via a questionnaire circulated to all Directors.
namely Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration The review confirmed that the Board and all of its Committees are and Relations with shareholders, and explains howtheBoard and operating effectively.
More details can be found on page 50 and in its Committees are structured and their areasoffocus during 2018. each of the Board Committee reports in this section on pages 53 The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate to81.
governance and I am pleased to confirm that throughout the year This year our Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 1pm the Company has complied in full with theCode.
onThursday 13 June 2019 atThe Events Centre, The Principal During the year, the Board and its Committees considered the York, Station Road, York YO24 1AA, and I look forward to impact of the 2018 Code and took actions to address the changes.
The steps taken by the Committees to address the new governance landscape are described in each of the Committee reports in this section on pages 53 to 81.
A core principle of the 2018 Code is greater emphasis on employee engagement and making sure that the employee voice is heard in the Boardroom.
The Company already has a number of channels of communication set up to Russell Scrimshaw support employee engagement, as described in the People section Chairman on pages 34 to 35.
I also make it my personal priority to walk 30 April 2019 46 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information BOARD ACTIVITY IN 2018 Performance Governance and stakeholders Received comprehensive management reports at each Received regular meeting reports from each of the meeting covering progress with the Project, health and Committee Chairs.
safety matters, sales and marketing developments and Considered and approved the process for the annual finance and corporate development activities.
performance evaluation of the Board.
Approved the full-year and half-year results following Undertook an annual evaluation of the Boards recommendations from the Audit Committee.
performance, reviewed the results and approved 2019 Approved the 2017 Annual Report.
Reviewed the 2018 Annual Report planning process.
Approved updated terms of reference for the Audit Strategy Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Approved the incentivisation invitation for convertible Approved changes to the schedule of matters reserved bondholders.
Approved the establishment of a limited company in India.
Reviewed developments in corporate governance, legal Approved the shaft sinking contract with DMC Mining and regulatory updates, including the impact of the new Services.
Approved the material handling agreement and lease with Approved a new workforce engagement proposal to Redcar Bulk Terminal.
Approved the design and build contracts with Strabag for Received investor relations reports.
drives 1,2 and 3 of the mineral transport system MTS.
Received presentations from external legal advisers on Approved the materials handling facility MHF contract bribery and corruption: the new 2018 UK Corporate withJacobs.
Governance Code and General Data Protection Regulations.
Approved the entry into a take-or-pay supply agreement withIntercontinental Trade DMCC Dubai for supply of POLY4 in Nigeria.
Reviewed and approved a take-or-pay supply agreement for the supply and resale of POLY4 into certain southern and northern provinces of China.
Approved an agreement with Archer Daniels Midland Company for the supply of binder to be used in the production of POLY4.
Approved the entry into a engineering, procurement and construction contract with McLaughlin and Harvey Ltd Internal controls and risk management fortheCompanys port handling facility at Teesside.
Received regular updates on risk and reviewed the principal risks and mitigation plans.
Approved a take-or-pay supply agreement with Cibra Group Companies for supply and resale of POLY4 into Brazil and Approved the establishment of a Health and Safety certain other South American countries and the acquisition BoardCommittee.
of30% shareholding in each of CIBRA and OFD.
Approved the renewal of the Groups corporate insurances.
Considered and approved an amendment to the Minerals Royalty Deed entered into with Hancock British Holdings Ltd. Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 47
