CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of ethical behaviour and governance are maintained throughout the Group.
and we will continue to work with management to review, support Good corporate governance is critical in helping to build and challenge the implementation of the strategy during 2019. a successful business that can be sustained over the longer term.
In support of our review of the Groups strategy and performance, the work of the Audit and Risk Committee continues to provide As Chairman, I am focused on ensuring that Spectris has a Board a firm foundation from which the Board can review and assess the that works effectively and cohesively under my leadership, with an effectiveness of internal controls, risk management and compliance appropriate balance of skills, expertise and attributes.
This contributes to the success of the strategy and that our governance processes, our culture of integrity and openness, informs the culture of the Group as a whole.
and a diversity of perspective promote the necessary degree of Following the publication of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance constructive challenge.
The Board fully supports the Groups values Code, the Board has considered how the Group will comply with and is committed to ensuring that high standards of ethical the new obligations.
With the support of the General Counsel and behaviour and governance are maintained throughout the Group.
Company Secretary, the Board has developed a workplan to meet The Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report follows our new obligations and details of our planned approach are set the format that was introduced last year and includes an At a out on pages 50 and 51 of this report.
I look forward to updating Glance section which sets out our compliance with the 2016 UK you on the outcomes of our workplan in the 2019 Annual Report Corporate Governance Code the Code and a report on each and Accounts.
of the Committees introduced by the Committee Chairmen.
Board culture and composition Appointment of Chief Executive We regularly review the composition, diversity and size of the Board The Board spent significant time in 2018, through the Nomination to ensure that we have the right talent to support our strategy.
We Committee, on the search for a new Group Chief Executive, which recognise that diversity and inclusion are essential to our success.
resulted in the appointment of Andrew Heath.
The relationship By ensuring that different genders, backgrounds, nationalities and between the Chairman and the Chief Executive is a cornerstone ages are represented throughout the Group, we ensure that of good governance, and I am delighted to have already developed decision-making is informed by a range of skillsets, experience and a positive and constructive working relationship with Andrew in his cultural perspectives.
Details of our approach to succession planning new role.
The search and selection process followed by the Board is and diversity can be found on pages 49 and 52. set out in detail on page 53 of this report and I would like to thank With the exception of Clive Watson who will retire from the Board the members of the Nomination Committee and, particularly, in April, all Directors will be standing for election or re-election at Russell King, Martha Wyrsch and Bill Seeger for their active the 2019 AGM and we look forward to your continued support.
The Board and I appreciate our interactions with shareholders and Focus areas and activities listen carefully to all feedback.
I welcome your comments on this Corporate Governance Report and on the 2018 Annual Report The Board has continued to focus on creating long-term sustainable and Accounts more generally.
value for our shareholders, customers and the wider communities in which we operate.
Following the initiation of the Groups strategic review and profit improvement programme, as announced Mark Williamson to the market in November 2018, the Board has closely monitored Chairman the development of the plans devised by the management team 19 February 2019 Corporate Governance Code Statement of Compliance As a UK premium listed company, Spectris plc is expected to comply, or explain any non-compliance, with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Board considers that the Company complied with the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2018 and a full summary of compliance is set out on pages 58 and 59.
44 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Board and Executive Committee structure The governance of the Group is structured through the Board and a series of committees that approve, review, challenge and monitor the strategies and policies under which the Group operates.
The structure and responsibilities of these Board and management committees, and a summary of their responsibilities, are illustrated in the diagram below: The Board Board committees Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration Responsible for overseeing the Responsible for advising on Responsible for recommending financial reporting process, succession matters and talent the policy for the remuneration significant accounting judgements management for the Board, of the Chairman, Chief Executive, and estimates, the Groups ethics Group Executive and Group Finance Director and the programme, financial and senior management Executive Committee compliance controls and risk management Management committees Executive Disclosure Responsible for the day-to-day Responsible for the identification management of the and disclosure of inside Groups operations information and for ensuring that announcements comply with applicable regulatory requirements Board and committee attendance Board Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination scheduled ad hoc Committee Committee Committee AGM Mark Williamson 7 7 6 6 n a n a 7 7 Y Andrew Heath appointed 3 September 2018 2 2 3 3 n a n a n a n a 1 Clive Watson 7 7 5 6 n a n a n a Y Russell King 7 7 6 6 n a 5 5 7 7 Y 2 Karim Bitar 6 7 6 6 3 4 5 5 6 7 Y 3 Ulf Quellmann 7 7 6 6 3 4 4 5 6 7 Y Bill Seeger 7 7 6 6 4 4 n a 7 7 Y Kjersti Wiklund 7 7 6 6 n a 5 5 7 7 Y Martha Wyrsch 7 7 6 6 4 4 n a 7 7 Y John OHiggins retired 28 September 2018 5 5 3 3 n a n a n a Y 1.
An ad hoc meeting of the Board was held in December 2018 to discuss succession planning for the role of Chief Financial Officer.
All Directors attended the meeting, with the exception of Clive Watson who excused himself from the discussion.
Karim Bitar was unable to attend the October Audit and Risk Committee, Nomination Committee and Board meetings due to a competing engagement with Genus plc where he is CEO.
Mr Bitar provided his detailed comments on the matters to be discussed to the Chairman ahead of the meetings.
Ulf Quellmann was unable to attend the January Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee and Audit and Risk Committee meetings due to a competing engagement with Rio Tinto where he holds an executive role.
Mr Quellmann provided his detailed comments on the matters to be discussed to the Chairman ahead of the meetings.
