DIRECTORS REPORT Chairmans letter Chairmans letter The Board took the opportunity to examine some of the broader global trends shaping the industry and impacting our business Dear Shareholder, During the year, the Board continued to deepen its insight into our markets and understand the opportunities and the progress we are This year, the Board, alongside the Management Team, has been making in delivering on our strategic priorities.
More detail can be focused on delivering stronger performance with the ultimate objective found on pages 18 and 19.
As a Board, we collectively visited three of achieving our purpose driving commerce and prosperity through very different markets during 2018, holding our meetings in India, our unique diversity.
We have continued to make significant progress Nigeria and Korea.
Alongside these Board and committee meetings in reshaping and strengthening the Group through 2018, improving we also met with our clients and other stakeholders, including financial returns, enhancing the Groups resilience and strengthening engaging with our local colleagues.
the performance culture and overall culture in line with the Groups valued behaviours.
As a Board, one of our key responsibilities is to set The UKs Corporate Governance framework has continued to evolve the strategic direction for the Group, approve the strategy and hold with the Financial Reporting Councils publication of its new UK management accountable for its execution.
The new Code places more emphasis on the application of an updated set of principles focused on the value During 2018, the Board also took the opportunity to examine some of good corporate governance to companies long-term success.
of the broader global trends shaping the industry and impacting The Governance and Nomination Committee, on behalf of the Board, our business including geopolitical and economic factors, cyber oversaw the work to assess the impact of the new Code on the threats, the rapidly changing nature of technology and the increasing Group.
This included a focus on stakeholders, particularly formalising competition coming from the ntech and Big Tech sectors.
This has a mechanism for an effective two-way engagement with our helped us develop a clearer vision of the Group over the long term and workforce.
Further details on the review can be found on page 87. better orientate the evolution of our strategy.
Some of the key areas We will report against the new Code in full in next years Corporate discussed and reviewed by the Board during the year are detailed Governance report: however, where practical to do so we have on page 66. measured ourselves against the new Code this year.
While the composition of the Board remained unchanged during As a Group we have taken measures to ensure that following the the year, the Governance and Nomination Committee spent a UKs departure from the European Union in 2019, we can continue significant amount of time discussing Board succession, in particular supporting our clients across Europe.
Securing a full banking licence identifying an independent non-executive director with a diverse and for our new subsidiary in Germany strengthens our footprint in varied background from the Greater China and North Asia region.
Europe and supports the growth we expect to achieve in our This wide-ranging search culminated in the appointment of Carlson European business.
Tong to the Board on 21 February 2019.
Carlson has over 30 years experience operating in one of our key regions and with significant The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its committees for their experience and knowledge of the financial services sector in mainland more detailed oversight and receives updates throughout the year on China and Hong Kong.
More details on Carlson and the other Board how they discharge their responsibilities.
Further details on the areas members can be viewed on pages 57 to 59. each committee has considered during 2018 can be found in the individual committee sections within this report.
Alongside Carlsons appointment we announced Dr Han Seung-soos retirement from the Board.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Dr Han for his substantial contributions to the Group over the past nine years, as well as his considerable insight into Asia, particularly Korea.
Om Bhatt also stepped down from the Board as an independent non-executive director.
I would like to thank Om for his important contribution to the Group over the past six years, in particular his Jos Vials insight into banking and India.
Group Chairman Standard Chartered 56 Annual Report 2018
