Message from the Chairman A global opportunity This is a great company, with a great future, which I am proud to now be a part of.
With a challenging year ahead, our priorities are improved investment performance, transformation and growth.
I am confident that we have the talented people, the resources and the expertise to deliver on our potential.
Sir Douglas Flint Global ambitions Looking ahead, delivering on our potential I am delighted to be able to share my thoughts for the first time as The savings and investment industry is evolving rapidly as individuals Chairman of Standard Life Aberdeen.
Before I look to the year ahead, are faced with taking on more personal responsibility for their longI want to share with you a little about what attracted me to the role.
Technology is playing a large part to offer a variety of essence, it was through being impressed by the scale of the platforms and direct channels to fulfil such savings and investment companys global ambitions, the trust that our clients and customers needs.
In the wholesale and institutional space, advanced quantitative put in us and the fact that the world is very much in need of the tools are enabling more tailored solutions to be developed to meet the products and services we offer.
I believe these together present an complex needs of our clients.
Increased investment in our people and exciting opportunity.
research capabilities underpins all of the above.
As a client-centric business in an ever changing world we must continue to adapt and That opportunity is truly global.
Our company is one of the worlds evolve to meet observable trends and invest in capabilities to leading investment companies, with a strong presence in the UK, anticipate what lies ahead.
Europe and Asia Pacific, and importantly, developing capabilities in the Americas.
There are, I believe, considerable opportunities and The priorities for the year ahead are three-fold.
First, improve significant potential for future growth in all our markets, in particular in investment performance, particularly in multi-asset absolute returns the UK and Asia Pacific.
We are well positioned and I am confident and equities, and deliver fresh solutions that meet the needs of an that we can, through successful delivery of our strategy, capitalise on ever more demanding client base.
Second, progress integration of the these opportunities going forward.
merged businesses and the transition of the technology services that went as part of the Phoenix transaction, so working towards delivering There is no denying that it will be challenging, particularly in the short the cost savings promised.
And third, deliver the revenue growth term, considering the current economic and geopolitical landscapes.
potential created both by the merger and the enhanced strategic A continuous eye on improving what we do and how we do it, always partnership with Phoenix.
All of these are necessary steps to restore putting the customer first, will, I believe, keep us on the path to value for you, our shareholders.
Shareholder value is, of course, an important topic which I know is Transformation and transition concerning to all of us.
Our share price has not been where we would I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor, Sir Gerry Grimstone, have wanted over the past year.
Clearly there have been sectoral who stepped down at the end of 2018.
Over the last 11 years he led factors, outside our control, which impacted investor sentiment and the Company through one of the most significant transformations in therefore investment flows.
This was driven in large part by its near-200 year history.
Taking on the Chairmanship a year after the geopolitical risks, including uncertainty over the form Brexit would companys demutualisation, he steered the company successfully take and trade tensions between the US and China.
These factors through the global financial crisis, constitutional change and largecontributed to the write-off of a portion of the goodwill recognised on scale reforms to the UK pensions and savings markets.
Beyond this, the combination of Standard Life with Aberdeen Asset Management he led the re-shaping of the business through major acquisitions and which is referred to in more detail on page 36.
There have also been disposals to create Standard Life Aberdeen as it is today.
The merger factors specific to ourselves, most notably investment performance in with Aberdeen Asset Management and the sale of the UK and some of our larger strategies, which has led to significant outflows, as European insurance business to Phoenix in the last two years marked well as the notice given of termination of our asset management the culmination of the transformation to a capital-light, broad based, agreement with Lloyds Banking Group and Scottish Widows, which investment company.
Such a period of change puts considerable demands on any We have all the capabilities needed to recover from these setbacks, organisation.
It is testament to the talented people in Standard Life notably in research, in investment talent, through the depth and Aberdeen that they have absorbed the additional integration and breadth of our product range, the diversity of our geographic footprint transition challenges, while remaining focused on meeting the needs and most of all, our brand.
The sale of our UK and European of our clients and customers.
insurance business has also given us the capital strength to make significant capital returns to shareholders, invest in our businesses 2 Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT while we complete our transition, as well as providing capacity to our strategic relationships with key clients, winning new business and realising the potential from our global network and product maintain our dividend while this process completes.
This capacity will be further augmented by the recently announced sale of shares in capabilities.
HDFC Life to facilitate achieving the Minimum Public Shareholding After an outstanding career with the Group of some 34 years, Bill required in India.
Rattray will retire from the Board on 31 May 2019.
He will be succeeded by Stephanie Bruce who, subject to satisfying all relevant Proposed dividend regulatory requirements and processes, will take up the position of Having reflected on all the above, your Board is proposing a final Chief Financial Officer CFO and executive Director on 1 June 2019. dividend of 14.3p, the same amount as was paid at this stage last Stephanies appointment will be subject to election by shareholders at year.
Assuming shareholders vote to approve this at the upcoming the AGM on 14 May 2019.
Annual General Meeting AGM, this would give a total dividend for 2018 of 21.6p, up 1.4% on the year.
It is the Boards current intention Stephanie Bruce is a highly experienced financial services practitioner that the total annual dividend per share should be held at this level with over 25 years sector knowledge of technical, reporting and while the business is transformed, cost synergies are delivered and commercial practices.
She has been a partner in PwC since 2002 future financial performance confirms the sustainability of this level of and a member of the Assurance Executive since 2016, leading the distribution and provides line of sight to its future growth.
Financial Services practice for Assurance in the UK.
We are delighted she is joining us.
Brexit and other geopolitical uncertainties This report is being delivered shortly ahead of the UKs scheduled Governance departure from the EU.
We have two significant angles of interest in Over the past year, much has been done to reshape the Board, to the Brexit outcome.
First, in relation to the ability of our own business ensure we have the right skills and experience to take our to continue seamless service to our clients and customers in any transformed business forward.
In addition to the retirement of Sir foreseeable scenario: and second, how the shape of Brexit will impact Gerry Grimstone, we said goodbye to Kevin Parry OBE and Gerhard markets and the individual underlying stocks and debt instruments in Fusenig, who both also stepped down from the Board at the end of which we are invested on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
On behalf of the Board and shareholders I want to thank have accordingly been planning across the full range of scenarios them both for their considerable contributions over many years.
under which the UK could leave the EU including the possibility of As previously reported, Cathi Raffaeli joined the Board in August leaving without a deal.
So far as we are able, we have put in place 2018, bringing broad-based financial industry experience and, in measures intended to mitigate the impacts on our customers, clients particular, knowledge of fintech and high tech services companies.
In particular we have structured the activities and Also as previously announced, Simon Troughton, our Deputy responsibilities of our Dublin and Luxembourg operations to allow us Chairman, will retire at the forthcoming AGM after a 10 year to continue to serve clients across Europe who require such services combined association with the Company and Aberdeen Asset to be delivered from within the EU.
His wise counsel has been of great value to the Board As the UKs future trading arrangement both with the EU and beyond over this period and to me as I took up the position of Chairman.
are clarified, there may be significant market adjustments.
Similarly as Richard Mully has also indicated his intention to step down from the US China trade relations develop, markets will reflect the assessed Board at the upcoming AGM, having completed seven years of Board impact of changes to the terms of trade between the worlds two service, in order to concentrate on his other interests.
On behalf of largest economies and the related impact on global supply chains.
As shareholders I want to express our deep gratitude for their service active asset managers, these geopolitical events, as they impact and wish them well in their other endeavours.
markets, provide opportunities to assist clients to seek or protect I am looking forward to our AGM in May for my first opportunity to value for their underlying beneficiaries.
It is in such market conditions, meet and talk with shareholders about our company in general, its perhaps more than others, that our distinctive investment style has ambitions and future direction.
I hope to see as many of you as the potential to create most value.
Management changes The year ahead will be challenging and there is a very full schedule of Recognising the progress made since the merger, with the actions that the executive is charged with delivering.
There will encouragement of the Board, the co-CEOs instigated discussions undoubtedly also be unforeseen events to which we will need to around the management structure best placed to deliver the strategy respond.
Whatever arises, I am confident that we have all the skills agreed by the Board.
The management changes now being and resources in place within Standard Life Aberdeen to capture the announced are designed to strengthen our client focus, simplify opportunities that arise and deal with the challenges.
In my three reporting lines and put in place a structure which will facilitate robust months in role I have been enormously impressed with the talent and execution of the next stages of our transition and transformation dedication of our employees and it is to them that I pay tribute in programmes.
closing, for their efforts and support.
With effect from 13 March, the Board has unanimously approved the dissolution of its current co-Chief Executive structure.
Keith Skeoch has been appointed sole Chief Executive Officer.
Recognising the critical importance of his client facing responsibilities, Martin Gilbert becomes Vice Chairman of Standard Life Aberdeen, Chairman of Aberdeen Standard Investments and will continue to be an executive Sir Douglas Flint Director of the Board.
In this role, Martin will be able to focus solely on Chairman Standard Life Aberdeen 2018 3
