Introduction to governance Proactively focusing on corporate governance agenda The Board is also focused on improving Dear Shareholders diversity and a review of its succession plan I am pleased to report on our corporate which is underway will take into account governance compliance for 2018 in the need to develop a diverse pipeline as what has been a busy year with much well as assessing the skills and experience accomplished by your Board and required for its future needs.
The internal performance evaluation of the This will be our final year of reporting Board and its Committees carried out at against compliance with the 2016 UK the end of the year built on the externally Corporate Governance Code and we facilitated evaluation carried out in 2017 werefully compliant throughout the year and drew out further ways to improve other than in respect of board balance our boardroom processes which we will which was addressed by the appointment implement in 2019.
Van Deursen in September will increase the effectiveness of the Board 2018.
Details of the work of the Nomination and the way it operates so that the nonCommittee in carrying out the search executive directors can concentrate on process which led to the nomination those areas where they can make the of Holly are set out in the Nomination Neil Johnson most impact.
Chairman Looking ahead the governance agenda Our 2018 AGM resolutions all received remains full and will include the triennial near or above 90% support as did our review of our remuneration policy which we June 2018 EGM resolution to increase the will consult shareholders on in the autumn Companys borrowing limit.
ahead of seeking approval at the 2020 AGM.
Corporate governance developments were Further details of the work of the Board and monitored closely during the year and a its Committees in support of the Group suite of policies and practices approved strategy during 2018 is contained in the during 2018 are now being implemented.
following pages of the governance section.
This will ensure we will be well placed to be fully compliant with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code which became effective for us from 1 January Neil Johnson 2019.
The Companys culture and values Chairman was a key governance focus for the Board 4 March 2019 with the launch of a new Code of Conduct and independently hosted whistleblowing helpline toward the end of the year which the Board will assess and monitor on an ongoing basis.
58 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report IFC-57 Group financial statements 93-144 Company financial statements 145-156 Other information 157-160 Governance 58-92 The Board has reserved to itself a schedule Compliance with the UK Governance snapshot of matters which includes setting long-term Corporate Governance Code Board diversity nationality objectives for the Group and the strategies The Board considers that it has complied to be employed in achieving them.
The throughout the financial year ended 1 4 Board has delegated to the Chief Executive 31 December 2018 with the provisions set Officer responsibility for the development out in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance 3 and preparation of the business plan and Code the Code, other than in respect the annual budget for recommendation to of Code Provision B.
As the senior executive director, Further details on how this non-compliance the Chief Executive Officer is responsible was remedied during the year is contained for all aspects of day-to-day operational in the letter from the Chairman and the 1 British 6 control of the Group and execution of the Nomination Committee report on pages 58 2 Dutch 1 Group strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer and 72 respectively.
3 Malaysian 1 has established and chairs an Executive 4 American 1 Committee whose other members are Application of the Code the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief The main principles of the Code were Counsel and Company Secretary, and the applied as follows: operational and functional presidents for the Group to assist him in the performance of Leadership and effectiveness Board diversity gender his duties and which meets once a month.
Operation of the board The activities of the Company are 1 The Chairman has available to him the controlled by the Board which, during minutes of the Executive Committee and all 2018, comprised two executive directors 2 directors receive a monthly management and six non-executive directors until the report comprising business, financial and appointment of Holly A.
Van Deursen in safety, health and environmental reviews September 2018 when the number of from the Chief Financial Officer.
non-executive directors increased to seven.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive The Board has established Audit, Officer are clearly divided between Neil 1 Male 7 Nomination, Remuneration and Disclosure Johnson who heads the Board in his 2 Female 2 Committees which are discussed on capacity as non-executive Chairman and page65.
Calum MacLean who has responsibility for the running of the Companys business as Note Chief Executive Officer.
The non-executive A full version of the Code can be found on the directors all have wide business and Board tenure Financial Reporting Councils FRC website boardroom experience gained in a broad www.
range of business sectors, details of which 1 are given on pages 60 and 61.
