Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance A year in which we enhanced the effectiveness of Board and Committee oversight.
Dr Gerry Murphy, Chairman Building on our strong governance culture Dear shareholder During the course of this year, we addressed the three key review was positive.
The main area identified for review in the development areas identified in our 2017 board effectiveness 2019 financial year was succession planning for non-executive review.
Firstly, we reviewed the remits of the Audit and Corporate directors.
After a year in which the Board focused on the Chief Responsibility Committees to address any areas of potential Executive transition and the appointment of a new Chief Financial overlap.
The outcome of this review is discussed in more detail Officer, it is right that we should now turn our attention to succession below.
Secondly, we undertook a project to align management and planning for these other director roles.
This will be a major focus for board reporting to minimise multiple reporting formats and to the Nominations Committee in the 2019 financial year.
improve the quality of information to the Board.
Lastly, we allocated More details of the Boards effectiveness review and the areas more time in the Board calendar to focus on strategy.
We reviewed identified for further development can be found on page 61. how our two business divisions and our Innovation and Commercial Development ICD team are developing their organisational Priorities for the 2019 financial year capabilities to support our strategy and product development.
Our new Chief Executive has set out three key priorities to accelerate business performance as described on page 14.
The Review of the Corporate Responsibility CR Boards focus in the 2019 financial year will be to support him as he implements these programmes with particular emphasis on: Committee Our review of the remits of the Audit and CR Committees, and Performance of the Food & Beverage Solutions division the outcome of our Group-wide safety review, prompted us to Strategic initiatives, including acquisition opportunities and re-consider the role of the CR Committee.
effective integration of any acquisitions made The Board recognises the importance of the role that companies Innovation pipeline play in society.
We also note that developments in corporate Reviewing talent management and our succession pipeline governance are placing greater emphasis on the way in which The execution of ongoing programmes to strengthen our companies and boards consider and report on how they discharge customer engagement and business execution.
Against that backdrop, the Directors considered that it would be appropriate for the Board, as a whole, to have greater Shareholder engagement visibility of the Groups corporate responsibility activities.
Following the publication of our Annual Report 2017, I met with a To that end, oversight of the main areas of the CR Committees number of our larger shareholders and welcomed the opportunity to hear and discuss their views on business performance and remit: including safety, product quality, and sustainability have moved to the Board.
Other topics will move to the Audit Committee.
The Board values an open dialogue with investors and I, and my fellow Directors, look forward to meeting The Board proposes to keep this revised Board remit under review shareholders who are able to attend our Annual General Meeting and does not rule out reinstating a corporate responsibility or on 26 July 2018. similar committee in the future.
Board effectiveness This year, our Board effectiveness review was externally facilitated Gerry Murphy by Independent Audit.
While there are areas in which the Board Chairman can seek to enhance its effectiveness, overall the outcome of the 56 56 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018
