Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 CHAIRMANS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRANK STATEMENT MEYSMAN We know that listening to our customers is not just good corporate governance, it is essential to  strategy.
STAKEHOLDER FOCUS I am also pleased to announce that we will be appointing a new Colleague Advisory NED GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS This year has seen significant developments in 2019, whose job it will be to represent the in the corporate governance arena, which BOARD ACTIVITY voice of our colleagues in the boardroom.
as a Board we have been monitoring As an organisation, we already have See more on page 70 closely.
I am pleased that some of the significant infrastructure in place around key themes coming through, such as the gathering the views of and engaging with BOARD EVALUATION greater focus on our customers, colleagues ourcolleagues.
Therefore, we will look at and other stakeholders, are areas where See more on page 72 ways that our Colleague Advisory NED can we have already made good progress and become both involved in existing colleague  on which to build.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT feedback forums, and establish new ways See more on page 74 With Customer at our Heart at the centre ofobtaining colleagues views.
of our strategy for profitable growth, it A key event for the Board this year was the should come as no surprise to learn that visit to our business in China.
I was struck our customers are central to our decision by how well our values have been embraced making.
During the year, the Board had a COMPLIANCE WITH by our colleagues in our Shanghai office, live demonstration of our new specialist THE UK CORPORATE sensing a real feeling of One Thomas Cook.
customer feedback management software GOVERNANCE CODE We saw how Thomas Cooks rich heritage InMoment.
We also received updates on our is being combined with new technology to This report sets out how the Company Customer at our Heart initiatives and our build a business tailored to the needs of applied the principles of the April customer key performance indicator Net the Chinese customer and I was impressed 2016 version of the UK Corporate Promoter Score NPS at every meeting.
with the talent and ambition displayed by Governance Code the Code.
It is the More information about how we listen to and colleagues in this new area of the business.
Boards view that for the year ended engage with our customers can be found on We also spent time with our key business 30 September 2018 the Company pages 23 and 75. partner and shareholder, Fosun, who again fully complied with the provisions provided us with valuable insight into how applicable to this reporting period.
we can work together to extend our reach The Code can be read in full at toChinese customers.
62 Governance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As part of our Board meeting programme, DIVERSITY REMUNERATION we also visited our Stockholm office, We continue our work to promote gender At our AGM in February, we were pleased being the Head Office of our Tour Operator diversity across the business and are to secure 98 per cent support from business in Northern Europe, where again now taking our learnings to improve other our Shareholders in respect of our FY17 we got to meet with colleagues and receive aspects of diversity too.
We have developed Remuneration Report.
The alignment of updates on our highly successful business a new Group-wide Inclusion and Diversity executive and workforce pay continues to be inNorthern Europe.
Framework and Plan that sets out our a key focus for the Remuneration Committee.
commitment to creating an inclusive and We have NPS as a key measure of success Another key component in the Boards diverse culture, which we will launch in in incentive plans for many of our colleagues processes for ensuring consideration of a early 2019.
This progress will support our across the Group and will be introducing it as wide range of stakeholder interests is our work to develop a diverse Board and Senior a measure for even more colleagues in FY19, dedicated Health, Safety & Environmental Management succession pipeline.
We know and over the next three years in our Airline.
During the year, the Committee that diverse boards make decisions which In FY19, we will also start to include a new recommended to the Board a change to the better reflect the customers we serve workforce dashboard in our Remuneration Groups industry-leading Animal Welfare and therefore improving Board and Senior Committee packs to give the Committee Policy which resulted in the Company Management diversity remains one of our better visibility of colleague pay across the ceasing the sale of tickets to attractions firm commitments.
Please see our People Group and provide context for decisions which involve captive orcas.
This decision section on page 34 and the Nominations about executive remuneration.
Our new followed careful consideration of the views Committee report on page 82 for more Colleague Advisory NED will also be invited of customers, suppliers, the environment information about our work on Diversity.
to Remuneration Committee meetings to and animal welfare concerns including a represent colleague views.
 survey of customers AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE views on excursions from the Customer SUMMARY During the year, the Audit Committee had the Insight Team.
I believe this demonstrates how important task of overseeing preparations As a Board we know that listening to our this Committee can really support the Board for the implementation of the General Data customers is not just good corporate in fulfilling its duty to consider important Protection Regulation GDPR, which of governance, it is essential to successfully stakeholders in its decision making.
course touches many areas of the business executing our strategy.
We also know that BOARD DEVELOPMENT including our customer care teams, legal, our Company is nothing without our hardinformation security, cyber security and working colleagues.
Therefore, we welcome During the year, a board effectiveness disaster recovery.
The Audit Committee Chair the increased focus on engaging with these evaluation was conducted internally in kept a close eye on progress, attending the important stakeholders and are committed the format of comprehensive one-to-one Groups regular GDPR Steering Committee tochallenging ourselves to find new ways interviews between Board members and and reporting back to the Audit Committee we can gain greater insight to helpshape our theGroup Company Secretary.
As in previous on developments.
More information about actions in the coming year.
years, the review generated valuable thework of the Audit Committee can be feedback and development opportunities FRANK MEYSMAN found on page 78. forus, more details of which can be found CHAIRMAN onpage 72.
We also launched new e-learning programmes, which we are in the process of As I explained in my statement on page11, rolling out to all of our colleagues across the Bill Scott will step down as Group CFO 28 November 2018 Group, for those colleagues without access on 30 November 2018 and Sten Daugaard to the e-learnings, face-to-face training in will take up the role on an interim basis.
The e-learning modules Sten brings more than 30 years of experience cover topics such as our values, our Code working in senior financial positions in of Conduct, Speaking Out whistleblowing, international companies and is also a data protection, competition law, antimember of the Board of Thomas Cook GmbH, bribery and cyber security.
On behalf of the Board, I would like is available in 11 different languages and to thank Bill for thevaluable contribution we are monitoring completion rates.
I am he has made tothebusiness over the last confident this will support the work we six years.
have done to strengthen the culture of the business through proactive communication of our values and continually working to enable a compliance ethos throughout theentire organisation.
