Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance As Chairman, it is my responsibility to ensure that TI Fluid Systems is governed and managed with transparency and in the best interests of stakeholders.
Manfred Wennemer Chairman Dear Shareholder, frameworks and policies and procedures noted on pages 42 and 43.
I am pleased On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to are in place has been given considerable to report the Board and its Committees present TI Fluid Systems Corporate Board and Executive focus.
As noted are operating effectively.
As noted Governance report for the year ended previously, sound governance structures previously, the Board and its Committee 31 December 2018, our first full year as were in place at TI Fluid Systems prior to performance has been kept under close a listed company.
This report aims to the Global Offer and Listing, but we have review, and the Board conducted a provide shareholders and other welcomed the opportunity to strengthen self-evaluation of its performance in 2018. stakeholders with an understanding of these where necessary.
The recommendations from that review how our Group is managed and the have been used to ensure that we are governance and control framework in focussing on the right issues and adding We have a qualified and capable Board which TI Fluid Systems operates.
A summary of the key outcomes comprised of Directors with a broad range recognise that good governance is has been noted on page 45.
Next year we of relevant skills and experience.
Full essential in enabling our Board to operate plan to carry out an externally facilitated biographies of each of the Directors are effectively in the leadership of the Group evaluation, which I am sure will help to set out on pages 38 to 39.
As I discussed and in promoting the success of the further enhance the Board programme.
in greater detail in my Chairmans Company in the long term.
Statement, our Board constitution continues to evolve, and we continue to We continue to communicate to investors TI Fluid Systems listed its Ordinary Shares seek candidates for appointment to our following our successful Listing and on the Main Market of the London Stock Board that will contribute to the further welcoming a new and wider shareholder Exchange on 25 October 2017.
The Listing diversity and strength of the Board.
A key priority for the Board is Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, pleased with the addition of two new communicating effectively with the and the UK Corporate Governance Code highly qualified Non-Executive Directors.
the Code, have been applied to the Elaine Sarsynski was appointed in August Company throughout the financial year 2018 and Andrea Dunstan was recently I look forward to working with the Board in ended 31 December 2018 and as at the appointed in March 2019.
However, Neil driving excellence in governance both in date of this report.
I am delighted to report Carson will be departing in May 2019 as the boardroom and throughout the Group.
we are currently in full compliance with announced in December 2018 due to his TI Fluid Systems has an exciting future the Code.
We are and we have the right team to take advantage grateful for Neils stewardship as Deputy of the opportunities that lie ahead.
Chairman and Senior Independent There has been a particular focus on Director and wish him well.
developing a robust governance Manfred Wennemer framework to support the organisation Chairman and ensure the Boards responsibility is To assist the Board in its oversight maintained.
Understanding how we work functions, the Audit & Risk, Nomination and ensuring that the appropriate and Remuneration Committees have met governance structures, risk and control and carried out their areas of responsibility TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 36 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 12 The Governance Structure The Board Leadership, strategy and development: controls and values.
Manfred Wennemer Timothy Knutson Paul Edgerley Independent NonChief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Executive Chairman William L. Kozyra Neil Carson John Smith Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive and President Independent Director Director Stephen Thomas Jeffrey Vanneste Elaine Sarsynski Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Director 1.
N eil Carson will not be standing for re-election at the AGM as announced on 20 December 2018.
Andrea Dunstan was appointed on 8 March 2019.
Nomination Committee Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman Chairman Chairman Manfred Wennemer Jeffrey Vanneste Neil Carson Members Members Members Neil Carson Neil Carson Elaine Sarsynski Paul Edgerley John Smith John Smith Jeffrey Vanneste Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Evaluating the size, structure and Reviewing and monitoring the integrity Key responsibilities composition of the Board of the financial statements Setting the Remuneration Policy for all Executive Directors and the Chairman Assisting the Board in relation to the Ensuring effective systems of internal composition of the Board, including controls, internal audit and risk Determine remuneration packages, evaluating the balance of skills, management are maintained including bonuses and awards, for knowledge, experience and diversity Executive Directors and Senior Advising on the appointment of the Management in consultation with the Consideration to succession planning external auditors and monitoring Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, non-audit work undertaken by the as appropriate external auditor More information: Nomination More information: Audit & Risk More information: Remuneration Committee report on page 45 Committee report on page 47 Committee report on page 53 The Company adopted the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 on 25 October 2017 on admission to the UKLAs Official List and Listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
For the year ending 31 December 2018, the Company has applied all the main provisions of the Code and has complied with the provisions of the Code save as noted below: Code Provision B.
1.2 Detail the UK Corporate Governance Code requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Explanation of non-compliance Until August 2018 the Board was comprised of eight Directors, including the Independent Non-Executive Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, two Independent Non-Executive Directors, two Executive Directors and two Non-Executive Directors.
In August 2018 we added an additional Independent Non-Executive Director and, therefore, came into full compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37
