Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 51 Chairmans introduction to governance Rupert Robson Our culture and values Executive leadership Chairman We firmly believe that the conduct of the In July the Board announced that John Group and our employees is as important as Phizackerley would step down from his the products and services that we provide.
post as Chief Executive and member of the Dear shareholder, We recognise this as an important measure Board with immediate effect.
This decision of the Companys interaction with broader was made after considered deliberations Your Board remains committed at all times society.
The Board remains committed to in specially convened meetings of the to ensuring that it provides effective the promotion of our core values of honesty, Non-executive Directors, Board and leadership within the framework of our integrity, respect and excellence, constantly Remuneration Committee.
Having regard core values and sound corporate governance.
reinforcing these through leadership, our to their experience and knowledge of the This commitment was put to the test during business standards and our communications.
Companys operations and financial the past year which was undoubtedly position, the Board resolved to appoint a challenging one for the Group and its We regularly discuss the Companys culture Nicolas Breteau as the Companys new stakeholders.
Circumstances required the and consider our attitudes and behaviours, Chief Executive Officer, and also to confirm Board to act decisively when, after careful recognising that it is essential to meet the Robin Stewarts appointment as permanent consideration of the underlying issues, needs and expectations not only of our Chief Financial Officer.
Both Nicolas Breteau including the need to safeguard the inherent clients but also of the Companys regulators, and Robin Stewart were also appointed to value in the business, and mindful always of employees and other stakeholders in order the Board, which was of the view that with our responsibilities to our shareholders and to ensure that we have a successful and both appointments the Company not only all stakeholders, it was decided that the sustainable business going forward.
had the leadership to deliver existing Company should appoint a new Chief priorities, including the ongoing integration, Executive Officer.
The Companys culture has evolved over a but also to execute the future growth number of years with the express purpose I would like to thank my colleagues on the strategy.
The Board also took account of the of promoting our core values and engaging Board for their commitment to the process benefits of the continuity inherent in these effectively with our various stakeholders.
required to consider and implement this appointments given Nicolas and Robins We continue to place a heavy emphasis on decision in a compliant and professional previous senior management roles in the acting commercially so as to optimise returns manner.
Along with the whole Board, the leadership of the Company.
to shareholders over the long term.
But we Remuneration and the Nominations and have also woven the dictates of the cultural In recognition of the increased and still Governance Committees committed objectives described above into our increasing role that regulation and significant time to these matters with the operational framework to ensure that we compliance plays in our operations, Philip result that a set of important decisions were remain fit for purpose in todays society.
Price, Group General Counsel and Group taken regarding the Companys leadership Head of Compliance, was also invited to and direction.
During this period of change In that vein, we have demonstrated with our join the Board as an additional Executive it is also important for me to recognise the actions over recent years our commitment Director in September 2018.
It was efforts and hard work of our employees to cultural, ethnic and gender diversity when considered that this would also assist with who have remained focused and who have considering the composition of the Board.
the provision to the Board of the information contributed to a successful years results.
This diversity commitment will remain an it requires to carry out its role effectively.
important factor in future deliberations The Board has concluded that the presence about the Boards composition, recognising of three Executive Directors will allow for a that better decisions are made by diverse more rounded executive contribution to the Boards, while, importantly, also considering Boards deliberations going forward.
the skillsets and breadth of perspectives and experience required in our boardroom.
This commitment to diversity extends all the way through the Company.
com 52 Governance report Chairmans introduction to governance continued Our evolving Board Executive Director remuneration Succession and governance oversight We have committed to refreshing the Shareholders will recall the introduction of The appointment of Nicolas Breteau as the Non-executive Director complement of the a Transformation Long Term Incentive Plan Companys new Chief Executive Officer Board so that it remains fit for the future.
T-LTIP in 2017 for both Executive Directors demonstrated the value and importance of As described in last years Annual Report, and a number of senior executives within the our already established executive and senior there is now an explicit Board refreshment Company.
This followed agreement at the management succession planning.
This programme operating broadly on an annual time that such an incentive plan would, in allowed the Board to act swiftly regarding basis.
While Edmund Ngs and Michael principle, be able to reward executives for his appointment as was required by the Heaneys appointments in November 2017 the exceptionally heavy workload entailed circumstances.
The appointment was made and January 2018, respectively, were noted by the integration programme, subject to after conducting a review of other possible in the 2017 Annual Report, we were also targets being met.
candidates and their availability through a pleased to welcome Lorraine Trainer to the market mapping exercise, confirming that The Remuneration Committee has concluded Board and as Remuneration Committee there was no obviously stronger candidate.
that in the circumstances the T-LTIP is no Chair elect in July 2018.
This exercise was performed with the longer fit for purpose.
The bulk of the assistance of a search firm.
Carol Sergeant retired as Non-executive integration work has been done, without Director at the end of 2018, and Stephen detracting from the importance of Succession will continue to be a subject of Pull will retire at the conclusion of the Annual completing the process in 2019.
Executives prime importance to the Nominations and General Meeting in May 2019.
I too am are now turning their minds to the optimum Governance Committee.
In the future, this retiring from the Board at the conclusion strategy for the Company for the medium Committee will be examining the Companys of the Annual General Meeting.
and long-term, as well as performing the talent pool at still greater depth to seek the continuing process of optimising Company leaders and major contributors of tomorrow.
Richard Berliand has joined the Board initially performance annually.
In light of this, the as Chairman designate and will assume the 2018 also marked the first full year cycle for Remuneration Committee has formulated Chairmanship of the Company on 15 May this Committee in its expanded role of taking a revised Remuneration Policy, especially 2019.
Angela Knight, the Senior Independent the lead in governance oversight.
This is as regards the long-term incentive plan, Director, led the search process for the new intended to ensure that all our Companys for consideration by shareholders at the Chairman and further information on this procedures and thinking evolve alongside Annual General Meeting.
Significant may be found on page 56. continuing corporate governance reform.
consultation with shareholders on the Among the matters considered during the proposed new policy has taken place and In this way, the Board has ensured that year was how to bring the voice of our further details may be found on pages 80 there is healthy turnover in its composition colleagues into the boardroom.
Further to 107 of this Annual Report.
while maintaining its breadth of skills and detail on this and the rest of the work of the experience.
Richard will continue to work Committee during the year may be found on Board composition when he takes over on pages 68 to 71. as Chairman.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 53 Risks and controls Board effectiveness Compliance with the Code During the year the Company commenced As a Board we are always striving to We have reviewed our governance a comprehensive review of its Group risk improve our processes and the quality of framework with reference to the UK management framework.
We aim to learn from Corporate Governance Code 2016, and has been made and this remains an item experience, and our Board evaluation a statement of compliance with the Code of significant focus not only for the Risk process assists us in highlighting areas is set out on page 50.
Committee, but also for the Board as a which require focus in this regard.
Significant work has taken place in recently concluded our annual Board As a Group we continue to look for recent years to redesign the risk management effectiveness evaluation.
This time, the improvements to our governance structure framework in line with increasing regulatory evaluation also questioned Board members and activity, and in doing so also have requirements.
Latterly, the regulatory about the lessons to be learned from the regard to the developing interests and environment has also been changing as events of last summer.
requirements of all our stakeholders.
This a result of the constantly moving target of The results of the evaluation highlighted will remain a core priority going forward, Brexit.
Whilst there is continuing work on that the Board, and its committees, had building on the significant advances we sharpening the design of the framework, opportunities for improvement, with further have already made over recent years.
considerable further work has been going development being identified in a number into ensuring that the compliance and of areas.
These included a refreshment of control requirements of that framework the design and content of regular Board permeate into every aspect of the Groups Rupert Robson papers so as to optimise information flow operations.
This has entailed significant Chairman from the executives and enhance Board investment, and will continue to do so.
They also Further information on this may be found included the development of cultural in the Report of the Risk Committee on oversight, improvements in time allocation page 76. to priority discussion items, and introducing an even greater focus on technology and cyber-security.
Further detail on the evaluation and actions agreed for 2019 can be found on page 65.
The Board will once again conduct an evaluation exercise at the end of the year.
This will be under Richard Berliands leadership and will make use of an external evaluator.
