Corporate governance During 2018, the Board has continued to develop CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION our strategy and oversee its implementation.
Our TO GOVERNANCE governance has focused on what makes us different: what sets us apart from the competition.
This can be summed up by our highly trained During the year, market uncertainty has and caring people, operating our quality increased whether due to Brexit, the HE Funding properties underpinned with deep University review or the maturing PBSA sector.
The Board relationships and our service platform designed has overseen our Brexit readiness planning, for our digitally native customers.
All of us on the identifying our key Brexit risks and supervising Board understand the responsibility to develop our Brexit disruption planning.
We may not know a sustainable and resilient strategy, fortunate what Brexit will ultimately look like, but we are we can build on the insight gained from ensuring we are well prepared for it operationally.
operating in the PBSA sector for 28 years while harnessing the skills and talents of our people.
We felt it was important to refresh the Board during 2018 and bring in some new experience.
This year the Board has continued with its After an extensive search, Ilaria del Beato and governance focus on optimising our portfolio.
Richard Akers joined us as Non-Executive Quality properties in great locations are an Directors.
We welcome their valuable property, asset to Universities and help make their offer operational and financial experience.
The Group has successfully delivered seven new properties underpinned The importance of robust and effective governance with nominations agreements with high continues, especially with the sector and wider and medium tariff Universities.
We have market uncertainties looming in 2019 and beyond.
also disposed of properties which did not Our governance framework has been designed meet our portfolio strategy.
to ensure our resilience, help us manage these uncertainties as well as seizing any opportunities Universities and parents trust us to provide a safe that change may bring.
The following pages and secure home for students.
We see this as a provide insight into how we are building on our key element of the student experience while at decades of experience in the sector and plan University and safety and critically how we can to continue delivering sustainable value and make our properties even safer is a priority for a successful business.
the Board and our Health and Safety Committee.
Phil White Chairman of the Board 27 February 2019 52 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 The Boards governance role in developing and implementing our strategy Governance overview Governance framework Our governance framework, underpinned by the UK Corporate Governance Code, continues to support our strategy and ensure our long-term sustainable success.
Like our risk management framework described on page 24, our governance framework is driven by an open and collaborative Board and broader Unite Students culture, creating an environment for people to have confidence to challenge the norm.
Below and on the next two pages, we cover how governance has supported our strategy during 2018 and how this is linked to our principal risks.
We also describe our governance priorities for 2019.
Read more about How governance supported our strategy during 2018 on page 54 Leadership On pages 56 and 57, we describe the composition of the Board and explain their skills, experience and contribution.
Pages 60 to 61 explain how the Board is collectively responsible for the long-term sustainable success of Unite, its clear division of responsibilities and the role of the Non-Executives in constructively challenging and developing our strategy.
Read more about Leadership on page 60 Effectiveness Page 65 describes how our governance framework ensures the effectiveness of the Board.
The results of this years board evaluation are on page 65.
The Nomination Committee report page 66 describes how we ensure we have the right skills and experience.
Read more about Effectiveness on page 65 Accountability The Audit Committee report pages 68 to 71, together with our risk management framework and principal risks pages 24 to 31, describe how we ensure a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of Unites position and prospects, the assessment of our principal risks and their alignment with our strategic objectives.
This section also notes how we maintain an appropriate relationship with Deloitte, our external auditors, consistent with the Code and statutory requirements.
Read more about Accountability on page 68 Remuneration In what is an increasingly complicated regulatory area, our Remuneration at a Glance section page 78 is intended to provide an overview of this complex area.
Our proposed new Remuneration Policy is on pages 79 to 85 and the detailed remuneration report pages 86 to 95 describes how we ensure Executive Director remuneration is designed to promote the long-term success of the Company.
Shareholder relations Page 59 describes how we engage with shareholders, which during 2018 included a Capital Markets Day and engagement in October with an investor tour of Brunel House, our new 246 bed development which opened in September in Bristol.
Read more about Shareholder relations and engagement page 59 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 53 Corporate governance CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE CONTINUED How governance supported our strategy during 2018 Strategic objective Boards governance role Link to principal risk 2018 Board activity Quality Active property recycling Property market cycle The successful disposal of 14 properties, comprising 3,436 beds, reducing the average age properties risk on page 30 Board oversight on portfolio recycling of our estate.
activity ensuring value obtained and Read more about Asset disposals on page 40 proceeds recycled efficiently.
Development pipeline Property Development Seven new student residences 3,074 beds opened on time and to budget.
The beds are fully risk on page 30 Board scrutiny of city and site selection let to students attending midto high-ranking universities with 52% of these beds secured for new developments against backdrop on nomination agreements with an average life of 10 years.
of increasing competition for the best Read more about Development activity on pages 14 to 16 sites.
Governance of developments acquisitions to ensure they run to budget and schedule and are earnings accretive.
Health & Safety Operational risk The Board reviews the safety of our students, visitors and employees, as well as contractors at our Major health and As we develop our brand through the development sites, at each Board meeting.
During 2018, this has included monitoring the Hackitt safety incident implementation of Home for Success, Review, developing best practice following the Grenfell Tower tragedy and regulatory change.
in a property or the risk of a health and safety incident a development The Health & Safety Committee, a sub-Committee of the Board, focuses on: damaging our reputation increases.
site on page 29 The Boards governance of the health fire, our biggest safety risk, and our work with the Avon Fire Authority, our Primary Fire and safety, wellbeing and security of Authority lead the 50,000 students who make Unite external safety assurance through The British Safety Council, our external safety auditor Students their home is critical to physical security review of our properties by WSP Parsons Brinckerhoff.
the Groups continued success and trusted reputation.
Read more about the Health & Safety Committee report on page 72 Quality Governance to ensure our Market risks supply Oversight that PRISM delivers: service and demand on market-leading service platform is a robust booking system platform page 28 robust, reliable and also developed an improved and scalable platform for revenue management and customer engagement further to meet our customers enhanced service levels for both Universities and students increasing expectations.
Read more about the Operations review on page 32 Affordability and value for money Market risks supply Analysis of the Higher Education accommodation sector and ensuring we continue to offer and demand on an affordable and value-for-money product.
page 28 Read more about Affordability on pages 26 and 28 Information security and keeping our Market risks supply As our engagement with our digital native customers moves increasingly online and we develop customers and employees personal and demand on apps to enhance this it is more important than ever that we keep their personal data safe.
page 28 As part of our Digital Media strategy, the Board led a review of our information security and its governance, in particular having regard to the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR which came into effect during 2018.
The Audit Committee also reviewed our information security GDPR compliance matrix as part of its remit to review our risk management and controls framework.
Leadership development and Market risks supply The Nomination Committee focuses not only on Board succession, with two Directors joining succession planning talent and demand on the Board in 2018 Ilaria del Beato and Richard Akers, but also our broader talent pipeline pipeline.
Quality Board scrutiny of our developments and Market risks supply 60% of our total beds are now under nomination agreements.
Exposure to high and mid-tier University and demand and portfolio recycling to ensure we partner Universities on track to reach 90% on completion of our secured pipeline.
Higher Education review partnerships Property Development with the right Universities and enhance and our growth strategy having regard to developing new University partnerships transactions.
risk on pages 28 and 30 our long standing relationships.
Read more about Quality partnerships on page 11 54 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Strategic objective Boards governance role Link to principal risk 2018 Board activity Delivering Brexit Market Risks supply Group Board assessment of our key Brexit risks and the oversight of our Brexit Disruption Plan sustainable and demand on Group Board focus on our Brexit in which we prepare for the inevitable operational disruption due to Brexit.
High-quality, growing earnings Market risks and 98% let across our portfolio for the 2018 19 academic year and 3.03.5% rental growth.
Property Development Oversight of operational Read more about Quality partnership on page 12 risks on page 28 performance, rental growth and University partnerships transactions along with dividend growth.
Capital structure Financing risk Unable Board oversight on our transition to unsecured lending 275 million unsecured bond issued in to arrange new debt or Group Board focus on a strong October 2018 and continued focus on locking in debt at historically low rates for new debt facilities expiring debt facilities and flexible capital structure, which and forward starting interest-rate swaps for future borrowings for secured development pipeline.
cannot be replaced or can adapt to market conditions, only at high cost.
At the end of 2018: and reducing and diversifying the Adverse interest rate cost of funding.
movements on page 31 Loan to value 29% 31 December 2017: 31% Average cost of debt 3.8% 31 December 2017: 4.1%.
Read more about Debt financing and interest rate on page 42 2019 governance priorities Continued delivery of high-quality, growing earnings with oversight and assurances of: Macro Market Quality properties Quality service Financial structure Our people dynamics The impact of the Higher Choosing, securing and Fire safety following the Growing our unsecured Developing our talent Education Funding Review developing the right sites Hackitt Review and a lending and funding our pipeline and future leaders and Brexit on the sector, UK in the best locations.
to help ensure a sustainable plc and the UK economy Securing income coupled future.
Continued focus on more generally.
Managing with rental growth through Enhancing our digital our diversity, equality and the risks and equally high-quality properties offering for our digital inclusivity initiatives.
embracing the opportunities with quality long-term native customers.
our product proposition, but always focused on affordability and value for money.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 55
