Vesuvius plc 78 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate Governance Statement Chairmans Governance Letter Another area of attention for the Board in 2018 was stakeholder Dear Shareholder, engagement.
Recognising the recent governance focus in this On behalf of the Board I am delighted to area, the Board took the opportunity to map the Groups key stakeholders and explore the strength of the Groups engagement present the 2018 Corporate Governance with them.
Our global and diverse community of stakeholders Statement.
I am pleased to confirm that includes our shareholders, current, past and future employees, customers, suppliers, investors, banks, the communities in which your Company is fully compliant with the we operate and the various agencies and organisations that principles and provisions of the 2016 UK regulate our operations.
We respect the views of all our stakeholders, seek to engage with them and take their feedback Corporate Governance Code the Code into account and, as ever, consider the impact of our actions upon which we report this year.
Within the on them as part of our decision-making processes.
Corporate Governance Statement we During 2018, the Non-executive Directors continued to broaden provide investors and other stakeholders their understanding of the Group through individual site visits and scheduled Board visits.
The full Board visited our new Shared with an annual insight into the governance Service Centre in Krakow and our operations in Skawina, Poland, activities of the Board and its committees.
and there was also a Board visit to our operations in India, visiting our major Steel and Foundry manufacturing sites and In July 2018, the Financial Reporting Council published a new also undertaking a visit to key Steel customers.
I was delighted 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code the New Code which to visit China in September and Brazil in October 2018. includes revised remuneration practices, and places greater My Non-executive colleagues also visited our operations in emphasis on the Boards responsibility to embody and promote China.
The Directors remain committed to ongoing training an appropriate corporate culture.
The Company will report on and development, and alongside more formal training activities its compliance with the New Code in its 2019 Annual Report, and these opportunities to meet with management and people at work is already well-progressed on identifying the procedures our facilities are invaluable.
and practices within Vesuvius that already respond to the The Boards formal evaluation process was again externally requirements of the New Code, updating them where necessary.
facilitated in 2018, by the corporate advisory firm, Lintstock.
This will ensure that we can report full compliance with the The results of the review concluded that the Board remained New Code next year.
As a Board, we remain committed to strong and effective with an appropriate composition and an applying the highest standards of corporate governance, environment that fosters effective support and constructive recognising that robust governance and culture underpin challenge.
The evaluation highlighted a number of Board business success.
priorities which we look forward to progressing in 2019.
For the Board, 2018 was a year of consolidation.
We focused on Yours sincerely supporting Patrick Andres significant drive and energy in leading the Group in the next stages of its development.
A key area of John McDonough CBE emphasis for the business was on the strengthening of the Groups Chairman talent pool.
The Nomination Committee focused on succession 27 February 2019 planning for the senior management levels immediately below the Board, with a review of Divisional and functional resourcing and also considered the development of high-potential individuals throughout the organisation.
We have made a significant number of new appointments throughout the Groups senior management tiers which have added appreciably to the diversity in skills, background and experience at senior management level.
The Board continues to take seriously its responsibility for shaping the corporate culture of the Group.
In 2018 the Group Executive Committee launched the new CORE values Courage, Ownership, Respect and Energy.
You will find these mentioned throughout the Annual Report, highlighting their importance to the organisation.
These new values define our priorities for corporate behaviour and are a practical representation of the culture we seek to foster.
They support our governance and In this section: Also see: control processes and their implementation has already had an observable impact on the Group.
Board effectiveness on p82 Risk, viability and going concern on p28 Board accountability on p85 Our principles on p53 Audit Committee Report on p86 Nomination Committee Report on p93 Directors Remuneration Report on p95
