Corporate governance Introduction from the Chairman The changes at Board level resulted in a full schedule for our Board Committees over the last twelve months.
The Nominations Committee had a busy and productive year, evaluating candidates and recommending the new appointments to the Board.
The Remuneration Committee considered the proposed remuneration for the new Group Finance Director in conjunction with Willis Towers Watson, our remuneration consultants.
It also considered the parameters for the new Long Term Incentive Plan, which is subject to a shareholder vote.
The Audit Committee had a change in Chairman and appointed a new external auditor.
Following the resignation of Andrew Dougal in February 2018, it was appropriate that I take on the role as Chair of the Audit Committee on an interim basis pending the appointment of a successor.
David Thomas was appointed to take on this role in May 2018.
At the 2018 Annual General Meeting, PwC was appointed as auditor of the Company for the first time following a detailed tender process last year.
The Audit Committee report for the year can be found on pages 52 to 54.
The responsibilities of the Board include setting the Groups Larry Pentz strategic aims, providing the leadership to deliver them, holding Chairman management to account in the conduct of the business and reporting to our shareholders.
The Board recognises that for Dear shareholders and stakeholders, Victrex to remain a world leader as an innovative and differentiated business, we need to innovate repeatedly not only in the products At Victrex, we recognise that in order to deliver our strategy and and solutions we supply but also in our working practices as we support the long-term success and sustainability of our business, grow and develop.
Strategy forms a key part of our Board meetings, a good and robust corporate governance framework is vital.
It is where our progress against strategic initiatives is assessed in also important to ensure we remain true to our culture and our addition to discussing new opportunities.
We are committed to ensuring that good Our Corporate governance report is set out on pages 44 to 68, governance is an inherent part of our way of thinking and working, including the Directors remuneration report on pages 55 to 68. as well as being the foundation of how we conduct ourselves every Thissection of the Annual Report sets out how we manage the day.
We remain cognisant of the strong relationship between ethics Group and comply with the provisions of the Code.
It also outlines and governance and the role the Board plays in demonstrating any governance initiatives undertaken in the year.
Our Victrex Global Code of Conduct is now embedded across all regions.
Further information on ethics and Finally, our Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate social responsibility is contained in our Sustainability report on Governance Code is set out on page 44. pages 28 to 39.
We welcome the new Corporate Governance Code released Larry Pentz in July2018 and we will report on the changes to the Victrex Chairman governance framework in next years Annual Report, in anticipation 4 December 2018 of the revised Code becoming effective in the 2019 20 year.
During the 2019 financial year, we will begin our transition towards compliance with the 2018 Code.
Weoperate a clear line of distinction between management led by the Chief Executive, who is responsible for the day to day running of the business, and the Board, acting under my leadership, which provides constructive challenge to management, ensuring an open culture of debate that contributes to creating and preserving value for our shareholders.
The last year saw the transition in day to day responsibility to our new CEO, Jakob Sigurdsson, who was appointed on 1 October 2017.
A key part of my role is to ensure that the Board works collaboratively For more information visit with the executive team, to provide support and guidance and to www.
com challenge management constructively when necessary.
This involves having Directors with the right balance of skills and diversity of experience and perspective.
I believe we have this on our Board, enhanced by a number of new non-executive Director appointments during the year, namely Janet Ashdown, Brendan Connolly and David Thomas.
We also welcomed a new Group Finance Director, Richard Armitage, following the departure of Louisa Burdett in April2018.
