Governance 46 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 Chairmans governance statement Committed to the highest standards of corporate governance Strong and robust corporate governance is integral to creating long-term value and success for the benefit of our shareholders and stakeholders.
Contents 46 Chairmans governance statement 60 Board evaluation 48 Board of Directors 62 Nominations and Governance Committee 50 Executive Committee 64 Audit and Risk Committee 52 Leadership structure 70 Remuneration Committee 54 Board activities 88 Our US listing requirements 56 Board effectiveness 89 Directors report 58 Engaging with ourstakeholders Following the announcement in March 2017 that Nick Land and Phil Dear Shareholder, Yea would not stand for re-election at the 2017 AGM, it was identified Welcome to the Corporate Governance Report for the year ended that the Board would benefit from the addition of someone with 31 March 2018 which I am pleased to present on behalf of the Board.
In January 2018, we announced the appointment This year has seen continued focus on companies corporate of Michel Demar with effect from 1 February 2018.
Michel has a strong governance arrangements, ensuring that they have strong and robust background in corporate finance and a wealth of leadership experience corporate governance at the heart of everything they do.
This report will and is an important addition to the Board.
Further information outline how your Board has ensured that we have effective corporate on Michels appointment process can be found on page 63. governance in place to help support the creation of long-term value for We have also announced that Dr. Mathias Dpfner will not be seeking our shareholders and stakeholders.
re-election at our AGM in July, in order to focus on his executive role.
My Chairmans statement on page 3 highlights the progress we have I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mathias for his contribution made against our ambition to be a converged communications leader to the Board over the last three years.
in all of our European markets, a mobile data leader in Africa and India, Keeping in mind the delicate balance of skills and experience needed for and an Enterprise leader internationally.
your Board to operate effectively, and given Samuel Jonahs continued Key to this progress is ensuring that the Board and senior management independent character and judgement, I have asked Samuel to remain remain focused on the right things and a significant event within our on the Board and to seek re-election for a further 12 months at our AGM.
annual calendar is the Board strategy day.
Each year, the strategy day The Board is currently meeting its target of having at least 33% female takes place in a key location and this year it was held at our Germany representation on the Board by 2020.
We are committed to having offices in Dsseldorf.
a diverse board in all respects and the Committee has taken into As well as providing time for the Board and senior management to focus consideration the targets outlined in the Parker and Hamptonspecifically on strategy, the day also gives the Board the opportunity Alexander reports.
to meet colleagues, customers and other stakeholders in one of our local markets.
Culture and governance The Board recognises the importance of its role in setting the tone Board changes of Vodafones culture and embedding it throughout the Group.
In May 2018, we announced the succession plan for the Group Chief Our Business Principles the values we respect and our Code Executive role.
From 1 October 2018, Vittorio Colao will be succeeded of Conduct the behaviours we expect underpin everything that by Nick Read, our current Chief Financial Officer, with Margherita Della we do and are reinforced through the Digital Vodafone Way, which sets Valle our Deputy CFO succeeding Nick and joining the Board after the out the type of organisation we want to be.
Everyone who works for and AGM on 27 July 2018.
In addition to this executive succession planning, with us is required to comply with these.
An overview of our Business the Nominations and Governance Committee continued to keep under Principles, our Code of Conduct and the Digital Vodafone Way can review the composition of the Board to ensure that we have the right be found on pages 36 and 37. balance of skills and experience.
The Board, Executive Committee and our senior management On 1 June 2017, Maria Amparo Moraleda Martinez joined the Board understand how we work is as important as what we achieve and as a Non-Executive Director.
Amparo has strong international instil focus on the importance of compliance and integrity at all levels technology experience and has been a valuable addition to the Board.
To ensure a smooth transition, Amparo has undertaken an extensive induction programme, of which further information is available on page 56.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2018 47 It is pleasing to see the external recognition Vodafone has received over Compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate the last 12 months for our work in diversity and inclusion.
As discussed on pages 36 to 37, Vodafone is committed to diversity and inclusion GovernanceCode the Code in all forms.
This year Vodafone was acknowledged as a top 100 LGBT In respect of the year ended 31 March 2018, Vodafone Group Plc inclusive employer by Stonewall and Vittorio was recognised as the top was subject to the Code available from www.
The Board male champion of women in business in the UK by the Financial Times is pleased to confirm that Vodafone applied the principles and and HERoes.
complied with all of the provisions of the Code throughout the year.
Further information on compliance with the Code can be found The Board is also committed to ensuring there is a robust system as follows: of corporate governance in place to support the successful execution of Vodafones strategy.
This year Vodafone was subject to the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and I am pleased to confirm that Leadership Read more Vodafone has complied with it.
52 The role of the Board Following our success at the ICSA: The Governance Institute Awards 2016, winning Best Audit Report Disclosure, I am pleased to tell you 53 Division of responsibilities that in 2017 Vodafone won Strategic Report of the Year and was also nominated for Annual Report of the Year, recognising our hard work 53 The Chairman andcommitment to good reporting.
53 Non-Executive Directors Engagement with our stakeholders Vodafones success is dependent upon your Board taking decisions Effectiveness Read more for the benefit of our shareholders and in doing so having regard for allof our stakeholders.
52 Composition of the Board A key event during the year is the AGM whereby the Board is able 62 Appointments to the Board to engage with you and to answer your questions on the performance of the Group.
62 Commitment Further details on how we have engaged with all of our stakeholders 57 Development over the year can be found on pages 58 and 59.
57 Information and support Board effectiveness This year the Board again undertook an internal evaluation with the 60 Evaluation assistance of Lintstock.
The results of this review can be found on pages Re-election 62 60 and 61 which I am pleased to report show that your Board is still operating effectively.
Accountability Read more Looking ahead Maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance across the 65 Financial and business reporting Group is integral to the delivery of our strategy and your Board remain focused on creating sustainable long-term value for the benefit of our 68 Risk management and internal control shareholders and stakeholders.
64 Audit Committee and auditors Remuneration Read more 73 The level and components of remuneration Procedure 70 Gerard Kleisterlee Chairman 15 May 2018 Relations with shareholders Read more 58 Dialogue with shareholders 58 Constructive use of general meetings Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules We comply with the corporate governance statement requirements pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules by virtue of the information included in this Governance section of the Annual Report together with information contained in the Shareholder information section on pages 191 to 197.
