Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 67 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Chairmans introduction to Governance Strong Governance to drive success Dear Shareholders, The UK Corporate Governance Code I am pleased to present the Corporate The UK Corporate Governance Code is published Governance Report for 2018.
In this report I by the Financial Reporting Council and sets describe our Corporate Governance framework out the standards of good practice in relation and explain how the Board works to ensure that to matters such as Board composition and this framework remains appropriate and effective.
effectiveness, the role of Board Committees, risk management, remuneration and relations The following Corporate Governance Report, with shareholders.
including the Committee Reports and the Directors Report, sets out how we apply We are required to explain how we have complied our governance standards in practice and with the Code and applied its principles and demonstrates our compliance with the UK provisions.
We must also provide an explanation Charles Berry Corporate Governance Code 2016. of any instances where we have not.
Chairman Leadership and Purpose This Corporate Governance Report, together Under my Chairmanship, I continue to focus on with the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Highlights ensuring that the Board remains effective and Committee Reports, details how the Company leads by example to demonstrate the desired has applied the main principles of the UK Promoting a culture of accountability values and culture of the Company.
The Board Corporate Governance Code 2016. recognises that strong Corporate Governance is Engaging with our stakeholders to The Company has also considered and adopted promote the long term success of essential to deliver the strategy, to drive success the spirit of the new UK Corporate Governance the Company and to create long term value for its stakeholders.
Code 2018 and will ensure that its principles Continuing focus on assessing and Effectiveness and provisions are applied in full throughout the monitoring culture The Board operates effectively and each Board course of 2019. member demonstrates the correct balance of The Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure skills, experience, independence, knowledge, and and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 requires the ability to commit sufficient time to undertake the corporate governance statement to contain their duties and responsibilities appropriately.
certain information required by Schedule 7 to the Accountability Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups The Board is committed to the highest standards Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 SI of integrity and accountability.
It oversees a 2008 410. system of prudent and effective risk management This information relates to significant interests and internal control systems and has well in the securities of the Company, securities established committees to assist it in the carrying special rights with regard to the control undertaking of its duties.
of the Company, restrictions on voting rights, Engagement rules regarding the appointment and replacement The Board ensures ongoing engagement of Directors, rules regarding changes to the The Company has complied with stakeholders throughout the year and Companys Articles of Association and the acknowledges the clear responsibility it has to Directors powers in relation to the issuing or in full during 2018 and to the promote the long-term success of the Company buying back by the Company of its shares.
date of this report with the for its stakeholders.
This long term approach The relevant information can be found within the defines how the strategy is set and allows the Directors Report on pages 114 to 115. provisions of the UK Board to assess risk and deliver sustainable value Corporate Governance Code for stakeholders.
Remuneration The Code is publicly available The Board ensures an open and transparent remuneration policy for the effective recruitment Charles Berry at the website of the and retention of Board members and Company Chairman Financial Reporting Council employees.
A formal procedure exists to ensure 27 February 2019 at www.
the alignment of remuneration with the culture and strategic plan.
