GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Wizz Air has grown significantly and successfully as a result, in part, of constantly re-examining the way it does things and ensuring that its business is run to the best possible standards.
The work of the Audit Committee during the 2018 financial year continued to reflect this philosophy.
As well as the continued engagement on day-to-day financial issues, including further discussion on hedging strategy and approval of hedging transactions, the Audit Committee also has oversight of the Companys recently-overhauled system for enterprise risk management ERM, to ensure that the Companys risk management processes continue to provide robust support for its future growth.
Main activities of the Audit Committee during the 2018 financial year Risk management The Audit Committee is tasked with ensuring that the Board has adequate oversight of risk management and that it deems the controls sufficient and effective.
The 2018 financial year was the first financial year during the entirety of which the Companys ERM programme was fully operational.
Working with the Companys Internal Audit function during a series of meetings facilitated by Ernst & Young, each risk identified was considered in detail in terms of the inherent risk, existing mitigating measures and residual risk, along with a determination of how that risk should be dealt with in accordance with the Companys risk appetite.
The resulting risk register was then used to prepare a principal risk report.
Each risk owner is required to review each risk at least once a quarter.
The Companys internal Risk Council, comprising the Companys senior management team, reviews the risk register and the principal risk report also at least once a quarter.
The Risk Council then reports to the Audit Committee on, among other things, changes to be made to the principal risk report, including any consequent mitigating actions.
The principal risk report, once approved by the Audit Committee, is delivered to the Board.
In addition to the ERM programme, the Companys Internal Audit function prepares a plan of internal audits for the upcoming year, which is approved by the Audit Committee.
Internal audits are performed by Ernst & Young and the Head of Internal Audit, who has direct responsibility to the Chairman of the Audit Committee as well as a reporting line to the Companys Chief Executive Officer.
Following completion of an Internal Audit, a report is compiled which sets out the findings, makes recommendations for control improvement and presents the improvement actions undertaken by management.
Internal audit reports are submitted and presented to the Audit Committee for approval.
The Chairman gives a report of the Internal Audit reports completed in a particular period to the full Board.
Internal Audit then verifies that actions have been taken and controls implemented and reports back to the Audit Committee on the status.
The Audit Committee will work to ensure that the Company continues to develop effective risk assessment and management processes.
More information on risk management within the Company is set out on pages 25 to 29 of this annual report.
Financial information The Audit Committee reviews and approves all interim and final financial statements, as well as the content of the Companys annual report.
The Companys external auditors provide the Audit Committee with a briefing on any issues arising.
The Audit Committee also reviews and approves any regulatory announcements that are made in connection with such financial information.
It is only after the Audit Committees approval that the statements are put to the Board for approval.
Relationship with external auditors During the 2018 financial year, the Audit Committee oversaw a tender for the provision of statutory audit services to the Group.
Although the EU Competition and Market Authoritys CMA Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the CMA Order, which defines requirements for mandatory tendering of statutory audit services and the responsibility of audit committees in this respect, technically does not apply to the Group given that its holding entity is incorporated outside the EU, the Audit Committee concluded that such a tender process represented best practice and, therefore, the Board resolved that the Group should voluntarily comply with the Order.
Following a competitive tender process in which all major auditing firms were invited to participate,  were re-appointed as the Companys auditors.
Given the level of tax and other non-audit services required by the Group and the need to ensure auditor independence, the Audit Committee also oversaw a tender for the provision of the Groups tax advisory services.
Following a competitive tender process, Deloitte were appointed as the Groups principal tax adviser.
The Audit Committee considers that the Groups audit and non-audit services are now properly separated and is confident these measures will continue to ensure the independence, objectivity and value for money of the audit process.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 44 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Main activities of the Audit Committee during the 2018 financial year continued Relationship with external auditors continued The Audit Committee has approved the fees to be paid and the external audit plan for the 2018 financial year and reviewed the reports of the auditors on the half-year review and the annual audit performed.
The Audit Committee was satisfied with the performance of the external auditors and with the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The audit of the 2018 financial statements and of this annual report, and the review of the half-year financial report, were all completed in time and to high standard, addressing the key issues.
With the completion of the 2018 audit  have been the auditors of the company for 12 years uninterrupted, covering the years ended 31 March 2007 to 31 March 2018.
The Audit Committee will consider the appointment of external auditors for the financial year ending 31 March 2019 and the Directors will propose a resolution in this respect for the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company.
Should the Directors later decide to appoint a firm other than the current auditor , the Directors would ask the shareholders to ratify the appointment of the new auditor at the 2019 annual general meeting.
The Audit Committee ensures the independence of the Companys external auditors.
The Audit Committee reviewed the independence letter of the auditors and considered in particular the non-audit fees paid to the external auditors during the year see Note 6 to the financial statements.
While fees paid on tax and other advisory services were higher in 2018 than the audit fees, the Audit Committee was satisfied that this did not compromise the objectivity and independence of the auditors, mainly because: i the engagement leaders from the relevant advisory departments are not part of the audit team: and ii no such services were ordered by the Company that carried self-review threat for the auditor.
Additionally, as explained earlier, following the replacement of  by Deloitte as the Groups principal tax adviser, the non-audit fees earned by  will in future be materially less than the audit fees.
Significant matters relating to the annual report In the course of the preparation of the Companys financial statements, the following issues, among others, were considered by the Audit Committee: } Maintenance accounting: As part of reviewing the reports from management and the auditor on the halfyear and the year-end accounts, the Audit Committee satisfied itself that the policy and the procedures applicable to this complex area were followed in the year consistently, including the regular updates to estimates and judgments and the maintenance of the system supporting the calculations. }
Hedge accounting: The Audit Committee reviewed the reports from management and the auditor on the half-year and the year-end accounts in relation to the adoption of IFRS 9 in financial year, and satisfied itself that the requirements of the new standard were applied properly with respect to hedge accounting.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee also considered whether the annual report taken as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee is satisfied that the annual report meets these criteria.
Other matters considered during the year } Tendering statutory audit and tax advisory services: As explained above, the Audit Committee oversaw the tenders for and was actively involved in the selection of the statutory auditor and the principal tax adviser of the Group, being  and Deloitte, respectively. }
Hedging policy: The Audit Committee approved the proposal of management to include foreign currency forwards as hedging instruments for up to 12 months in the Companys hedging policy. }
Class 1 transactions: The Group during the year entered into two aircraft orders that, as per the UK Listing Rules, were classified as Class 1 transactions.
These transactions required the preparation of a Class 1 Circular for each, supported by legal and financial due diligence, followed by board and shareholder approval.
The Audit Committee reviewed the Circulars and the financial due diligence reports prepared by KPMG LLP, was satisfied with their content, and supported the Board in approving the transactions. }
IFRS 16 Leases: The Audit Committee reviewed the implications of the adoption of IFRS 16 by the Group and supported managements recommendation to adopt the standard from its normal due date, being 1 April 2019 for the Group, as opposed to early adopting it. }
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: The Audit Committee reviewed the implications of the adoption of IFRS 15 by the Group from 1 April 2018 and supported managements recommendation to apply the Cumulative Effect Method of transition for adopting the standard.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 45 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Main activities of the Audit Committee during the 2018 financial year continued Other matters considered during the year continued } FRC review of the F17 accounts: In January 2018 the Company received notice from the Conduct Committee of the Financial Reporting Council UK FRC that the Groups annual report and accounts to 31 March 2017 have been reviewed.
The Conduct Committee made some recommendations of relatively smaller significance, and requested further information in the areas of heavy maintenance accounting and hedge accounting.
The Audit Committee reviewed and was satisfied with the content of the Companys response that was provided in March 2018.
Following this, on 9 May 2018 the Company received a second letter from the FRC in which the FRC confirmed that they closed some of the issues raised in their first letter and made some further questions with respect to the remaining issues.
While the Companys response to those remaining questions of the FRC will be due only after the release of this Annual Report, in the meantime the Company has already taken account of some of the recommendations made in the letters and extended its disclosures in the areas of heavy maintenance accounting and hedge accounting. }
Tax matters: Management engaged Deloitte, the new principal tax adviser of the Group, to analyse how the future corporate and tax structure of the Group should look like, with a view to the future expected developments in its business and to the expected changes in the international tax environment.
The reports from Deloitte and from management were reviewed by the Audit Committee.
This matter is still work in progress and no decision has yet been made for any change. }
GDPR: The Audit Committee reviewed the reports from management on the preparation for ensuring compliance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR entering into effect from 25 May 2018.
The Audit Committee was satisfied with the actions of management in this area.
Simon Duffy Chairman of the Audit Committee Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 46
