GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Wizz Airs Nomination Committee is comprised of three members, namely John McMahon, our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Simon Duffy and me.
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, the size, structure and composition of the Board, and retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors, and will make appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters.
The Companys success to date has been achieved by ensuring that it appoints people of the highest calibre, whether as Directors, management or employees.
While the key selection criterion is to ensure that people are appointed on their ability to do their jobs, the Company and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance to the Company of diversity, including gender equality.
Unfortunately, Wioletta Rosoowska decided to step down as a Non-Executive Director during the 2018 financial year, owing to her executive commitments.
A search for her replacement is ongoing through Korn Ferry and the Nomination Committee has instructed Korn Ferry to have regard to the Boards gender diversity when presenting candidate short lists.
The 2019 financial year will also mark the sixth anniversary of the appointments of a number of our nonexecutive directors.
The Nomination Committee will have particular regard to the need for refreshment of the Board, when considering whether the appointments of relevant directors should extend beyond the six year point.
Main activities of the Nomination Committee during the 2018 financial year During the 2018 financial year, the Nomination Committee worked on a number of key appointments for the Company.
The Nomination Committee, along with other Directors, assisted senior management and the Board with a review of the structure of the Companys senior executive management and its succession planning.
Following the promotion of the Chief Operations Officer to the role of Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer last year, the Nomination Committee approved the appointment of a second Executive Vice President to oversee the Companys commercial and technology functions.
Following an extensive external search process, Stephen Jones was appointed to the role of Executive Vice President and Deputy Chief Executive Officer with effect from 1 October 2017.
The Nomination Committee considers the creation of the Executive Vice President positions to be an important part of the Companys succession planning for the Chief Executive Officer.
Following the departure of the Companys Chief Financial Officer, the Nomination Committee worked with management on the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer.
Reflecting the Companys underlying principle that it searches for the best person for a particular role, an extensive external search was conducted and a number of candidates interviewed.
However, the Nomination Committee also recognises that the Company is fortunate to benefit from strong internal talent, as well and, in this case, the Nomination Committee supported senior managements recommendation to promote Iain Wetherall, then the Head of Controlling and Investor Relations, to the position of Chief Financial Officer.
As already noted above, the Nomination Committee has also been reviewing the composition of the Board in the context of certain Non-Executive Directors reaching the sixth anniversary of their appointments in the coming year and also the need to ensure the periodic refreshment of the Board.
The Nomination Committees ongoing work The Nomination Committee will continue to work with the Board to ensure that it has the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience and that, where the opportunity presents itself, appointments are made which reflect not only the Companys requirement to retain the best people for a particular role but also the Companys values, including ensuring diversity within the Board and the Companys senior management.
The Nomination Committee and the Board also recognise the importance of ensuring that succession of Directors and senior management is properly managed, to ensure that the Company has the right people available as needed.
The Nomination Committee will continue to work with the Board and the Companys senior management to develop and refine succession plans, encouraging and facilitating internal talent development where necessary.
William A. Franke Chairman of the Nomination Committee Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 47
