Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Governance Chairmans governance statement Dear Shareholder Where to find the information Compliance with the The Board is focused on delivering On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Corporate governance report for the year ended 31 March 2018.
UK Corporate Governance Code The Workspace Advantage to all Leadership 75 The Company has, throughout the year stakeholders.
This means adhering to Good governance is important to us The Board 82 It has been another successful year for the Company.
As Chairman, ended 31 March 2018, fully complied with the high governance standards, maintaining I am responsible for ensuring that the Board operates effectively and Executive Committee 92 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance regular engagement with investors and that it continues to uphold a high standard of corporate governance.
We also recognise that there are stakeholders and a relentless focus on Effectiveness 97 The Board of Workspace is committed to conducting business ongoing discussions about the structure responsibly and ensuring that our governance structures at Board internal controls and risk management.
Nomination Committee Report 100 and Committee level remain appropriate for our business while of the Code, which we are monitoring.
Accountability 103 supporting the delivery of our overall strategy.
Across the business, Daniel Kitchen Non-Executive Chairman we adopt a disciplined approach to the management of our people, Audit Committee Report 104 our operations, our processes and structures.
This discipline ensures Risk Committee 111 we maintain strong governance in terms of leadership, Board effectiveness, accountability, remuneration matters and our Investment Committee 112 relationship with shareholders.
Remuneration 113 Details of our governance framework can be found on page 76.
Leadership The Board is responsible for Our strategic priorities setting the Groups strategy.
The Companys business model and strategy are outlined on pages It carefully monitors the 16 and 28. progress of the strategy to Effectiveness ensure that it remains relevant The Nomination Committee The Board takes seriously our responsibility for ensuring that the in our marketplace.
Group delivers on its strategic objectives.
We regularly debate the continues to make sure the Board has the necessary skills and effectiveness of the strategy and oversee the Executive Committee to ensure that it is being implemented successfully.
The Board experience to provide challenge to the business to deliver its continues to believe that the current strategy is the right one for the business at this time.
Our culture We have done some work this year to articulate the behaviours and values that drive our performance and delivery of The Workspace Advantage.
This work has demonstrated the dynamic culture at Workspace, which is felt by everyone within the Company.
Our people have deep knowledge of their subjects, inquisitive Accountability natures and a thirst for innovation and exhibit genuine care for our The Audit Committee plays customers, our communities and each other.
This culture which is an important role by providing also exhibited by the Board creates an environment for good the necessary safeguards to governance.
manage risks and achieve high standards of transparency and accountability to shareholders.
Remuneration Through the work of the Remuneration Committee, the Companys policy is to align the reward of the Executive Directors with the performance of the Company and incentivise long-term and sustainable value creation.
Relations with shareholders Explaining the strategy and how it is being implemented, through our business model, is an important part of the Boards work in keeping shareholders informed on the businesss performance and future prospects.
72Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
