Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance We offer similar services in each of our markets and many of our capabilities are transferable across markets.
What we do Our customers operations rely on their assets, We deliver our services around the world through approximately 35,000 highly skilled people, including engineers, project ranging from oil platforms to power plants and managers, consultants and scientists.
We help them maximise the value of these business, our operating model is low risk and asset light assets throughout their lifecycle.
Consulting Execution design Hook-up and Asset support Decommissioning and front end and construction commissioning Providing services and remediation Consulting with Conceptualising Overseeing the and consultancy Helping customers our customers and designing their installation and to operate, maintain to decommission to determine what capital projects.
assets at the end of they require from of these assets.
Well positioned across the life cycle of our customers assets Project viability review Greenfield projects Brownfield projects O&M support Late life management Environmental services Amec Foster Wheeler 02 Annual report and accounts 2016 Our structure aligns our organisation with our customers.
Our business lines Since 1 January 2017, we have organised our operations into four global market-facing business lines.
This structure aligns our organisation with our customers, helping us to meet their needs more effectively and efficiently.
Oil, Gas & Chemicals Mining Power & Process Environment & The Oil, Gas & Chemicals value We provide mining In renewables, our focus is on Infrastructure chain has three segments: consultancy including ore delivering customer projects, Our Environment & upstream, which involves resource estimation, mine primarily for local utilities.
Infrastructure business exploration and production: planning and feasibility We provide a full-service focuses on environmental midstream, which includes studies, design, and engineering, procurement and consulting, engineering transportation and natural gas project and construction construction solution for wind, design and programme and processing: and downstream, management services to a solar, biomass and biofuels construction management.
which is mainly the refining range of mining companies, projects.
US solar is our We offer complete solutions and petrochemical industries.
primarily in the Americas primary market in Power.
to public and private-sector and Africa.
We operate in every part of the Within the conventional customers worldwide.
project delivery phase of this The Mining business is power market, we work with Our customers benefit value chain, except early cycle intentionally diversified utilities to upgrade and modify from experts with a broad exploration and drilling.
and we have developed their existing assets, often understanding of local technical capabilities in a in relation to environmental conditions, coupled with easy The majority of our upstream range of commodities, which or regulatory compliance access to world-renowned activity is currently in differentiate us from our requirements, by providing technical expertise.
conventional oil and gas competitors.
We have a strong consulting and engineering fields, in particular offshore oil By positioning ourselves position in the recent growth services, as well as project facilities, providing feasibility as a trusted partner at the commodities of potash, gold delivery solutions.
studies, front-end engineering beginning of a project often and lithium, among others.
design, detailed engineering, We also have an extensive the early site development project management, hook up The breadth of our capabilities track record of serving a and permitting stage we and commissioning, and asset allows us to respond to growing broad range of industrial can deliver comprehensive support services.
demand for a particular customers, such as the pulp solutions across the lifecycle commodity and to mitigate the and paper industry, with their of our customers assets.
In midstream, we support impact of market volatility and process, steam and power assets focused on storage and Our Environment & changing customer focus.
We provide them with transport for both onshore Infrastructure business consulting and engineering and offshore facilities, as well Terra Nova Technologies consists of the following services, as well as project as gas monetisation projects.
is a project group within sectors: water: transportation: delivery solutions.
For downstream customers, the Mining business that civil infrastructure: we focus on refinery projects designs and builds material government: and industrial and chemicals.
handling solutions, such as and pharmaceutical.
high speed conveyor belts We serve a broad range Customers include the and crushing plants, for new of customers, including US Federal Government, and existing mines.
international oil companies, which is the largest procurer national oil companies of environmental services and independent operators in the world.
in Europe, the Americas, the Middle East, Africa, the Caspian, Southeast Asia and China.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 03 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance continued Legacy reporting Split of revenue 11 For the year ended 31 December 2016, our business was % organised into four business units.
Three had geographical 17 Oil, Gas & Chemicals remits, namely the Americas: Northern Europe and the Mining Power & Process Commonwealth of Independent States: and Asia, Middle East, Environment & Infrastructure Africa and Southern Europe.
The fourth business unit, the GPG and Investment Services Global Power Group, had a global remit.
Descriptions of 26 these business units, and how each performed during 2016, can be found in the Financial Review on pages 34 to 45.
41 5 Investment Services In addition to the business units described above, Investment Services manages the Companys non-core and Total revenue 2016 legacy assets and liabilities.
These now include the European Transmission and Distribution operations and two wind farms in Northern Europe.
5.4bn Where we operate Amec Foster Wheeler operates in more than 55 countries and is headquartered in London, UK.
Office locations Employees 2016 35k Amec Foster Wheeler 04 Annual report and accounts 2016 Disposal programme The customers we serve Over the past 12 months, the board has decided to dispose We work for a wide range of customers, from blue-chip of a number of non-core businesses and assets, including: companies to national and local governments.
Our major X Our Global Power Group GPG, which offers a full range customers include: of steam generator equipment, clean air technologies, BP K&S Potash Canada aftermarket products and services to the power, industrial, ConocoPhillips KOC and waste-to-energy sectors Dominion Kuwait National Petroleum Co The sale of GPG, originally announced in March 2016, has Duke Energy National Grid taken longer than expected.
In November 2016, we decided to split GPG and pursue a plan to sell the parts to different Enel Green Power Petra Diamonds parties.
The disposal of the major part, the circulating Engie Repsol Sinopec fluidised bed CFB boiler business, to Sumitomo Heavy Enterprise Products Operating LLC Sempra Industries, Ltd. for 137m, is expected to close in June 2017.
ExxonMobil Southern Company We anticipate selling further parts of GPG before the end of 2017.
The aftermarket sales business is being retained as Georgia Pacific US Army Corps of Engineers part of Power & Process.
Hyundai ZADCO X Our Australian-based specialist consultancy, Aquenta Consulting, which provides cost, risk, project management Order book 12 and asset optimisation services to a broad range of % customers, mainly in the property and infrastructure space.
Oil, Gas & Chemicals 16 Mining The sale of Aquenta to Jacobs Group Australia Pty Ltd Power & Process for 21m closed in early 2017 Environment & Infrastructure X GPG and Investment Services Our equity interests in three infrastructure assets.
19 These are PetroPower, a waste-to-energy project in Chile: Amec Foster Wheeler Power, which operates two wind farms in Italy: and the Incheon Bridge in South Korea.
Subject to 2 51 final completion, these are expected to realise proceeds totalling 88m Order book X Our nuclear business, which supports the full lifecycle of nuclear energy and has experience of a wide range of nuclear technology.
Its customers include major utilities, governments, national regulators, reactor suppliers and other 5.8bn significant stakeholders.
The sale process is continuing and we are on target to sell the business in the third quarter of 2017 We work for a wide range of customers, from blue-chip companies to national and local governments.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2016 05 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
