AT A GLANCE RETAIL BANKING CLIENT-CENTRIC, MULTI-BRAND STRATEGY FOR OUR C. 2.1 MILLION CLIENTS.
We are the leading retail banking player in Georgia, serving c. 2.1 million customers through the widest network of 273 retail branches, 801 ATMs and 2,729 Express Pay self-service terminals, a sales force of more than 3,000 people, along with our diverse products and services.
Our Retail Banking business, the prominent ingredient of our business, runs a client-centric, multi-brand strategy which reaches the entire spectrum of retail customers through three well-established and recognised brands: 1.
Express designed to magnetise emerging retail customers with minimal incremental operational costs through cost-efficient distance channels such as our Express Pay terminals, internet and mobile banking and technology-intensive Express branches: 2.
Bank of Georgia providing the long-established traditional banking services to our mass retail clients: and 3.
Solo targeting mass affluent customers and providing a unique blend of banking and lifestyle products and services.
CORPORATE INVESTMENT BANKING INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CIB CLIENTS.
Our Bank is the leading corporate lender in the country with deep sector knowledge and local expertise.
Our Corporate Banking business is characterised by outstanding flexibility in meeting our corporate clients needs and offers the most comprehensive range of products and services in the country.
We are proud to accommodate more than 3,000 businesses in Georgia and play our part in developing various sectors of the economy such as trade, energy, industry and tourism, among others.
Corporate Banking additionally serves as the countrys leading trade finance business and provides leasing services through the Groups wholly-owned subsidiary, Georgian Leasing Company GLC.
We are at the forefront of capital markets development in Georgia.
We aim to leverage our superior knowledge and capital markets capabilities in the Georgian and neighbouring markets both in terms of reach and the expertise that we have accumulated during the past several years through our corporate advisory, research and brokerage practices united under Galt & Taggart a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group.
Our brokerage business, serves regional and international markets, including hard-to-reach frontier economies.
Our Macro and Sectoral Research currently covers the Georgian and Azeri economies and publishes Georgian sector research subscription to the research on www.
WEALTH MANAGEMENT P&C INSURANCE BNB WE ARE AN ESTABLISHED LEADER OF THE LEADING PROPERTY AND CASUALTY WELL CAPITALISED SME BANK IN BELARUS.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES INSURANCE BUSINESS.
Accommodating international clients from Our Property & Casualty business P&C or JSC Belarusky Narodny Bank BNB offers 68 countries, our Wealth Management Aldagi is a leading player in the Georgian P&C individual and business banking services business provides private banking services insurance market, with a market share of principally to SMEs and middle-income retail to our high-net worth individual clients and 34.9% in 2016.
Covering more than 700,000 banking customers in Belarus.
BNB was one offers investment management products insured customers, the P&C insurance business of the first privately-owned commercial banks internationally through representative offices is synergistic to the to the Banks operations.
The Group has in London, Budapest, Istanbul and Tel Aviv.
Aldagi will be stepping-up cross-selling recently increased its ownership of BNB from As Georgia has a pay-as-you-go pension of its insurance products with the Banks 80% to 95% while IFC now holds the remaining system, the Bank believes that its wealth Retail Banking and Corporate Investment 5%.
BNB is a non-core business and the Group management franchise can benefit by Banking products.
aims to exit from it eventually.
focusing on the distribution of local debt.
04 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC GEORGIA HEALTHCARE GROUP GHG THE LEADING INTEGRATED PLAYER IN THE GEORGIAN HEALTHCARE ECOSYSTEM OF GEL 3.4 BILLION VALUE.
Georgia Healthcare Group PLC is the UK incorporated holding company of the largest healthcare services provider in the fast-growing, predominantly privately-owned, Georgian health market.
GHG offers by far the most comprehensive range of inpatient and outpatient services in Georgia.
GHG targets the mass market segment through its vertically integrated network of 35 hospitals and ten ambulatory clusters, including 13 district ambulatory clinics and 28 express ambulatory clinics as at 31 December 2016.
GHG is the single largest market participant, accounting for 23.4% of total hospital bed capacity in the country as at 31 December 2016.
GHG is the largest pharmaceuticals retailer and wholesaler in Georgia, with approximately 29% market share by revenue in 2016.
GHG has approximately two million client interactions per month, with 0.5 million loyalty card members.
GHG is also the largest provider of medical insurance in Georgia, with a 35.1% market share based on net insurance premiums earned and has approximately 211,000 insurance customers as at 31 December 2016.
2 2 m REAL ESTATE m A FAST-GROWING, LEADING REAL ESTATE DEVELOPER AND ASSET MANAGER IN GEORGIA.
2 Our real estate business, the Groups wholly-owned subsidiary, m Real Estate, develops and sells 2 residential and commercial properties in Georgia.
m also manages yielding real estate asset portfolio, which it accumulated through its own developments as well as opportunistic investments in high 2 street real estate.
For the past couple of years m has established itself as one of the most 2 recognisable and trustworthy residential housing brands in the country.
m Real Estate outsources the 2 construction and architecture works while focusing on project management and sales.
m Real Estate completed sales of 2,047 apartments worth US$ 172.9 million since 2011 with 97.2% of apartments sold in six successfully completed projects and 35.1% pre-sales in four ongoing projects.
The number 2 of apartments financed with BOGs mortgages in all m Real Estate projects as of 31 December 2016 totalled 946, with an aggregate amount of GEL 110.7 million.
2 m Real Estate has the exclusive right to develop Wyndham Ramada Anchor hotels in Georgia.
Construction of one hotel has begun and work on two more is expected to start during 2017.
GEORGIA GLOBAL UTILITIES GGU MAJOR UTILITY AND ENERGY COMPANY, WITH CLEAR GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES AND ROOM TO IMPROVE EFFICIENCY.
GGU has two main business lines water utility and electric power generation.
In its water utility business, GGU is a natural monopoly that supplies water and provides a wastewater service to 1.4 million people approximately one-third of Georgias population in three cities: Tbilisi, Mtskheta and Rustavi.
In the electric power business, GGU owns and operates four hydropower generation facilities with a total capacity of 149MW.
Generated power is primarily used by GGUs water business, with the excess amount of generated capacity sold to third parties.
GGU has a pipeline of developments in hydro power plants and wind and solar energy production.
When BGEO acquired its initial stake in GGU in 2014, the Group put in place a strong management team.
The team has been further strengthened since the acquisition of full control in 2016.
TELIANI VALLEY CREATING A LEADING BEVERAGES PRODUCER AND DISTRIBUTOR IN CAUCASUS.
Teliani is a leading Georgian wine producer and beverage distributor with a wide distribution platform of a variety of imported beverages as well as own produced wine.
Teliani sells over three million bottles of wine annually, with about 60% of sales coming from exports.
Building on its existing franchise of distribution, Teliani is currently expanding into a new business line of beer and soft beverage production, with a ten-year exclusivity from Heineken to sell in three countries: Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan a total population of 17 million people.
The construction of the beer production facility has been completed during 2016 and Teliani aims to start brewing in the first half of 2017.
With a strong management team and a proven track record, Teliani aims to become a leading beverages producer and distributor in the South Caucasus.
Including ABCs market share acquired by GHG in January 2017.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 05 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
