02 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT AT A GLANCE VALUE INVESTING Shareholders money is principally invested in UNDERLYING DISCOUNT TO NET ASSET VALUE companies with three key features: Their shares trade at discounts to net asset value % 31.7 They have high-quality underlying assets and strong balance sheets There is likely to be an event that will narrow the discount NUMBER OF INVESTMENTS 33 See information on AVI, page 15 THE INVESTMENTS BENCHMARK Shareholders money is principally invested in three The return of the portfolio is measured against the types of companies: MSCI World ex-US Index return.
Holding Companies Investment Companies Property Companies The Investment Manager can invest anywhere in the world.
In practice, they find most opportunities in Europe and the Far East.
See Investment Managers Review, page 15 See Chart, page 5 PERFORMANCE FEES Over the past 10 years, the Company has produced The Investment Manager charges 0.7% of net assets.
a compound average annual net asset value There is no performance fee.
Our total annual costs total return of 6.2%.
There have been periods known as Ongoing Charges are 0.9% of net assets.
of underperformance when compared with the benchmark but, over the longer term, the Board believes that the Investment Managers style of investment will provide higher than average returns for investors.
Over the year under review, the level of absolute return was exceptionally strong and the net asset value total return outperformed the benchmark index.
See KPIs, page 8 See KPIs, page 9 See Investment Managers Review, page 15 03 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC DIVIDENDS DISCOUNTS AND BUY-BACKS The Investment Manager focuses on capital growth, The Companys shares have been trading at a but the Company has either maintained or increased discount to their net asset value.
The Company its ordinary dividends for the past 30 years.
When manages the volatility of the discount through a there are exceptionally high income receipts, the policy of buying back its own shares.
Company occasionally pays a special dividend.
See Chairmans Statement, page 6 See Chairmans Statement, page 7 GEARING The Company is geared by its Debenture Stock and We expect that long-term returns by Loan Notes which were issued in January 2016. on equities will exceed the cost of debt and it is expected that the portfolio will be virtually fully invested, provided there are attractive opportunities in our universe.
Joe Bauernfreund Chief Investment Officer See Strategic Report, page 10 See Chairmans Statement, page GOVERNANCE AND RISK ACCOUNTS The Company has a Board of Directors responsible The Company has net assets of 844.0m and for oversight of the Investment Manager and also investment income of 20.7m.
the risks and controls operated by the Company.
The aim is to secure adequate returns without undue risk.
All figures are as at 30 September 2016, See Strategic Report, page 9 or for the year ended on See financial statements, page 48 See Governance, page 34 that date, except where stated otherwise.
