S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu At a Glance We are an international cinema chain operating in nine different territories with 226 sites and 2,115 screens.
We are focused on providing our customers with the best possible cinema experience, offering a variety of movies, as well as different formats using the latest technologies.
Our vision is always to be The Best Place to Watch a Movie.
UK&I REVENUE m ROW REVENUE m UK&I ADMISSIONS m ROW ADMISSIONS m 6.0% 26.6% 1.8% 13.6% 494.0 303.8 48.5 51.8 42.7 50.9 465.9 239.9 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Our brands: UK and Ireland 971 Screens | 96 Sites 71 Screens | 22 Sites Cineworld is one of the UKs leading cinema chains by admissions Picturehouse is an arthouse chain which has a cosier and box office revenues.
The cinemas are modern, well designed atmosphere.
It offers freshly-cooked food, bars and special multiplexes offering great customer service with high quality events, which provides an alternative experience to the technology, stadium seating, and online ticketing services.
The sites generally have five screens or fewer and sites are situated mostly in leisure and retail parks.
Cineworld provide unique, local and intimate film viewing in cinemas that shows a broad range of films to a large number of customers with are both of high quality and of architectural merit.
The flagship a wide demographic and offers the highly successful Unlimited cinema is Picturehouse Central, located in Piccadilly which was card which allows customers access to an unlimited number of fully renovated two years ago.
It reopened as one of the most films for a monthly subscription.
Refurbishment of older sites, beautiful and special cinemas in Londons West End, and is investment in new technologies and diversification of retail equipped with the most advanced technology.
It also has two offerings are a key focus for Cineworld.
During 2016 six sites were unique restaurants and an exclusive Members Bar.
Picturehouse refurbished, four new cinema sites were opened and five Empire operates in 13 towns and cities, with eight located in London sites were acquired, including the iconic Empire Leicester Square.
villages, and focuses on cinemagoers looking for art house Cineworld is the only exhibitor in the UK to offer the highly movies and events side by side with mainstream commercial successful 4DX experience, which includes motion seats, and movies.
Picturehouse has its own membership scheme which several environmental effects such as water splash, wind, smell includes a range of benefits such as discounts on tickets and and more.
These are built into an increasing number of movies to concession items, access to exclusive previews and special make the audience feel they are part of the action.
At the end of events, and more.
The Picturehouse team works closely with 2016, Cineworld operated nine 4DX screens including the first independent movie creators and hosts movie festivals, and 4DX in London which opened in December in Wandsworth.
Cineworld also has 20 IMAX screens and its own Superscreen format.
Two sites have VIP auditoriums which include a full movie and dining experience.
Cineworld currently has 24Starbucks coffee outlets within its circuit.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 2
