AT A GlAnCe Who we are Dairy Crest is a leading British dairy company Vision Strategy To generate growth by building strong positions in We are proud of our links to the countryside, our dairy branded and added value markets heritage and the part they play in everyday life We want to earn the right to consumers loyalty by To simplify, make more resilient and reduce costs providing healthy, enjoyable, convenient products To generate cash and reduce risk We aim to meet consumers needs and go where this To make acquisitions where they will generate value takesus As we grow, we will look after our people and the communities where wework our locations Manufactures Clover, Country Life, Utterly Butterly Cheese & whey Vitalite and Willow brands Cheese produced at Davidstow is matured and packed Kirkby into the Cathedral City and Davidstow brands Distribution Products from Kirkby and Frome, alongside Cathedral City Innovation Centre and Davidstow, are efficiently distributed to customers across the country Harper Adams A unique collaboration between Dairy Crest and Nuneaton Harper Adams University.
The base for our research and development and technical teams Head Ofce Erith Claygate Home to our spray oil business The UKs largest cheese Frome MH Foods.
Manufactures Frylight creamery producing one calorie cooking spray Versatile cheese packing award-winning cheddar, demineralised whey and  Dedicated West Country milk pool Davidstow Sale and performance of Dairies our retail markets on 26 December 2015 DairyCrest Cheese 2.5 billion completed the sale of its Dairies business to Muller UK and ireland Butter and spreads 1.2 billion Group llP.
Oils 330 million Details of the sale and the IRI market data, 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 performance of the Dairies Kantar market data 52 weeks ended 27 March 2016 business to the date of sale are included in the Financial review on pages 13 to 14.
2 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 Product groups Cheese & whey Butters, spreads & oils Revenue profit Revenue profit 37% 63% 55% 45% Contribution to Group: % of total Group.
profit is product group profit excluding share of associates.
Dairy Crest produces and markets Cathedral City, the UKs Dairy Crest manufactures a number of leading Butters, leading cheese brand, and the premium Davidstow cheddar spreads & oils brands in the UK.
Key brands include Country brand.
our world-class supply chain starts with milk life butter and Clover spread which are produced at a supplied by nearly 400 farmers in the dairying heartlands single facility in Kirkby, Merseyside, alongside a portfolio of of Cornwall and Devon.
This top quality milk is made smaller brands in the spreads category.
into cheddar cheese at our highly-automated creamery We also produce Frylight, one calorie cooking spray at in Davidstow, Cornwall.
The cheese then matures for an our facility in erith, Kent.
average of nearly a year at our purpose-built nuneaton Highlights facility before being cut, packed and distributed.
We have a Country Life achieved 4% sales volume growth, significantly second packing site in Frome, Somerset, for more complex outperforming the market and innovative packaging.
Successful launch of new No Artificial Ingredients Clover grew Whey is a by-product of the cheese making process.
value and volume market share in the second half Historically, we produced sweet whey, to sell to a variety Frylight continues to grow sales strongly and is now the UKs of food manufacturers.
We now have a new facility at number 1 oil brand Davidstow producing demineralised whey and galactoRe-launch of Vitalite, our iconic dairy-free brand oligosaccharide GoS, a lactose based prebiotic, both ingredients for infant formula, a high-growth, high-margin global market.
Highlights Cathedral City continues to grow market share and remains Britains 16th largest grocery brand Cathedral City is now bought by nearly 60% of UK households each year Cathedral City has been re-launched with new and improved packaging design across the range 100% of our milk comes from dedicated farmers in the South West of England Production and sales of demineralised whey and GOS areunderway The UKs no1 The UKs no1 Dairy free spread branded cheese dairy spread The UKs fastest The UKs no1 From IRI data which excludes discounters growing butter brand oilbrand Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 3 Strategic report
