Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 Stock Code: DPH Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 Company Number: 3369634 Acquisition Geographical Expansion Portfolio Focus Pipeline Delivery Accelerating our global growth strategy slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
indd 3 05 09 2016 17:24:20 Welcome to Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Dechra is an international specialist veterinary pharmaceuticals and related products business.
Our expertise is in the development, manufacture, and sales and marketing of high quality products exclusively for veterinarians worldwide.
Investor Website We maintain a corporate website at www.
com containing a wide range of information of interest to both institutional and private investors including: Latest news and press releases Annual reports and investor presentations Getting Around the Report Below is a selection of icons you will see used within this report: Online Report For more information see Visit our online annual report at: further pages within the report dechra.
com More information online at: www.
com Icons are used within this report to assist the reader to identify links to other relevant sections of interest Glossary Terms used within this section Forward-Looking Statements: This document contains certain forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available to the Company during preparation and up to the publication of this document.
By their very nature, these statements depend upon circumstances and relate to events that may occur in the future and thereby involve a degree of uncertainty.
Therefore, nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast by the Company.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
A reconciliation of underlying to reported measures can be found on page 38.
Non-underlying items comprise amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles, acquisition expenses, fair value of uplift of inventory acquired through business combinations, rationalisation costs, loss on extinguishment of debt and reversal of fair value and other movements on deferred and contingent consideration.
Operational Highlights Strong financial performance: Strategic progress made: Revenue growth in our existing EU Pharmaceuticals Segment Three value added acquisitions completed.
was 5.7% at CER driven by solid performance in Companion Product development pipeline continues to deliver results: Animal Products CAP and return to growth of Food producing recently launched products Osphos and Zycortal gaining good Animal Products FAP.
Continued excellent performance in our existing Geographical expansion enhancing revenue growth with good NA Pharmaceuticals Segment, with revenue increased by 37.9% performance in Poland and Canada and new-start up in Austria.
at CER : all core therapeutic sectors performing well.
Consolidated revenue increased by 21.7% at CER.
Cash generation of 106.8% allowed us to absorb the costs associated with the acquisitions whilst maintaining a prudent cash position.
Stock Code: DPH 01 Dechra AR2016 Front.
