Group at a glance Protecting our customers We have multiple brands, products and distribution channels.
Each enables our customers to choose the right cover to protect their cars, homes, holidays, businesses and pets.
Our brands Churchill is a household name.
Wemarket our products by phone andinternet, including PCWs.
We target customers who have Privilege targets a high affinity to the customers who mainly brand, and who need Direct Line has maintained its brand heritage by buy through PCWs.
selling products direct to customers exclusively focus on making sure by phone and internet.
com they experience a quick with ahighaffinity to the brand, and focuson service at the best price.
com Brand Partners is the Direct Line for Business Groups partnerships is an extension of our arm.
We specialise Direct Line brand.
It is our in providing personal direct commercial insurance NIG is our specialist lines insurance, and brand for small businesses commercial insurance roadside rescue and that have straightforward brand.
We sell our recovery products commercial insurance products through brokers, to some well-known Green Flag is our requirements.
roadside rescue and intermediary that www.
We 1 arranges RBS and sell it as a standalone NatWest commercial service and an insurance.
additional optional product alongside www.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, including National Westminster Bank plc 4 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Personal lines Motor Home Rescue and other We are Britains leading personal motor We are Britains leading personal home personal lines 1 1 insurer measured by in-force policies, insurer measured by in-force policies.
We are one of the leading providers of mainly represented through our highly We reach our customers by selling home rescue and other personal lines insurance recognised brands Direct Line, Churchill insurance products through our brands, 2,3 in the UK with 7.9 million in-force and Privilege, and also through our Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, policies.
We insure around one in and our partners RBS, NatWest roadside assistance and recovery for six insured cars on the road in the UK, and Prudential.
customers through Green Flag, the UKs representing 3.9 million in-force policies.
We also offer customers protection for their pets and holidays and are the second largest travel and the third 3 largest pet insurer respectively.
1,539.1m 834.4m 400.8m Gross written premium Gross written premium Gross written premium 3.9m 3.4m 7.9m In-force policies In-force policies In-force policies 106.3% 85.0% 93.3% Combined operating ratio Combined operating ratio Combined operating ratio 149.1m 166.7m 45.9m Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit Commercial We protect commercial businesses through our brands, NIG, Direct Line for Business and Churchill, and through our partners RBS and NatWest.
NIG sells its products exclusively through 499.8m 675k brokers operating across the UK.
Direct Line for Business Gross written premium In-force policies provides business, van and landlord insurance products direct to customers.
Churchill sells business, landlord and van products direct to customers and through price comparison 98.7% 41.8m websites PCWs.
Combined operating Operating profit ratio Notes: 1.
Includes Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege and partner brands: RBS, Nationwide home only, NatWest, Prudential and Sainsburys GfK Financial Research Survey six months ending November 2016, 13,665 adults interviewed for motor insurance and 12,270 for home insurance 2.
Mintel Vehicle Recovery UK, September 2016 3.
Mintel Pet Insurance UK, August 2016 and Mintel Travel Insurance UK, February 2016 www.
