04 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Group at a Glance A clearly defined strategy and consistent track record We focus on essential products and services, funded GDP plus by customers operating rather than capital budgets, giving resilience to revenues.
organic revenue growth Our attractive operating margins are sustained Attractive through the quality of customer service, the depth of technical support and value adding activities.
margins Carefully selected, value enhancing acquisitions Acquisitions accelerate the organic growth and take us into related strategic markets.
to accelerate growth An ungeared balance sheet and strong cash flow Strong cash fund our growth strategy while providing healthy and growing dividends.
flow We aim to create value by consistently exceeding Value creation 20% ROATCE.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 05 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 We focus on supplying essential products and services acrossa range of specialised industry sectors.
Life Sciences Seals Controls Healthcare 83% of revenues Aftermarket 53% of revenues Interconnect 76% of revenues Medical devices and related consumables Next day delivery of seals, sealing Wiring, harness components and and services supplied to hospital products, filters and cylinder components fasteners used in specialised applications pathology laboratories, operating rooms for the repair of heavy mobile machinery.
in Aerospace, Defence, Motorsport, and GIEndoscopy suites and clinics.
Industrial OEMs 47% of revenues Environmental 17% of revenues Sealing products and custom Fluid Controls 24% of revenues Environmental analysers, mouldedand machined parts Temperature, pressure and fluid containment enclosures and supplied to manufacturers of control products used in Food, emissions monitoring systems.
% % % 29 44 27 of revenues of revenues of revenues SEE PAGES 1417 SEE PAGES 1821 SEE PAGES 2225 The Group is well diversified by geographic and business area.
North America Europe Rest of World North American revenues European revenues by destination Rest of World revenues by destination by destination by sector bysector by sector US UK 23% 23% % % % Canada Continental 42 19% 48 25% 10 Europe of Group revenues of Group revenues of Group revenues Life Sciences Seals Controls For more information, please visit: www.
