STRATEGIC REPORT Group at a glance We aim to be the number one pizza company in each neighbourhood inwhich we operate, through a commitment to offering the best product, service and quality to our customers.
WHAT WE DO, WHERE AND WHY WE DO IT Dominos Pizza International Franchising Inc. DPIF is the owner of the Dominos brand across the globe.
We have two Master Franchise Agreements Master Associate in place with DPIF, which gives us exclusive rights to the markets in the franchisemarkets investmentmarkets UK, the Republic of Ireland, Switzerland, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein.
o UK o Germany In addition, we have associate investments in Germany, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
Our aim is to be the number one pizza company in every o Republic of Ireland o Iceland neighbourhood in which we operate.
o Switzerland o Norway We do this by making, selling and delivering pizzas and other products o Sweden to our customers.
This is either through our own corporate stores or through stores operated by our franchisees.
In addition, we buy the products and make the fresh dough used in our pizzas and where we have franchisee stores we sell these products to the franchisee who then makes, sells and delivers the products.
DOMINOS DIFFERENCE Product Technology We continue to innovate and in 2016 we We continue to invest in technology with launched our Italiano range of handmade digitalplatforms delivering a number of benefits 94m 14.9m Italian inspired pizzas.
Our customers can for our consumers and franchisees.
Ease of PIZZAS SOLD APP DOWNLOADS beconfident that we use the best possible ordering and accessibility to promotional offers INTHEYEAR ingredients and that they are buying carefully continue to drive our success.
We are relentless sourced and prepared foods without in our pursuit of using technology to make our hydrogenated fats or artificial flavourings customers lives that little bit easier.
02 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HOW WE OPERATE Supply chain Franchisees Our passion for only the finest quality ingredients ensures we continue Our network of exceptional franchisees remains committed to to maintain an excellent relationship with our suppliers.
Wenegotiate the promoting the Dominos brand.
Their entrepreneurial spirit and best commercial terms and have many long-term supplier agreements drive ensure our continued success on the high street.
Our Supply Chain Centres continue tolead the way in relation job to support our franchisees in their efforts to run profitable to standards of excellence throughout Dominos worldwide.
We deliver businesses and to ensure that high brand standards are 480 loads to c. 1,000 stores on average three times per week.
1,013 81 72% 77 12.9 TOTAL STORES NEW UK STORES OF UK SALES FRANCHISEES AVERAGE STORES OPENEDIN THE YEAR THROUGHE-COMMERCE PERFRANCHISEE Engagement Performance We take pride in the image we portray to We are driven day in, day out by our customers.
We invest the national advertising brandpurpose to feed the power of possible, 1m 7.5% fund to help build the profile of the brand onepizza at a time.
This desire to never FACEBOOK UK SALES amongst our target audience.
We have recently standstilland push forward, be it in terms FANS GROWTH refreshed our store design to better celebrate ofstoreopenings, technological and the theatre of making fresh pizza.
Our new store productinnovation, customer service and design reflects the freshness of the ingredients thesupport for our franchisees, underpins and provides customers with a window into the ourperformance.
world of pizza making, showcasing that every one of our pizzas is made fresh to order.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 03
