Investment Highlights This has been another busy and successful year during which we have been involved in M&A transactions with a combined value of 3.2 billion.
The total investment return of 751 million is the largest absolute return in Electras history and represents a 46% increase on the opening portfolio.
Investment performance has been driven by the success of our approach of buying attractive businesses well and then transforming them through M&A as well as strategic and operational focus and change.
Strong exits such as Elian and Hollywood Bowl have delivered a record 903 million of realisations over the course of the year.
Clearly it has been a year of significant change and distraction at the corporate level.
We are pleased to have continued to deliver on our strategy and to drive exceptional performance for Electra.
Overview On 5 December 2016 Electra Partners announced that it had changed its name to Epiris.
This has been another busy and successful year of investment activity for Epiris and therefore for Electra.
We have continued to drive not only performance but also business transformation across the Buyouts and Co-Investments portfolio.
Together with a record level of realisations, this has resulted in a total investment return of 751 million, the largest absolute return in Electras history and representing an increase of 46% on the opening portfolio.
This unprecedented level of investment performance is the result of three principal factors.
First is the continued successful implementation of our Buyouts & Co-investments strategy, which has resulted in a return of 687 million or 48% on the opening value.
At its core this strategy involves achieving value on entry by focusing on complex situations where we can buy well.
The businesses we buy have scope for transformation through add-on acquisitions and operational improvement.
M&A has been a significant source of value creation for Electra: over half of the return on this part of the portfolio has been generated by Parkdean Resorts, Hollywood Bowl and Elian, all of which completed transformational M&A transactions, initiated and led by the Epiris team, during the year.
Second is our delivery of several strong exits during the year.
Almost 40% of the return on the Buyouts & Co-investments portfolio was either realised from transactions such as the sale of Elian, the IPO of Hollywood Bowl or the partial realisation of Electras investment in Allflex: or reflects transactions which completed after the year-end, namely the sale of AXIOs Vidal and the IPO of Premier Asset Management.
Overall, realisations reached 903 million, a record level for Electra which has taken the average uplift on exit over the last five years to 58%.
Finally, many of the companies in which Electra has invested derive a substantial part of their earnings from overseas operations.
The value of these earnings in Sterling has increased following the weakening of Sterling against other major currencies since mid-June 2016.
We estimate that this factor accounts for approximately 71 million, or 10%, of the total return on the Buyouts & Co-investments portfolio.
We have invested 206 million in the Core Investment Portfolio.
We have deployed capital in growth assets, such as Photobox, as well as in lower-risk, cash-yielding assets, such as Retirement Bridge Group and two CLO equity investments, whose returns profile supports Electras distribution policy and liquidity needs.
Further new investment activity has been curtailed by the notice of termination of our management agreement by Electra in May 2016.
Performance for the Year Over the year, Electras share price total return was 36% compared to a total return of 17% for the FTSE All-Share Index, 10% for the FTSE 250 Index and 34% for the Morningstar Private Equity Index over the same period.
26 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Electras net asset value NAV per share has grown very strongly, delivering a total return of 35% in the 12 months, to 5,149p, compared to a 28% NAV per share total return for the Morningstar Private Equity Index.
The investment portfolio has continued to develop at an impressive rate, delivering a total return in the year of 751 million or 46% on the opening portfolio.
Further information regarding the effect of this strong investment performance on Electras NAV is included in the Financial Review on pages 65 to 67.
Long-Term Performance Over the last ten years, Electras NAV per share total return has been 255%.
This is more than 7x the NAV per share total return achieved over the same period by the Morningstar Private Equity Index of 35%.
Over the same period, Electras share price total return was 237%.
This corresponds favourably to the total return over the same period of the FTSE All-Share 76%, the FTSE 250 Index 136% and the Morningstar Private Equity Index 15%.
Risk-Adjusted Returns Electras portfolio Electras alpha compared to the FTSE All-Share over the past ten years is 10%.
This means continues to perform that Electras shares have outperformed the broader UK equity market by 10% per annum well.
The strategies on a risk-adjusted basis.
In our view this reflects a number of factors: our discipline and we are implementing patience in investment decision-making: our typically using less leverage than is in partnership with generally seen in private equity transactions and, in cases such as Park Resorts or AXIO, no management teams leverage at all: and our deliberate construction of a portfolio designed to deliver Electras are successfully driving long-term performance target.
growth and cash flow Investment Activity New investments in the year totalled 218 million.
The Buyouts and Co-investments portfolio accounted for 137 million, including new investments in Photobox Group and Retirement Bridge Group, and follow-on investments in the Davies Group.
In addition 62 million was invested in six new Debt holdings, which included two CLO equity investments.
Realisations totalled 903 million for the year, more than three times the previous year 259 million and a record for a 12-month period.
The largest realisations were 199 million from the sale of Elian: 153 million from the IPO of Hollywood Bowl Group: 110 million from AXIO following the sale of MIMS: 95 million from the Park Resorts Group following its merger with Parkdean Holidays to create Parkdean Resorts: and 82 million from the sale of Electras interest in Zensar Technologies.
Two further realisations have been announced since the year end: the partial realisation of Premier Asset Management, which following its IPO in October returned 36 million: and the sale of Vidal from the AXIO portfolio in November, with proceeds of 55 million.
Outlook Electras portfolio continues to perform well.
The strategies we are implementing in partnership with management teams are successfully driving growth and cash flow, and repositioning each business to make it of significant interest to strategic buyers and financial investors alike.
The portfolios maturity means that we increasingly expect to be able to turn the performance resulting from these strategies into cash returns.
We are committed to a successful and seamless handover of responsibilities to the to-be-recruited new team at Electra immediately following the expiry of the notice period in respect of our management agreement on 31 May 2017.
We are in discussion with Electra regarding an appropriate Transitional Services Agreement to provide any short-term support after this time should it be required.
In the meantime we will continue to manage the portfolio to optimise returns for Electra and its shareholders.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 27 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview
