COM STRATEGIC REPORT | ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE With effect from 1 January 2016, Health & Personal Component Essentra evolved its reporting structure Care Packaging Solutions from four to three SBUs, with a view to providing even greater focus to A leading global provider of packaging The Components business is a global, the organisation.
and authentication solutions to a market-leading manufacturer and diversified blue-chip customer base in the distributor of plastic injection moulded, The Health & Personal Care Packaging pharmaceutical, health & personal care, vinyl dip moulded and metal items.
SBU groups Essentras pharmaceutical, consumer and specialist packaging Operating units in 29 countries serve a health & personal care and consumer sectors.
The business focuses on delivering very broad industrial base of customers goods packaging activities with value-adding innovation, quality and service with a rapid supply of products for a Speciality Tapes, which shares many through the provision of a wide range of variety of applications in sectors such as common features in terms of printed products and solutions, including equipment manufacturing, automotive, manufacturing process and footprint.
cartons, pressure-sensitive tapes, leaflets, fabrication, electronics and construction.
foils, labels and authentication technologies.
The activities of the Component The Pipe Protection Technologies business Solutions SBU being Components, In addition, the business is a leading specialises in the manufacture of Pipe Protection Technologies, Extrusion manufacturer and distributor of  innovative products and Security each serve customers coated tape products for a wide range of from commodity resins to engineeringin light and heavy industry.
industries and applications, in particular the grade thermoplastics and polymer alloys point of purchase and white goods sectors.
for use in a range of industries.
The Filtration Products SBU, which comprises the Filter Products and Supported by an in-house design studio One of Europes most advanced suppliers Porous Technologies activities, share and multi-million pound print facilities, of co-extrusion and tri-extrusion to all many common raw material and the business is positioned to deliver the branches of industry, Essentra is a leading production processes.
very best in quality, service and reliability custom profile extruder located in the through its worldwide manufacturing and Netherlands, which offers a complete sales structure.
2016 summary The Security business has access to a Revenue decline owing to integration wide portfolio of products and services, challenges at certain Clondalkin SPD including printers, software and facilities in the US and UK, and consumables from leading manufacturers.
pruning of less profitable business 2016 summary Weakness in tobacco tear tape, owing Components growth in Continental to despecification of value-added Europe and Asia offset by softness in features the UK and US Further commercialisation of Increase in access solutions hardware, innovative new packaging and boosted by new product platforms authentication solutions Incremental revenue opportunities Launch of the Design Hub in the in custom injection moulding UK, combining structural and creative packaging design with the technical Continued decline in Pipe Protection expertise of Essentras product Technologies, owing to challenges development in the oil & gas sector Completion of the acquisition of Excellent growth in Extrusion, the pharmaceutical assets of Kamsri supported by new business wins Printing & Packaging Pvt.
Ltd. in India for complex, technical profiles 4 STRATEGIC REPORT | ESSENTRA AT A GLANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM Filtration Financial summary by SBU Products The Filter Products business is the only global independent cigarette filter supplier.
Health & Personal The nine worldwide locations, including Care Packaging a dedicated Technology Centre supported by three regional development facilities, Revenue provide a flexible infrastructure 2016: 430.2m 2015: 422.6m 1.8% strategically positioned to serve the 1 tobacco industry.
The business supplies Operating profit a wide range of value-adding high-quality 2016: 34.5m 2015: 57.5m -40.0% innovative filters, packaging solutions to the roll your own segment, fully-functional Further details and packaged smokeless products and Page 17 analytical laboratory services for ingredient measurement to the industry.
Component Solutions The Porous Technologies business is a leading developer and manufacturer Revenue of innovative custom fluid-handing 2016: 302.6m 2015: 285.9m 5.8% components used in a variety of end- 1 markets, engineered from a portfolio Operating profit of technologies that includes bonded 2016: 54.4m 2015: 58.1m -6.4% and non-woven fibre, polyurethane foam and porous plastics.
Further details Page 20 2016 summary Revenue decline in Filter Products owing to a number of short-term Filtration Products challenges, in particular the maturing of a certain sizeable contract in Europe Revenue 2016: 374.4m 2015: 394.2m -5.0% Commercialisation of new special filters, notably smaller diameter, 1 Operating profit capsule and tube variants 2016: 59.0m 2015: 72.1m -18.2% Efficiency benefits from reconfiguration of site footprint and Further details investment in high-speed, flexible Page 24 combining equipment Growth in Porous Technologies led by healthcare, and supported by speciality wipes, household and writing instruments Disposal of Porous Technologies to Filtration Group on track for completion in Q1 2017 1 Excluding intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 5
