2 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Our businesses at a glance Galliford Try has three strong businesses.
Linden Homes Linden Homes develops private and affordable homes for sale throughout England.
Partnerships and Regeneration is our regeneration business, working to increase the supply of housing across all tenures.
Our Construction business is a major UK contractor, working across the public, regulated and private sectors.
Revenue Profit from operations 841m 147.2m 8% 18% Linden Homes delivers around 3,000 houses and apartments each year, most of which are for private sale.
We have a strong presence in the South and East of England, and a growing presence in the North and Midlands.
We develop homes on prime sites in good locations, close to transport links and local amenities.
Our homes are built to meet the varying needs of our customers and designed to complement their surroundings.
Through rigorous attention to detail, we create high-quality homes that earn industry awards.
We create sustainable developments, which include building affordable homes for sale to registered provider clients.
See our Business review: Linden Homes p30 Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 3 Partnerships and Regeneration Construction Revenue Profit from operations Revenue Profit from operations 301m 11.7m 1,503m 15.8m -9% 24% 16% 1% Partnerships and Regeneration is our specialist regeneration business.
Construction operates nationwide, primarily under the Galliford Try It has a strong presence in the South East, Midlands and North East and Morrison Construction brands.
Our network of regional offices is England, and a growing business across the rest of the country.
a key advantage, enabling us to deliver schemes of national distinction using a local approach.
We are a leading partner for the Homes and Communities Agency and provide contracting services to housing associations, local authorities The business is organised into the Building and Infrastructure divisions.
and other registered providers, building vibrant, affordable homes and It also includes facilities management, our multi-disciplined group of sustainable communities on their behalf.
chartered surveyors and our national piling specialists.
Partnerships also develops mixed-tenure projects, providing private Building housing for sale on regeneration-led sites.
We use the Linden Homes Building serves a range of clients across the UK, with a substantial brand and draw on Linden Homes expertise in housing development presence in Scotland.
We work alongside organisations in the public, and sales to successfully deliver these projects.
regulated and private sectors, and have a particularly strong presence in the health, education and commercial markets.
Infrastructure Infrastructure carries out civil engineering projects, primarily in the highways, rail, aviation, environmental, water and waste, and power and security markets.
PPP Investments PPP Investments specialises in delivering major building and infrastructure projects through public-private partnerships.
The business leads bid consortia and arranges finance, making equity investments and managing construction through to operations.
See our Business review: See our Business review: Partnerships and Regeneration p34 Construction p38
