G4S at a glance OUR BUSINESSES SECURING G4S is the worlds leading, global, integrated security company specialising in the provision of security and related services across six continents.
We offer a broad range of services on a standalone basis or in conjunction with other YOUR WORLD services to provide customers with valuable integrated solutions.
Technology, software and systems accounted for 13% of the Groups continuing business revenues in 2016 and technology enabled security services contributed more than an additional 1.5 billion revenues in 2016.
SECURITY SERVICES AND Market leading security solutions that are SYSTEMS 78% innovative, reliable and efficient.
G4S operates an integrated security business in more than 90 countries Our scale and focus on productivity across the globe.
The global security supports our cost competitiveness and market is highly fragmented: there are our sustained investment in professional few international suppliers and our staff, technology, software and systems competitors are typically smaller local enables us to provide innovative and and regional companies.
reliable solutions for our customers on a stand-alone or integrated basis.
Our approach Wedesign, market and deliver a wide range of security and related services and our global footprint provides valuable access to a highly diversified customer base in markets around the world.
We aim to differentiate G4S by providing industry CARE AND JUSTICE SERVICES Market Our approach 5% G4Ss Care and Justice services are G4S will only offer custody, detention, concentrated in the UK and Australia.
rehabilitation and care services where we can maintain a qualified talent pool The care and justice market is fairly and where the political, legal, human rights consolidated with a small number of large and regulatory framework is consistent providers.
Larger companies are usually with our Group values and results in better equipped to deliver the highly acceptable operational, commercial and specialised services in this sector.
CASH SOLUTIONS Market Our approach G4S Cash Solutions is one of a small Wetransport, process, recycle, securely number of large, global cash businesses store and manage cash and we provide and is the market leader or number secure international logistics for cash and two in 41 of its 44 markets.
Our strategy is designed to is highly regulated, often by central banks, enable us to accumulate volumes through and the business requires significant cost leadership and product and service infrastructure and expertise.
To do this, we invest in with local, national and a small number technology and develop and sell of international competitors.
Cash usage proprietary cash management systems in most developed markets is mature, which combine skilled professionals with with flat or gradually declining volumes at software, hardware and operational an aggregate market level.
Cash usage support in an integrated managed service.
continues to increase in emerging markets.
We operate around the globe, focusing on markets where we are able to build and sustain a material market share in our key service offerings.
2 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 CASH SOLUTIONS 17% OF REVENUES SECURE SOLUTIONS 83% OF REVENUES Strategic report OUR STRATEGY Our strategy addresses the positive, long-term demand for security and related servicesand our enduring strategic aim is to demonstrate the values and performance that make G4S the company of choice for customers, employees and shareholders.
We aim to do this by delivering industry-leading, innovative solutions and outstanding service to our customers, by providing engaging and rewarding work for employees and by generating sustainable growth and returns for our shareholders.
These aims are underpinned by the key programmes in our strategic plan: PEOPLE AND VALUES CUSTOMERS AND GROWTH AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE INNOVATION Our solutions Analytics and Intelligence OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL AND Systems: design, build Managed EXCELLENCE AND COMMERCIAL and integration service PRODUCTIVITY DISCIPLINE Technology and software Consultancy and risk management Monitoring and response Integrated Manned and mobile solutions security Please see page 12 for more details.
Margin Our solutions OUR VALUES AND ONE G4S Electronic monitoring Managed Our people and values underpin everything we do.
Our One G4S Custody, detention and service rehabilitation model brings all areas of our business together and is designed to ensure that the way we go about our business is consistent across Secure health our global operations and is strongly aligned with our strategy and our values.
Forensic medical and police support We believe that this approach will generate significant benefits for Integrated Secure transport our customers, employees and shareholders.
solutions Margin OUR VALUES We act with...
INTEGRITY AND RESPECT We are passionate about... Our solutions SAFETY, SECURITY Cash management software and systems AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE Cash recycling Managed service International secure We achieve this through... logistics ATM Replenishment INNOVATION and engineering AND TEAMWORK Cash processing Integrated Cash in transit solutions Please see page 15 for more details.
Margin Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 3 Incremental value added Incremental value added Incremental value added
