02 Genus at a Glance Pioneering Animal Genetic Improvement Genus is a world-leading animal genetics company.
We provide farmers with superior genetics that enable them to produce higher-quality animal protein more efficiently, in the form of meat and milk.
Genus is a market leader in porcine, dairy and beef genetics and is uniquely positioned as a global player, with a dedicated, multi-species research and development R&D function and aninternational distribution network.
What We Do How We Operate Genus applies DNA analysis to accelerate Genus sells under well-known trademarks: PIC genetic improvement and deliver it to for pigs and ABS for dairy and beef cattle.
During our customers, quickly and efficiently.
the year, we served our customers through three We breed and distribute the genes of the business units: worlds best pigs and bulls, scientifically selecting livestock whose offspring are Genus PIC, which serves porcine customers in North designed to increase the profitability of our America, LatinAmerica and Europe.
customers, who are some of the worlds leading farmers and food producers.
Genus ABS, which serves dairy and beef customers in North America, Latin America andEurope.
In the porcine market, we sell genetically superior boars and sows that produce offspring with desirable characteristics, such as feed-efficient Genus Asia, which serves porcine, dairy and beef growth or leaner meat.
In the dairy and beef markets, our primary Our Asia unit was established in 2012 to create a strong base product is bull semen, which is delivered in the regions diverse and fast-changing markets.
In FY17, through artificial insemination to improve our wewill integrate the Asia units porcine and bovine operations customers herds and their efficiency.
We also into the global PIC and ABS units, respectively.
offer genetically superior embryos, through our subsidiary IVB.
Revenue by Species % Bovine Porcine 45 55 This Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 7September 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Karim Bitar Stephen Wilson Chief Executive Group Finance Director Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 03 Where We Operate Our porcine business has a network of over Revenue by Geography % 600 breeding herds in over 40 countries.
Over 95% of these herds are owned by 12 thirdparties or our customers.
Our bovine business owns bull studs in Europe, North America, Latin America andIndia, and sells genetics in more 46 27 than70 countries, both directly and through distributors.
Genuss head office in Basingstoke, UK, provides shared services support 15 to our international operations.
Our R&D laboratories are based in Madison, North America Wisconsin, USA.
Latin America Europe Asia m 34 Spend on R&D per year, 2600 Employees worldwide ABS PIC 70 Country operations 40 m Country operations 136 Market pig equivalents with our genetics taken to market MPEs Genus plc Annual Report 2016
