Remuneration report continued Remuneration and performance summary References in this document to the Regulations refer to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, with which this report complies.
Salary: The average rise for salaries across the Group in 2016 was 3%.
Bonus: The bonus figure comprises Elements A and C of the EIP.
See page 112 for further explanation.
The 2017 estimate is based on target performance.
Share awards: 2015 and 2016 figures represent LTIPs exercised during the year.
2017 is an estimation of the value of element B of the 2015 EIP and the LTIP to vest in that year, using 31 December 2016 vesting percentages, share prices and exchange rates.
Pension: The Company did not contribute to the Executive Directors pensions during the year because an assessment of provisions made in previous years resulted in a short-term surplus.
Pension contributions are up to 10% of salary.
Executives participate in the same pension plan as Jordanian employees, their country of employment.
Benefits: The increased level of benefits for Executive Directors relates to a re-assessment of transportation costs and depreciation.
NED fees: The Average Non-Executive Directors fee includes basic fee and Committee membership and Chair fees.
Full breakdown of fees on page 134.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 106 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder alignment The Committee considers that it is very important to align the interests of the executive and the outcome for shareholders.
The Committee closely monitors the linkage.
Share price and value of Market capitalisation and executive holdings $m total executive pay $m Hikmas Executive Directors have a substantial equity The Committee considers that the total pay of the interest in the Company, the value of which is circa executives should be broadly commensurate with the 40 times the total remuneration paid to these executives.
overall size, complexity and performance of the Company.
Therefore, the changes in the share price experienced The Committee uses the graph below to broadly monitor by shareholders have a more significant impact on the the position and is content that remuneration has executives than their remuneration.
increased broadly in line over time.
Executive Director Total pay to Hikma market shareholding value $m Share price $ Executive Directors $m capitalisation $bn 8 900 35 20 33.4 30.7 18 800 6.7 7 30 16 6.1 700 6 677 25 14 600 5.6 23.3 5 19.8 12 20 500 11.8 527 523 3.9 10 4 9.7 400 15 8 12.3 8.6 3 2.4 300 321 6 10 6.6 2 5.4 200 225 4 5 1 100 2 0 0 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 Executive Director shareholding value Total pay to Executive Directors Share price Hikma market capitalisation Annual Report 2016 107 Remuneration report continued Equity position of the Directors and executive management The Committee believes that its share ownership policy strongly links executive and shareholders interests.
All Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a minimum shareholding equal to three times base salary.
The limits under and compliance with this policy are reviewed periodically by the Committee.
The table below demonstrates that the target shareholdings as a percentage of salary were met in full by the Executive Directors.
Requirement Executive Director Target Actual fulfilled?
Said Darwazah 300% 27,112% Yes Mazen Darwazah 300% 26,956% Yes Share ownership requirements also apply to Hikma executive management who are required to build and maintain a minimum shareholding equal to at least two times base salary.
In certain cases, the shareholding requirement has been increased in order to reflect local executive remuneration practice.
Compliance with the shareholding requirement is measured annually at the time of this report.
Proportion of executive pay Executive pay and that is share-based 2016 executive shareholdings 2016 To further align shareholder and executive interests, The Committee believes that shareholder interests the Committee ensures that a significant proportion are aligned with Executive Directors through the of executive remuneration is based in shares.
combination of substantial executive shareholdings, significant share-based compensation and remuneration broadly following company growth.
35% 65% 98.3% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 1.7% Cash Shares 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Executive Director shareholding Executive Director pay Committee responsibilities The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy on executive remuneration, determining individual remuneration and benefits package of each of the Executive Directors and recommending and monitoring the remuneration of senior management below Board level.
The Board is responsible for implementing the recommendations and agreeing the remuneration packages of individual Directors.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for making recommendations for the grants of awards under any employee share plans.
In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, no Director may participate in discussions relating to his own terms and conditions of remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the full Board.
The Committees terms of reference include all matters prescribed by the Code and clearly set out its authority and duties.
They are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis, and are available on the Hikma website, at the registered office at 13 Hanover Square, London, W1S 1HW and by contacting cosec@hikma.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 108 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors remuneration policy Effective period The Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy for Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Hikma which is detailed on pages 109 to 118 will be put to a binding shareholder vote.
The Policy will, subject to shareholder approval, become formally effective fromthe 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM on 19 May 2017.
It is intended that the Policy will apply for a period of three years from the date of approval.
Executive Directors The remuneration for Executive Directors is designed to provide for a competitive compensation package which reflects the Groups performance against strategic objectives.
Remuneration for Executive Directors will continue to comprise the following elements: Policy overview Fixed elements Variable elements Executive Incentive Plan EIP Base salary Element A: Cash bonus Total Benefits Element B: Deferred shares remuneration Pension Element C: Restricted shares Summary of changes to the Policy The new Policy for which approval is being sought at the AGM in 2017 is broadly unchanged from the Policy that was previously approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, with the exception of the following matters: Use of benchmarking data.
In accordance with current guidance on use of benchmarking data, the Committee is moving away from formally setting remuneration within ranges defined by benchmark data.
Going forward, the Committee will take into account market pay practice in UK listed companies of a similar size and relevant peer companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
Base pay increases for Executive Directors will be restricted to a maximum of the increase for the wider workforce, unless there is exceptional reason such as to reflect a significant change in the scope or responsibilities of the role.
To change the performance criteria of the Executive Incentive Plan: From To Financial metrics 50% Financial metrics at a Group and regional level 60% Strategic and operational targets 40% Strategic targets 40% Personal targets 10% To extend the life of the EIP from 5 years to 10 years on the same terms as previously approved.
To extend the limit on the maximum fees payable to Directors from 1,000,000 to 1,500,000 in order to allow for the orderly succession of Non-Executive Directors, as detailed in the Nomination and Governance Committee Report.
Our core principles The Remuneration Committee the Committee aims to ensure that the remuneration for the Executive Directors: Enhances the achievement of Hikmas strategic aims Takes account of employment conditions both inside and outside Hikma Aligns the interests of Directors with those of shareholders Is aligned with Hikmas founding principles Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend the Policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
Annual Report 2016 109 Remuneration report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Base salaries for individual Executive Directors are Company performance Base salary reviewed annually by the Committee, and any changes Affordability normally take effect from 1 January.
Salaries are set Provides a base level of Salaries for individuals who are recruited or promoted to with reference to: remuneration to support the Board may be set below market levels at the time of recruitment and retention Pay increases for the general workforce acting as appointment, with the intention of bringing the base of Directors with the an upper limit unless exceptional circumstances exist salary levels in line with the market as the individual necessary experience Individual performance, experience becomes established in their role.
and expertise to deliver and contribution Whilst base salaries are reviewed annually, they will not the Groups strategy.
Market pay in UK listed companies of a similar necessarily be increased each year.
Key element of core fixed size, and relevant peer companies from the remuneration pharmaceutical sector Benefits Benefits may include, but are not limited to: healthcare, the year in which the benefits or allowances were paid.
school fees, company cars, and life insurance.
Accordingly, the Committee would expect to be able to Provides competitive benefits adopt benefits such as relocation expenses, tax equalisation As the Company operates internationally it may in the market to enable the and support in meeting specific costs incurred by directors be necessary for the Committee to provide special recruitment and retention of to ensure the Company and the individuals comply with their benefits or allowances.
These would be disclosed to directors, and are in line with obligations in the reporting of remuneration for tax purposes.
shareholders in the annual report on remuneration for the culture of the Company.
A defined contribution scheme and or cash supplement to 30% of the Groups contributions to the Benefit Plan Pension in lieu of pension may be provided.
after three years of employment with the Group, and Provides a minimum level an additional 10% in each subsequent year.
Executives currently participate on the same basis of pension contribution to as employees in the Hikma Pharmaceuticals Defined Should a new executive be appointed to the Board, support a low fixed cost Contribution Retirement Benefit Plan the Benefit they would normally participate in the Benefit Plan, and highly entrepreneurial Plan, which operates in accordance with the rules according to the rules relevant to employees in the remuneration policy.
relevant to employees in Jordan.
Participants are entitled appropriate jurisdiction.
The Remuneration Committee sets annual Details of the 2016 performance targets, their level of performance targets for awards under the EIP.
A: Cash bonus satisfaction and the resulting performance remuneration At the end of each year the Committee determines are disclosed on pages 126 to 129.
The Company discloses Immediate reward for financial the level of incentive earned for that year.
the nature and weighting of future performance targets in and strategic achievement.
Element A is paid immediately as an annual the Policy Implementation report on pages 120 to 121. cash bonus.
Element B is provided in the form of deferred depending on the annual assessment of performance for shares.
Element B awards are subject to the the year in question, as detailed on pages 126 to 129: and B: Deferred shares following conditions: an additional holding period of three years for 50% of Deferred, at risk, share-based a deferral period of two years: the award.
The Committee retains the discretion to both reward for financial and increase the number of shares awarded under Element B risk of performance based forfeiture each year of strategic performance.
subject to the holding period and to change the length the deferral period of up to 50% of the cumulative of the holding period.
deferred Element B shares which have not vested, The performance conditions and targets for Element C continued employment on the third anniversary of the are the same as those for Element A and B. date of grant: and C: Restricted shares Element C maximum of 100% of salary per an additional holding period of two years for 50% of the Incentivises the achievement annum is provided in the form of deferred shares.
The Committee retains the discretion to both of strategic objectives over Element C awards are subject to the following increase the number of shares awarded under Element C the longer term.
conditions: subject to holding period and to change the length of the holding period.
a deferral period of three years: Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 110 Variable elements EIP Fixed elements Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Change to policy Whilst there is no maximum salary, any increase will generally be no higher than the average increase for the No longer defined by the comparator wider workforce.
A higher group range and upper limit of increase may be made in employee rise unless exceptional Not applicable.
the event of a role change, circumstances exist to ensure greater promotion, or in exceptional alignment between executives and circumstances, but the the wider workforce.
rationale will be clearly explained in the next report to shareholders.
The value of benefits is based on the cost to the Company and there is no predetermined Not applicable.
The range and value of the benefits offered is reviewed periodically.
The Group matches employee contributions made to the Benefit Plan.
For the Executive Not applicable.
Directors based in Jordan these are up to a maximum of 10% of applicable salary.
Annual performance metrics are based on: Extension of the EIP from Financial metrics 60% Core PBT 30% and Core Revenue 30% : 5 to 10 years to align with policy.
based on the budget The balance of the performance Strategic targets 40% : based on the Board approval strategy and metrics have been strengthened business plan.
Maximum 150% of salary and focused: per annum.
However, at: The Company operates in a rapidly changing market place and therefore From: the Committee may change the balance of the measures, or use different Forfeiture: 0% measures, for subsequent financial years, as appropriate, to reflect this, Financial metrics 50% Threshold: 25% although currently there is no intention to do so.
The Committee retains Strategic and operational Target: 100% discretion in exceptional circumstances to change the performance targets 40% measures and targets and their respective weightings part way through a See the performance Personal targets 10% performance year if there is a significant and material event which causes summaries on pages the Committee to believe the original measures, weightings and targets To: 120 to 121 for further detail.
are no longer appropriate an historic example would be the Arab Spring.
Financial metrics 60% Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the Committee believes Strategic targets 40% that the bonus outcome is not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
Malus and or clawback provisions apply to all elements of the EIP as detailed on page 113.
Maximum 150% of salary per annum.
However, at: Forfeiture: 0% See above in respect of Element A.
See above in respect of Element A.
Maximum 100% of salary per annum.
