Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 02 Group at a glance Ibstock plc is a leading manufacturer of clay bricks and concrete building products with operations in the United Kingdom and the United States.
UK Ibstock is the leading manufacturer Ibstock Kevington is the UKs Forticrete is a leading manufacturer by volume of clay bricks sold in the biggest manufacturer of brick special of concrete substitutes for natural stone UK.
With 19 manufacturing plants, shapes and components.
The range walling, dressings and concrete roof Ibstock Brick has the largest brick includes prefabricated arches, tiles, with seven manufacturing plants production capacity in the UK.
chimneys and wall cladding systems in the UK.
Forticrete has invested in a It operates a network of 23 active designed to make using brick quick new concrete roof tile manufacturing quarries which are generally located and easy.
plant at its Leighton Buzzard facility, close to its manufacturing plants.
which has added c. 5% to UK concrete roof tile market capacity.
Where our products get used Concrete roof tiles Forticrete Roo ng accessories Forticrete Faststack Chimney Ibstock Kevington XXI XXI Brick engraving Flooring T T T-BeamsBeams Ibstock Kevington Supreme Retaining walls Anderton Copings Forticrete Supreme Concrete fencing products Supreme Inspection Clay bricks Clay paving Arches Cast Stone Heads, Reconstructed stone walling Concrete chambers Ibstock Ibstock Ibstock Kevington Sills and Quoins Forticrete lintels Supreme Supreme Glen-Gery Glen-Gery Glen-Gery Forticrete Glen-Gery Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 03 North America Supreme is a leading manufacturer of Anderton Concrete is the UK Glen-Gery is a leading manufacturer concrete fencing products, concrete market leader in the supply of lineside of bricks by volume of despatches in lintels and general concrete building cable housing systems for railway and the North East and Mid West regions products, with seven manufacturing infrastructure projects as well as a of the United States, with a network plants in the UK.
major supplier of retaining walling, of ten manufacturing plants, ten fencing and structural components distribution centres and 29 active to the wider building industry.
quarries, covered by 20 active quarry permits.
Operations Key figures UK Group revenue Group revenue Manufacturing by subsidiary by end market plants Speciality brick Other assembly sites Glen-Gery 2% Builders 21% Factors Brick centres 19% merchants 51% Supreme 12% Ibstock 58% House builders Forticrete 28% 9% North America Capital Return Cash from expenditure on capital operating on major employed and investing investments activities 44m 19% 54m
