02 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GROUP AT A GLANCE BUILDING MOMENTUM FOR FUTURE GROWTH MARITIME ENTERPRISE Inmarsat offers the most dependable and versatile communications From oil and gas rigs in harsh ocean environments to utility companies solutions to the maritime industry, with secure, globally available services protecting their distribution networks, and from journalists broadcasting and products, which are helping to drive an evolution in vessel performance, live from trouble spots to humanitarian agencies coordinating relief efforts safety management and crew welfare.
From the largest commercial fleets in disaster zones, Inmarsat delivers instant, powerful communications across to coastal vessels, our services are based on our long track record and, every environment and on every continent.
Over the longer term, our services consequently, a unique understanding of the challenges of living and will extend and develop to support new and emerging applications and service working in a maritime environment.
solutions in the digital economy.
Revenue 48% of Group EBITDA 50% of Group Revenue 12% of Group EBITDA 12% of Group $575.3m $454.8m $144.6m $105.9m Maritime business review Enterprise business review See page 28 See page 32 AVIATION GOVERNMENT Inmarsat is fuelling a new era of innovation for commercial airlines and Inmarsat remains a key partner to a number of governments around the business jet operators in the areas of passenger connectivity and cockpit world.
In nations like the US, we aim to augment a governments existing safety.
The combination of our globally available SwiftBroadband, Classic communications networks and ensure that, wherever they need to be, our Aero and GX for Aviation services, in addition to our European Aviation secure, reliable and powerful mobile satellite networks are readily available.
Network EAN, currently in development, will ensure, in the future, Through our mission-critical voice, video and data communications solutions, we remain well positioned to maximise the potentially significant we support governments in maintaining their security, in ensuring public safety, opportunity of in-flight passenger connectivity.
and in delivering a range of remote health, education and other crucial services in regions where high-quality terrestrial networks are not available.
Revenue 12% of Group EBITDA 11% of Group Revenue 28% of Group EBITDA 27% of Group $142.6m $97.4m $330.5m $244.0m Aviation business review Government business review See page 36 See page 40 Group excludes Central Services and Ligado Networks.
The Group recognised $119.4m of revenue from Ligado Networks in the year ended 31 December 2016.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 03 Yet, as the promise of high-speed broadband has become a reality, we have BUILDING MOMENTUM continued to focus and invest in our future L-band franchise: a spectrum that 2016 was a crucial year for Inmarsat: one in which each of our businesses holds strong promise in the rapidly expanding world of IoT and M2M.
launched their market-specific Global Xpress services to the eager Testament to this is the design of the Inmarsat-6 constellation, our first dual anticipation of our partners and end-user communities.
payload, covering both L-band and Ka-band spectrum.
This underlines our By the close of the year, the impact of Global Xpress was clear to see long-term commitment to developing a new generation of advanced L-band in the sectors we serve - on land, at sea and in the air.
services while the Ka-band co-payload adds depth to the capacity of the existing Global Xpress constellation.
Thousands of vessels, hundreds of aircraft and a broad spectrum of government users had committed to the Global Xpress revolution: true 2016 saw strong progress made in the development of Inmarsats European recognition of the game-changing impact that reliable, global, mobile, Aviation Network, a hybrid high-capacity S-band satellite and LTE-based high-speed connectivity will have on the reach, operational efficiency ground network across Europe, which is set to be the most advanced, and capabilities of their individual sectors.
dedicated aviation passenger connectivity service in the world.
2016 was truly a year of building momentum for our future.
Ka-band L-band Inmarsat-5 Inmarsat-4 L and Ka-band L-band S-band Inmarsat-6 Inmarsat-3 EAN
