Strategic Report Overview ITV at a Glance ITV, as an integrated producer broadcaster, creates, owns and distributes high-quality content on multiple platforms.
ITV total revenue inc. internal revenue ITV adjusted EBITA Broadcast & Online 2,132m Broadcast & Online 642m ITV Studios 1,395m ITV Studios 243m Broadcast We operate the largest commercial family of channels in the UK and deliver our content through traditional television broadcasting & Online as well as on demand via the ITV Hub.
ITV broadcasts a wide variety of content on its family of free-to-air channels.
Our investment in programming is primarily funded by television advertising revenue.
47.4% ITV has the largest share of the UK television advertising market, and we estimate that this share of broadcast SOB is 47.4% in 2016. largest The family of channels attracted a total share of viewing SOV of 21.4% in 2016, the share largest audience of any UK commercial broadcaster.
of the UK TV Our main channel is the largest commercial channel in the UK, delivering 99% of advertising market all commercial audiences over five million.
Our free-to-air digital channels provide more targeted demographics for advertisers such as 16-34s, ABC1 Men and Housewives with Children, and consist of ITV2 and ITV3, 21.4% the two largest digital channels in the UK, and ITV4, CITV and ITVBe.
share of viewing for the ITV Family We also have high definition versions of our digital channels available on pay in 2016 platforms along with ITV Encore, our pay only channel available exclusively on Sky.
In addition to linear broadcast, ITV delivers its content across multiple 17m platforms.
This is either through our over-the-top OTT service the ITV Hub, available on 27 platforms including ITVs website itv.
com, pay providers such as Virgin and Sky, or through direct content registered users deals with services such as Amazon, Apple iTunes and Netflix.
of the ITV Hub We are partnering with the BBC to launch a new SVOD service in the US during 2017.
The streaming service will allow subscribers to access the best of British television.
6 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Pictured left to right: Emmerdale was the second biggest soap in 2016 with an average SOV of 32%.
It reached 60% of the UK population, which ismore than 35 million viewers: Assault course game show Ninja Warrior UK produced by ITV Studios UK returned for a second series in 2016, with a third recommission for 2017.
We have built significant scale in key creative markets around the ITV Studios world, creating and producing programmes and formats that return and travel, namely drama, entertainment and factual entertainment.
ITV Studios creates and produces content in the UK and internationally, while our distribution business, Global Entertainment, sells finished programmes and 7,800 formats worldwide.
hours ITV Studios UK of original content ITV Studios UK is the largest commercial producer in the UK.
We produce programming across a diverse range of genres such as drama, entertainment and factual for ITVs produced and own channels, as well as for other UK broadcasters such as the BBC, Channel 4, delivered in 2016 Channel 5 and Sky.
ITV America ITV America is the largest unscripted independent producer of content in the US.
We have acquired a number of unscripted and reality producers and have grown our presence in scripted content, using our strong cash flows to produce high-profile dramas with the potential to travel and build international appeal.
60 labels ITV Studios Rest of World in 10 different ITV Studios also operates in the Netherlands through Talpa Media, Germany, France, Australia and the Nordics.
Talpa produces and distributes entertainment formats while countries the other bases produce content for local broadcasters in these regions.
This content is either created locally or are formats that have been created elsewhere by ITV, primarily supplying over the UK and Talpa.
234 channels Global Entertainment Global Entertainment, ITVs distribution business, owns the rights to ITV programmes and formats and acquires third-party content and distributes this to other broadcasters and platforms internationally.
Within this business we also finance productions both on and off-ITV to acquire global distribution rights.
