Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Johnson Matthey delivered a robust performance in 2015 16, despite challenging markets, and continued to invest for future growth Year to 31st March % 2016 2015 change Johnson Matthey Plc Financial Delivering Superior Value 5th Floor Revenue million 10,714 10,060 7 pence 25 Farringdon Street 1, 2 Sales excluding precious metals sales million 3,177 3,164 London EC4A 4AB 200 180.6 178.7 170.6 Profit before tax million 386.3 495.8 -22 United Kingdom 153.7 147.7 2016 150 Earnings per share pence 166.2 211.2 -21 Tel: 44 0 20 7269 8400 3 Underlying : ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 100 71.5 Profit before tax million 418.2 440.1 -5 68.0 62.5 55.0 57.0 Earnings per share pence 178.7 180.6 -1 50 Dividend per share 0 Ordinary pence 71.5 68.0 5 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Underlying earnings Ordinary dividend Special pence 150.0 per share per share Voluntary Employee Turnover Social by Region % Average number of employees 12,494 12,148 3 11.7 Voluntary employee turnover % 6.9 6.0 2 12 Charitable donations thousands 679 612 11 10 7.3 8 6.9 5.5 6 5.1 4 2 0 Europe North Asia Rest of Group America World 4 Health and Safety Lost Time Injury and Illness Rate 4 5 Lost time injury and illness rate 0.37 0.50 -26 0.8 4 6 Total recordable injury and illness rate 0.85 1.13 -25 7 Occupational illness cases per 1,000 employees 0.90 1.03 -13 0.6 0.4 0.2 0 March March March 2014 2015 2016 Environment Global Warming Potential Go Online 8 Energy consumption thousands GJ 5,064 5,366 -6 thousand tonnes CO equivalent 2 www.
com AR16 9 Global warming potential thousand tonnes CO equivalent 480 510 -6 9 510 480 Waste to landfill tonnes 1,953 3,482 -44 500 463 417 413 Water consumption thousands cubic metres 2,605 2,529 3 400 300 SUSTAINABLE 200 100 TECHNOLOGIES 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FOR TODAY AND FOR THE FUTURE 1 We believe that sales excluding precious metals is a better measure of the growth of the group than revenue.
Total revenue can be heavily distorted by year on year fluctuations in the market prices of precious metals.
In addition, in many cases, the value of precious metals is passed directly on to our customers.
2 Sales excluding precious metals have been adjusted to include certain non pass through precious metal items.
3 Before amortisation of acquired intangibles, major impairment and restructuring charges, profit or loss on disposal of businesses, significant tax rate changes and, where relevant, related tax effects.
4 Per 200,000 working hours in a rolling year.
5 Restated to include accidents that occurred during 2014 15 but that were not declared as having resulted in lost time.
6 Restated for incidents reclassified after the year end.
7 Restated due to initial diagnosis being changed.
8 Restated to account for a change in calorific value of gas purchased in South Africa.
9 Restated using national carbon intensity figure for Macedonia.
WE REMAIN COMMITTED TO OUR 3C STRATEGY AND ITS THREE CORE PILLARS: COLLABORATE, CUSTOMER FOCUS AND CREATE VALUE.
OUR SHARED FOCUS ACROSS THE GROUP GIVES US CONFIDENCE IN BUILDING OUR 3RD CENTURY THROUGH VALUE ADDING SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES.
AT JOHNSON MATTHEY OUR PEOPLE ARE AT THE HEART OF OUR SUCCESS.
On the following pages you can read more about some of their achievements during the year, how sustainability will contribute to our long term success and how we are creating value for our employees, customers, shareholders and the communities in which we work.
You can find more examples of our strategy in action on our website WWW.
COM COLLABORATE CUSTOMER FOCUS CREATE VALUE STRATEGY Front cover photo: Maria Elena is a Senior Scientist at the Johnson Matthey Technology Centre in the UK.
In 2015 16 Johnson Matthey increased its gross investment in R&D by 11% to 188 million.
IN ACTION This report is printed on paper sourced from responsibly managed forests, certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council and is recyclable and acid-free.
How our 3C Strategy is helping us build our 3rd century Pureprint Ltd is FSC certified, PEFC certified and ISO 14001 certified showing that it is through value adding sustainable technologies.
committed to all round excellence and improving environmental performance is an important part of this strategy.
Pureprint Ltd aims to reduce at source the effect its operations have on the environment and is committed to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
Pureprint Ltd is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Designed and produced by MAGEE www.
co. uk POWERING UP OUR BATTERY TECHNOLOGIES BUSINESS HEADING The demand for electric vehicles, including hybrid, full battery and fuel cell powered cars, is growing.
This trend What you are reading now is not the finished copy.
And apart from one important fact, it bears absolutely no means there is an increasing need for the batteries to power these vehicles and Johnson Matthey is working to resemblance to the finished copy.
The important fact is this.
The copy you are now reading is set out to show meet this demand by investing in our Battery Technologies business.
you the typeface and the typesize in which the real copy will appear.
The real copy has been typed separately Innovations in this field could unlock opportunities for the broader commercialisation of fully electric, zero emission vehicles.
and will not be set until it has received final approval.
There is great scope to create value by making the improvements in battery performance that are necessary for truly What you are reading now is not the finished copy.
And apart from one important fact, it bears absolutely no competitive battery electric cars.
resemblance to the finished copy.
The copy you are now reading is set out to show you the Batteries are made up of various elements, including individual cells which create electrical energy through an electrochemical typeface and the typesize in which the real copy will appear.
The real copy has been typed separately and will not be reaction.
Within a cell there is a positive electrode, the cathode, and a negative electrode, the anode.
The cathode set until it has received final approval.
typically limits overall battery performance, making this the area where there is the most potential for technological You can be sure the real copy wont be as repetitive as this.
What you are reading now is not the finished copy.
Johnson Matthey is focusing its effort on the development of higher performance cathode materials.
apart from one important fact, it bears absolutely no resemblance to the finished copy.
The The challenges of this fit well with our core strengths, particularly our expertise in designing and manufacturing advanced copy you are now reading is set to show you the typeface and the typesize in which the real type will appear.
functional materials and, through our two recent acquisitions, we are now a major supplier of cathode materials for The real copy has been typed separately and will not be set until it has received final approval.
You can be sure the real copy wont be as repetitive as this.
And These acquisitions brought us expertise in the manufacture of high quality lithium iron phosphate a material used in apart from one important fact, it bears absolutely no resemblance to the finished copy.
The cathodes and long term supply relationships with key cell developers using this chemistry.
copy you are now reading is set to show you the typeface and the typesize in which the real type will appear.
The real copy has been typed separately and will not be set until it has received final approval.
We are also busy researching the next generation of battery materials, working closely with customers to gain a broad and deep understanding of their needs to develop bespoke solutions which can make a positive impact on the world, now and in the future.
COLLABORATE CUSTOMER FOCUS CREATE VALUE GREENER SILVER: PRODUCT INNOVATION IMPROVES HEALTH AND SAFETY A new product developed in our Advanced Glass Technologies AGT business is improving the health and safety of both our workers and customers.
The AGT team has produced a new silver conductive paste that is more robust than its predecessor and safer as it doesnt include phthalate, a chemical compound that can be harmful to people and the environment.
Silver paste is used by our automotive glass customers as a high performance product for applications such as rear window defrosters.
Experts from our technical sales, product development and quality assurance teams in the US and the Netherlands reformulated this popular group of products after exploring customers needs.
The new paste is the result of work to redesign or retire products containing phthalates.
Because these chemicals can be absorbed by the human body, they are suspected of harming peoples health so steps are being taken to remove them from common sources of exposure.
Collaboration and customer focus were the key to this project.
The customer was interested in a phthalate free alternative for this essential product if, and only if, it improved on the earlier version.
The team met this requirement through a rigorous sampling and customer testing programme to create a robust new product that is safer and healthier for Johnson Matthey to produce and for our customers to use.
This work supports our drive to innovate and design more efficient, more durable products which create value for our customers and protect human health.
Working closely with our customers throughout the development process and listening to their concerns led to the adoption of the improved version, which has now sparked interest in the wider marketplace.
NEW DIESEL EMISSION CONTROL TECHNOLOGY CREATES OPPORTUNITIES New regulations that come into effect next year in the US to reduce harmful vehicle emissions and lower the sulphur content of fuel will be challenging to meet.
Johnson Matthey realised at an early stage that developing new technology capable of reducing emissions of oxides of nitrogen NOx at very low temperatures could be key to helping our customers meet the new regulations.
This is the kind of challenge our R&D teams thrive on.
By collaborating on a project with our customers, Johnson Matthey has exceeded expectations with its new diesel Cold Start Concept dCSC catalyst.
Catalytic emission control systems are highly efficient when they are running at their operating temperature typically above 200C but problems can arise at lower temperatures or during the so-called cold start phase, when the engine is first turned on.
Johnson Mattheys new dCSC catalyst adsorbs NOx and hydrocarbons during the cold start period and releases them once the rest of the emission control system has warmed up.
During tests, vehicles using this technology comfortably achieved the required standard, demonstrating a fuel economy of 26 miles per gallon mpg in the city and 36 mpg on the highway, yielding a corporate average fuel economy CAFE improvement of 60% over the gasoline equivalent and well exceeding the 40% improvement target expected.
The dCSC catalyst will also help enable future diesel vehicles to achieve stringent emission standards around the world without compromising on fuel economy.
For example, Johnson Matthey has also used this technology as a key component in an advanced emission control system to demonstrate the potential to meet the ultra low NOx regulations which California is considering introducing for on road heavy duty diesel vehicles by 2023.
Working closely with our customers helped make the project a success, opening up possibilities for the adoption of this technology in future commercial applications and reaffirming our reputation for emission control innovation.
MAKING A POSITIVE IMPACT THROUGH PROCESS INNOVATION A new process technology developed by a team in our Process Technologies Division allows cost competitive renewable materials to be manufactured for a wide range of markets.
Johnson Mattheys existing butanediol process allows customers to manufacture high quality products for the polymers and solvents industries.
It has historically required a form of petrochemical as feed but this innovation, the creation of a new bio-butanediol process, means customers can now use a sugar based feed called bio-succinic acid.
Our customers use the new process to make chemical intermediates that are used in products for automotive, electrical and clothing applications.
By building on Johnson Mattheys core scientific strengths, the team was able to modify one of its existing technologies to use the new feed.
They then approached several companies that were developing sugar to bio-succinic acid technology to highlight how this new process could benefit them.
The new process is particularly attractive to customers because the technology is commercially proven and offers a low risk, fast to market route for large scale commercialisation.
This, together with our strong reputation, has resulted in a licence agreement with a customer for a new plant.
Innovations during the development of the new process have also resulted in three new patent applications, with a further one pending.
Adapting the process has given us unique experience of working in biochemicals which will support future developments and partnerships in the renewables sector.
COLLABORATE CUSTOMER FOCUS CREATE VALUE MEETING CUSTOMERS CHANGING NEEDS IN CHINA A project to improve a product line for our Emission Control Technologies ECT Division in China has resulted in a new catalyst which better meets our customers requirements.
China is one of the worlds largest and fastest growing markets, so innovating quickly to meet the expectations of our local customers is critical to our continuing success there.
The development team was working to a deadline to ensure an improved product would meet Chinas upcoming, tighter emissions legislation before the new laws came into effect.
Building on our experience of developing similar products for European and US markets, we looked carefully at the catalysts fundamental composition and made changes, including moving to a local supplier for some of the required raw materials.
This resulted in the introduction of an improved product which also uses less raw material than the original.
This project builds on our long tradition of working with our customers, understanding their challenges and delivering products that meet their specific needs.
The ideas and resulting innovations behind this project, a deep understanding of our customers requirements, using alternative suppliers, using fewer natural resources and reimagining existing formulations, can also be applied to other markets and product lines.
This gives ECT the potential to create even more value for Johnson Matthey and our customers in the future.
COLLABORATE CUSTOMER FOCUS CREATE VALUE CREATING VALUE FOR NEW CUSTOMERS AT FINE CHEMICALS Our Fine Chemicals team in the US has applied its manufacturing process knowledge and complex chemistry expertise to develop a new active pharmaceutical ingredient API which is being used in treatments for depression.
This process innovation has enabled the customer to develop medications which could be used to treat multiple illnesses and is an innovation that has the potential to benefit many people.
The customer is new to Johnson Matthey and the team in the US studied the customers needs so that they could tailor their offering to win the business.
Most medicines are created using organic compound base materials, which we turn into APIs through several processes including chemical synthesis the manipulation of the base materials through chemical reactions.
The resulting APIs are small molecules that bind to specific biological targets within the body and can be used in our customers products.
By building on one of the core molecules we already produce, the team was able to convert that molecule into the new product the customer required.
The molecule Johnson Matthey is now producing for this customer is used in the APIs for several different medications, including the new product designed to combat depression.
The process for making this new product, which is also more cost effective and efficient, has demonstrated our complex chemistry skills and customer focused approach, giving us the potential to work with the customer on other products in the future.
NOVEL MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY UNLOCKS PRODUCT INNOVATIONS Our Precious Metal Products Division has built on its core knowledge of material science to develop an advanced manufacturing technique that produces novel ceramic substrates.
The technique is additive layer manufacturing ALM, also known as 3D printing which is used to form ceramics of new geometries.
If a shape can be drawn, ALM can fabricate it.
This is unachievable using conventional manufacturing techniques, so ALM creates a step change in production that offers freedom in the design of new products.
The ability to change the shape of ceramic substrates helps to control the flow over a catalytic system and reduce overall system pressure drop.
This increases the yield and efficiency while reducing the operating costs of a reaction system.
The development of these new substrates draws on skills and know-how from different teams within Johnson Matthey to characterise the product and understand how the process compares with conventional techniques.
Our progression in ALM will help us continue to grow our business and move with our customers changing needs across multiple markets, from automotive to chemical synthesis.
We continue to collaborate across our divisions to unlock the technical potential of ALM substrates for Johnson Matthey across a range of applications.
A DECADE OF SUPPORT FOR SCHOOLS IN SRI LANKA Johnson Matthey has a long tradition of charitable giving: we can trace this back to 1838 when we began a partnership with the Royal London Society of the Blind, an organisation that we still support today.
Since then we have worked with many charities that make a positive impact through education.
As part of our Sustainability 2017 strategy, we support work in this area by partnering with organisations around the world that foster educational opportunities for the next generation.
This includes our longstanding support of three schools in the Galle region of Sri Lanka through the charity, United Kingdom Friends of Galle UKFG.
Johnson Matthey began its support of the schools after the devastating tsunami in 2004 and has built on that relationship for more than 10 years, financing scholarships for 36 children.
Two of the recipients are now at university, one of whom gained one of the highest O Level results in the country before passing her A Levels.
Our funding is having an incredibly positive impact, as the Chair of our Charity Investment Committee discovered when she took time out to visit the schools whilst on holiday last year.
She had the opportunity to meet with students and hear first hand how they are benefiting from our support.
She also made presentations to 14 students who had recently completed their 11 exams, something that wouldn't have been possible without the work of UKFG.
Johnson Mattheys commitment to education has already created a lasting legacy for these communities and the partnership will continue to grow.
Next year, to mark our 200th anniversary, we will provide funding to construct a library for Thumbe, the most deprived of the three schools, through which we can support students learning in Sri Lanka for many years to come.
COLLABORATE CUSTOMER FOCUS CREATE VALUE WE REMAIN COMMITTED TO OUR 3C STRATEGY AND ITS THREE CORE PILLARS: COLLABORATE, CUSTOMER FOCUS AND CREATE VALUE.
