At a glance Creating the worlds greatest food community We have strong local management teams on the ground in eachmarket of operation focused on making fooddiscovery exciting for everyone.
The consumer journey Choose restaurant Delivery method Customers can make Once prepared, the aninformed choice customer receives byreading previous notification when the customer reviews delivery is on its way andexamining the orthey can choose fullmenu.
oftheorder are sent tothe restaurant via Payment method Postcode proprietary technology The customer can The Just Eat apps in the restaurant.
thenchoose either andwebsites enable topay securely customers to search onlineorpay cash forrestaurants in their ondelivery collection.
area using a variety Thecustomer receives ofcriteria, sorted by anotification once cuisine choice and therestaurant has preference for delivery accepted the order.
Who are our Restaurant Partners?
The biggest single demographic of Just Eat customers Our Restaurant Partners are wide ranging, from isfamilies who, as expected, tend to place orders of counter-service takeaways to dine-in restaurants, higher value, as opposed to our individual customers soleproprietors and family-run businesses tobranded who typically order for fewer people and have a lower chains, representing over 100 cuisine types and average order value as a result.
Lifestyles generally demonstrating the breadth of choice.
have shifted with customers looking for convenient options that fit with their increasingly busy dailyroutines.
Number of active users Number of restaurants at the end of 2016 at the end of 2016 This, combined with the growing variety of takeaway food, including healthier choices becoming available, has resulted in customers embracing delivered food 17.6m 68,500 asafeature of their daily lives.
31% 11% Annual Report & Accounts 2016 8 Strategic report Our strategy of improving the consumer experience, bringing greater choice and driving channel shift remains as relevant today as it didatIPO.
Our global coverage Profitable territory We are the market leader in all of our markets, a key success factor in our sector.
Investment territory Norway Denmark UK Canada Ireland Switzerland France Mexico Spain Italy Brazil Australia New Zealand Outside the UK and Australia & New Zealand, our segments are: Established Markets, mostly Developing Markets, high potential, profitable, increasing margins earlier stage, investment The Groups associate in Latin America, iFood, expanded from Brazil intoColombia and Argentina France Canada Spain during 2016.
Inaddition, our Canadian business, Ireland Switzerland Italy SkipTheDishes, which was acquired inDecember Denmark Norway Mexico 2016, has a smalloperation in the USA.
Established brands and a leader Why invest in Just Eat?
inallmarkets Just Eat is the market leader in all 12markets in which we operate.
During 2016, our average market Large and growing addressable market 1 penetration wasonly 11 per cent 2015:7 per cent, leaving substantial opportunities to continue Scale and leadership driving growing our business well intothe future.
 Executing on strategy Read more about the marketplace we operate Strong financial performance in on pages16 and 17 andexpanding margins Highly cash-generative operatingmodel Industry-leading technology 1.
Management estimate calculated as gross merchandise value divided by the estimated total addressablemarket.
