STRATEGIC REPORT At a Glance The UKs leading hard landscaping manufacturer Marshalls principal aim is to increase value by creating better spaces.
We place astrong emphasis on product innovation and service delivery initiatives.
Who we are and what we do Public Sector andCommercial Domestic Interiors, gardens, Interiors, gardens seating andlandscapes and driveways Marshalls is the leading innovator of hard landscaping Marshalls Domestic customers range from DIY solutions for the commercial construction sector, placing enthusiasts to professional landscapers, driveway a focus on developingnew and innovative products.
Sales continue tobe driven through the Marshalls Register of Accredited Marshalls focuses on developing products which help Landscapers and Driveway Installers.
architects, local authorities and contractors tocreate better spaces, whether it is street furniture, natural stone paving For homeowners, Marshalls offers the inspiration they for the internal or external environment, concrete block need for their garden and driveway projects.
paving, water management or protective street Customers furnitureproducts.
National and independent builders merchants, Customers DIYgroups, professional landscapers, garden designers Local authorities, commercial architects, specifiers, and patioand driveway installers.
contractors, housebuilders and builders merchants.
Products Products Paving, block paving, paths, edgings, wallingand Paving, block paving, kerb, water management, decorative aggregates.
naturalstone cladding, street furniture, lighting, protective streetfurniture, walling and mortars.
Markets Public Sector andCommercial pages 1213 Markets Domestic pages 1213 04 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INNOVATION IN CONCRETE PAVING Paving with integrated Water Management Complementary drainage products canbeintegrated into a paving design todelineate or blend in order to create acohesive, free-flowing public space.
New products revenue growth of 10% What makes us different Our customer service Our production innovation The Groups national network of manufacturing The Groups commitment to innovation and the andregional centres makes Marshalls the only truly development of new products and solutions provides national supplier.
We maintain industry-leading standards an industry-leading new product design pipeline.
of product quality, availability and on-time delivery.
Our capital structure Our quality The Group has a strong balance sheet and a clear The Group remains committed to producing new capital allocation strategy.
Our capital structure quality products that are better than any existing isaligned with the strategic objectives.
Our standards Our technical expertise The Group is a benchmark for excellence and a leader The Group is committed to excellence and in its field.
Marshalls has been rated a Business ourskilledengineers and technicians provide Superbrand every year since 2010.
Marshalls has a world-class anannual initiative to identify and celebrate Britains Manufacturing, Innovation and Development team.
strongest consumer and business-to-business brands.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 05
