Mitchells & Butlers at a glance A brand for every occasion We love building innovative brands and formats and run some of the countrys best-known restaurants and pubs.
So whether youre in the Alex 43 sites All Bar One 51 sites mood for the perfect steak If youre out in a German city centre, these From cocktails to a well-chosen bottle of wine classic bars are the perfect places to stop for or an excellent meal, youll find something to close to home, or a pint of a beer and a bite to eat.
suit you in our stylish city bars.
real ale and some hearty food in a buzzing town centre pub, weve a business to suit every occasion.
Ember Inns 148 sites Harvester 229 sites Relaxed and welcoming suburban pubs.
A welcoming place for families to spend time We serve the best cask ales and classic pub together, have fun and share the pleasure of food with a twist in stylish environments.
Premium Country 128 sites Stonehouse 36 sites Our traditional pubs have been stylishly Alongside our traditional carvery, we serve refurbished to make them the perfect place up handmade pizza with fresh dough: plus to find a cosy corner and take time out.
burgers and pub classics at a great price.
4 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Revenue by 4% Scotland egion 3% % of sales North East 9% North West 8% Yorkshire and Humberside 5% 14% East Midlands 8% West Midlands East of England 4% 23% Wales 7% London South West 15% South East of England excluding London Browns 25 sites Castle 114 sites Crown Carveries 76 sites Since the first Browns opened in 1973, its been If you like a place with real personality, pull up a We serve a traditional roast dinner with a great providing delicious food and drink and superb chair in one of our urban pubs serving the best choice of tender, slow-cooked joints every day service in beautiful surroundings.
draught beer and great food.
High Street 127 sites Miller & Carter 52 sites Nicholsons 80 sites Our High Street pubs are the perfect place for We put everything into pursuing the perfect Youll feel right at home at these traditional city decent food and quality beer and at prices steak at Miller & Carter so only the finest cuts and town centre pubs that have been loved that put other pubs to shame.
since our first pub opened in 1873.
Suburban 291 sites Toby Carvery 173 sites Vintage Inns 195 sites A collection of the friendliest pubs.
What unites We lay on a feast of tender, slow-cooked meats, We manage some of the best country pubs these pubs is unbeatable value for money, eight lots of veg including crispy, ruffled roasties in the UK, all offering modern pub food and generosity, and big-hearted service.
5 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016
