Mitie at a glance We provide a range of diverse services Our facilities management services are delivered as integrated FM contracts, in bundles or as single services, depending on client requirements.
The property management business provides repair and maintenance services in the social housing market and we also provide high quality care to people at home.
280m 78m Property Management Healthcare Housing maintenance Homecare Painting Complex care Insurance claim response management The shape of the business 2.2bn Mitie revenue 129m operating profit 619m 1,255m Hard FM Soft FM Maintenance Cleaning Environmental Compliance services Projects Security Energy Catering and front of house 1,874m Facilities Management 2 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 to high across a broad quality clients range of markets We have a strong track record of building We work in most market sectors across the UK with long-term relationships with our clients.
an emphasis on the private sector.
Over the past few Our top 100 clients represent 50% of our revenues, years we have started to expand our services many of whom we have worked with for over ten years.
in international markets and in 2016 we worked 80% of our integrated FM contracts have developed in over 50 countries, and generate 3.4% of from single services relationships.
revenues from outside the UK.
1 13 2 12 11 3 10 75bn 9 UK FM 4 outsourced market 5 8 6 7 Revenue break down by end market Public sector Private sector 1.
com 3 r u M m s o o a d g t n e i n a e v i g d n a i n n t a i g s t n t p s n g r e e e o a d i l p n n l c d e U Mitie at a glance A low risk and resilient business model designed for growth Our business model is designed to allow Mitie to succeed in the long term.
Our starting point is always to talk to our clients, understand their strategy and work out what they want to achieve.
We then use our experience and knowledge of property, workplaces and services to advise them on the best way forward.
We apply fresh thinking to create services that produce innovative ways for our clients to live and work.
To deliver the services they need we make sure that our people are well managed and motivated.
We make sure that we get the basics right and provide opportunities for our diverse workforce to develop careers.
Our increasingly mobile workforce needs systems that are flexible and adapt to changes in the workplace.
We use a variety of technology-based solutions to make our services more effective.
As our clients needs change we keep evolving the way we do things to make sure we support them over the long term.
Delivering value for Mities clients, people, communities and shareholders How we create value For a business to be able to succeed over the long term it needs to be able to generate value for all of its stakeholders.
We provide value for our clients by delivering efficient services that support their strategic objectives.
Our people are part of a business that celebrates and respects differences, gives opportunities for development and encourages people to reach their potential.
We have significant engagement with the communities where we work, supporting schools and the disadvantaged, because we realise that we do not work in isolation.
What we do affects the way people think about us and allows us to operate.
Our shareholders are looking for a return on their investment that is compatible with the risks they are taking.
As a stable predictable business we are well placed to deliver value for all of our stakeholders.
4 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 d d e A n s d i a s g v y n m i i g s n o e i g l n t o s s g n y e h r a s v c n i e c d T e s with a clear investment case Mitie is different because our people are motivated and entrepreneurial.
Mitie has created long-term value for shareholders by incentivising management teams to outperform.
We have focused on having the best people in our business, providing them with the technology and equipment they need, working in long-term partnerships with our clients and providing a leading range of quality services.
We know that by getting this right growth and a strong financial performance follow.
Today we are a UK based business with a market leading position that provides a platform for sustainable growth.
Pure services business Market leading integrated facilities management offer Reduced risk with focus on facilities management Quality client base in diversified end markets Broad client base across private and public sectors Consultancy services provide strategic differentiation High retention rates and significant pipeline Long-term relationships as a trusted partner supporting clients strategies Good pipeline of future opportunities Innovation and technology capabilities Reputation for high quality efficient services and delivery capability Technology enables data analytics and insight to enhance decision making and performance Entrepreneurial people and high management retention Entrepreneurial people who are totally focused on client needs Strong, diverse talent pool and succession plan Stable, predictable profits Margins consistently between 5% and 6% Long-term order book Disciplined capital allocation We invest in our business using working capital to win and retain contracts Long-term track record of dividend growth www.
