02 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 AT A GLANCE OUR BUSINESS BUY-TO-LET RESIDENTIAL RETAIL SME LENDING MORTGAGE SAVINGS LENDING BUY-TO-LET MORTGAGES FIRST CHARGE ONLINE We lend to limited companies We provide bespoke loans to We attract retail savings and individuals secured on individuals, secured by a first deposits via the internet.
residential property held for charge against their residential investment purposes.
Our target market DIRECT target market is experienced includes high net worth and The direct channel sources and professional landlords or complex income customers.
savings products via the high net worth individuals with We are also expert in shared telephone and post.
established and extensive ownership, lending to first-time property portfolios.
buyers and key workers buying HIGH STREET BRANCHES a property in conjunction with Our Kent Reliance branded COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES a housing association.
network operates in the South We provide loans to limited East of England and offers a companies and individuals SECOND CHARGE variety of fixed, notice, easy secured on commercial and We provide loans to individuals access and regular savings semi-commercial properties seeking to raise additional products, including ISAs.
held for investment purposes funds secured by a second or for owner occupation.
charge against their residential home.
We predominantly PERSONAL RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT target good credit quality LOANS We provide development loans borrowers.
to small and medium sized The Bank acquired the developers of residential FUNDING LINES performing former Northern property.
Loans are staged, The Bank provides funding Rock consumer loan portfolio with monitoring surveyors lines to non-bank lenders who from UK Asset Resolution in signing off each stage of the operate in high yielding, July 2013.
This portfolio of development before funds specialist sub-segments such high-margin, seasoned loans arereleased.
currently represents the Groups only unsecured FUNDING LINES lending and is serviced by a The Bank provides funding third party specialist servicer.
lines loans to non-bank Net loan book was 9.1m finance companies secured at31 December 2016 against portfolios of financial 2015:42.1m.
assets, principally mortgages and leases.
Retail savings balance Residential 2015 2016 by channel 2015 2016 Buy-to-Let SME 2015 2016 Loans and advances Loans and advances Direct 44% 37% bn 2.0 1.9 bn 3.1 4.1 Online 35% 32% Gross new lending bn 1.5 1.9 Gross new lending bn 0.3 0.4 Branches 21% 31% Average book LTV at Average book LTV at 31 December % 56 58 31 December % 66 69 For more information go to the For more information go to the For more information go to One fair Operating and financial review p22 Operating and financial review p22 place to save p18 Strategic report Financial statements Governance 03 OUR TRADING BRANDS OneSavings Bank is made up of a family ofspecialist financial Largest lending business in the Kent Reliance is also an services brands.
Group, offering Buy-to-Let and established, stable and awardfirst charge residential loans.
Its strong customer focus delivers high levels of customer satisfaction, resulting in strong customer loyalty and retention.
Specialist semi-commercial and Experienced team providing Long-standing second charge commercial mortgage lender specialist residential lender, which offers an awardproviding Buy-to-Let loans, development finance to small winning range of specialist alongside owner-occupied and and medium sized developers secured loans throughout investor commercial mortgages with a proven track record England, Scotland and Wales throughout England and Wales commenced trading in acquired in September 2012. acquired in August 2012.
Specialist residential and BuySpecialist residential and BuyBased in Bangalore, India, and to-Let mortgages for its local to-Let mortgages for its local a wholly-owned subsidiary of market since 2005. market since 2002.
OneSavings Bank, OSBI provides primary processing for our Kent Reliance, Jersey and Guernsey brands.
