Paysafe at a glance Payment Processing & We are a Acquiring consolidated, comprehensive payments Pay Later Business Solutions provider Processing.
The digitisation of commerce is leading toan acceleration of the shift in financial consumption habits from traditional payment formats to new, digitally-enabled platforms and mechanisms.
Card This shift is creating entirely new business Issuing models and transforming user expectations and behaviour.
Whether buyer or seller, consumer or business, we expect how we pay, manage, send and receive our money DIVISIONS to be frictionless and empowering.
For anyone operating in payments today, these changes are demanding new capabilities, new technologies, and new thinking.
At Paysafe we are building for the future of payments a platform tobecome the preferred destination for businesses and consumers Payment Processing around the world.
Provides payment processing services Having been innovating in payments since 1996 we understand how to businesses, helping them accept to stay ahead of the curve.
Thats why at Paysafe our portfolio and digital payments from their customers capabilities are always evolving.
around the world using as broad a range of payment options as possible.
From cash to digital currency: all-in-one processing to multicurrency consumer wallets and international money transfer: from order-ahead mobile apps to consumer credit solutions, our portfolio embraces both businesses and consumers providing a growing set See page 30 for more on our of distinct solutions to a growing range verticals and segments.
Payment Processing division Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 2 e c n a t p e c c a t n a h c r e M e c n e r e f e r p r e m u s n o C OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Digital Wallets Capabilities PCI compliance Chargeback management Prepaid Risk rules engine Consumer Solutions Payment guarantee Merchant support Buy.
White labelling Reporting and analytics Cashback and loyalty Technology platform Developer portal Remittance DIVISIONS Digital Wallets Prepaid Our Skrill and NETELLER digital wallets Our paysafecard product allows enable consumers to make instant, consumers to pay for goods and secure and guaranteed payments services online, without having to online to businesses and to transfer enter account details, by purchasing money to family and friends.
vouchers for set amounts at physical locations.
See page 34 for more on our See page 38 for more on our DigitalWallets division Prepaiddivision www.
