s g n i v a S n o i t c e t o r p & h At a glance Our strategy We meet the long-term savings and protection needs of an increasingly self-reliant population.
We focus on three markets Asia, the US and the UK where the need for our products is strong and growing and we use our capabilities, footprint and scale to meet that need.
We aim to capture three long-term opportunities across our key geographical markets: serving the protection and investment needs of the growing middle class in Asia: Asia Significant protection providing asset accumulation and retirement income gap and investment products to US baby boomers: and needs of the middle class meeting the savings and retirement needs of an ageing British population.
Together with capturing the scale and diversification benefits of our global presence, we aim to generate attractive returns, enabling us to provide financial security to our customers, US UK invest in growth opportunities and meet our customers Transition of Savings gap and baby boomers ageing population in need high expectations.
into retirement of returns income What we offer We focus on long-term opportunities in each of our geographical markets, understanding the needs of local customers and offering innovative products to meet those needs.
Life insurance Asset management 24m 383bn life customers worldwide total funds under management We provide our customers with savings products and financial We provide a range of opportunities across asset classes, protection against ill-health, loss of income and other adverse generating valuable returns for our customers through a events, helping them to fide-risk their lives.
10 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk t l a e h, s g n i v a S s g n i v a S 02 Strategic report Where we operate We identify markets where the needs we meet are underserved.
Our business is organised into four geographic regions, with a focus on Asia, the US and the UK, where we see structural demand for our products.
In recent years we have expanded into Africa, taking advantage of the emerging demand for our products in the region.
Asia US Prudential Corporation Asia Jackson Prudential Corporation Asia has leading insurance and asset Jackson provides retirement savings and income strategies aimed management operations across 14 markets and serves the families of at the large number of people approaching retirement in the United the regions high-potential economies.
We have been operating in States.
Jacksons pursuit of excellence in product innovation and Asia for over 90 years and have built high-performing businesses with distinctive distribution capabilities have helped us forge a solid multichannel distribution, a product portfolio centred on regular reputation for meeting the needs of customers.
Jacksons variable savings and protection, award-winning customer services and a annuities offer a distinctive retirement solution designed to provide widely recognised brand.
a variety of investment choices to help customers pursue their financial goals.
Eastspring Investments is a leading asset manager in Asia and provides investment solutions across a broad range of asset classes.
Leading pan-regional franchise Premier retirement income player 93% 118bn 8x 120bn of APE sales are regular premium total funds under management premium growth since 1995 of separate account assets, grown 3x since 2010 UK Prudential UK & Europe M&G Prudential is a leading provider of savings and retirement income M&G Investments is an international asset manager with more than 85 products in the UK.
Our particular strength lies in investments that years experience of investing on behalf of individuals and institutions.
help customers meet their long-term goals, while also protecting them Our goal is to help our customers prosper by securing long-term against short-term market fluctuations.
We provide long-term savings returns from their savings.
For individual investors, we offer funds solutions for UK customers, meeting peoples needs through our core across diverse geographies, asset classes and investment strategies, strengths in with-profits and retirement, underpinned by our expertise aimed at growing their long-term savings or producing regular income.
in areas such as longevity, risk management and multi-asset investment.
For institutional investors, we offer investment strategies to meet their clients long-term needs for capital growth or income.
Well recognised brand with strong track record Long-term and conviction-led approach 118bn 75% 15 137bn invested assets in PruFund investment performance locations across Europe external funds under management 2 with-profits funds growth since 2006 vs 39% in ABI and Asia 1 sector comparative Africa We entered Africa in 2014 to offer products to new customers in one of the fastest-growing regions in the world.
We aim to provide Notes 1 ABI mixed investment 20 per cent to 60 per cent shares, total return: performance from products that meet their needs towards saving for future expenses, 29 December 2006 to 30 December 2016. such as education for their children, and to fide-risk their financial lives.
2 Represents financial assets and investment properties in with-profits funds.
