Our business at a glance Rathbones today Rathbone Brothers Plc, through its subsidiaries, is a leading provider of high-quality, personalised investment and wealth management services for private clients, charities and trustees.
Our services include discretionary investment management, unit trusts, banking and loan services, financial planning, unitised portfolio services and UK trust, legal, estate and taxadvice.
We employ over 1,100 staff including 287 investment professionals in 16 locations across the UK and Jersey Total funds under Group underlying management increased operating income by 17.1% to 34.2 billion increased by 9.6% to during 2016 251.3m during2016 Investment Management 30 2bn Investment Management 226 3m Unit Trusts 4 0bn Unit Trusts 25 0m Group Total underlying funds under operating management income 34.2 bn 251.3m We are a FTSE 250 company listed on the London Stock Exchange 2 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Our services Investment Management Complementary services Through Rathbone Investment Management, we provide Rathbone Investment Management also provides: personal discretionary investment management solutions Banking and loan services to private clients with investible assets of 100,000 upwards.
As a licensed deposit taker, we are able to offer our clients loans We also manage 4.1 billion for charities and Rathbone directly secured against their investment portfolios.
Greenbank Investments manages 863 million in ethical and socially responsible investment portfolios.
We have also recently Financial planning established the Rathbone Private Office, which will provide a We offer in-house financial planning, which provides whole of range of independent investment and financing solutions to market advice to clients.
super high net worth clients.
Our offshore discretionary investment services are provided by Rathbone Investment Unitised Portfolio Service Management International.
Using the Rathbone Multi Asset Portfolios funds, we offer clients with fewer investible assets 25,000 or more model-based discretionary investment management services.
Investment Management funds We also operate the following additional entities: under management have Rathbone Trust Company increased by 104.6% to 30.2bn Rathbone Trust Company provides UK trust and some legal, estate and tax advice to clients.
over the past five years Vision Independent Financial Planning An independent IFA network providing financial advisory 48,000 clients in our Investment solutions to UK private clients.
Management business Client account type by value Private clients 38 1% Unit Trusts ISAs 15 7% Charities 13 3% Trusts 11 8% Pensions 11 7% Rathbone Unit Trust Management is a leading UK fund manager Other 9 4% providing a range of actively managed specialist and multi asset unit trusts that are designed to meet core investment needs in the retail client market.
These funds are distributed mainly through independent financial advisers in the UK.
Multi asset funds provide an investment solution for clients with smaller investment portfolios from 1,000 to invest and are the Size of client relationship by value building blocks for the collective investment management solution for smaller private clients delivered via the Rathbone 250 000 8 2% Unitised Portfolio Service.
