DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT At a glance Introduction In this section, we summarise the purpose of our Remuneration Policy and its linkage to our corporate strategic objectives.
Wehighlight the performance and remuneration outcomes for the 2015 16 financial year.
More detail can be found in the Remuneration Policy Report and Annual Report on Remuneration.
Our Remuneration Policy and its link to our Group strategy The Groups strategy is laid out on pages 14-15.
The key elements of the Companys strategy and how its successful implementation is linked to the Companys remuneration are set out in the following table.
Strategic priorities Retain and reward Executive Unlocking growth in our Continued growth and Team to core businesses of Investing in long-term shareholder Equity ownership and deliver the Remuneration Policy insurance and travel future growth valuecreation retention ofshares strategy Fixed remuneration Delivered customer Announced our Model continues salary, benefits growth across all investment in to generate strong andpension key insurance lines.
Undertaken a The Company provides passengers in tour Saga review of the capital competitive levels to operating business.
Investment allocated to our attract and retain talent Right team put in Services up underwriting required to successfully place to deliver and running.
deliver on our business multichannel.
Successful Disposed of Allied strategy.
Annual bonus metrics Maximum annual bonus Profit before tax Group cash flow.
ofsalary: The success Encouraged through An incentive to grow inmaximising bonus deferral and two thirds of the total inthe core markets is operational shareholding bonus to be paid provided in the short excellence will requirements.
immediately in cash term through the bereflected one third deferred Profit before tax through increased into shares subject PBT growth and profitability to a three year cash flow targets in andcash flow.
80 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Governance Strategic priorities Retain and reward Executive Unlocking growth in our Continued growth and Team to core businesses of Investing in long-term shareholder Equity ownership and deliver the Remuneration Policy insurance and travel future growth valuecreation retention ofshares strategy LTIP metrics Maximum annual award An incentive to grow The success in Total shareholder is 200% of salary.
in thesemarket in the maximising return and earnings Awards will vest at longerterm is operational per share.
theend of three provided through EPS excellence will be The generation of yearssubject to the growth targeted by measured through cashand PBT growth achievement of: the LTIP.
the long-term EPS targeted by the annual growth targeted bonus will help stretching EPS by the LTIP.
In enhance the value of conditions which addition, sustained the Company which provides alignment value generation will be measured toour core strategic will be reflected through the success priorities inthe share price ofthe Companys TSR relative total of the Company performance against shareholder return which will be itscomparators a TSR performance measured through performance condition of the Company the Companys under the LTIP.
which provides TSR performance alignment tothe under the LTIP.
success of ourbusiness in delivering value to our shareholders compared with relevant comparator companies.
Minimum shareholding requirements Encouraged through the alignment of Group Chief interests with Executive Officer shareholders by 200% of salary.
Executives becoming Group Chief Financial locked-in Officer 150% shareholders.
All employee shareplan Encourages all employees to become shareholders in the Company providing a focus on growth and long-term shareholder value creation.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 81
