OUR BUSINESS AT A GLANCE Saga celebrates its 65th anniversary this year, andhas become the UKs leading business focusing purely on the over 50s.
Business areas Insurance Operations Insurance Our award winning insurance Underwriting business is the largest part of theGroup, providing tailored products and services ranging frommotor to pet insurance to over2m customers per year.
Read more on page 34 Travel Operations Saga Cruises Our award winning travel business is Saga Holidays at the heart of the Saga brand, taking Titan over 250,000 passengers a year all Destinology over the world on package holidays, escorted tours and cruises.
Read more on page 36 Emerging businesses Operations Personal finance Emerging businesses includes Saga Investment Services our personal finance, homecare, Homecare: Saga Homecare, Patricia publishing and printing operations Whites, Country Cousins, Saga SOS as well as new development Saga Publishing areasfor the long-term growth MetroMail ofthe business.
Retirement villages Read more on page 37 04 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Strategic Report The Saga Model What differentiates Saga and what Differentiated products: we listen Outstanding service: our customers makes customers choose us over other to our 2.7m customers and the 11.2m know what good service looks like, providers.
The Saga Model drives our people on our database to gain insight expect the best, and recognise it ongoing success: and tailor products and services when they get it.
A great brand: a trusted brand with 97% recognition amongst the UKs Unique route to market: direct over 50s, allowing us to provide added access to 11.2m individuals through value, fairly priced products across our database across multiple channels.
Investment case Targeting a growth demographic In a majority of cases, Saga uses third Growth potential in the core The over 50s are the fastest growing party providers, meaning we have very businesses of insurance and travel demographic in the UK.
In 2013 little capital at risk and are afforded Our award winning core businesses 1 therewere 22.8m over 50s, a number some protection against the impact of insurance and travel are well placed that is forecast to grow by 27.6% to of market conditions.
In the year to to grow from relatively modest shares 1 approximately 29.1m by 2033, meaning January 2016, 77% of all our trading of the market for the UKs over 50s.
they will represent 40% of the UKs profit was generated by activities We have delivered growth across our 1 population.
The 65-75 and 75 where we had no capital at risk.
core business this year and have a clear segments are predicted to increase strategy in place for growth in the future.
atan even greater rate over the same Go to page 13 for more information period, by approximately 34% and 70% Go to page 34 for more information 1 respectively.
This is important, as those Consistent financial delivery and aged 65 or over are particularly strong cash generation Growth options for the future contributors to the success of Group profits have grown year-on-year We are continuing to identify and the Group.
Our capital assess new development areas for efficient business model also means the long-term growth of the business.
we are highly cash generative, with the Our activities include the development Go to page 11 for more information majority of our profit after tax converted of our recently launched investment A strong, capital efficient into cash after tax.
This gives us the management business, Saga Investment business model flexibility to continue to grow whilst Services, and our ongoing pilots in Saga is focused on the development paying down debt and growing homecare and retirement villages.
of products and services specifically long-term returns to shareholders for our customers.
We then find the via our progressive dividend policy.
Go to page 37 for more information best way to create those products, be it in-house or teaming up with Go to page 40 for more information a best in class partner to produce them to our exacting standards.
1 ONS population projections, CEBR analysis.
Profit growth, cash generation and sustainable shareholder returns Our strategy Strategic priorities for the coming year 1.
Investing for future growth businesses of insurance and travel customer-centric organisation Go to page 20 for more information Go to pages 8,19 and 20 Go to page 18 for more information for more information 2.
Developing our people Go to pages 8, and 20 Go to page 19 for more information Go to page 21 for more information for more information 3.
Growing our travel businesses efficient operating model Go to page 20 for more information Go to page 8 for more information ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 05
