STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WHO WE ARE FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT Senior is an international, market-leading, engineering ADJUSTED 1 Financial Highlights solutions provider with 33 operations in 14 countries.
OPERATING 2 Group at a Glance 1 REVENUE MARGIN 4 2016 at a Glance Senior designs, manufactures and markets high- 8 Chairman's Statement 8% -3.4ppts 917.0m 9.3% 10 Chief Executive's Statement technology components and systems for the principal 2015 849.5m 2015 12.7% 12 Market Overview 14 Our Business Model original equipment producers in the worldwide 16 Areas Of Strategic Focus aerospace, defence, land vehicle and energy markets.
18 2016 Performance 20 Financial Review 24 Risks and Uncertainties The Group is split into two divisions, Aerospace ADJUSTED 30 Corporate Responsibility PROFIT PROFIT and Flexonics, servicing five key sectors.
34 Key Performance Indicators 1 BEFORE TAX BEFORE TAX -24% -13% GOVERNANCE 75.3m 55.5m 2015 99.3m 2015 63.8m 36 Board of Directors 38 Executive and HSE Committees 40 Report of the Directors 42 Corporate Governance Report 45 Nominations Committee Report 46 Audit Committee Report 51 Remuneration Report: Annual Statement ADJUSTED BASIC EARNINGS PER EARNINGS 53 2016 Remuneration Report at a Glance 1 SHARE PER SHARE 55 Policy 61 Annual Report on Remuneration -24% -6% 14.37p 10.84p 71 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 2015 18.98p 2015 11.59p 72 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Senior plc FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 76 Consolidated Income Statement 76 Consolidated Statement of RETURN DIVIDENDS ON CAPITAL Comprehensive Income PER SHARE EMPLOYED 77 Consolidated Balance Sheet 78 Consolidated Statement of Changes 6% -6.0ppts 6.57p 12.9% in Equity 79 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 2015 6.20p 2015 18.9% 80 Notes to the Consolidated FinancialStatements 112 Company Balance Sheet 113 Company Statement of Changes inEquity 114 Notes to the Company Financial Statements FREE CASH 119 Five-year Summary 2 FLOW NET DEBT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION -6% 48.5m 198.1m 120 Group Undertakings 2015 51.7m 2015 194.6m 123 Additional Shareholder Information 124 2017 Financial Calendar 124 Officers and Advisers To find out more visit www.
com 1 Cautionary statement A reconciliation of adjusted profit before tax to reported profit before tax is on page 89.
2 The Annual Report & Accounts 2016 contains certain forward-looking See Notes 32b and 32c for derivation of free cash flow and of net debt respectively.
Such statements are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the date of this Report The Groups principal exchange rates for the US dollar and the Euro, applied in the translation of revenue, and they should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties profit and cash flow items at average rates were $1.36 2015 $1.53 and 1.23 2015 1.37 respectively.
underlying any such forward-looking statements.
The US dollar and Euro rates applied to the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 were $1.24 2015 $1.47 and 1.17 2015 1.36 respectively.
SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 1 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP AT A GLANCE WHERE WE OPERATE MARKETS Aerospace Division Flexonics Division 73% 27% 45% Large Commercial Aircraft 9% Truck & Off-Highway The Group aims to create long-term sustainable growth 14% Military Defence Aerospace 5% Passenger Vehicles in shareholder value through a culture of empowerment of autonomous and collaborative operations working within 7% Regional & Business Jets 5% Oil & Gas an effective control framework.
Our vision is to be a trusted 2% Space & Non Military Helicopter 4% Power & Energy and collaborative high value-added engineering and 5% Other Aerospace Division 1% Heating, Ventilation & Solar manufacturing company producing sustainable growth 3% Other Industrial in operating profit, cash flow and shareholder value.
AEROSPACE CUSTOMERS FLEXONICS Aerospace Division Flexonics Division North America 10 4 Brazil 1 73% 27% Continental Europe 3 3 12% Boeing 2% GKN 4% Cummins 5% Other Land Vehicle UK 4 2 7,454 33 14 South Africa 1 10% Rolls-Royce 2% Bombardier 2% Caterpillar 2% Emerson India 1 9% Spirit 2% Honeywell 1% Renault 1% Schlumberger Malaysia 1 1 Thailand 1 4% UTC 1% GE 1% Faurecia 10% Other Industrial EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE COUNTRIES WE & Aerospace China 1 OPERATIONS OPERATE IN 3% Lockheed Martin 22% Other Aerospace 1% PSA Division 3% Airbus 3% Safran GROUP REVENUE GROUP REVENUE STRUCTURES LAND VEHICLE EMISSION CONTROL Precision-machined airframe REVENUE REVENUE 27% 73% components and assemblies Exhaust gas recycling coolers 665.2m 252.1m Fuel mixing and 1 1 AEROSPACE FLEXONICS 6% -17% FLUID CONVEYANCE distribution systems Serving both the commercial Serving markets with products SYSTEMS Flexible couplings aerospace and defence markets for land vehicle emission control High-pressure and low-pressure ADJUSTED ADJUSTED 20.7m 74.8m with a range of products and industrial process control engineered ducting systems OPERATING OPERATING 1 INDUSTRIAL PROCESS 1 and systems for structures, applications.
-11% -52% metal and composite PROFIT PROFIT CONTROL fluid conveyance, and gas Engineered control bellows, turbine engines.
Engineered expansion joints, sensors and assemblies dampers and diverters 11.2% 8.2% Flexible hose assemblies and GAS TURBINE ENGINES control bellows ADJUSTED ADJUSTED 4,727 2,675 Precision-machined and fabricated OPERATING OPERATING Fuel cells and heat exchangers engine components rotating MARGIN MARGIN Precision-machined components and structural Fluid systems ducting and EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES control products WORLDWIDE WORLDWIDE READ MORE Read the Group Chief Executives statement of the year on 1 At constant currency pages 10 to 11 2 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 3 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT NEW 3D SQ.
FT. printers used in producing fixtures 196,000 and tooling at Steico.
FACILITY IN THAILAND NADCAP approved modern treatments line in Thailand.
2016 AT A GLANCE During 2016, the Group made STEICO ENHANCE SENIORS AUTONOMOUS good progress in the six areas AND COLLABORATIVE BUSINESS SUCCESSFULLY MODEL of specific strategic focus.
INTEGRATED INTO Implemented engagement guidelines to Here is a selection of help optimise the transfer of work to cost THE GROUP competitive locations and to facilitate higher Following the acquisition of Steico Industries, highlights from the year.
level solutions to meet customer needs.
Inc. Steico in December 2015, the Groups Customer Relationship Managers appointed newly developed integration playbook was during the year for key customers.
deployed to ensure that the post-acquisition integration was effective for both Senior and READ MORE ON PAGE 16 Steico.
In addition to rolling out Seniors ethics and compliance programmes, comprehensive FOCUS ON GROWTH integration plans were established focusing THAILAND CAPACITY on financial, tax and treasury, human resources, Established a Group-wide technology council export compliance, IT and health, safety and TRIPLES AS NEW to focus on advanced engineering and environment controls and procedures.
manufacturing methods such as additive FACILITY COMES manufacturing.
In April 2016 a two-day conference was held at Steico to demonstrate its state-of-the-art ONLINE Steico successfully integrated into the Group.
vertically integrated facility to other operations READ MORE ON PAGE 16 Senior Aerospace Thailands new 196,000 sq.
Steicos engineering and tool facility was officially opened on 23 June 2016 design team demonstrated the functionality of by Mrs Hirunya Suchinai, Secretary General of their Stereolithography SLA 3D printers and COMPETITIVE COST COUNTRY the Thailand Board of Investment and Mr Brian their use in producing assembly fixtures STRATEGY Davidson, British Ambassador to Thailand.
This facility houses a new NADCAP approved Opened new airframe structures facility The integration is now complete with the modern treatments line enabling the company in Thailand in June 2016. to machine, carry out full surface treatment business operating within the Groups Ramping up cooler and common rail production governance and control framework.
Steicos processes and assemble airframe structures, at our facilities in India and Mexico.
performance is continuously monitored against all under one roof.
Having successfully received READ MORE ON PAGE 17 the due diligence plan with regular oversight Boeing approval for the treatment process in from the Groups Executive Committee.
2016, Senior Aerospace Thailand continues to expand its capabilities and plans to attain Airbus approval in 2017, enabling it to serve both large commercial aircraft manufacturers.
4 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 5 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT 2016 AT A GLANCE CONTINUED EGR COOLER PRODUCTION LAUNCHED IN INDIA SUCCESSION PLANNING Over 50% of senior leadership Our new facility in New Delhi, India successfully initiated EGR cooler production roles including our new Chief Executive of Aerospace Structures in 2016.
The local team is also overseeing the installation and launch of a 2.5m common were filled internally rail production line that will begin production Comprehensive succession plans in early 2017.
The new plant features best-inin place for all key leadership roles, class Lean Manufacturing principles to enable reviewed and agreed collectively efficient production, operator safety and by the Executive Committee ergonomics, and energy conservation.
The two new cooler and rail products allow Senior to gain a strong position as the Indian BS IV emissions standards are rolled out.
Number of employees % A: Total Group B: Executive Committee C: plc Board A 81% Male 19% Female B FLEXONICS MEXICO 78% Male 22% Female INTRODUCE A HIGH PERFORMANCE C OPERATING SYSTEM FACILITY DOUBLES 71% Male 29% Female Implemented a new and more intensive IN SIZE business review process.
The Flexonics Saltillo, Mexico facility Updated the Groups reporting systems to underwent significant growth in 2016, incorporate best-in-class digital dashboard.
doubling in headcount and manufacturing footprint to 65,000 sq.
ft. and more than Established Group-wide balanced scorecard doubling the revenue shipped from the with KPIs.
With the introduction of fuel systems READ MORE ON PAGE 16 components and alternative energy products, the Saltillo plant enhanced its manufacturing CONSIDERED AND EFFECTIVE capabilities by adding precision machining, CAPITAL DEPLOYMENT clean room assembly, annealing and vacuum brazing capabilities.
The Saltillo team now Invested 52.8m in organic capital expenditure EMPLOYEE ROADSHOWS manufactures over 100 different products to support growth programmes.
Employees across the Group for customers across North America, the Dividend increased by 6.0% to 6.57 pence benefited from presentations United Kingdom, China, Japan and Brazil.
GROUP DEVELOPMENT per share total paid and proposed.
by Executive Committee PROGRAMME members, accompanied by Working capital stabilised at 15.1% of revenue 47 leaders and aspiring leaders local management, of the Group at the end of the year.
attended the Senior leadership and local operations results development programmes, one of READ MORE ON PAGE 17 and vision for the future which was the Ashridge advance 52.8m management programme TALENT DEVELOPMENT investment in capital expenditure for further organic growth.
Jane Johnston joined Senior in May 2016 as Group HR Director, responsible for developing a collaborative approach to HR across Seniors autonomous business model and internal 50% communications.
of senior leadership roles were READ MORE ON PAGE 17 filled internally.
6 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 7 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT 2016 PERFORMANCE SAFETY EMPLOYEES Senior delivered revenue of 917.0m, up 8% As a Board we are committed to the safety Seniors continued strength is a reflection VALUES 2016 WAS A over the prior year, but down 2% on a constant and well-being of our employees.
Our goal of the quality of the people within the Group.
Growth from the Aerospace is to eliminate occupational injury and illness At the end of 2016, Senior employed Division was more than offset by lower Flexonics through our Zero Harm strategy so everyone 7,454 people with 1,386 located in Asia, CHALLENGING YEAR: revenue due to difficult market conditions.
returns home safely at the end of the day.
demonstrating the ever-increasing global SAFETY Adjusted profit before tax decreased to 75.3m, The Board has established ambitious 2020 nature of the Group.
On behalf of the Board, We operate safely, protecting people SENIOR REMAINS down 24%, or 31% on a constant currency targets for improvements in safety and I would like to thank all of the Groups and the environment basis, over the prior year.
This was mainly due environmental impact.
In 2016 we made employees for their significant contribution to significant declines in the Flexonics Division good progress towards these goals with a to Senior and for maintaining such a positive WELL POSITIONED reflecting the challenging market conditions 10% improvement in lost time incident rate and attitude during the challenging trading INTEGRITY in the truck and off-highway, and oil and gas a 16% reduction in total recordable injury rate.
environment faced by the Group over We operate with integrity sectors.
Margins in the Aerospace Division the past year.
and in an ethical manner FOR FUTURE GROWTH SUSTAINABILITY were also impacted by the volume reductions on mature programmes and the ramp-up of STRATEGY Environmental stewardship and corporate new aircraft production programmes.
responsibility are values core to Senior and The Groups primary performance objective CUSTOMER FOCUS CHARLES BERRY performance in these areas is increasingly is to create long-term sustainable growth in CHAIRMAN Group cash generation remains strong, with We put the customer at the heart important to our investors, customers and shareholder value.
It aims to achieve this free cash flow of 48.5m for the year resulting of everything we do employees.
Operating with integrity in an objective through a culture of empowerment in a resilient financial position for the Group ethical, environmentally and socially sustainable of autonomous and collaborative operations at the end of 2016. manner is core to the future success of the working within an effective control framework.
During 2016 the Group made good Seniors high value-added engineering DIVIDEND We work together with mutual respect progress towards achieving its 20 20 Vision manufacturing companies operate within and trust The Board is proposing a final dividend of Sustainability and further details can be found its five market sector framework: three in the 4.62 pence per share which would bring on pages 30 to 33 of this Annual Report.
Aerospace Division Fluid Conveyance Systems, total dividends, paid and proposed, for 2016 Gas Turbine Engines and Structures and two ACCOUNTABILITY to 6.57 pence per share.
The increase of 6% THE BOARD in the Flexonics Division Land Vehicle Emission over 2015 despite the decrease in earnings We do what we say Control and Industrial Process Control, with As previously announced, there were per share reflects the Groups encouraging each strategic market sector offering deliverable two changes to the Board during 2016. medium-term prospects and dividend cover growth opportunities.
On 1January 2016, Susan Brennan was of 2.2 times adjusted earnings per share.
EXCELLENCE appointed as an Independent non-executive The Groups strategy, whilst evolving as market We continually strive to do better Director.
Susan has more than 25 years of GOVERNANCE conditions change, continues to provide a solid in every aspect of our business international manufacturing experience, foundation for Seniors future growth aspirations.
The Board recognises the importance of setting including automotive vehicle, powertrain and the right tone from the top of the organisation, DIVIDEND GROWTH components assembly and is currently Chief and this is reflected in the work undertaken Operations Officer at Bloom Energy.
Andy Charles Berry to implement a holistic corporate framework.
Chairman Hamment retired from the Board following During 2016, the Group adopted a revised 6% the conclusion of the Companys AGM on Senior Code of Conduct and refreshed its 22April 2016.
Increase in paid and proposed dividends.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Act training.
The Board has continued to maintain oversight I would like to extend the Boards thanks and of capital allocation, performance and risk appreciation to Derek Harding, the Groups SAFETY IMPROVEMENT management.
During 2016, a number of Finance Director, who will be leaving Senior improvements were undertaken to improve after four years.
Derek has made a significant 10% the robustness of the Groups risk management contribution to Senior and we wish him well processes, including aligning the Groups risk in his future career.
Improvement in lost time incident rate.
assessment process more closely with the Groups strategic planning process.
These EMPLOYEES have been explained on pages 24 to 29 of this Annual Report.
8 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 9 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S STATEMENT declined 29% in 2016 and is forecast to decline On the Aerospace side, Seniors global future of our Aerospace Fluid Systems BWT DELIVERY OF GROUP STRATEGY further in 2017.
Oil and gas related markets footprint continues to provide opportunities Ilkeston site and in January 2017 started The Groups overall strategy remains SENIORS 2016 remain challenging in the near term due for growth, as a result of the Groups consultation with employees.
In San Diego unchanged and we remain committed to to reduced or postponed investment in the investment in our Aerospace facilities across we are combining our Aerospace Structures retaining the balance between Aerospace sector.
However, whilst we are yet to see three continents.
ft. Ketema and Jet Products businesses under and Flexonics and to grow both segments of RESULTS REFLECT A improvements in our order book, it is facility in Thailand was officially opened one leadership team.
We undertake regular reviews encouraging to see oil prices increasing on 23June 2016 with key customers in actions are anticipated to cost 4.0m in 2017, of the portfolio of the Group as we seek to following OPECs agreement to cut production attendance, and we are encouraged by delivering savings of 1.0m in 2017 and YEAR OF CONTINUED increase shareholder value by leveraging our and rig counts are now increasing in North the opportunities for organic growth that annualised savings of 4.0m from 2018. current operations and, where appropriate, America as shale production starts to increase.
We will continue to implement operational acquisitions, disposals or mergers of operations Furthermore, we are encouraged by the actions on a business by business basis CHALLENGES IN SOME will be considered.
New state-of-the-art high speed and high potential for major investments in US where appropriate.
performance equipment has been installed at During 2016, the Group made good progress infrastructure and are monitoring many of our sites around the world in response against our six strategic priorities which were OUTLOOK developments with interest.
OF OUR END MARKETS to increasing customer demand.
This new identified as key elements of our business 2017 has started much as 2016 finished.
Order Senior Flexonics continues to bid for and equipment gives a step function improvement model, driving the creation of shareholder books across our Aerospace businesses and in win new opportunities with existing and new in set-up times and machining speeds, which DAVID SQUIRES value.
Further details including our plans for some Flexonics businesses are strong, though customers.
In order to remain competitive, in turn reduces costs and helps our operating GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE 2017 are noted on pages 16 and 17 of this some of our Flexonics businesses continue reduce costs and support our global customer businesses to be highly competitive and Annual Report.
to trade at historically low levels.
In Aerospace base, more work is being directed to cost operationally efficient.
of our US and UK operations.
The previously we expect further revenue growth in 2017. competitive Flexonics facilities in India, the MARKET CONDITIONS reported price increase negotiations were In our October trading statement, we Whilst we expect the first half of the year Czech Republic, Malaysia, Mexico and China.
The Groups Aerospace markets continue to be generally identified specific issues that were affecting to be impacted by the transition from more As a consequence, when the cyclical adjusted operating margin reduced by 3.4 our Aerospace Division performance.
The buoyant while land vehicle and industrial mature programmes to new airframe and markets do pick up, Senior is expected to percentage points to 9.3%.
transitioning impact of reductions in mature engine products, we anticipate improved see strengthening performance from an programmes and slower ramp-up of new profit in the second half of the year, driven In Flexonics we have continued to focus on ever-more lean and competitive business.
The production ramp-up of new engine option programmes were in line with our expectations by increasing revenues and operational cost reduction and efficiency improvement large commercial aircraft means the outlook for as 2016 concluded.
However, the recently improvements as we focus on reducing OPERATIONAL REVIEW actions, while in Aerospace we have also the commercial aerospace sector is both strong announced reductions in 777 build rate and costs, particularly on our newer programmes.
focused on reducing costs, both internally and visible.
Air traffic grew by 6% in 2016 and In response to the challenging market ongoing declines in the business jet market We expect Aerospace performance in 2017 and in our external supply chain, particularly demand for new aircraft remains robust with conditions faced by the Flexonics Division will continue into 2017.
The supplier-related to be broadly in line with 2016 at current on our newer programmes.
This is important Boeing, Airbus and independent forecasters during 2016, there has been continuing focus issues which were referenced have largely exchange rates and with allowance for costs for margin improvement as our mix continues predicting air traffic to grow in excess of 4% on near-term cost management actions, as been addressed as anticipated.
Similarly, the of the streamlining actions now underway.
to change from more mature programmes per annum over the next 20 years.
Senior has well as an acceleration of longer-term structural price increase negotiations were concluded Challenging market conditions in some of our to new airframe and engine products.
OVERVIEW OF 2016 RESULTS healthy shipset content on all the key large cost improvement initiatives.
Flexonics markets, including truck, off-highway commercial aircraft platforms and has further Group revenue increased by 7.9% to 917.0m Adjusted profit before tax decreased to Near-term cost management actions have and oil and gas, mean that the outlook for increased its content on the new engine In response to the decline in build rates of some 2015 849.5m.
This included a favourable 75.3m 2015 99.3m, down 24.2%, Flexonics remains somewhat uncertain.
included headcount reductions, reduced of our more profitable mature programmes, versions during 2016.
With significantly higher exchange rate impact of 82.4m and a or 31.0% on a constant currency basis.
overtime, discretionary spend reduction and Whilst we anticipate that late 2017 should be content on the new engine A320neo, 737 MAX such as the 777, cost reduction efforts are being beneficial incremental impact from acquisitions Adjusted earnings per share decreased by an inflexion point for our Flexonics businesses supply chain cost out activity.
In Flexonics, re-doubled to improve the returns on some of and A330neo than the current engine versions, of 30.7m.
Underlying Group revenue from 24.3% to 14.37 pence 2015 18.98 pence.
total employee costs have reduced by 14% as truck and off-highway markets recover the Group is expected to outgrow the market, our newer work packages.
Whilst not materially organic operations was down 45.6m 4.9% in 2018 and investment in industrial projects from end of June 2015 to end of 2016. significant to the Group, the changing mix within The Group continues to generate healthy as these new engine versions come into on a constant currency basis as growth from In certain businesses most affected by the increases, current trends suggest Flexonics cash flows and delivered free cash inflow service and production ramps up.
Customer the Aerospace Division will mean that the the Aerospace Division was offset by declines performance to be marginally lower in 2017 challenging market conditions, headcount margin improvement curve is likely to be of 48.5m 2015 51.7m after gross deliveries of the A320neo began in January in the Flexonics Division, reflecting the has reduced by over 20%.
compared to 2016. investment in capital expenditure of 52.8m 2016, whilst the 737 MAX and A330neo shallower and longer than previously anticipated.
challenging market conditions faced by the 1.5x depreciation.
This investment in capital are scheduled to enter service in 2017 Looking further ahead, Senior expects to truck and off-highway and industrial businesses.
Longer-term structural cost improvements The integration of Steico Industries, Inc. equipment is essential in our business to and 2018 respectively.
make progress from 2018 onwards as new are centred around Seniors cost competitive Steico is now complete and has benefited Adjusted operating profit decreased by 22.2m meet increasing order levels from our programmes and products enter production country strategy.
Production continues to be from the new post-acquisition integration In the regional jet market, the first CSeries was 20.6% to 85.6m 2015 107.8m.
The level of net debt and margins recover as the benefits of the transferred to new facilities in India, Mexico and process.
We are pleased with its positive delivered in June 2016.
Senior has significant included a favourable exchange rate impact of at the end of December 2016 was 198.1m operational improvement initiatives and cost the Czech Republic.
For example, our Flexonics contribution to the Group in 2016.
There is a content on the CSeries and is also expected 10.7m and 3.1m of year-on-year operating December 2015 194.6m and the ratio saving actions are delivered.
Staying focused Crumlin site in the UK will be established as a strong pipeline of new business opportunities to benefit from the Embraer E2-Jet which is profit contributed by acquisitions.
Adjusted of net debt to EBITDA was 1.7x, comfortably on customer alignment, operational excellence specialist technology, development and test which gives confidence that we will see good anticipated to enter into service in 2018.
Senior operating profit from organic operations below the Groups bank covenant level and investing in organisational capability and centre in a smaller, less expensive facility whilst commercial and military growth from this latest also has good content on the Mitsubishi MRJ decreased by 30.4% on a constant currency of 3.0x.
leadership talent will enable Senior to continue the production of legacy and new programmes addition to our aerospace business.
and although the recently announced delay of basis, primarily reflecting the market-led to grow organically over the longer-term.
has moved to India and other cost competitive Recognising the underlying strength of the entry into service to 2020 is disappointing, this reductions in volume of the high margin In response to market challenges and business Furthermore, Seniors cash-generative nature locations.
We have built up manufacturing business and its future prospects, the Board is expected to be a good growth platform for segments of the Flexonics Division.
As opportunities, we are streamlining parts of the and robust financial position provide a solid capability in India and Mexico to produce is proposing a final dividend of 4.62 pence us in the future.
In the defence sector, military previously disclosed, margins in the Aerospace business where it makes sense to do so.
In platform from which the Group can continue common rail and cooler products, not just per share.
This would bring total dividends, spending has stabilised and Senior is well Division were impacted during 2016 by our Flexonics business in Chicago we have to pursue growth opportunities to complement because of the lower cost base, but because paid and proposed for 2016 to 6.57 pence positioned on the key growth platforms, year-on-year volume reductions on mature entered into a sale agreement and leaseback its existing portfolio.
many of the products built there are per share, representing an increase of 6% particularly the Joint Strike Fighter which programmes A330, Global 5000 6000, G550, of a significantly reduced footprint.
In our subsequently delivered to local customer over the prior year.
the delayed ramp-up of new aircraft production Flexonics So Paulo business we are reducing facilities.
Plans have also been approved to programmes A320neo and CSeries and David Squires the footprint and headcount to reflect market In the Flexonics Division, market conditions in expand our existing highly efficient Flexonics certain supplier issues which impacted some Group Chief Executive conditions.
We are assessing options for the North American truck and off-highway and oil plant in the Czech Republic.
and gas markets remain challenging.
Production of North American heavy-duty diesel trucks 10 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 11
