06 At a glance What we do Our divisions Shawbrook is a specialist UK lending Property Finance and savings bank focused on Property The Property Finance Division has a well-diversified Finance, Business Finance and Consumer product range with both residential and commercial lending and savings.
ourselves by concentrating on markets where our specialist knowledge and personalised approach to underwriting 2.5bn Customer loans offers us a competitive advantage.
This supports attractive, stable returns Read more about 23 and sustainable growth, and also Property Finance benefits businesses and consumers in parts of the market which continue to Business Finance be poorly served by mainstream banks.
The Business Finance Division offers an extensive product range, enabling it to provide a comprehensive suite of services to address the needs of the poorly served UK SME market.
1.1bn Customer loans Read more about 28 Business Finance Consumer The Consumer Division offers a broad range of lending and savings products enabling it to provide unsecured loans for a variety of purposes in addition to a range of savings products for consumer and business customers.
0.5bn Customer loans Read more about 34 Consumer Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 07 Our people and community Our differentiated approach 569 30 The Shawbrook way Employees Charities A customer led period average supported approach... 80% 42% Specialists 1 Employee engagement Thoughtful decision making 58% 1 People insight pulse survey, Driven by customer needs November 2016.
Gender split Innovative and tailored products Focus on quality Our five strategic pillars Read more about 18 Our business model Achieve strong risk adjusted returns Our values Maintain excellent Personal We treat our customers and business partners as credit quality people.
We take the time to understand them, and we listen to what they say.
Progressively increase Pragmatic We look at every situation on its merits, rather than originations following rigid guidelines or the accepted way of doing things.
Expert Maintain conservative Our people are experienced and professional.
foundations We know that its our people and their know-how that make things happen for our customers and business partners.
Enhance Progressive customer focus We are proactive and strive to provide solutions which are quicker, simpler and more efficient than the way we do things today.
Read more about 16 Our strategy Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
