Smiths at a glance Revenue in 2016 We apply leading-edge technology 2,949m to design, manufacture and deliver innovative solutions that meet our customers needs.
Our products and services Headline operating profit in 2016 often hidden from view touch 510m the lives of millions of people every day.
Our markets Employees worldwide We serve a wide range of end markets from healthcare, energy and petrochemicals through to threat and contraband detection, 22,000 telecommunications and equipment manufacture.
Our customers range from governments and their agencies, tohospitals, petrochemical companies and equipment manufacturers and service providers in various sectors around theworld.
Our competitive advantage Our products and services are often critical to our customers operations, while our proprietary technology and high service levels help create competitive advantage.
Our structure We employ 22,000 people in more than 50countries through our five divisions: John Crane, Smiths Medical, Smiths Detection, Smiths Interconnect and Flex-Tek.
Our approach We do this responsibly, through the combined expertise of our people and effective, focused leadership, to deliver value to our customers, shareholders andwiderstakeholders.
4 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Countries our products Where we operate and services reach Group manufacturing and service locations 200 Percentage of revenue from Our market split emerging markets 68% of our revenue comes from three markets: healthcare, 17% energy, and homeland security and defence.
Our aftermarket products and services account for 53% of our business.
Group revenue by destination Location of assets Revenue from equipment sales North America 52% North America 55% and aftermarket consumables United Kingdom 4% United Kingdom 15% Equipment sales 47% Europe exc.
UK 18% Aftermarket consumables 53% Rest of World 27% Rest of World 12% Excludes cash and cash equivalents Read more in note 1 on page 144 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 5
