SPORTS DIRECT AT A GLANCE Sports Direct is the UKs largest sporting goods retailer and operates a diversified portfolio of sports, fitness, fashion and lifestyle fascias and brands.
We aspire to be a leading sports and lifestyle retailer internationally and to deliver sustainable growth for our shareholders in the medium to long term by offering our customers an unrivalled range of high quality leading brands, and maximising the efficiency, capacity and effectiveness of our operations to deliver this experience.
The Group provides a full multi-channel retail approach across its fascias in the UK, and increasingly across its fascias in continental Europe.
The Group also wholesales and licenses its Group Brands to partners in the UK, continental Europe, the Americas, and the Far East.
Each year Sports Directs c. 29,000 people work together to serve customers and collaborate with our global wholesale and licensing partners to promote the Groups brands.
The Group continues to enhance its store portfolio and Sports Retail now operates out of over 733 stores in the UK and internationally.
The Group operates through three strategic business segments: Sports Retail, Brands and Premium Lifestyle.
8 SPORTS PREMIUM BRANDS RETAIL LIFESTYLE Specialist Core Specialist Core Fascias Fascias Fascias Fascias Sports Lifestyle Wholesale & Licensing 9 STORE COVERAGE No.
of Stores Sports Direct UK & ROI Sports Direct Europe Premium Lifestyle 2015 440 221 103 2016 500 233 83 2015 Comparatives exclude Heatons stores in Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland as this business was acquired in FY16 SPORTS RETAIL 86% Total Revenue 2,491.6m Up 3.9% The Groups Sports Retail division supplies the broadest range of sports and leisure equipment and apparel from the worlds leading global brands across the UK and continental Europe.
In the UK, we also operate 30 fitness gyms, of which three are combined with retail destinations, as we seek to enhance and broaden our customer offer.
In the UK, our predominant fascia is SPORTSDIRECT.
com, which offers customers unbeatable value across our range: a customer proposition which has helped to define Sports Directs leading market position in the UK, and to which the Group has extended to its fitness offering.
Our other Sports Retail fascias include Lillywhites, which also offers a similarly broad range of brands and products at unbeatable value to our customers.
10 Our fascias offer a full multi-channel retail approach in the UK and our store footprint is significant with over 700 stores and concessions across the UK and Continental Europe, totalling c. 8.25m sq.
SPORTS RETAIL SPECIALIST SPORTS Similarly, the Group delivers its extensive e-commerce sites and websites through one platform, and has invested to improve the customer experience and efficiency of shopping online across all of our sites.
The Groups web platform is supported by the completion of our enlarged National Distribution Centre at Shirebrook, which has improved our inventory capacities and availability, and delivery processes and times.
11 BRANDS 8% Total Revenue 231.5m Up 2.3% The Brands division operates our globally renowned heritage Group Brands, and our wholesale, licensing and distribution relationships across the world, as well as our partnerships with third party brands that we license-in to sell in Sports Retail and Premium Lifestyle products.
The Group owns brands which are managed both individually and centrally within this division.
This unique, integrated approach to brand management leverages the expertise of our people, encourages innovation and ensures consistency across our brands.
We maintain significant investment in our brands to preserve value, and are proud to have a number of high-profile sporting and entertainment personalities, as well as international sporting events, and sporting venues as ambassadors for our brands.
12 Rebecca ADLINGTON 4 time Olympic Medalist SPORTS & LEISURE 13 FASHION & LIFESTYLE PREMIUM LIFESTYLE 6% Total Revenue 181.2m Down 12.7% The Groups Premium Lifestyle division offers a broad range of clothing, footwear and accessories from leading global contemporary and luxury retail brands through our fascias in the UK: Flannels, USC, Cruise and van mildert.
Each fascia operates as a multi-brand premium retail destination, and is focused on providing fashion conscious shoppers with high-end and on trend products.
Each of our fascias offers a full multi-channel retail approach and is supported by our Group wide centralised commercial and support functions, giving the benefit of scale and operating efficiencies to each fascia.
In certain locations, our Premium Lifestyle stores are colocated alongside our Sports Retail stores to benefit from increased customer footfall and operating synergies.
