STRATEGIC REPORT: AT A GLANCE At a glance Our services Spire Healthcare provides diagnostics, in-patient, daycase and out-patient care from 38 hospitals, 10 clinics and two Specialist Cancer Care Centres Primary care throughout the UK.
Working with GPs to facilitate speedy, convenient and fully informed We also own and operate sports medicine, referrals.
Enabling patients to make a considered choice at the start of the physiotherapy and rehabilitation brand, Perform.
We are investing in our own hospital-based primary care service to offer patients convenience and to facilitate speedier referrals.
A well diversified business What we provide Consultants Providing high-quality patient care is Improving the quality of our facilities our top priority.
To improve our patient 2016 Percentage of revenue and providing a wide range of services offering, we invest consistently in a and highly-trained staff, so that our Orthopaedics wide range of services and treatments experienced consultant body can at each stage of the care pathway: Gynaecology, deliver outstanding healthcare.
22.7 plastic surgery, from initial GP referral, through Working with consultants throughout urology and consultation, diagnosis and treatment, others their careers to develop their skills and to recovery and rehabilitation.
High acuity services, 26.5 including cardiology, Who we serve cardiothoracic, Diagnostics neurosurgery, Our hospitals span the country, Investing in the latest scanning oncology serving a diversified patient mix, made technology, skilled clinicians and and general up of private medical insurance PMI, comprehensive pathology services surgery I n-patient and daycase revenue.
to provide prompt and accurate Source: Company information.
diagnoses, giving patients the reassurance that comes from Private medical insurance PMI a clear treatment plan.
2016 Key activities % Diagnostic Self-pay 15.2 Out-patient services In-patient Treatment and surgery NHS patients 14.3 daycase Offering a wide range of treatment procedures and surgery, including good Read more on pages 18 and 19 outcomes for routine procedures 70.5 such as knee and hip replacements, and specialist procedures across our Market trends network, providing choice to patients.
Demand growth Diagnostic Health checks Driven by a growing and ageing Imaging Physiotherapy population with a higher incidence MRI CT In-patient of long-term and chronic conditions, scanning daycase such as cancer, obesity and diabetes.
Pathology procedures Recovery NHS funding gap Out-patient Orthopaedics From high dependency and intensive Funding and capacity constraints are services Cardiology care units to our injury rehabilitation Consulting Neurology forecast to continue throughout this facilities, getting patients back on Minor Oncology Parliament.
The independent sector their feet as fast as possible.
procedures General surgery can help to bridge the gap.
Treatments Read more on pages 18 and 19 Source: Company information.
2 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Diversified payor mix Our services 2016 Funding sources % The quality of our care and outcomes, and the efficiency PMI 3.6 of our delivery, attracts patients NHS 18.4 from all major payor groups.
Self-pay The diversified payor mix across Other PMI, Self-pay and NHS-funded 46.3 provision offers built-in resilience.
31.7 Read more on pages 6 to 8 Source: Company information.
Our strategy development Clinical quality Operational excellence Growth engine Our people Read more on our strategy on pages 14 and 15 How we create value Through our operations, we create and deliver measurable value for our stakeholders.
Investing in Providing New sites Patients We provide fast and convenient access to and services diagnostics, hotel-style customer service and excellent clinical outcomes.
Consultants We offer high-quality facilities and well-trained staff Our people to help consultants deliver effective care and develop their private practices.
Employees We provide excellent training, flexibility and a Improved supportive working environment, enabling our staff efficiency to deliver outstanding care.
Payors We deliver value for money, price transparency, patient choice and additional capacity to insurers, Self-paying patients and the NHS.
Shareholders Strong cash flow enables dividend payments in line with our policy and the return of excess cash to shareholders when available.
Read more about how we create value in our Business model on pages 10 and 11 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 3 STRATEGIC REPORT: AT A GLANCE LOOKING AFTER YOU Delivered in 2016 17 Designed with extensive input from consultants, staff and patients, the new 76-bed Spire Manchester Hospital will offer 01 highly complex surgery and medicine through a large and fully functioning Intensive Therapy Critical Care Unit CCITU, Spire Manchester together with ultramodern diagnostic and imaging equipment.
Read more on pages 24 and 25 63m In August 2016, we opened a purpose-built theatre suite at Spire St Anthonys Hospital, Sutton, increasing capacity 02 from four to six theatres whilst thoroughly modernising the rest of the complex.
Spire St Anthonys Read more on page 21 27m Last year, we partnered with the NHS to install a surgical da Vinci robot for the treatment of prostate cancer as well 03 as the specialised theatre to house it.
We also enlarged an existing ward at the hospital to take extra capacity.
Spire Southampton Read more on pages 34 and 35 6m LOOKING AFTER YOU Schemes in progress for 2017 Creating 150 new jobs for the local area, the 58-bed Spire Nottingham Hospital will have five theatres, an endoscopy 04 suite, a 20-room outpatients department and an oncology suite, as well as an advanced radiology department that Spire Nottingham comprises a 3T MRI, CT and X-ray.
Read more on pages 21 and 22 60m One of the principal investments agreed in 2016 was the development of a medical centre based in Hertfordshire, 05 serving the Greater London market.
Designed as a satellite centre to Spire Bushey Hospital, the Spire Bushey Spire Bushey Medical Centre will see patients for diagnostic and outpatient appointments, creating additional surgical capacity at the main hospital.
23m Read more on page 21 A considerable refurbishment project which includes patient bedrooms, public areas and nurses stations: the expansion 06 and refurbishment of the daycase unit: a new JAG accredited endoscopy suite, and the upgrade of the Level 1 Critical Care Spire Cambridge Lea extended recovery area.
Read more on page 21 10m 4 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our network of hospitals covers major population centres across the country with scope for further expansion, for instance in Central London, South Yorkshire or Scotlands central belt.
Spire Healthcare Hospitals Spire Healthcare Clinics Perform at St Georges Park Specialist Cancer Care Centres Development People per sq km 0250 250500 5001,000 1,0001,500 1,5002,500 More than 2,500 Hospitals South East 04 Alexandra East of England Cambridge Lea Clare Park Dunedin Harpenden 01 Hartswood Gatwick Park Montefiore Norwich Wellesley Portsmouth Southampton London Sussex Bushey Tunbridge Wells 06 Roding South West St Anthonys Bristol The Glen Thames Valley Wales Midlands Cardiff Leicester Yale Little Aston Nottingham Parkway Clinics South Bank Abergele Dewsbury North East Droitwich & Yorkshire Hale Elland Harrogate Hull and East Riding Hesslewood Leeds Ilkley Methley Park Livingston Washington Lytham North West Windsor Cheshire Fylde Coast Specialist Cancer Liverpool Care Centres Manchester Baddow 02 Murrayfield, Wirral Bristol Regency Scotland Murrayfield, Edinburgh Shawfair Park 03 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 5 05
