FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Sports Retail revenue increased by 0.6% excluding Heatons Sports Retail like-for-like stores gross contribution decreased by 0.8% FY15: increased by 7.4% 1 Underlying profit before tax decreased by 8.4% to 275.2m 1 Underlying earnings per share decreased by 8.7% to 35.5p 2 Underlying free cash generation of 309.1 m 3 Net debt increased to 99.6m 59.7m at 26 April 2015 Continued investment in inventory and strategic stakes while maintaining a strong balance sheet 2 1 1 1 GROUP REVENUE UNDERLYING EBITDA UNDERLYING PBT UNDERLYING EPS 2.5% -0.5% -8.4% -8.7% 1 Underlying EBITDA, underlying profit before taxation and underlying EPS exclude realised foreign exchange gains losses in selling and administration costs, exceptional costs and the profit loss on sale of strategic investments.
Underlying EBITDA also excludes the Share Scheme charges.
2 Underlying free cash generation is defined as operating cash flow before working capital, made up of underlying EBITDA before Share Scheme costs plus realised foreign exchange gains and losses, less corporation tax paid.
3 Net debt is borrowings less cash held.
The Group has delivered a disappointing full year financial performance, impacted primarily by a tough trading environment in the second half across our Sports Retail businesses.
Our continued investment in upgrading and relocating stores, including 'Key Location Doors' such as Leeds and Plymouth, has been well received by our leading third party suppliers.
Unfortunately our disappointing results have meant that the Group has not achieved the first EBITDA target set by the 2015 Share Scheme, which is a key long term share-based incentive scheme that rewards eligible staff for their hard work and commitment, and is based on the achievement of four consecutive full year EBITDA targets.
This is very disappointing as the Share Scheme is a significant part of our high performance and reward culture, and we are working to replace this arrangement to continue to reward our people for their commitment and performance.
I would like to thank all of our people for being part of the Sports Direct team in what has been a particularly tough year for the Group.
Thank you for all your hard work this year and in the past, and I look forward to our future achievements.
Dave Forsey Chief Executive 7 July 2016 April 12 1,807.2m April 13 2,185.6m April 14 2,706.0m April 15 2,832.6m April 16 2,904.3m April 12 235.7m April 13 287.9m April 14 333.1m April 15 383.2m April 16 381.4m April 12 149.1m April 13 208.1m April 14 249.3m April 15 300.3m April 16 275.2m April 12 18.7p April 13 26.9p April 14 32.1p April 15 38.9p April 16 35.5p OPERATIONAL AND BRAND HIGHLIGHTS LATEST PHASE OF ONGOING SHIREBROOK CAMPUS DEVELOPMENT NOW COMPLETE An additional c. 700,000 sq.
ft. of warehouse and office CONTINUED ROLL OUT OF LARGE FORMAT space was added to the site.
It is the Groups central KEY LOCATION DOORS hub for all third party and Group branded product.
Our 'Key Location Doors' enable us to construct exceptional visual merchandising and specialist performance areas, often in partnership with leading third-party brand partners.
3 COMPLETED THE ACQUISITION OF REMAINING USA PRO PARTNER WITH LITTLE MIX 50% OF THE HEATONS IRISH BUSINESS World-famous artists Little Mix became the new The acquisition will build upon the Groups existing global ambassadors for the female fitness brand and relationship with Heatons and strengthen our will launch a co-branded range of sportswear for the presence in the Republic of Ireland.
ELEVATION AND ENHANCEMENT OF THE SPORTSDIRECT.
COM WEBSITE Enabling us to further support better and best product distribution with emphasis on key brand and category store in store concept landing pages.
New platform allows for full integration between our website and social channels.
UNRIVALLED RANGE OF LEADING BRANDS Our relationship with the adidas-group has never been better.
Through dedicated teamwork and an improved joint business planning process we have been able to deliver significant sales growth with the adidas brand through FY16.
Not only in the football category where it has dominated market share this year with its integrated all door launch of the X, Ace and Messi boot silos and an excellent launch with Manchester United but also across a range of categories which we feel reflects its growing brand appeal in the European marketplace.
To maintain this momentum through FY17 it is investing a record amount of money with us to drive sell through at the point of sale, both online and in-store, which will be supported by a brand new adidas-group Training Academy at our head office facility in Shirebrook, due to open in July 2016.
4 The focus of much of our activity with Nike throughout the year has continued to be on elevating our retail environments and the Nike brand presentation within them to provide our customers with great shopping experiences.
To support us with this ambition Nike has invested heavily in the team dedicated to the Sports Direct business which now numbers more than 20, ensuring the Nike brand spaces in the key categories of Training, Football and Running are well stocked and excellently presented 365 days a year.
Recently we have engaged with them on a couple of projects to launch new Nike brand pages on our SoccerScene website with a view to taking these learnings onto the main SPORTSDIRECT.
com website in due course.
We are also developing a new branded Young Athletes area in store to build upon the success of the one 5 launched in Oxford Street earlier this year.
UNRIVALLED RANGE OF LEADING BRANDS Continued We have had some truly inspiring team to team meetings with the Under Armour brand this year and are excited about the potential this brand has to offer our customers and our business.
It was the first brand to work with us in developing its own homepage on SPORTSDIRECT.
com which typifies its agility and speed to market and makes it an appealing partner for us.
Following the success of our Under Armour 'store in store' installation in Argyle Street, we have rolled out branded mens training areas to all our tier one stores.
In FY17 we will build upon this and aim to increase the focus on Womens Training, Footwear and Football to offer our customers a much more integrated Under Armour brand experience.
6 EVERLAST KARRIMOR Everlast has continued to hold its position as the leader in fight sports equipment.
Additionally it has increased share-ofKarrimor continued its multichannel running campaign, voice in the fitness and wellness markets.
A major focus has with predominant focus on digital, and in-store channels, been announcing #TeamEverlast, a roster of over 25 athletes to coincide with the world renowned London Marathon.
like Deontay Wilder, Canelo Alvarez, Luke Campbell and Jon The campaign focused on the latest running apparel and Jones.
A new site accessed from Everlast.
com will tell their footwear.
This coincided with Karrimor ambassador James stories and be a daily destination for content.
Additionally, Cracknell running the 2015 and 2016 marathons.
Everlast has built a Media Team that now produces a number Karrimor also launched its Run Knit Your Way campaign of original web series and a podcast called Talkbox, hosted across multiple channels to promote its revolutionary knitted by boxing journalist Mike Woods.
To help earn credibility in trainer range.
the fitness market, Everlast has announced a partnership with National Association of Sports Medicine NASM, the largest personal training certification in the world, and released Everlast F. I. T a certification for personal trainers that combines traditional fight sports training with functional full-body strength and conditioning.
7 SLAZENGER Slazenger continued its long-term partnership with NO FEAR Wimbledon, which has now stood for 114 years, the longest partnership in sporting history.
The partnership No Fear made the exciting announcement that British is a perfect reflection of the prestige and longevity of the snowboarder and GB Olympian Billy Morgan would be joining brand and serves to showcase Slazenger worldwide on as a brand ambassador.
Billy continues to win plaudits across the biggest stage there is.
In addition to this, Slazenger the world for his snowboarding and we are excited to have announced England international cricketer Jason Roy as its him on board.
Jason is regarded as one of the worlds most promising young players, and we look forward to the increasing impact he will have on the world stage.
In swimming, Slazenger was proud to announce four-time Olympic Medallist Rebecca Adlington as a brand ambassador.
Rebecca is a fantastic representative of the sport and we look forward to working closely with her.
LONSDALE USA PRO Throughout the year Lonsdale has continued to go from USA Pro continued its work with world-famous artists, strength to strength, further establishing its position in the Little Mix, and are set to announce a co-branded range which fight sports market.
The brand has been showcased to fight is a perfect reflection of how USA Pro is continuing to expand fans at BAMMA, and announced undefeated BAMMA fighter its product offering and increase its share in the female Marc Diakiese as its latest brand ambassador.
