Group at a glance Business unit Activity Relative size 2016 key facts We have over 30 years Regeneration and experience of cleaning up, 1 28,000 remediation recycling and reusing previously tonnes of concrete reclaimed 83% developed land which has and recycled enabled us to reclaim of land with specified thousands of acres.
Our use is brownfield expertise in this area rests 1 4,000 with our team of highly skilled trees planted in-house construction and remediation experts.
Assets are managed and Income producing held with a long-term view 45% 50.1m properties to generate significant value.
Proportion of Group activity by see-through net rental In the short-term, a large value, representing 786.7m and other income proportion generate income before development and in doing so, cover the running 1, 700 costs of the business.
tenants This diverse portfolio is split into two distinct categories: high yielding and investment portfolio.
Maximising the value of Commercial land commercial land through 13% 1.
6m sq ft and development remediation, planning gain, Proportion of Group activity by commercial development development and asset value, representing 223.6m pipeline management.
Commercial development activities cover industrial 30.4m and logistics, retail, student commercial development accommodation and office profits projects.
Acquiring sites with potential Residential land for residential development 42% 25,000 and development and adding value to the land Proportion of Group activity by plots with planning throughout the development value, representing 742.0m recognition process.
We realise that residential value through two principal routes to market: 27.
1 m residential land sales and residential development housebuilding.
profits St. Modwen Properties PLC 12 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Explore our portfolio online Across our 6,000 acre land bank we are progressing over 100 regeneration projects.
This extensive portfolio diversifies risk and creates opportunities whilst our network of seven regional offices and highly skilled team of property professionals provides us with the local knowledge and expertise that keeps us abreast of the needs of the local communities.
Find out more online via our interactive map which enables you to browse by region or sector.
co. uk property-portfolio St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 13
