04 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Our portfolio at a glance We continue to build a focused portfolio of investments that have the potential todeliver strong returns for shareholders.
279m 36% Post-2012 investments Core investments 521m 68% Investment 242m 32% portfolio Pre-2012 investments 763m Non-core 193m 25% investments Diamond fund offundsprogramme 242m 32% 49m 7% Other Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 05 P P Po or or rt t tf f folio of 4 o olio of 4 lio of 45 5 5 c c co o ompan mpan mpaniie ie e e es, includin s, including g f fo our c ur co o- -iinve nves st tm me en nt ts s a a 1 1 19 9 9% % % 5 5 52 2 2m m m tot tot tota a all retu l retu retur r rn n n i in in n t t th h he 1 e 1 e 12 2 2 m m mo o on n nt t ths hs hs a aP Per erffd fo or rm ma an nc ce d e dr ri iv five en n by s b by st tro ron ng ng g un u un nd d der e er rl l ly y yi i in n ng g g ea ea ear r rn n ni iin n ngs g gs g gs gr r row ow owt t th h h a a an n nd t d t d tw w wo o o ear ear earl l ly realis y realis y realisa a at t ti i io o on n ns s s a a a aP Po or rt tf fo olli io o b biia as s tow towa ards m rds mo or re e e d e fide efe fensi nsiv five e, s st tr ru uc ct tu ur ra al l g gr row owt th h s se ec ct to or rs, w s, wi it th h H H He ea ea alt l lt th h hc c ca a ar re re e, T, T TM M MT a T a T an n nd B d B d Bu u usi si sin n ne e es ss S s Se er rv vi ic ce es s s se ec ct to or rs re s repg pr pres ese en nti ting ng 6 60 0% o % of f t th hep epos ost t- -20 201 12 2 i in nve ves st tm me en nt t p p por port tf folio olio P P Pr r re e ed d ddl dl dl omin omin ominan an ant t tl l ly m y m y ma a addd fide up fide up fide up o of NXP Semicfd f NXP Semico onduc nduct to or rs s an and P d Pllat atf for orm S m Sp pe ec ciia allty ty P Pro r ro r rod d du u uc c ct t ts s s a a- -1 -1 1% % % - - - 7 7 7m m m tot tot tota a al retu l retu l retur r rn n n i i in n n t t th h he h he 1 12 2 m mon ont ths hs a aP Pe er rfo for rma man nc ce d e dr riiv five en n by m by mo ov five v vem me en nt ts s i in n t th he s e sh ha ar re p e pr ri ic ce es s o of f s so om me e o of f t th he q e qu uote oted d h ho old ldings ings a and nd d d rea realis lisa at tio ion n ac act ti iv vi it ty y a aN NXP XP Semic Semico onduc nduct to or rs s and and P Plat P Platfo for rm Sp m Spe ec cia ialt lty Pro y Prod du uc ct ts s a ar re i e in n e ex xit it p p pr r ro o oc c ce e es s ss a s a s an n nd e d e d ex x xp p pe e ec c ct t te e ed d d to to to b be be e e rea reallis ise ed d i in n d du ue c e co ou ur rs se e D Di Diamond fund of funds amond fund of funds pg p p pr p pro ogr gra amme mme a a 2 24 4% % 4 45 5m m tot tota al retu l retur rn n i in n t th he 1 e 12 2 m mo on nt th hs s a a aP Pe er rfo for rma man nc ce d e dr riiv five en n by s by st tro rong ng ng under under underl l ly y yi i ing ng ng in in inv v five e es s st t tmen men ment t t p p pe e er r rf f for or ormanc manc mance e e, , rea real lis isat ati io on a n ac ct ti iv vi it ty y a an nd fo d for t r th h h h he e late e late later f r f r fu u un n nd d ds, e s, e s, en n nha ha han n nc c ce e ed d d t t th h hro ro rou u ug g gh t h t h th h he e e l l le e eve five ver r ra a ag g ge e e w w wi i it t th h hi i in n n t t th h he s e s e st t tr r ru u uc c ct t tur ur r re es s a aT Th he f e fu un nd ds a s ar re si e sign gni ic ca an nt tlly y d d delev d fide elev leve e er r rag age e ed d d a a an n nd tow d tow d towa a ards t rds t rds th h he e e e e en n nd o d o d oft ft fifth h he e e ye yea a ar r r sta sta star r rt t te e ed d d to c to to c co o omm m mm me e en n nce c ce e d di dist st stri rib b bu bu b b ti tio o on n ns to s s to s s to sh ha hare r re eh ho hold ld lder e er rs s s Ot Ot Othe he her r r fu fu fund nd nds s s a a a a 2 24 4% % 1 14m 4m tot tota al retu l retur rn n in in t th he e 1 12 2 mon mont ths hs 06 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Our portfolio at a glance continued Our largest underlying companies NXP Semiconductors Platform Specialty The Hillman Group On these pages we show 1 2 3 Freescale Products Arysta LifeScience Co-investment alongside CCMP the15 largest investments ofthecore investment portfolio, by gross value, at31January 2016.
This means thevaluations of thesecompanies have been presented in accordance with 1 1 1 Cost 120m Cost 41m Cost 23m IFRS anddo not contain any 2 2 provision forcarried interest.
Value January 2016 111m Value January 2016 79m Value January 2016 27m Aprovision for carriedinterest % of total assets 10% % of total assets 7% % of total assets 2% is taken whencalculating the Date of acquisition Nov 06 Date of acquisition Feb 08 Date of acquisition Jun 14 Fund net investment portfolio.
Fund Permira IV Fund Permira IV CCMP III co-investment Fund currency Fund currency Unless otherwise stated, Fund currency $ Freescale Semiconductor merged with Arysta LifeScience was sold to New York valuations are based on NXP Semiconductors in Q4 2015.
Stock Exchange listed Platform Specialty The Hillman Group is a leader in the 31December 2015 valuations, Freescale NXP is a global leader in Products in February 2015.
Platform hardware and home improvement thedesign and manufacture of Specialty Products is a global diversied industry distributing over 130,000 rolled forward for cash ow, semiconductors for the automotive, producer of high technology specialty StockKeeping Units SKU in categories foreign exchange movements consumer, industrial and networking chemical products and provider of including fasteners, key duplication markets.
The valuation basis is quoted.
The value of the systems, letters, numbers and signs, and quoted share prices, if remaining holding in Arysta LifeScience engraved tags, builders hardware, applicable, to31January 2016. is held in convertible preferred stock in andthe recently added nail, deck and Platform Specialty Products.
The company provides inventory management and in-store merchandising services to its retail customers for managing these SKU-intensive, complexhome improvement categories.
The valuation basis is earnings.
TeamViewer Visma Eyemart Express Jetro Cash & Carry 4 5 6 7 Co-investment alongside Permira Co-investment alongside Cinven Co-investment alongside FFL 1 1 1 1 Cost 18m Cost 18m Cost 15m Cost 8m 3 Value January 2016 25m Value January 2016 18m Value January 2016 15m Value January 2016 14m % of total assets 2% % of total assets 2% % of total assets 1% % of total assets 1% Date of acquisition Jul 14 Date of acquisition Aug 14 Date of acquisition Dec 14 Date of acquisition Jul 14 Fund Fund Fund Fund Permira V Cinven V FFL IV CCMP III co-investment co-investment co-investment Fund currency $ Fund currency Fund currency Fund currency $ Established in 1976, Jetro is the largest TeamViewer is a leading global Visma is a leading provider of business Eyemart Express is the second largest cash and carry wholesaler of perishable providerofsecure remote support management software and business independent value focused optical and non-perishable food products, software with afocus on small and process outsourcing BPO services in retailer in the US and seventh largest household goods, equipment, medium-sized businesses.
The group comprises overall operating in more than 30 states.
suppliesand related goods for grocery companyis the industry leader in three divisions Software SMB small The company, founded in 1990 by retailers and restaurants in the US.
remotesupport and administration and medium-sized businesses, BPO and Dr. Doug Barnes, provides a broad Jetrooperates two different store formats: solutions for medium-sized businesses.
Software GLA Government & Large selection of high-quality private label i Restaurant Depot warehouses and TeamViewer has been installed on more Accounts.
Visma delivers enterprise andbranded frames with convenient ii Jetro Cash & Carry warehouses.
than 1 billion devicesand serves more resource planning ERP software and one-hour service in all locations at an Thevaluation basis is earnings.
services including accounting, tax and attractive price point.
The valuation The product is used in 220 countries payroll applications and services to over basisis cost.
400,000 SME customers, retailers and Thevaluation basis is earnings.
local authorities across the Nordic region.
1 Cost derived using foreign exchange rates at date of call 2 Following the Companys decision to cap its commitment to Permira IV in December 2008, the valuations of all of the Permira IV investments made prior to 2009 include a 25% provision against future distributions Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 07 Synlab Informatica PQ Corporation Genesys 8 10 11 9 1 1 1 1 Cost 12m Cost 10m Cost 9m Cost 4m Value January 2016 13m Value January 2016 11m Value January 2016 10m Value January 2016 9m % of total assets 1% % of total assets 1% % of total assets 1% % of total assets 1% Date of acquisition Aug 15 Date of acquisition Apr 15 Date of acquisition Dec 14 Date of acquisition Feb 12 Fund Cinven V Fund Permira V Fund CCMP III Fund Permira IV Fund currency Fund currency Fund currency $ Fund currency Synlab Group is the market leader in Informatica is the worlds leading Founded in 1831, PQ is a leading Genesys is a leading supplier of laboratory services in Europe offering independent provider of enterprise worldwide producer of specialty enterprise software and solutions that reliable and local laboratory services in dataintegration software and services.
inorganic performance chemicals, enable best-in-class customer service 35 countries.
It operates a large Informatica is well known for its deep high-end catalysts and engineered forcompanies and organisations.
Its portfolioof hospital outsourcing industry knowledge, extensive systems glassbeads for the consumer, oil and gas, software provides products for call contracts, providing services to both integration and services expertise and transportation safety, specialty plastics routing and handling which integrate ambulatory care and hospitals.
The valuation with all major contact centre hardware addition to its core human diagnostic enterprises depend on Informatica to basis is earnings.
activities, the group also provides fully leverage their information assets veterinary and environmental analytical residing on-premise, in the Cloud and services.
The valuation basis is cost.
on the public internet including across social networks.
Brand Energy & CeramTec Acromas GFKL Lowell 12 13 14 15 Saga Infrastructure 1 1 1 1 Cost 7m Cost 6m Cost 1m Cost 7m Value January 2016 9m Value January 2016 8m Value January 2016 8m Value January 2016 7m % of total assets 1% % of total assets 1% % of total assets 1% % of total assets 1% Date of acquisition Nov 13 Date of acquisition Aug 13 Date of acquisition Sep 04 Date of acquisition Jun 15 Fund CD&R IX Fund Cinven V Fund Permira Europe III Fund Permira V Fund currency $ Fund currency $ Fund currency Fund currency Brand Energy & Infrastructure Services CeramTec is a leading global Acromas is the holding company for GFKL Financial Services and Lowell was formed by the merger of Brand manufacturer of high performance Saga.
Saga provides financial services to Group are leading receivables Energy and Harsco Infrastructure.
ceramics for application in medical and people aged over 50 in the UK, including management businesses in Germany Thebusiness is a premier provider of industrial end-markets.
The companys motor and home insurance as well as and the UK.
The group looks after integrated specialty services to the global advanced ceramic products offer personal financial products.
Saga also 15million customers and is active energy, industrial and infrastructure unique, application-specic mechanical, offers a broad range of holidays and inboth third-party debt collection markets.
Its extensive portfolio of electrical, thermal and biochemical other travel services to its customers anddebt purchase across several specialised industrial service offerings properties.
Its proprietary product including the famous Saga world sectorsincluding financial institutions, include scaffolding, coatings, insulation, portfolio includes ceramic hip joint cruises.
telecommunications, retail and refractory, formwork and shoring, prostheses components, piezo tapes, ecommerce.
The valuation basis specialty mechanical services, cathodic high speed cutting tools: and ballistic is cost.
protection and other related crafts.
The Thevaluation basis is earnings.
3 Based on 30 September 2015 GP valuations, rolled forward for cash ow and foreign exchange movements to 31 January 2016 For the purposes of reporting under IFRS, a cost valuation basis is equivalent to price of recent investment.
