STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy at a glance STRATEGIC PRIORITY DESCRIPTION 2016 ACHIEVEMENTS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2017 PRIORITIES RISK We anticipate market trends and Sales of new products launched in the Delivery of new product launch Protection of IP 20% customer requirements to deliver lastfive years reached 20.0% of total program including nitrile latex Competition improved products with improved revenue on a legacy basis achieving a key product development.
Market cyclicality Revenue from new products 1 margin and product differentiation.
milestone and a measure of our capacity lessthanfiveyears old.
Research and We acquired new chemistry formulations development through ourPAC acquisition, including redispersible powders, powder coating andtechnical resins and monomers.
expertise toexploit new markets We operate continuous improvement Synthomer 2015 was an efficiency We will employ process Raw material price volatility 160.1m 3.37 across our operations toimprove program involving site overhead reengineering techniques Accidents or environmental production efficiency, sales reductions, automation and plant tomaximise efficiency.
incident Underlying EBITDA Energy consumption 2 effectiveness and functional rationalisation which is now complete and Failure of Plant or systems GJ tonne excellence.
We seek toidentify delivering annualised savings of 13m.
Compliance Utilise value gap analysis to goodpractice in all areas of our Financial market volatility embed operational excellence Driving efficiency businessand ensure thatrelevant Established a specialist procurement tools and drive improved learningsare disseminated function with significant expertise in raw performance.
materials and non direct purchases to Underlying PBT Recordable accident through operations drive savings.
Roll out Customer Relationship frequency rate Management system across Established an operational and business to trace new product leads, manufacturing excellence team capitalise on customers needs and todrivecost performance.
Our aim is to drive profitability Operational and manufacturing excellence We will debottleneck and consolidate Competition 160.1m 122.2m throughmaximum utilisation of team drives asset utilisation.
sites as part of the development of Raw material price volatility ourassets.
This involves identifying the manufacturing network following Failure of Plant or systems Underlying EBITDA Underlying PBT 3 theroot causes of production the acquisition of PAC.
Capacity utilisation 28.3p 1,324.9 Underlying EPS Volume WET KTES We seek to add capacity, Approved large scale capacity expansion Delivery of Project Excellence Failure of projects 160.1m 122.2m particularlyingrowth markets.
at Pasir Gudang nitrile latex plant, Malaysia methodology incapacity Market cyclicality and the Worms dispersion plant, Germany.
expansion projects in Malaysia Underlying EBITDA Underlying PBT 4 and Germany.
Investment in 1,324.9 capacity 28.3p Volume WET KTES Underlying EPS We actively seek opportunistic We completed the acquisition of We are highly active in Availability of suitable 160.1m 122.2m boltonacquisitions insimilar PACadding seven new plants, expanding identifying, targeting and opportunities chemistriesor transformational geographical reach in growth segments, , Failure of acquisition to deliver Underlying EBITDA Underlying PBT 5 stepchange transactions not and introduced new products in powder bothinrelation to bolt on benefits limitedbygeography or chemistry.
acquisitions and transformational Financial market volatility Integration of PAC isprogressingto plan.
step change transactions Business growth inadjacent chemistries.
through acquisition 28.3p Underlying EPS READ MORE P18 AND 19 READ MORE P30 TO 32 12 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC PRIORITY DESCRIPTION 2016 ACHIEVEMENTS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2017 PRIORITIES RISK We anticipate market trends and Sales of new products launched in the Delivery of new product launch Protection of IP 20% customer requirements to deliver lastfive years reached 20.0% of total program including nitrile latex Competition improved products with improved revenue on a legacy basis achieving a key product development.
through acquisition 28.3p Underlying EPS READ MORE P18 AND 19 READ MORE P30 TO 32 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 13
