At a glance With a network that reaches 96% of the country, TalkTalk is the UKs leading provider of value for money fixed line voice telephony and broadband services to consumers and businesses.
Our fast growing B2Bbusiness also offers a wide range of data connectivity and next generation voice products across the UK.
Our history TTB has consistently demonstrated significant growth and is the only Created in 2004 as the telecommunications division of The Carphone wholesale provider ofbroadband and Ethernet connectivity outside Warehouse Group CPW, a retailer of mobile phones and related of BT Group.
It now serves over 180,000 businesses across the UK.
products, TalkTalk was demerged and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2010.
Our business model TalkTalks network comprises owned equipment that the Company TalkTalk has a long history of positive disruption and challenging has installed in over 3,000 BT exchanges and linked back to a national industry conventions.
Having launched a market-beating voice offer high speed fibre backbone through a series of collector rings.
The scale in2004, TalkTalk began building its unbundled local loop network in 2005. and reach of this architecture the largest unbundled network in the A decade ago this year, the Company launched the UKs first ever free country gives the Company geographic coverage of 96% of the UK.
This marked a pivotal moment in the evolution of This is a significant competitive advantage and barrier to entry.
the UK telecoms sector, and firmly established TalkTalk as the value for money champion in the market.
Our business model is underpinned by a sustainable regulatory cost advantage over access to key parts of BTs network infrastructure: Increased competition and uptake in connectivity services, coupled and a low cost operating model, which together allow us to price with a compelling pricing proposition, fuelled significant growth for competitively.
The political and regulatory environment in which the business over subsequent years.
Through a combination of thisframework evolves is critical to TalkTalks business model and acquisitions and organic growth, TalkTalk expanded rapidly, acquiring iscurrently undergoing a series of reviews which present significant the businesses of AOL UK and Tiscali UK in 2007 and 2009 respectively.
In 2010, the business began offering additional consumer services in the form of mobile SIMs.
It completed its suite of quad play services Our ambition with the launch of a flexible, value for money pay TV service and TalkTalk believes reasonably priced, reliable telecoms services should mobile handsets in 2012. be available to everyone.
We have always aimed to be the leading value TalkTalk also offers fixed line connectivity services to business for money provider for all our products and there has never been a customers B2B, including high speed Ethernet products and clearer space for a trusted value champion in the market.
Our ambition is innovative next generation voice products.
Founded in 1995 as to continue to build a scale consumer quad play business that consistently OpalTelecom, TalkTalk Business TTB has capitalised on the scale, delivers affordable, reliable, simple and fair telecoms services for performance and reach of the TalkTalk network to create a portfolio everyone.
As the value champion in the B2B market we aim to double of business grade connectivity and hosted solutions, available either the size of TTB by growing its presence in thesmall business market, direct or through a wide range of wholesale partners.
Ethernet connectivity and next generation voice products.
Our infrastructure For more information see our FY16 business review on page 5 03 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016
