Directors remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report The following report outlines Tescos Remuneration at a glance remuneration framework, how the The approach to remuneration throughout remuneration policy was implemented in Tesco is guided by a framework of common 2015 16 and how theCommittee intends principles, which are outlined below.
Reward objectives Reward principles Attract Competitive Sustainable Enable Tesco to recruit the right people We assess competitiveness on a total reward basis Reward is aligned with the business strategy, Reward reflects an individuals role, experience, reflects our performance, and is affordable Motivate performance and contribution Our reward framework is flexible to meet Incentivise colleagues to deliver our business Reward is set with reference to external market the changing needs of the business goals together practice and internal relativity We reward in a responsible way Recognise Simple Acknowledge individual contribution Reward is simple, clear and easy to understand and performance We avoid unnecessary complexity Reward is delivered accurately Align Create shareholder value and support Fair the achievement of business strategy Policies are transparent and applied consistently and equitably Retain Reward decisions are trusted and properly governed Foster loyalty in Tesco so that colleagues Reward is legal and compliant want to stay with us Overview of Executive Director remuneration The table below summarises key information relating to our remuneration policy and how it was implemented during the year.
The Remuneration Policy, which was approved atthe AGM held on 26 June 2015, is reprinted in full for reference from page 64.
Remuneration element and link How we implemented How we will implement the policy to strategy Key features of policy the policy in 2015 16 in 2016 17 Base salary Base salary is normally reviewed Executive Director salaries for 2015 16 Directors salaries are reviewed annually Supports the recruitment and annually with changes effective were as follows: with animplementation date of 1 July.
retention of Executive Directors from1July but may be reviewed CEO 1,250,000 of the calibre required to develop morefrequently if the Committee CFO 750,000 No increases will be made to salaries and deliver the strategy.
atthe salary review date 1 July 2016.
No increases were made to salaries atthe salary review date 1 July 2015.
Annual incentive The annual bonus is normally Maximum opportunity was asfollows: No changes are proposed for 2016 17.
Rewards Executive Directors for the delivered: CEO 250% of base salary delivery of annual financial, operational 50% in cash: and CFO 225% of base salary and strategic goals.
50% in shares deferred for three years.
The performance measures were: 50% sales: The 50% deferral into Company 30% operating profit: and shares provides alignment with 20% individual measures.
The malus and clawback provisions enable the Company to mitigate risk.
Long-term incentive Awards normally vest based on Maximum opportunity was as follows: Performance measures for the 2016 17 Rewards Executive Directors performance over a period of not less CEO 275% of base salary award will be: for achieving Tescos long-term than three years unless the Committee CFO 250% of base salary TSR 50% weighted index of FTSE350 strategy and creating sustainable determines otherwise.
Food & Drug retailers and FTSE350 shareholder value and aligns the The performance measures for the General Retailers.
economic interests of Executive The Committee has the discretion 2015 16 grant were: Cumulative Retail Cash Generated Directors andshareholders.
toamend the final vesting level if 70% relative TSR performance from Operations 30%.
itdoesnot consider that it reflects compared with a retail group: and Stakeholder metrics new measure theunderlying performance of 30% cumulative Retail Cash 20% : customers, suppliers theCompany.
Further details on the strategic alignment of these performance measures is providedoverleaf.
50 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Performance measures and strategy The following table sets out how each of the performance measures within the annual bonus and PSP link to Tescos strategy.
Variable pay element Performance measure Link to strategy Annual bonus Sales To deliver turnaround performance, top-line revenue growth is fundamental and will be the foundation to ensuring sustainable levels of profit in the future.
Operating profit Incentivises the delivery of Tescos strategy by encouraging the creation of shareholder value through profitable financial strategy.
Individual Focuses on the delivery of critical operational and strategic goals of the business for the year.
PSP TSR Directly aligns Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders in delivering relative high share price growth and returns overthe performance period.
Cash from operations Continues to be a key measure and reflects the need to protect and strengthen our financial position so that wecanmaintain the flexibility to invest in a better shopping experience for customers.
Key stakeholder metrics These metrics are critical to delivering Tescos long-term strategy and the importance of this focus is reflected in 2016 17 awards only the Big 6 KPIs, on which Tesco regularly reports to shareholders.
Alongside improving our financial performance, we need to continue to improve stakeholder alignment, particularly in relation to the customer and supplier metrics.
Measured on a constant currency basis.
Customers, suppliers and colleagues are three of the Big 6 elements see page 12 for further information.
The PSP measures will, to the extent possible, be aligned withhow these KPIs are measured for business performance management and reporting purposes.
Annual bonus performance against targets in 2015 16 audited The table below sets out performance against the metrics applicable to 2015 16 annual bonus outcomes.
Target performance Payout % Measures Underpin Threshold Target Stretch Actual performance maximum Sales 50% n a 48.0bn 48.9bn 49.8bn 49.8bn 98% Operating profit 549m 589m 711m 853m 954m 100% 30% Individual 20% n a 83.5% Sales and operating profit for 2015 16 at constant exchange rates, with sales adjusted to exclude IFRIC13 see page 95 for more details.
A reconciliation with reported figures for operating profit are set out in Note 2 to the accounts.
Performance for the formulaic financial Further details of the individual metrics elements of the plan sales and operating and the annual bonus performance against profit has been strong with sales almost targets are included on page 52. achieving the stretch target and operating profit exceeding the stretch target set at PSP performance against targets the beginning of the year.
A Group operating in 2015 16 audited profit underpin, set at the beginning of the No awards which have previously been year, also applies to the annual bonus, below granted to the Executive Directors vested which noportion of the annual bonus pays in the year ended 27 February 2016. out.
The underpin for the 2015 16 year of549m was met.
In relation to individual The following report outlines the elements, the CEO and CFO both achieved remuneration framework, and how 16.7% out of a maximum 20% and theCommittee intends to apply the accordingly, the annual bonus will pay out remuneration policy in 2016 17.
This annual at 95.7% of the maximum for Dave Lewis remuneration report will be submitted to and Alan Stewart.
an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM on 23 June 2016.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 51 Directors remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report How the remuneration policy will be applied in 2016 17 Element Operation and opportunity Performance measures Fixed pay Base salary CEO 1,250,000. n a CFO 750,000.
Pension 25% of base salary cash allowance in lieu of pension.
n a Cash in retirement Benefits Core benefits include car benefits, driver, security, lifeassurance, disability and health insurance, and colleague discount.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes, Sharesave and the Share Incentive Plan, on the same terms asUK colleagues.
Sharesave is an HMRC-approved savings-related share option scheme.
The Share Incentive Plan is an HMRC-approved plan comprising free shares and partnership shares.
PerformanceAnnual bonus CEO stretch opportunity of 250% of base salary.
50% based on sales related pay One-year performance CFO stretch opportunity of 225% of base salary.
30% based on profit Cashand shares 50% in cash.
20% based on individual measures 50% in shares, which are deferred for three years.
See below for further details Malus applies to deferred shares to allow the Committee discretion to scale back awards made prior to the satisfaction of those awards in certain circumstances.
Clawback applies to cash payments to allow the Committee discretion to take back cash bonuses foraperiod of three years from payment in certaincircumstances.
Performance Share Plan CEO stretch award of 275% of base salary.
Shares vest in three years time subject to Three-year performance CFO stretch award of 250% of base salary.
Shares Malus provisions apply to awards, allowing For awards made in 2016 17, performance will theCommittee discretion to scale back awards beassessed based on Tescos TSR performance madeprior to the satisfaction of awards in compared with an index of retail companies, 30% on certaincircumstances.
cumulative Retail Cash Generated from Operations Clawback provisions also apply to allow the and 20% based on key stakeholder metrics.
Committee discretion to take back exercised See below for further details.
awardsup to the fifth anniversary of the grant ofawards in certain circumstances.
Further details on Tescos shortand long-term performance measures Annual bonus Performance measure Weighting Definition of measure Sales growth 50% Sales exc.
fuel Profit 30% Operating profit before exceptional items Individual measures 20% Delivery of operational and strategic goals in the year Underpin budgeting.
We therefore do not publish basis in next years Annual Report at To ensure that we do not incentivise Executive details of the targets on a prospective basis thesame time that the bonus outcome Directors to grow sales at the expense of but they will focus on the delivery of the isreported.
In relation to exchange rates, satisfactory profitability, an underpin will operational and strategic goals of the business the targets areset based on 2015 16 apply below which no portion of the bonus for the year.
For 2016 17 these continue to average exchange rates and then at the will be paid.
include the delivery of the Big 6 alongside conclusion of thenext financial year, allcolleagues.
areassessed on aconstant currency basis.
Bonus targets Executive bonus targets are considered by However, we will provide full and transparent The targets set are considered to be the Board to be commercially sensitive as disclosure of the targets and the performance appropriately stretching taking into account they could inform Tescos competitors of its against these targets on a retrospective the internal budget and external forecasts.
52 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
