Vesuvius plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Vesuvius Americas at a Glance 18 5 Production sites R&D centres We are a global Group with a business model based on off ering customised 3,186 23 products, solutions and services from Employees Sales of ces production facilities in close proximity to our customers.
Foundry 22% See our Business Model on p10-11 See more about our Steel and Foundry divisions on p36-47 Revenue 415.3m 2015: 408.4m Our global presence Steel 78% 38 10,840 Countries Employees 6 91 Continents Sales of ces 66 17 Production sites R&D centres North America Key to map Production and sales sites R&D centres South America Proximity to customers Our Business 7 EMEA Asia-Paci c 29 10 19 2 Production sites R&D centres Production sites R&D centres 4,422 33 3,232 35 Employees Sales of ces Employees Sales of ces Foundry Foundry 35% 39% Revenue Revenue 585.6m 400.5m 2015: 2015: 555.7m 357.9m Steel Steel 65% 61% EMEA India and SE Asia China and North Asia Australasia Vesuvius plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Vesuvius 3 Ladle at a Glance Tundish Mould continued detail 1 Blast Furnace Iron Trough Tilter Torpedo ladle 3 2 Converter and re ning ladles 4 Steel slab or bloom ready for sale Steel Flow Control Advanced Refractories Technical Services Steel Division supplies the stoppers and tubes produces specialised focuses on the capture Revenue used to channel and control the refractory materials for lining and interpretation of key ow of molten steel from ladle steelmaking vessels such as blast manufacturing data, 942.0m to tundish and from tundish furnaces, ladles and tundishes, complementing Vesuvius The continuous casting of to mould: slide gate refractories which are subject to extreme strong presence and expertise steel is a highly demanding for ladles and tundishes: temperatures, corrosion and in molten metal engineering to process that is critically slide gate systems: tundish abrasion.
These materials are create new technologies and dependent upon consistent and mould uxes: and control in the form of powder mixes, integrate them into expert product quality and optimised devices to monitor and regulate which are spray-applied or cast process management systems.
Vesuvius provides steel ow into the mould.
onto the vessel to be lined Applications include: data systems, products and services These products have been monolithics and refractory acquisition using sensors that allow steel mills to designed to resist extreme shapes e. g. bricks, pads and and laser scanners: slag contain the molten metal thermomechanical stress dams.
Vesuvius is one of the prevention technology: they produce, protect it from and corrosive environments.
worlds largest manufacturers and caster data acquisition oxidation and chemical The majority of these products of monolithic refractory linings.
in the tundish and mould, contamination, and regulate are consumed during the Advanced Refractories delivers which uses sensors to obtain its ow.
Vesuvius enables its process of making steel installation technologies, temperature measurement, customers to increase effi ciency and, consequently, demand products adapted to t metallurgical data and other and productivity, enhance is primarily linked to steel customers speci c processes mould information.
quality, and improve the safety production volumes.
Continuing and plants, and eff ective and and reduce the environmental innovation allows us to off er effi cient logistics services.
footprint of the casting process.
enriched solutions that create These factors are combined additional value in our with signi cant R&D, a deep customers processes.
knowledge of customers processes and project management capability to deliver market-leading solutions for our customers.
See Steel division operating review on p36-43 Our Business 9 3 Mould detail Riser Direct Pour Unit, sl sle ee eve five in inc cluding luding ltr ltra ati tion on 1 S Sa an nd d co cor re e m ma ad fide e w wiit th h b biin nd fide er r Mo Mould and Furnace & a and nd r refr efra ac ct to or ry y c co oatin ating g co core a r ssembled melt shop refractories Fettling removal of Finished casting gating and riser systems The conditioning of molten Foundry Division metal, the nature of the mould used and, especially, the design Revenue of the way metal ows into the 459.4m mould are key parameters in 2 a foundry, determining both Vesuvius Foundry division, Pouring ladle the quality of the nished Melt shop refractories trading as Foseco, is a world castings and the labour, Metal treatment leader in the supply of energy and metal usage consumable products, solutions effi ciency of the foundry.
and associated services Vesuvius products and related to the foundry industry.
associated services to foundries The foundry process is highly improve these parameters.
sequential and is critically dependent on consistency of product quality and productivity optimisation.
The Foundry divisions products, solutions and use 3 of advanced computer Mould simulation techniques allow foundries to reduce defects and hence reduce labourintensive fettling and machining, minimise metal usage requirements, in uence the metal solidi cation process and automate moulding and casting, thus reducing cost, energy usage and mould size.
See Foundry division operating review on p44-47
