02 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 At a glance Leaders in modern money, helping customers prosper We process Worldpay Group payments from Our vision is to be the worlds geographies most progressive and reliable payments partner, sharing covering 99% insights and helping of global GDP.
Merchants Successfully developed Worldpay Total in the US, delivering omni-channel, Colleagues integrated payments capability.
Hosted our first ever US hackathon in 2016.
Offices We processed Payment types around 15 billion transactions for our customers in 2016.
2017: Expanding our products and services Building momentum with Worldpay Total Continuing to scale and enhance new product launches including enhanced data analytics Gained acquiring Extending our capabilities licence in Brazil in next-generation in early 2017. hardware and software Link to: Worldpay is headquartered Our strategy and listed in London and is a FTSE 100 Index member pages 18-21 Overview Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 03 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Launched new Our network 2017: Extending our products such as spans 146 market reach Your Marketplace, countries.
the Worldpay Developing partnerships Service Portal and and new licences across My Business Hub.
Asia, Europe and South America Expanding with new and existing customers Strengthening our regional capabilities Link to: Our strategy Showcased our pages 18-21 leading innovation and Gained new licences insights to customers in Hong Kong and at our Annual Better Singapore, and Business Conference strengthened our Our bankout products in the UK and Rethink regional offices in Asia.
support cross-border Conference in Barcelona.
Strengthened our regional capabilities in Asia Pacific.
2017: Developing our technology and innovation Our new acquiring platform will deliver significant agility, flexibility and efficiency Trialling our nextgeneration payments gateway Investing in future We enable Expanded payments payments technology transactions processing in in 126 currencies.
Link to: Our strategy pages 18-21
