S E C I V R E S N O S I R A P M O C AT A GLANCE Significant progress towardsourmission In 2008, the Zoopla website transformed the property portal landscape with the introduction of a highly differentiated proposition, providing data and delivering transparency to empower consumers to make smarter property decisions.
At the same time uSwitch has transformed the home services comparison landscape, helping consumers understand the market and save money off their household bills.
Zoopla is the UKs most uSwitch is the UKs leading Property Software Group is the PrimeLocation is one of the UKs comprehensive property website, comparison website for home UKs largest supplier of software leading property websites, helping helping consumers to research services switching, helping and workflow solutions to the house-hunters in the middle and themarket and find their next consumers to find the best deal property industry, with a portfolio upper tiers of the market explore home by combining hundreds and save money on their gas, of brands including Alto, Jupix, and find their dream home from ofthousands of property electricity, broadband, TV, phone CFP, Vebra, Core, Encore, the top estate and letting agents.
listingswith market data and personal finance products.
Zoopla Launched Automated #2 Launched Best Property Portal Acquired Digital founded Valuation Model Property portal ZooplaPro WesternEurope Property Group AVM byunique visits 35m 16m 10m 5m VISITS PER 2m 0.4m MONTH 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 04|The consumer champion at the heart of the home S E C I V R E S Y T R E P O R P Strategic report Zooplas automated valuation model providing instant valuation estimates for every home in the country has become a national obsession in the UK.
And our many Our vision offers a other consumer-friendly tools from Listings history toLocal info have continued to lead innovation and unique opportunity transparency in the market.
This unique combination ofmarket-leading research and search tools has made Zoopla an essential resource for consumers throughout their property journey.
1 5 As part of our mission to help consumers throughout the INDUSTRY-LEADING ENHANCED REVENUE entire property lifecycle ZPG acquired uSwitch, the UKs TEAM with proven track record DIVERSITY with number one home services comparison website, in 2015. of innovation andexecution multi-channel strategy This acquisition marked the start of a multi-year product journey to integrate a host of new services across the property platform, empowering consumers to make even better informed decisions when finding, moving or managing their home and further differentiating ZPGs consumer 2 6 proposition.
Our Running Costs tool on the Zoopla website MARKET-LEADING EXCITING CROSS-SELL is an example of this integration, designed to give consumers BRANDS with strong POTENTIAL with product a view on the total occupancy costs for any property.
awareness and engagement data synergies As a standalone platform, uSwitch continues to lead the home services comparison market saving consumers hundreds ofmillions of pounds each year and helping them find the best services to meet their needs.
With a 3 7 strong market position inenergy and communications switching, uSwitch has made significant progress over STRUCTURAL MARKET STRONG MARGIN thepast year in new areas including credit card and GROWTH creating significant LEVERAGE with excellent bankaccount switching.
upside opportunities cashgeneration Most recently ZPG has acquired Property Software Group, the UKs leading supplier of software and workflow tools to the property industry.
This acquisition is a significant step towards ZPG becoming the most effective partner 4 8 for UK property professionals and enables ZPG to offer aone-stop shop solution to help them market their SUCCESSFUL M&A OUTSTANDING RETURNS inventory, manage their business and maximise their STRATEGY supports strong balanced with investment revenue opportunities.
organic growth ingrowth Best Brand IPO on the London Acquired Acquired Property SundayTimes StockExchange uSwitch Software Group Tech Track 50.1m 44.7m 43m 35m 2013 2014 2015 2016 Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|05
