Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 At a glance What we offer In recent years we have taken advantage of growth opportunities to move from being a pure mobile operator to delivering a broad mix of communication services including mobile, fixed broadband, video content, cloud & hosting and Internet of Things offerings.
We believe the future is in converging these services to be a unified communications provider andwe are well positioned to deliver on this trend.
Fixed services increasingly important Enterprise continues to be a key in line with trend to convergence growth driver of our business 21% 28% Fixed Enterprise Split of Split of service service revenue revenue 5% Other wholesale incl.
74% 66% MVNOs, IoT and partner markets Mobile Consumer 6% Other wholesale incl.
MVNOs and partner markets Our services Mobile Fixed Converged services In many of our markets, there 462 million 1 3 million is a growing trend towards the customers of which 43% are active fixed broadband customers and9.5 million convergence of fixed and mobile data users.
services also known as unified communications.
For customers and We provide a range of mobile services, We provide a range of services including operators this provides many benefits enabling customers to call, text and access voice, broadband and TV services including lower bills for users and higher the internet, stream music and watch videos to consumers and a wider range of services customer loyalty towards operators.
whether at home or travelling abroad.
to our enterprise customers, including cloud & hosting and IP-VPN Virtual We believe this trend will continue Private Networks.
to advance in Europe and start gaining traction in our AMAP region and that we are well positioned to take advantage and win market share.
Today, we have nearly three million converged customers taking combined fixed and mobile services.
Other services More on our strategy: Includes Partner Markets and Common Functions see page 5 : Mobile Virtual Network Pages 10 to 13 Operators MVNOs who are mobile providers that rent capacity from mobile operators to sell onto their customers: Internet of Things IoT which is communication between devices via mobile technologies: international voice transit and roaming.
04 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Where we operate Our business is organised into two geographic regions: Europe, and Africa, Middle East and Asia Pacific AMAP, which includes our emerging markets.
Our reach and scale Vodacom Germany 9% 19% India 32% 12% AMAP Split of Other service UK AMAP revenue 16% 11% 66% Other Italy Europe Europe 10% Spain 12% 9% 2% Other partner markets and 1 common functions We provide mobile networks in 26 countries including joint ventures and associates and fixed services in 17 of these.
There are 57 markets where we hold no equity interest but have partnership agreements with local mobile operators for them to use our products and services and in some cases our brand.
of our service of our service revenue comes revenue comes from Europe from AMAP Mobile Mobile Fixed Mobile Mobile 2 2 2 Core markets customers market share market share Core markets customers market share 5 5 Germany 30.3m 33% 20% India 198.0m 22% 5 3,5 4 UK 18.2m 24% 5% Vodacom 70.4m 50% 5 Italy 24.1m 32% 6% 5 Spain 14.3m 28% 22% Also operating in: Also operating in: 5 5 5 Albania Hungary Netherlands Australia Egypt Kenya associate Qatar 5 5 5 5 5 5 Czech Republic Ireland Portugal joint venture Ghana New Zealand Turkey 5 5 5 Greece Malta Romania Notes: 1 Common functions include revenue from services provided centrally or offered outside our 2 Vodafone revenue share estimates at end December 2015.
operating company footprint, including some markets where we have a licensed network 3 Democratic Republic of Congo DRC, Lesotho, Mozambique, South Africa and Tanzania.
operation, for example offering IP-VPN services in Singapore.
