JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 02 At a glance How we create value The Group is an established provider ofretirement income products and services to individual and corporate clients 1. Who we serve 2.
What we do Individuals: Marketed products Providing retirement income Defined Benefit fide-risking Solutions DB People who have built up defined Solutions for pension scheme trustees to contribution DC pension savings remove the financial risks of operating throughout their career and want pension schemes and create certainty that a guaranteed income, flexible income members pensions will be paid in the future.
Guaranteed Income for Life GIfL Market value of DC pension savings A solution for a person or couple who want the security of knowing they will receive 1 trillion a guaranteed income for life.
Flexible Pension Plan FPP Homeowners: A solution for a customer wanting to retain Accessing property wealth greater flexibility of their pension savings and enabling irregular withdrawals.
People aged 60 who want to access wealth locked up in their property.
Care Plans A solution for people moving to residential Property wealth owned by people care who want the security of knowing agedover50 a regular payment will be made to the care provider for the rest of their life.
2.3 trillion Protection A solution for people wanting to support Corporate clients: a residential mortgage, for business Solving problems for companies or inheritance tax planning purposes or simply to have financial peace of mind.
We develop scalable retirement-focussed solutions for banks, building societies, life Lifetime Mortgages LTM assurance companies, pension scheme Solutions designed for people who want to trustees, other corporate clients and for release some of the value of their home.
their customers, clients and members.
Competitive position: A leader New entrant Developing Integrated retirement services Trustees and scheme sponsors: Professional services Providing member security and A regulated financial advice service fide-risking pension liabilities for people who want a personal recommendation on how to use their Defined benefit pension schemes fide-risking pension savings, or when considering their liabilities by securing member benefits releasing some of the value from their home.
Support for organisations wanting to deliver Addressable market whole-of-market shopping around services to source retirement income products for 600 Billion their customers, employees or pension scheme members.
n o i t c Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements e l e s k s i r r o S i T r e R p O u S N G F I N A N C JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 03 3.
Generating value for Our strategy Investors Grow our addressable markets By managing our resources effectively and 1 andbroaden our distribution reach: creatively we create profits, which benefit shareholders through dividend payments Increase profitability through superior 2 and share value.
risk selection: Ensure expenses are aligned 3 Dividends paid in 2016 withthecapital model: Improve cost and efficiency 4 ofcapital:and 21m Reduce dependency on any single 5 business line or market.
Retail customers We improve our customers lives by providing Strategic enablers products and services that are simple to use and better value than our competitors.
Developing and engaging our people: A Establishing and strengthening Number of customers at 31 December 2016 B our brand: Delivering a customer experience built 0.5m C on our customer understanding that delivers our brand promise: Business customers Continuously evolving and enhancing D our longevity intellectual property IP We deliver effective solutions to solve the and customer insight: and challenges and capture the opportunities of our corporate customers and their clients.
Using our Colleagues Developing, recognising and rewarding our colleagues secures a skilled and motivated workforce.
Staff numbers at 31 December 2016 1,045 Communities When our business is profitable and sustainable, the communities where we operate benefit through job creation and tax payments to national and Scalable Superior risk Strong financial local governments.
operating model: selection: model: Corporation tax paid in 2016 Progressive Unrivalled Capital efficient multi-channel proprietary data model distribution 36m Automated Experienced Investment underwriting medical team management Suppliers strategy As we create value, we help other businesses Leading service, Next generation Financial risk succeed and support job creation beyond brand and underwriting management our business.
reputation system: Payments made to suppliers in 2016 PrognoSys Flexible business 84m and infrastructure I A L L M E O D D E O L M G N I T A R E P O E L B A L A C S
