Overview At a Glance Our verticals and brands The company has completed strategic and value accretive acquisitions to date that have all met NMCs stringent investment criteria.
These acquisitions, coupled with NMCs organic initiatives, have allowed the Group to establish new strategic verticals within the broader healthcare delivery platform with  capabilities and brands.
NMC has two lines of business Healthcare which owns and operates hospitals, day surgery centres, medical centres and pharmacies, and Distribution which is the wholesale of pharmaceutical, scientific equipment, FMCG, food, veterinary and education products.
4m Patients in 2016 1 2 783 406 205 Licensed beds NMC Healthcare Licensed beds ProVita, Americare Licensed beds Sheikh Khalifa & Dr.
Sunny and two assets in Saudi Arabia Hospital in UAQ 100 c. 97,600 Licensed beds Brightpoint Royal Stock Keeping Units Womens Hospital, Clinica Eugin exclusive wholesaler of and Fakih IVF mainly globally established and branded healthcare products and equipment 1 Includes 154 beds of Al Zahra Hospital.
For more information see our Business 2 Includes 140, 120 and 26 beds of As Salama, Chronic Overview on pages 20 to 23 Care and Provita beds in NMC Royal respectively.
2 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 2.
Overview Healthcare Operation & Long-term & Multi-speciality Management Home Care The addition of Al Zahra Hospital The blend of a leading provider of Our experience in the Operation further strengthens our portfolio, will in-home healthcare services in the UAE, & Management is leading us to bring the total number of hospitals Americare, acquired by NMC in April 2015, increasingly explore the prospects to seven across the UAE.
The unique and ProVita, the UAEs leading provider of expanding this business regionally.
combination of NMC Royal Hospital of long-term medical care acquired by While this evaluation of the wider and Al Zahra Hospital will create a solid the Group in August 2015, created a solid market remains at initial stages, platform for the robust growth of this foundation of our Long-term ad Home our long experience of operating and vertical.
This platform is complemented care vertical.
Meeting the under-serviced managing healthcare assets in the by a network of medical centers and demand for long-term care facilities, region means we can contribute to day surgeries to increase operational ProVita fills a gap between the shortthe evolution of healthcare delivery reach and the addressable market term care offered by NMCs existing outside our own assets.
NMC also facilities and the in-home services has a network of 15 pharmacies.
ProVita, the Groups Long Term Care business Distribution further extend the vertical with its Maternity & entry into the Saudi Arabian market.
Products & Fertility In August 2016, the Group announced Consumables the acquisition which consummated The blend of organic i. e. Brightpoint early 2017, of a 70% stake in As Salama NMC Healths Product & Consumables Royal Womens Hospital and strategic Hospital, a leading general hospital or product distribution and wholesale value accretive acquisitions i. e. Clinica in Al Khobar, Saudi Arabia.
In addition, business is one of the largest in Eugin and Fakih IVF facilities confirms ProVita, invested in a start-up purposethe UAE in terms of product portfolio the Maternity & Fertility verticals global built long-term care facility with a and sales.
This portfolio of international market position, as one of the leading licensed capacity of 120 beds in Jeddah and regional brands, sold mainly and premium international providers in Saudi Arabias western region.
on exclusive basis by NMC to local of fertility treatment services.
The Group, retailers, has been built over the through its Spanish arm i. e. Clinica past 40 years across diverse product Eugin extended its geographic coverage areas, including key segments such during the year with acquisitions of as FMCG, Pharmaceuticals and IVF facilities in Denmark and Brazil, Scientific Equipment.
Our Maternity & fertility vertical has segment-leading assets, and is now considered one of the top three fertility services providers globally based on cycles performed annually.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 3
