At a Glance Our business has two distinct parts that come together to create superior value for shareholders Workspace is a FTSE 250 Real Estate Investment Workspace is a Trust with a portfolio worth 1.8bn.
We own properties in London and invest heavily in the property company development and design of our buildings, transforming them to meet our customers needs.
We make strategic acquisitions to meet the growing demand for our type of space, buying in both established and up-and-coming locations where we see opportunities to create value.
We refurbish We reposition Undertake major refurbishment projects to add new space Carry out light, internal refurbishments to enhance space by adding oors and expanding existing buildings, or and bring it up to the exacting standards of our discerning upgrade existing space.
We design smart, dynamic and customers.
comfortable environments creating new atriums, terraces, cafs, co-working areas and meeting rooms.
The Record Hall Westbourne Studios Hatton Garden Portobello We redevelop We provide business-grade connectivity Partner with residential developers to transform light Provide a digital infrastructure that offers business-class industrial sites into mixed-use schemes, creating brand new connected services to support growing businesses.
The business centres and generating significant returns.
secure, super-fast and resilient network allows us to enable our buildings with intelligent Wi-Fi so our customers can work how and where they want.
"The Biscuit Factory Cargo Works Bermondsey Southbank Entrance at Cargo Works, Southbank 02""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We are home to around 4,000 New and Growing Workspace is an Companies in some 70 properties across London."
We build long-term relationships with our customers, a operator focused on hugely diverse spread of the New and Growing Companies its customers who are driving the London economy.
Our Centre Managers get to know the people in their buildings but give them freedom, making it easy for them to come and go as their companies evolve and grow.
With the customer every step of the way 1.
Search for space Workspace is unique in that every touch point with its The majority of customers nd Workspace online thanks to customers, from their initial enquiry to the lease negotiation, our in-house Marketing team and digital marketing strategy, is handled by a member of the in-house team.
while we also have a strong recommendation rate from existing customers and their clients.
The Workspace Enquiries team speaks to the customer Search for about their requirements and outlines available options.
Viewings Workspace Centre Managers show the customer around 6.
2. multiple sites and units, enabling them to make the Renewal Enquiry right decision.
Lease negotiation From search The Workspace Lettings team draws up an offer letter for to moving in the chosen office space and negotiates the lease with the customer.
Moving day Moving day Viewings The customer moves in with support from their dedicated Centre Manager and immediately becomes a member of 4. the Workspace community.
Renewal If a customer wants to stay, the Workspace Renewals team draws up a new lease and, in many cases, supports an expansion or move to a new Workspace centre.
"Customer base top 10 categories Marketing Architect Fashion Software Design Finance Brand Design Business Consultancy IT Not-For-Profit Film 03""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
