Portfolio and other information Portfolio valuation an explanation As unquoted investments are not traded Debt instruments, in particular, may have Policy on an active market, the Group adjusts the structural rights.
In the valuation, it is The valuation policy is the responsibility estimated enterprise value by a liquidity assumed third parties, such as lenders or of the Board, with additional oversight discount.
The liquidity discount is applied holders of convertible instruments, fully and annual review from the Valuations to the total enterprise value and we apply a exercise any structural rights they might have Committee.
Our policy is to value 3is higher discount rate for investments where if they are in the money, and that the value investment portfolio at fair value and there are material restrictions on our ability to the Group may therefore be reduced by we achieve this by valuing investments to sell at a time of our choosing.
such rights held by third parties.
The Groups on an appropriate basis, applying a own structural rights are valued on the basis consistent approach across the portfolio.
The table opposite outlines in more detail they are exercisable on the reporting date.
The policy ensures that the portfolio the range of valuation methodologies valuation is compliant with the fair value available to us, as well as the inputs and Assets classified as terminal guidelines under IFRS and, in so doing, is adjustments necessary for each.
If we believe an investment has more than a also compliant with the guidelines issued 50% probability of failing in the 12 months Apportioning the enterprise value by the International Private Equity and following the valuation date, we value the between 3i, other shareholders Venture Capital valuation board the IPEV investment on the basis of its expected and lenders guidelines.
The policy covers the Groups recoverable amount in the event of failure.
Once we have estimated the enterprise Private Equity and Infrastructure investment It is important to distinguish between value, the following steps are taken: valuations.
Valuations of the investment our investment failing and the business portfolio of the Group and its subsidiaries failing: the failure of our investment does 1.
W e subtract the value of any claims, net are performed at each quarter end.
not always mean that the business has offree cash balances that are more senior failed, just that our recoverable value has to the most senior of our investments.
Fair value is the underlying principle and dropped significantly.
This would generally is defined as the price that would be 2.
T he resulting attributable enterprise result in the equity and loan components received to sell an asset in an orderly value is apportioned to the Groups of our investment being valued at nil.
transaction between market participants at investment, and equal ranking investments Value movements in the period relating the measurement date IPEV guidelines, by other parties, according to contractual to investments classified as terminal December 2015.
Fair value is therefore an terms and conditions, to arrive at a fair are classified as provisions in our value estimate and, as such, determining fair value value of the entirety of the investment.
requires the use of judgement.
The value is then distributed amongst the different loan, equity and other financial The quoted assets in our portfolio are valued Infrastructure unquoted valuation instruments accordingly.
at their closing bid price at the balance sheet The primary valuation methodology used date.
The majority of the portfolio, however, 3.
I f the value attributed to a specific for unquoted Infrastructure investments is is represented by unquoted investments.
shareholder loan investment in a company the discounted cash flow method DCF.
is less than its carrying value, a shortfall Fair value is estimated by deriving the Private Equity unquoted valuation is implied, which is recognised in our present value of the investment using To arrive at the fair value of the Groups valuation.
In exceptional cases, we may reasonable assumptions of expected future unquoted Private Equity investments, we judge that the shortfall is temporary: cash flows and the terminal value and date, first estimate the entire value of the company to recognise the shortfall in such a and the appropriate risk-adjusted discount we have invested in the enterprise value.
scenario would lead to unrepresentative rate that quantifies the risk inherent to the We then apportion that enterprise value volatility and hence we may choose not to investment.
The discount rate is estimated between 3i, other shareholders and lenders.
with reference to the market risk-free rate, a risk adjusted premium and information Determining enterprise value Other factors specific to the investment or market sector.
The enterprise value is determined using one In applying this framework, there are of a selection of methodologies depending additional considerations that are factored on the nature, facts and circumstances of into the valuation of some assets.
Impacts from structuring Where possible, we use methodologies Structural rights are instruments convertible which draw heavily on observable market into equity or cash at specific points in time prices, whether listed equity markets or linked to specific events.
For example, or reported merger and acquisition where a majority shareholder chooses to transactions, and trading updates from sell, and we have a minority interest, we our portfolio.
may have the right to a minimum return on our investment.
150 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Portfolio and otherinformation % of investment basis portfolio valued on Methodology Description Inputs Adjustments this basis Earnings Most commonly used Earnings multiples are applied to the earnings of A liquidity discount is 68% Private Equity Private Equity valuation the Company to determine the enterprise value applied to the enterprise methodology value, typically between Earnings 5% and 15%, using factors Used for investments Reported earnings adjusted for non-recurring such as our alignment which are profitable and items, such as restructuring expenses, for with management and for which we can significant corporate actions and, in exceptional other investors and our determine a set of listed cases, run-rate adjustments to arrive at investment rights in the companies and precedent maintainable earnings deal structure transactions, where Most common measure is earnings before relevant, with similar interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation characteristics EBITDA Earnings used are usually the management accounts for the 12 months to the quarter end preceding the reporting period, unless data from forecasts or the latest audited accounts provides a more reliable picture of maintainable earnings Earnings multiples The earnings multiple is derived from comparable listed companies or relevant market transaction multiples We select companies in the same industry and, where possible, with a similar business model and profile in terms of size, products, services and customers, growth rates and geographic focus We adjust for relative performance in the set of comparables, exit expectations and other company specific factors Quoted Used for investments Closing bid price at balance sheet date No adjustments 13% Infrastructure inlisted companies ordiscounts applied Private Equity Imminent sale Used where an asset is Contracted proceeds for the transaction, A discount of typically 12% Private Equity inasales process, a price orbestestimateof the expected proceeds 2.5% is applied to reflect has been agreed but the any uncertain adjustments transaction has not toexpected proceeds yetsettled Discounted Appropriate for Long-term cash flows are discounted at a rate Discount already implicit 4% cashflow businesses with long-term which isbenchmarked against market data, inthe discount rate Private Equity stable cash flows, typically wherepossible, oradjusted from the rate at the applied to long-term Infrastructure in Infrastructure initial investment based on changes in the risk cashflows no further profile of the investment discounts applied Specific industry Used for investments in We create a set of comparable listed companies An appropriate discount 2% metrics industries which have well andderive the implied values of the relevant isapplied, depending on Private Equity defined metrics as bases metric the valuation metric used for valuation eg book We track and adjust this metric for relative value for insurance performance, as in the case of earnings multiples underwriters Comparable companies are selected using the same criteria as described for the earnings methodology NAV Used for investments in Net asset value reported by the fund manager Typically no further 1% Private Equity unlisted funds discount applied Infrastructure inaddition to that applied by the fund manager Other Used where elements Values of separate elements prepared on one Discounts applied % Private Equity ofabusiness are valued ofthe methodologies listed above toseparate elements ondifferent bases asabove Consistent with IPEV guidelines, all equity investments are held at fair value using the most appropriate methodology and no investments are held at historical cost.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 151
