Audited financial statements Significant accounting policies Reporting entity 3i Group plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Consolidated financial statements the Group accounts for the year to 31 March 2018 comprise the financial statements of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries collectively, the Group.
The Group accounts have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with section 395 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its Company statement of comprehensive income and related Notes.
A Basis of preparation The Group and Company accounts have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with all relevant International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee for the year ended 31 March 2018, endorsed by the European Union EU.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been issued and endorsed by the EU, with implementation dates that do not impact on these financial statements: Effective for annual periods beginning on or after IFRS 9 Financial instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 The Group does not anticipate that IFRS 9 will have a material impact on its results.
IFRS 16 is expected to result in an increase in the Groups total assets and total liabilities but is not anticipated to have a material impact on net assets or total return.
The Group expects that IFRS 15 will only impact its accounting policy for carried interest and performance fees receivable.
This is because IFRS 15 will introduce an assessment of the extent to which it is highly probable that there will not be a significant reversal of carried interest receivable when the uncertainty is resolved.
When making our assessment, the following will be considered: remaining duration of the fund, position in relation to the cash hurdle, the number of assets remaining in the fund and the potential for clawback.
The substantial majority of the Groups carried interest receivable is from EFV and dependent on the realisation of Action.
Given Actions strong performance, its forecast growth profile, and consistent with our investment and expected exit strategy, our current assessment is that we do not expect the adoption of IFRS 15 to have a material impact on the recognition of carried interest receivable in the Groups results.
More details on our assessment of IFRS 15 are included on page 32 of the Financial review.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the Group accounts are disclosed below, but where possible, they have been shown as part of the Note to which they specifically relate in order to assist the readers understanding.
These policies have been consistently applied and apply to all years presented.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as disclosed in the Directors report and presented to the nearest million sterling m, the functional currency of the Company and the Group.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 99 Audited financial statements Significant accounting policies continued B Basis of consolidation In accordance with IFRS 10 the Company meets the criteria as an investment entity and therefore is required to recognise subsidiaries that also qualify as investment entities at fair value through profit or loss.
It does not consolidate the investment entities it controls.
Subsidiaries that provide investment related services, such as advisory, management or employment services, are not classified at fair value through profit and loss and continue to be consolidated unless they are deemed investment entities, in which case they are recognised at fair value.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control, as defined by IFRS 10, is achieved when the Group has all of the following: power over the relevant activities of the investee: exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The Group is required to determine the degree of control or influence the Group exercises and the form of any control to ensure that the financial treatment is accurate.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively obtains control.
All intra-group balances and transactions with subsidiaries are eliminated upon consolidation.
Subsidiaries are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group comprises several different types of subsidiaries.
The Group re-assesses the function performed by each type of subsidiary to determine its treatment under the IFRS 10 exception from consolidation on an annual basis.
The types of subsidiaries and their treatment under IFRS 10 are as follows: General Partners GPs Consolidated General Partners provide investment management services and do not hold any direct investments in portfolio assets.
These entities are not investment entities.
Investment managers advisers Consolidated These entities provide investment related services through the provision of investment management or advice.
They do not hold any direct investments in portfolio assets.
Holding companies of investment managers advisers Consolidated These entities provide investment related services through their subsidiaries.
Typically they do not hold any direct investment in portfolio assets and these entities are not investment entities.
Limited Partnerships and other intermediate investment holding structures Fair valued The Group makes investments in portfolio assets through its ultimate parent company as well as through other limited partnerships and corporate subsidiaries which the Group has created to align the interests of the investment teams with the performance of the assets through the use of various carried interest schemes.
The purpose of these limited partnerships and corporate holding vehicles, many of which also provide investment related services, is to invest for investment income and capital appreciation.
These partnerships and corporate subsidiaries meet the definition of an investment entity and are classified at fair value through profit and loss.
Portfolio investments Fair valued Under IFRS 10, the test for accounting subsidiaries takes wider factors of control as well as actual equity ownership into account.
In accordance with the investment entity exception, these entities have been held at fair value with movements in fair value being recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Associates Fair valued Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the Consolidated statement of financial position at fair value even though the Group may have significant influence over those companies.
Further detail on our application of IFRS 10 can be found in the Reconciliation of Investment basis to IFRS section on pages 38 to 42 of the Strategic report.
100 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Audited financial statements C Critical accounting judgements and estimates The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial statements.
UK company law and IFRS require the Directors, in preparing the Groups financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
The Groups estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and expectation of future events and are reviewed periodically.
The actual outcome may be materially different from that anticipated.
a Critical judgements In the course of preparing the financial statements, one judgement has been made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, other than those involving estimations, that has had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements as follows: I.
Assessment as an investment entity The Board has concluded that the Company continues to meet the definition of an investment entity as its strategic objective of investing in portfolio investments and providing investment management services to investors for the purpose of generating returns in the form of investment income and capital appreciation remains unchanged.
b Critical estimates In addition to this significant judgement the Directors have made two estimates, which they deem to have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the amounts recognised in the financial statements within the next financial year.
The details of these estimates are as follows: I.
Fair valuation of the investment portfolio The investment portfolio, a material asset of the Group, is held at fair value.
Details of valuation methodologies used and the associated sensitivities are disclosed in Note 12 Fair values of assets and liabilities.
Further information can be found in Portfolio valuation an explanation on pages 150 and 151.
Given the importance of this area, the Board has a separate Valuations Committee to review the valuations policies, process and application to individual investments.
A report on the activities of the Valuations Committee including a review of the assumptions made is included on pages 70 to 72.
In addition, sensitivity to a net 1x movement on Actions multiple, the largest investment in our portfolio, is included on page 23 of the Strategic report.
Carried interest receivable and payable Carried interest receivable and payable are calculated based on the underlying agreements, and assuming all portfolio investments are sold at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
The actual amounts of carried interest received and paid will depend on the cash realisations of these portfolio investments and valuations may change significantly in the next financial year.
The fair valuation of the investment portfolio is itself a critical estimate, as detailed above.
The sensitivity of carried interest to movements in the investment portfolio is disclosed in Notes 13 and 14.
Valuation of the defined benefit schemes The Group considered that the required estimate of an appropriate discount rate in accordance with IAS 19 was not sensitive enough to change the valuation of the pension scheme materially and therefore it is no longer considered a critical estimate.
The sensitivity to changes in discount rates is shown in Note 26.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 101 Audited financial statements Significant accounting policies continued D Other accounting policies a Gross investment return Gross investment return is equivalent to revenue for the purposes of IAS 1.
It represents the overall increase in net assets from the investment portfolio net of deal-related costs and includes foreign exchange movements in respect of the investment portfolio.
The substantial majority is investment income and outside the scope of IAS 18 and IFRS 15 from 1 April 2019.
It is analysed into the following components with the relevant standard shown where appropriate: I. R ealised profits or losses over value on the disposal of investments are the difference between the fair value of the consideration in accordance with IFRS 13 received less any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity and the repayment of interest income from the investment portfolio, and its carrying value at the start of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of disposal.
U nrealised profits or losses on the revaluation of investments are the movement in the fair value of investments in accordance with IFRS 13 between the start and end of the accounting period converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of fair value assessment.
F air value movements on investment entity subsidiaries are the movements in the fair value of Group subsidiaries which are classified as investment entities under IFRS 10.
The Group makes investments in portfolio assets through these entities which are usually limited partnerships or corporate subsidiaries.
P ortfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related to the return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria in accordance with IAS 18 must be met before the income is recognised: Dividends from equity investments are recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Interest income from investment portfolio is recognised as it accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the financial asset to the assets carrying value.
When the fair value of an investment is assessed to be below the principal value of a loan the Group recognises a provision against any interest accrued from the date of the assessment going forward until the investment is assessed tohave recovered in value.
Fee income is earned directly from investee companies when an investment is first made and through the life of the investment.
Fees that are earned on a financing arrangement are considered to relate to a financial asset measured at fair value through profit orlossand are recognised when that investment is made.
Fees that are earned on the basis of providing an ongoing service to the investee company are recognised as that service is provided.
V. F oreign exchange on investments arises on investments made in currencies that are different from the functional currency of the Group entity.
Investments are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction in accordance with IAS 21.
At each subsequent reporting date, investments are translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
102 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Audited financial statements b Foreign currency translation For the Company and those subsidiaries whose balance sheets are denominated in sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentational currency, monetary assets and liabilities and non-monetary assets held at fair value denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange over the year and exchange differences arising are taken to the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The statements of financial position of subsidiaries and associates, which are not held at fair value, denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the closing rates.
The statements of comprehensive income for these subsidiaries and associates are translated at the average rates and exchange differences arising are taken to other comprehensive income.
Such exchange differences are reclassified to the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which the subsidiary or associate is disposed of.
Exchange movements in relation to forward foreign exchange contracts are included within exchange movements in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, where appropriate.
No forward foreign exchange contracts were held at the year end.
c Treasury assets and liabilities Short-term treasury assets and short and long-term treasury liabilities are used in order to manage cash flows and minimise the overall costs of borrowing.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and amounts held in money market funds, which are readily convertible into cash and there is an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
fide-recognition occurs when rights to cash flows from a financial asset expire, or when a liability is extinguished.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 103
