Portfolio and other information Glossary Assets under management AUM Collateralised Loan Obligation CLO 2013-2016 vintage includes Aspen Pumps, Audley Travel, Basic-Fit, Dynatect, EuroAmeasure of the total assets that 3i has to Aform of securitisation where payments invest or manages on behalf of shareholders from multiple loans are pooled together Diesel, ATESTEO, JMJ, Q Holdings, WP, Scandlines further completed in December and third-party investors for which it andpassed on to different classes of owners receives a fee.
AUM is measured at fair in various tranches.
2013, Christ, Geka, ticas Carol and Blue Interactive.
In the absence of a third-party fund Company 3i Group plc.
in Private Equity, it is not a measure of fee 2016-2019 vintage includes BoConcept, generating capability.
Country by Country Reporting Cirtec, Formel D, Hans Anders, Lampenwelt, CbCReporting refers to a requirement Ponroy Sant and Schlemmer.
Automatic Exchange of Information for large multinational groups, operating AEOI regulation covers the combined in different countries, to file an annual Alternative Investment Funds AIFs At legislative requirements of Common 31 March 2018, 3i Investments plc as AIFM, report with their head office tax authority.
Reporting Standards CRS and the Foreign This provides information about the activities managed five AIFs.
These were 3i Group plc, Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA.
3i Growth Capital Fund, 3i Eurofund V, of the entities in the Group, on a country-byBoth sets of rules require financial groups country basis, across the countries in which 3i Managed Infrastructure Acquisitions LP to identify investors and report details to and 3i European Operational Projects Fund.
This new requirement their local authority who will then exchange applied tothe Group from 1 April 2016.
Alternative Investment Fund Manager the information with other relevant AIFM is the regulated manager of AIFs.
Discounting The reduction in present value Within 3i, this is 3i Investments plc.
at a given date of a future cash transaction Board The Board of Directors at an assumed rate, using a discount factor ofthe Company.
Approved Investment Trust Company This reflecting the time value of money.
is a particular UK tax status maintained by 3i Capital redemption reserve is established in Discontinued operations are comprised of Group plc, the parent company of 3i Group.
respect of the redemption of the Companys An approved Investment Trust company is a the assets and liabilities associated with the ordinary shares.
Groups Debt Management business sold UK company which meets certain conditions set out in the UK tax rules which include a Capital reserve recognises all profits that toInvestcorp in March 2017. are capital in nature or have been allocated requirement for the company to undertake Dividend income from CLO capital portfolio investment activity that aims to to capital.
Following changes to the is recognised in the Statement of Companies Act, the Company amended its spread investment risk and for the companys comprehensive income when the shares to be listed on an approved Articles of Association at the 2012 Annual shareholders rights to receive payment General Meeting to allow these profits to be exchange.
The approved status for an have been established.
investment trust must be agreed by the UK distributable by way of a dividend.
tax authorities and its benefit is that certain EBITDA is defined as earnings before Carried interest is accrued on the profits of the company, principally its capital interest, taxation, depreciation and realised and unrealised profits generated profits, are not taxable in the UK.
amortisation and is used as the typical taking relevant performance hurdles into measure of portfolio company performance.
consideration, assuming all investments were realised at the prevailing book value.
Carried interest is only actually paid or received when the relevant performance hurdles are met and the accrual is discounted to reflect expected payment periods.
Carried interest receivable is generated on third-party capital over the life of the relevant fund when relevant performance criteria are met.
154 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Portfolio and otherinformation Fees receivable from external funds are Investment basis Accounts prepared EBITDA multiple Calculated as the enterprise value over EBITDA, it is used to fees received by the Group, from third assuming that IFRS 10 had not been parties, for the management of private introduced.
Under this basis, we fair determine the value of a company.
value portfolio companies at the level we Executive Committee The Executive believe provides the most comprehensive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day Foreign exchange on investments arises financial information.
running of the Group and comprises: the on investments made in currencies that are Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, the different from the functional currency of the The commentary in the Strategic report Managing Partners of the Private Equity and Group entity.
Investments are translated at refers to this basis as we believe it Infrastructure businesses and the Groups the exchange rate ruling at the date of the provides a more understandable view of General Counsel.
At each subsequent reporting our performance.
date, investments are translated to sterling Fair value movements on investment entity Key Performance Indicators KPI at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
isa measure by reference to which the subsidiaries The movement in the carrying value of Group subsidiaries, classified as Gross investment return GIR includes development, performance or position profit and loss on realisations, increases and oftheGroup can be measured effectively.
investment entities under IFRS 10, between the start and end of the accounting period decreases in the value of the investments Money multiple is calculated as the we hold at the end of a period, any income converted into sterling using the exchange cumulative distributions plus any residual rates at the date of the movement.
received from the investments such as value divided by paid-in capital.
interest, dividends and fee income and Fair value through profit or loss FVTPL foreign exchange movements.
GIR is Net asset value NAV is a measure of the is an IFRS measurement basis permitted measured as a percentage of the opening fair value of our proprietary investments and for assets and liabilities which meet portfolio value.
the net costs of operating the business.
Gains and losses on assets and liabilities measured as FVTPL are Interest income from investment portfolio is OEM is an original equipment manufacturer.
recognised directly in the Statement of recognised as it accrues.
When the fair value Operating cash profit is the difference comprehensive income.
of an investment is assessed to be below between our cash income consisting the principal value of a loan, the Group of portfolio interest received, portfolio Fee income is earned directly from investee recognises a provision against any interest companies when an investment is first made dividends received, portfolio fees received accrued from the date of the assessment and fees received from external funds as per and through the life of the investment.
going forward until the investment is Fees that are earned on a financing the Investment basis Consolidated cash flow assessed to have recovered in value.
statement and our operating expenses as arrangement are considered to relate to a financial asset measured at fair value through International Financial Reporting Standards per the Investment basis Consolidated cash profit or loss and are recognised when that IFRS are accounting standards issued flow statement.
Fees that are earned on by the International Accounting Standards Operating profit includes gross investment the basis of providing an ongoing service to Board IASB.
The Groups consolidated return, management fee income generated the investee company are recognised as that financial statements are required to be from managing external funds, the costs of service is provided.
prepared in accordance with IFRS, as running our business, net interest payable, endorsed by the EU.
movements in the fair value of derivatives, other losses and carried interest.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 155 Portfolio and other information Glossary continued Portfolio income is that which is directly Share-based payment reserve is a related to the return from individual reserve to recognise those amounts in investments.
It is recognised to the extent retained earnings in respect of sharethat it is probable that there will be economic based payments.
benefit and the income can be reliably SORP means the Statement of measured.
It is comprised of dividend Recommended Practice: Financial income, income from loans and receivables Statements of Investment Trust Companies and fee income.
Proprietary capital Shareholders Total return comprises operating profit capital which is available to invest to less tax charge less movement in actuarial generate profits.
valuation of the historic defined benefit Public Private Partnership PPP is a pension scheme.
government service or private business Total shareholder return TSR is the venture which is funded and operated measure of the overall return to shareholders through a partnership of government and and includes the movement in the share one or more private sector companies.
price and any dividends paid, assuming that Realised profits or losses over value on all dividends are reinvested on their ex-dividend date.
the disposal of investments The difference between the fair value of the consideration Translation reserve comprises all received, less any directly attributable costs, exchange differences arising from the on the sale of equity and the repayment translation of the financial statements of of loans and receivables and its carrying international operations.
value at the start of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange Unrealised profits or losses on the rates at the date of disposal.
revaluation of investments The movement in the carrying value of investments between Revenue reserve recognises all profits that the start and end of the accounting period are revenue in nature or have been allocated converted into sterling using the exchange to revenue.
rates at the date of the movement.
Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Executive who is considered to be the Groups chief operating decision maker.
All transactions between business segments are conducted on an arms length basis, with intrasegment revenue and costs being eliminated on consolidation.
Income and expenses directly associated with each segment are included in determining business segment performance.
156 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 This report was printed by Pureprint Group ISO 14001 usingtheir environmental print technology A pattern of control for an environmental which minimises the negative environmental management system against which an impacts of the printing process.
based inks were used throughout and 99% of the dry waste and 95% of the cleaning solvents associated with this production were recycled.
This report is printed on Revive Recycled Silk, an  stock made with ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pure cellulose.
This paper Natural Capital Partners is FSC certified and contains 50% The CO2 emissions associated with recycled material.
the production and distribution of our Annualreport and accounts 2017 have FSC Forest Stewardship Council beenmeasured and reduced to net zero This ensures that there is an audited through verified carbon offset projects chain ofcustody from the tree in which generate renewable energy.
thewell-managed forest through to the finisheddocument in the printing factory.
Designed and produced by RadleyYeldar www.
com 3i Group plc Registered office: 16 Palace Street, London, SW1E 5JD, UK Registered in England No.
1142830 Halcyon by David Ridley An investment company as defined by Oil paint and mixed media section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 on a box canvas.
com 3i Group plc 16 Palace Street, London, SW1E 5JD, UK Telephone 44 0 20 7975 3131 THR27381 Register online To receive shareholder communications electronically, includingreports and notices of meetings, please register at www.
com investor-relations Sign up for 3i news To be kept up-to-date with 3is latest financial news andpressreleases, sign up for alerts at www.
