Governance and accounts Significant accounting policies Corporate information Basis of consolidation 3i Infrastructure plc the Company is a company In accordance with IFRS 10 as amended, entities that incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands.
The meet the definition of an investment entity are required Consolidated financial statements for the year to to fair value certain subsidiaries through profit or 31 March 2018 comprise the financial statements of the loss in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Company and its consolidated subsidiary as defined in Recognition and Measurement, rather than consolidate IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements together their results.
However, those subsidiaries that are not referred to as the Group.
The Companies Jersey Law themselves investment entities and provide investment- 1991 does not require the directors of a company to related services to the Company are consolidated.
present separate financial statements where consolidated Intragroup balances between the Company and the financial statements are presented and therefore the consolidated subsidiary, 3i Infrastructure Seed Assets financial results and position of the Company are GP Limited, a UK incorporated and 100% owned not presented alongside the consolidated financial company, and any unrealised gains and losses or income statements of the Group.
and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, The financial statements were authorised for issue by the are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial Board of Directors on 10 May 2018. statements.
There will be no elimination in relation to transactions between the Company and subsidiaries Statement of compliance held at fair value.
These financial statements have been prepared in Key judgements accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and their The preparation of financial statements in accordance interpretations issued as adopted for use in the European with IFRS requires the Directors to exercise judgement Union IFRS.
in the process of applying the accounting policies defined below.
The following policies are areas where These financial statements have also been prepared in a higher degree of judgement has been applied in the accordance with and in compliance with the Companies preparation of the financial statements.
Jersey Law 1991. i Assessment as investment entity Entities that meet the definition of an investment entity within IFRS 10 Basis of preparation are required to measure their subsidiaries at fair value The financial statements are prepared on a going through profit or loss rather than consolidate them concern basis as disclosed in the Directors statement, unless they provided investment-related services to the as the Directors are satisfied that the Group has the Company.
To determine that the Company continues to resources to continue in business for the foreseeable meet the definition of an investment entity, the Company future.
In making this assessment, the Directors have is required to satisfy the following three criteria: considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future a the Company obtains funds from one or more projections of profitability and cash flows.
investors for the purpose of providing those investor s with investment management services: The financial statements of the Group are presented in sterling, the functional currency of the Company, b the Company commits to its investor s that its rounded to the nearest hundred thousand pounds business purpose is to invest funds solely for returns 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
from capital appreciation, investment income, or both: and The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the Board to make judgements, estimates c the Company measures and evaluates the and assumptions that affect the application of policies performance of substantially all of its investments and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income on a fair value basis.
The estimates and associated assumptions The Company meets the criteria as follows: are based on experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the stated strategy of the Company is to deliver stable the results of which form the basis of determining the returns to shareholders through a mix of income yield carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily and capital appreciation: apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
88 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance and accounts the Company provides investment management Key estimation uncertainties services and has several investors who pool their funds Valuation of the investment portfolio to gain access to infrastructure related investment The key area where estimates are significant to the opportunities that they might not have had access to consolidated financial statements and have a significant individually: and risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying the Company has elected to measure and evaluate amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial the performance of all of its investments on a fair value year is in the valuation of the investment portfolio.
The fair value method is used to represent the Companys performance in its communication to the The majority of assets in the investment portfolio are market, including investor presentations.
Inaddition, valued on a discounted cash flow basis which requires the Company reports fair value information internally assumptions to be made regarding future cash flows to Directors, who use fair value as the primary andthe discount rate to be applied to these cash measurement attribute to evaluate performance.
The methodology for deriving the fair value of the investment portfolio, including the key estimates, is The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has set out on page 109.
Refer to Note 7 for further details all the typical characteristics of an investment entity and of the valuation techniques, significant inputs to those continues to meet the definition in the standard.
This techniques and sensitivity of the fair value of these conclusion will be reassessed on an annual basis.
investments to the assumptions that have been made.
ii Assessment of investments as structured entities Standards and interpretations issued but not Astructured entity is an entity that has been designed so yeteffective that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity.
Additional disclosures As at 31 March 2018, the following new or amended are required by IFRS 12 for interests in structured entities, standards and interpretations, which have not been whether they are consolidated or not.
The Directors have applied in these financial statements, had been issued by assessed whether the entities in which the Group invests the International Accounting Standards Board IASB but should be classified as structured entities and have are yet to become effective.
concluded that none of the entities should be classified IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for accounting as structured entities as voting rights are the dominant periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018. factor in deciding who controls these entities.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers iii Assessment of consolidation requirements The effective for accounting periods commencing on or after Group holds significant stakes in the majority of its 1 January2018.
investee companies and must exercise judgement in IFRS 16 Leases effective for accounting periods the level of control of the underlying investee company commencing on or after 1 January 2019. that is obtained in order to assess whether the company should be classified as a subsidiary.
Amendments resulting from Annual Improvements to The Group must also exercise judgement in whether IFRS 2014-2016 Cycle effective for accounting periods a subsidiary provides investment-related services or commencing on or after 1 January 2018. activities and therefore should be consolidated or held at The Directors have assessed the impact on the adoption fair value through profit or loss.
Further details are shown of the standards and interpretations listed above and in significant accounting policy A Classification.
have concluded that they will not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Consolidated Group During the year, the Company set up one new subsidiary in future periods.
The Groups principal revenue streams entity for the new investment commitment in Attero.
are dividends and interest from investments, transaction A further 14 entities included within the Wireless fees, interest on cash balances and other income Infrastructure Group became subsidiaries during the comprising fees from asset management services.
The Directors have assessed whether these entities The Group does not expect IFRS 15 to have a material provide investment-related services and have concluded impact on the accounting for these revenue streams.
that they should not be consolidated and that they The adoption of IFRS 16 does not have an impact on the should be held at fair value through profit or loss.
Group as it does not hold any operating leases.
IFRS 9 The adoption of certain accounting policies by the will not have a significant impact on the measurement of Group also requires the use of certain critical accounting the Groups financial assets and liabilities as the Groups estimates in determining the information to be disclosed principal financial assets are investments held at fair value in the financial statements.
through profit or loss which are not impacted by the adoption of IFRS 9.
IFRS 9 also changes the classification of financial assets and implements new rules around hedge accounting.
The Group does not have any financial assets whose classification will be impacted by 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 89 Governance and accounts S ignificant accounting policies continued adoption of IFRS 9 nor does it apply hedge accounting to B Exchange differences any of its derivatives.
Transactions entered into by the Group in a currency other than its functional currency are recorded at The Directors are still undertaking an assessment of the the rates ruling when the transactions occur.
Foreign impact of other new standards issued and not endorsed currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated to by the EU.
It is not anticipated that they would have a the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the material impact on the Group.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation to the functional currency are recognised A Classification in the statement of comprehensive income.
Foreign i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by exchange differences relating to investments held at fair the Company.
Control exists when the Company is value through profit or loss are shown within the line Net exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its gains on investments at fair value through profit or loss.
involvement with the subsidiary entity and has the Foreign exchange differences relating to other assets and ability to affect those returns through its power over liabilities are shown within the line Exchange movements.
In accordance with the exception under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured the Company only consolidates subsidiaries in the in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are financial statements if they are deemed to perform translated using the exchange rate at the date of investment-related services and do not meet the the transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities definition of an investment entity.
Investments in denominated in foreign currencies that are stated subsidiaries that do not meet this definition are at fair value are translated to the functional currency accounted for as Investments at fair value through using exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value profit or loss with changes in fair value recognised in was determined with the associated foreign exchange the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
difference being recognised within the unrealised gain or The Directors have assessed all entities within the loss on revaluation of the asset or liability.
Group structure and concluded that 3i Infrastructure Seed Assets GP Limited is the only subsidiary of the C Investment portfolio Company that provides investment-related services or Recognition and measurement Investments are activities.
This subsidiary has been consolidated with recognised and fide-recognised on a date where the the Company to form the Group.
purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require the delivery or settlement of the ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the investment.
The Group manages its investments with a Group has significant influence, but not control, over view to profiting from the receipt of investment income the financial and operating policies.
Investments that and obtaining capital appreciation from changes in are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio the fair value of investments.
Therefore, all quoted are carried in the balance sheet at fair value even investments and unquoted investments are measured as though the Group may have significant influence over at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition those entities.
and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair iii Joint ventures Interests in joint ventures that value.
All investments are initially recognised at the fair are held as part of the Groups investment value of the consideration given and are subsequently portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair measured at fair value, applying the Groups valuation value.
Thistreatment is permitted by IFRS 11 and policy.
Acquisition related costs are accounted for as IAS 28, which allows interests held by venture expenses when incurred.
capital organisations where those investments Net gains or losses on the revaluation of investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair are the movement in the fair value of investments value through profit or loss and accounted for in between the start and end of the accounting period, or accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value investment disposal date, or the investment acquisition recognised in the statement of comprehensive date and the end of the accounting period, converted income in the year.
into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the end of the period: and are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Income Investment income is that portion of income that is directly related to the return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be an economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
90 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance and accounts The following specific recognition criteria must be met E Treasury assets and liabilities before the income is recognised: Short-term treasury assets and short and long-term treasury liabilities are used to manage cash flows and dividends from equity investments are recognised the overall costs of borrowing.
Financial assets and in the statement of comprehensive income when liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the the Companys rights to receive payment have been relevant Group entity becomes a party to the contractual established: provisions of the instrument.
interest income from loans that are measured at fair value through profit or loss is recognised as it accrues i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash by reference to the principal outstanding and the equivalents in the balance sheet and cash flow statement effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate comprise cash at bank, short-term deposits with an that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows original maturity of three months or less and AAA rated through the expected life of the financial asset to money market funds.
Interest receivable on cash and the assets carrying value or principal amount.
The cash equivalents is recognised on an accruals basis.
remaining changes in the fair value movement of the ii Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings Loans and loans are recognised separately in the line Net gains borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of on investments at fair value through profit or loss in the the consideration received, net of issue costs associated consolidated statement of comprehensive income: with the borrowings.
Where issue costs are incurred distributions from investments in Limited Partnerships in relation to arranging debt finance facilities these are recognised in the statement of comprehensive are capitalised and disclosed within Trade and other income when the Companys rights as a Limited receivables and amortised over the life of the loan.
After Partner to receive payment have been established: and initial recognition, loans and borrowings are subsequently fees receivable represent amounts earned from measured at amortised cost using the effective interest investee companies on completion of underlying method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the investment transactions and are recognised on an estimated future cash flows through the expected life of accruals basis once entitlement to the revenue has the liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into been established.
account any issue costs and any discount or premium onsettlement.
D Fees iii Other financial assets Other financial assets in the i Fees Fees payable represent fees incurred in the balance sheet comprise principally of restricted cash held process of acquiring an investment and are measured on deposit in third-party bank accounts.
In the prior year, on the accruals basis.
these were held on behalf of the Mersey Gateway Bridge and A9 primary PPP projects.
The Company retains the ii Advisory fee An annual advisory fee is payable right to replace any such cash deposits for a letter of to 3i plc based on the Gross Investment Value of credit of the equivalent amount.
The fee is payable quarterly in advance and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
Further iv Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial explanations are provided in Note 18. instruments are used to manage the risk associated with foreign currency fluctuations in the valuation of the iii Performance fee 3i plc is entitled to a performance investment portfolio and changes in interest rates on fee based on the Adjusted Total Return per ordinary borrowings held by Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. an share generated in the period in excess of a unconsolidated subsidiary.
This is achieved by the use performance hurdle subject to a high watermark of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate requirement being exceeded.
Such instruments are used for the sole purpose annually in arrears and is accrued in the period it of efficient portfolio management.
All derivative financial is incurred.
Further explanations are provided in instruments are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially iv Finance costs Finance costs associated with loans at fair value on the contract date and subsequently and borrowings are recognised on an accruals basis re-measured to the fair value at each reporting date.
using the effective interest method.
All changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
The maturity profile of derivative contracts is measured relative to the financial contract settlement date of each contract and the derivative contracts are disclosed in the financial statements as either current or non-current accordingly.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 91 Governance and accounts S ignificant accounting policies continued iii Dividends payable Dividends on ordinary shares are F Other assets recognised as a deduction from retained reserves in Assets, other than those specifically accounted for the period in which the Companys obligation to make under a separate policy, are stated at their consideration the dividend payment arises.
Such assets are short term in nature and the carrying value of these assets I Tax is considered to be approximate to their fair value.
Tax represents the sum of the tax currently payable, All assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
charged or credited in the statement of comprehensive If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable income except to the extent that it relates to an amount amount is estimated based on expected discounted recognised in the statement of changes in equity when it future cash flows.
Any change in levels of impairment is is recognised directly in this statement.
recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
An impairment loss is reversed at subsequent The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit financial reporting dates to the extent that the assets for the period.
This may differ from the profit included carrying amount does not exceed its carrying value, had in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income no impairment been recognised.
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further G Other liabilities excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Liabilities, other than those specifically accounted for Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax under a separate policy, are stated based on the amounts rates and laws for each relevant tax jurisdiction in which which are considered to be payable in respect of goods the Company and its consolidated subsidiary operate or services received up to the financial reporting date.
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Such liabilities are short term in nature, the carrying value financial reporting date.
of these liabilities is considered to be approximate to Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or their fair value.
recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial H Equity and reserves statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the i Share capital Share capital issued by the Company computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using is recognised at the fair value of proceeds received the balance sheet liability method.
and is credited to the stated capital account.
Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from the fair value of the proceeds received.
ii Equity and reserves The stated capital account of the Company represents the cumulative proceeds recognised from share issues or new equity issued on the conversion of warrants made by the Company net of issue costs and reduced by any amount that has been transferred to retained reserves, in accordance with Jersey Company Law, in previous years.
Share capital is treated as an equity instrument, on the basis that no contractual obligation exists for the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets to the holder of the instrument.
The retained reserve incorporates the cumulative retained profits of the Company after the payment of dividends plus any amount that has been transferred from the stated capital account oftheCompany.
92 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018
