Governance and accounts Portfolio valuation methodology A description of the methodology used to value Unquoted investments the investment portfolio of 3i Infrastructure and its Unquoted investments are valued using one of the consolidated subsidiary the Group is set out below following methodologies: in order to provide more detailed information than Discounted Cash Flow DCF is included within the accounting policies and the Investment Advisers review for the valuation of the Proportionate share of net assets portfolio.
The methodology complies in all material Sales basis aspects with the International Private Equity and Venture Cost less any fair value adjustments required Capital valuation guidelines which are endorsed by the British Private Equity and Venture Capital Association and DCF Invest Europe.
DCF is the primary basis for valuation.
In using the DCF basis, fair value is estimated by deriving the present Basis of valuation valueof the investment using reasonable assumptions Investments are reported at the Directors estimate and estimation of expected future cash flows, including of fair value at the reporting date in compliance with contracted and uncontracted revenues, expenses, capital IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Fair value is defined as expenditure, financing and taxation, and the terminal the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid value and date, and the appropriate risk-adjusted to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between discount rate that quantifies the risk inherent to the market participants at the measurement date.
The terminal value attributes a residual value to the investee company at the end of the projected General discrete cash flow period.
The discount rate will be In estimating fair value, the Directors seek to use a estimated for each investment derived from the market methodology that is appropriate in light of the nature, risk-free rate, a risk-adjusted premium and information facts and circumstances of the investment and its specific to the investment or market sector.
materiality in the context of the overall portfolio.
The methodology that is the most appropriate may Proportionate share of net assets consequently include adjustments based on informed Where the Group has made investments into other and experience-based judgements, and will also infrastructure funds, the value of the investment will consider the nature of the industry and market practice.
be derived from the Groups share of net assets of Methodologies are applied consistently from period to the fund based on the most recent reliable financial period except where a change would result in a better information available from the fund.
Where the estimation of fair value.
Given the uncertainties inherent underlying investments within a fund are valued on a in estimating fair value, a degree of caution is applied in DCF basis, thediscount rate applied may be adjusted exercising judgements and making necessary estimates.
by the Company to reflect its assessment of the most Investments may include portfolio assets and other net appropriate discount rate for the nature of assets held assets liabilities balances.
The methodology for valuing in the fund.
In measuring the fair value, the net asset portfolio assets is set out below.
Any net assets liabilities value of the fund is adjusted, as necessary, to reflect within intermediate holding companies are valued in line restrictions on redemptions, future commitments, with the Group accounting policy and held at fair value or illiquid nature of the investments and other specific approximate to fair value.
Quoted investments Sales basis Quoted equity investments are valued at the closing The expected sale proceeds will be used to assign bid price at the reporting date.
In accordance with a fair value to an asset in cases where offers have International Financial Reporting Standards, no discount been received as part of an investment sales process.
is applied for liquidity of the stock or any dealing Thismay either support the value derived from another restrictions.
Quoted debt investments will be valued methodology or may be used as the primary valuation using quoted prices provided by third-party broker basis.
A marketability discount is applied to the expected information where reliable or will be held at cost less sale proceeds to derive the valuation where appropriate.
Cost less fair value adjustment Any investment in a company that has failed or, in the view of the Board, is expected to fail within the next 12 months, has the equity shares valued at nil and the fixed income shares and loan instruments valued at the lower of cost and net recoverable amount.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 109
