888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General information Company description and activities 888 Holdings Public Limited Company the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group was founded in 1997 in the British Virgin Islands and since 17 December 2003 has been domiciled in Gibraltar Company number 90099.
On 4 October 2005, the Company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group is the owner of innovative proprietary software solutions providing a range of virtual online gaming services over the internet, including Casino and games, Poker, Sport, Bingo, social games, and brand licensing revenue on third-party platforms.
These services are provided to end users B2C and to business partners through its business to business unit, Dragonfish B2B.
In addition, the Group provides payment services, customer support and online advertising.
Definitions In these financial statements: The Company 888 Holdings Public Limited Company.
The Group 888 Holdings Public Limited Company and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries Companies over which the Company has control as defined in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and whose accounts are consolidated with those of the Company.
Related parties As defined in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Joint ventures and associates As defined in IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
2 Significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are as follows: 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, including International Accounting Standards IAS and Interpretations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, endorsed for use by companies listed on an EU regulated market.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for equity investments which have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars because that is the currency in which the Group primarily operates.
All values are rounded to the closest million except when otherwise indicated.
The consolidated financial statements comply with the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014.
The significant accounting policies applied in the consolidated financial statements in the prior year have been applied consistently in these consolidated financial statements, with the exception of the amendments to accounting standards effective for the annual periods beginning on 1 January 2018.
These are described in more detail on the next following pages.
2.2 New standards, interpretations and amendments adopted by the Group The following interpretation and amendments to International Financial Reporting Standards, issued by the IASB and adopted by the EU, were effective from 1 January 2018 and have been adopted by the Group during the year with no significant impact on the parent company or on the consolidated results or financial position: Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions.
IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration.
Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016 Cycle: Clarification in IAS 28 that measuring investees at fair value through profit or loss is an  choice.
94 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued 2.2 New standards, interpretations and amendments adopted by the Group continued The Group had applied, for the first time, IFRS 9 - Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers, that require restatement of previous financial statements.
IFRS 9 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, bringing together all three aspects of the accounting for financial instruments: classification and measurement: impairment: and hedge accounting.
The Group has applied IFRS 9 retrospectively with no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
a Classification and measurement The Groups income earned from Casino, Bingo and Sports falls within the scope of IFRS 9, which did not result in material impact on accounting or presentation of this income.
There were no changes in classification and measurement of other financial assets and liabilities.
b Impairment The adoption of IFRS 9 has fundamentally changed the Groups accounting for impairment losses for financial assets by replacing IAS 39s incurred loss approach with a forward looking expected credit loss ECL.
IFRS 9 application did not result in material changes to Groups financial statements.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost and principally comprise amounts due from credit card companies and from ePayment companies.
The Group has applied the standards simplified approach and has calculated the ECLs based on lifetime of expected credit losses.
This did not result in material changes to Groups financial statements.
Bad debts are written off when there is objective evidence that the full amount may not be collected.
Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI Under IFRS 9 equity investments are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI without subsequent recycling to income statement.
Equity instruments at FVOCI are not subject to an impairment assessment under IFRS 9.
Under IAS 39, these were classified as available for sale financial assets.
The impact is not material.
Financial liabilities The accounting for Groups financial liabilities remains largely the same as it was under IAS 39.
IFRS 15 supersedes IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue and related Interpretations and it applies to all revenue arising from contracts with customers, unless those contracts are in the scope of other standards.
The new standard establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
The standard requires entities to exercise judgement, taking into consideration all of the relevant facts and circumstances when applying each step of the model to contracts with their customers.
The standard also specifies the accounting for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract and the costs directly related to fulfilling a contract.
The Group adopted IFRS 15 using the full retrospective method of adoption with no material impact on the financial statements of the Group: a Casino, Bingo and Sports The Groups income earned from Casino, Bingo and Sports does not fall within the scope of IFRS 15.
Income from these online activities is disclosed as revenue although these are accounted for and meet the definition of a gain under IFRS 9.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 95 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued 2.2 New standards, interpretations and amendments adopted by the Group continued b Poker and B2B revenue Poker revenue represents commission charged from each poker hand in ring games and entry fees for participation in Poker tournaments less the fair value of certain promotional bonuses and the value of loyalty points accrued.
In Poker tournaments certain promotional costs are accounted for, and entry fee revenue is recognised when the tournament has concluded.
IFRS 15 adoption did not have impact on Groups Poker revenue.
Revenue from B2B is mainly comprised of services provided to business partners and brand licensing on third-party platforms.
IFRS 15 adoption did not have an impact on Groups B2B revenue recognition policy including assessment whether the Group is acting as principal or agent in the relevant contracts.
The Group applies judgement in determining whether it is acting as a principal or an agent where it provides services to business partners through its business to business unit.
In making these judgements the Group considers, by examining each contract with its business partners, identifying the specified services and determine which party controls such services before they are transferred to the customer.
If control assessment is not clear, the Group considers the principal indicators such as which party has the primary responsibility for providing the services and is exposed to the majority of the risks and rewards associated with providing the services, as well as if it has latitude in establishing prices, either directly or indirectly.
c Presentation and disclosure requirements The Group disclosed disaggregated revenue recognised from contracts with customers and revenue from other online activities in note 3 Segment Information.
2.3 New standards that have not been adopted by the Group as they were not effective for the year The new standard applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group has not early adopted IFRS 16.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 and it replaces IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC-15 Operating Leases-Incentives and SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
IFRS 16 Leases requires lessees to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases.
A contract is or contains a lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost and depreciated by the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term.
The cost of right-of-use assets comprises of initial measurement of the lease liability, any lease payments made before or at the commencement date and initial direct costs.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date and subsequently measured at amortised cost with the interest expense recognised within finance income expense in the consolidated statement of income.
In accordance with the transition provisions in IFRS 16, the Group is entitled to choose to apply the modified retrospective approach.
Under this approach, a lessee does not restate comparative information and recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying IFRS 16 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings at the date of initial application.
During 2018, the Group has performed a detailed impact assessment of IFRS 16.
In summary the impact of IFRS 16 adoption is expected to be as follows: Impact on the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018: US$ million Assets Property, plant and equipment right-of-use assets 27.2 Liabilities Current Lease liabilities 5.1 Non-current Lease liabilities 22.1 Net impact on equity Expected impact on the statement of profit or loss for 2019: US$ million Depreciation expense 5.2 Operating lease expense 5.9 Operating profit 0.7 Finance costs 0.9 Profit for the year 0.2 Following the adoption of IFRS 16, the Groups operating profit will improve, while its interest expense will increase.
This is due to the change in the accounting for expenses of leases that were classified as operating leases under IAS 17.
96 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued 2.3 New standards that have not been adopted by the Group as they were not effective for the year continued The following relevant interpretations and amendments to existing standards issued by the IASB, have not been adopted by the Group as they were either not effective for the year or not yet endorsed for use in the EU.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of these interpretations and amendments will have on the presentation of, and recognition in, parent company or consolidated results or financial position in future periods: Amendments to IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle issued on 12 December 2017 effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Amendments to IAS 19: Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the EU requires the Group to make estimates and judgements that affect the application of policies and reported amounts.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Included in this note are accounting policies which cover areas that the Directors consider require estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the future.
These policies together with references to the related notes to the financial statements, which include further commentary on the nature of the estimates and judgements made, can be found below: Critical judgements Revenue The Group applies judgement in determining whether it is acting as a principal or an agent where it provides services to business partners through its business to business unit.
In making these judgements the Group considers, by examining each contract with its business partners, which party has the primary responsibility for providing the services and is exposed to the majority of the risks and rewards associated with providing the services, as well as if it has latitude in establishing prices, either directly or indirectly.
This is described in further detail in the revenue accounting policy set out below.
Internally generated intangible assets Costs relating to internally generated intangible assets, are capitalised if the criteria for recognition as assets are met.
The initial capitalisation of costs is based on managements judgment that technological and economic feasibility criteria are met.
In making this judgement, management considers the progress made in each development project and its latest forecasts for each project.
Other expenditure is charged to the consolidated income statement in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
For further information see note 12.
Key accounting estimates The Groups response to Brexit is shown on risk management strategy report.
Given the level of uncertainty which still remains in relation to the nature of Brexit and how it might apply to online gambling companies its effect on the carrying values of assets and liabilities cannot be quantified.
Brexit has been considered when assessing other key accounting estimates.
Taxation Due to the international nature of the Group and the complexity of tax legislation in the jurisdictions in which it operates, the Group applies judgement in estimating the likely outcome of tax matters and the resultant provision for income taxes.
The Group believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are appropriate.
For further information see note 8.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Provisions, contingent liabilities and regulatory matters The Group makes a number of estimates in respect of the accounting for and disclosure of expenses and contingent liabilities for regulatory matters, including gaming duties.
These are described in further detail in note 27.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 97 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued 2.3 New standards that have not been adopted by the Group as they were not effective for the year continued Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The subsidiaries are companies controlled by 888 Holdings Public Limited Company.
Control exists where the Company has power over an entity: exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with an entity: and the ability to use its power over an entity to affect the amount of its returns.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date the Parent gained control until such time as control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements using the purchase method of accounting.
On the date of the acquisition, the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values and any excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the Parent Company and using consistent accounting policies.
Revenue Revenue is recognised provided that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is recognised in the accounting periods in which the transactions occurred after deduction of certain promotional bonuses granted to customers and VAT, and after adding the fees and charges applied to customer accounts, and is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
Revenue consists of income from online activities and income generated from foreign exchange commissions on customer deposit and withdrawals and account fees, which is allocated to each reporting segment.
Revenue from online activities comprises: Casino and Bingo IFRS 9 Casino and Bingo online gaming revenue is represented by the difference between the amounts of bets placed by customers less amounts won, adjusted for the fair value of certain promotional bonuses granted to customers and the value of loyalty points accrued.
Social games revenue represents the Groups share from the sale of virtual goods to customers playing the Groups games.
Sport IFRS 9 Sport online gaming revenue comprises bets placed less payouts to customers, adjusted for the fair value of open betting positions.
Poker IFRS 15 Poker online gaming revenue represents the commission charged from each poker hand in ring games and entry fees for participation in Poker tournaments less the fair value of certain promotional bonuses and the value of loyalty points accrued.
B2B IFRS 15 Revenue from B2B is mainly comprised of services provided to business partners and brand licensing on third-party platforms.
For services provided to business partners through its B2B unit, the Group considers whether for each customer it is acting as a principal or as an agent by considering which party has the primary responsibility for providing the services and is exposed to the majority of the risks and rewards associated with providing the services, as well as if it has latitude in establishing prices, either directly or indirectly: Where the Group is considered to be the principal, income is recognised as the gross revenue generated from use of the Groups platform in online gaming activities with the partners share of the revenue charged to marketing expenses.
In other cases income is recognised as the Group share of the net revenue generated from use of the Groups platform.
B2B also includes fees from the provision of certain gaming related services to partners.
Customer advances received are treated as deferred income within current liabilities and released as they are earned.
Revenue derived from brand licensing on third-party platforms represents the Groups net revenue share from that activity.
98 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued 2.3 New standards that have not been adopted by the Group as they were not effective for the year continued Operating expenses Operating expenses consists primarily of staff costs, payment service providers' commissions, chargebacks, commission and royalties payable to third parties, all of which are recognised on an accruals basis, and depreciation and amortisation.
Administrative expenses Administrative expenses consist primarily of staff costs and corporate professional expenses, both of which are recognised on an accruals basis.
Exceptional items and adjusted performance measures The Group classifies and presents certain items of income and expense as exceptional items.
The Group presents adjusted performance measures which differ from statutory measures due to exclusion of exceptional items and certain non-cash items as the Group considers that it allows a further understanding of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
These measures are described as adjusted and are used by management to measure and monitor the Groups underlying financial performance.
Non-cash items that are excluded from adjusted performance measures of underlying financial performance include share benefit charge and share of post-tax loss of equity accounted joint ventures and associates.
The Group also seeks to present a measure of underlying performance which is not impacted by exceptional items.
The Group considers any non-recurring items of income and expense for classification as exceptional by virtue of their nature and size.
The items classified as exceptional and are excluded from the adjusted measures are described in further detail in note 5.
Foreign currency Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the relevant company are translated into that functional currency using year-end spot foreign exchange rates.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange rate differences on foreign currency transactions are included in financial income or financial expenses in the consolidated income statement, as appropriate.
The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from US$ are translated into the presentation currency at foreign exchange rates as set out below.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as a component of other comprehensive income.
i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: and ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at an average exchange rate unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
Taxation The tax expense represents tax payable for the year based on currently applicable tax rates.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet differs from its tax base.
They are accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Recognition of deferred tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the difference can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liabilities assets are settled recovered.
Intangible assets Acquired intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately consist mainly of software licences and domain names and are capitalised at cost.
Those acquired as part of a business combination are recognised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably.
These intangible assets are amortised over the useful life of the assets, which for software licences is between one and five years and for domain names is five years.
Internally generated intangible assets Expenditure incurred on development activities of gaming platform is capitalised only when the expenditure will lead to new or substantially improved products or processes, the products or processes are technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
All other development expenditure is expensed.
Subsequent expenditure on intangible assets is capitalised only where it clearly increases the economic benefits to be derived from the asset to which it relates.
The Group estimates the useful life of these assets as between three and five years, except for certain licence costs which are amortised over either the life of the licence, or up to 20 years, whichever is the shorter period.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 99 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued 2.3 New standards that have not been adopted by the Group as they were not effective for the year continued Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration in a business combination over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Consideration comprises the fair value of any assets transferred, liabilities assumed and equity instruments issued.
Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying value being charged to the consolidated income statement and not subsequently reversed.
Where the fair values of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceed the fair value of consideration paid, the excess is credited in full to the consolidated income statement on the acquisition.
Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are charged or credited to the consolidated income statement.
In addition, the direct costs of acquisition are charged immediately to the consolidated income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Assets are assessed at each balance sheet date for indicators of impairment.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method, at annual rates estimated to write off the cost of the assets less their estimated residual values over their expected useful lives.
The annual depreciation rates are as follows: IT equipment 33% Office furniture and equipment 7-15% Motor vehicles 15% Leasehold improvements Over the shorter of the term of the lease or useful lives Impairment of non-financial assets Impairment tests on goodwill are undertaken annually and where applicable an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Other non-financial assets are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount being the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, the asset is written down accordingly through the consolidated income statement.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is carried out on the asset's cash generating unit i. e. the smallest group of assets to which the asset belongs for which there are separately identifiable and largely independent cash inflows.
Investment in equity accounted joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are those entities over whose relevant activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions.
Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term interest and is able to exercise significant influence over the financial and operational policies but does not have control or joint control over those policies.
Joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method and are recognised initially at cost.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profits and losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement, except that losses in excess of the Groups investment in the joint ventures and associates are not recognised unless there is an obligation to make good those losses.
Profits and losses arising on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures or associates are recognised only to the extent of unrelated investors interests in the joint ventures and associates.
The investors share in the profits and losses of the investment resulting from these transactions is eliminated against the carrying value of the investment.
Any premium paid above the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is capitalised and included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Where there is objective evidence that the investment has been impaired the carrying amount of the investment is tested for impairment in the same way as other non-financial assets, and any charge or reversal of previous impairments is taken to the consolidated income statement.
Where amounts paid for an investment in joint venture and associates are in excess of the Groups share of the fair value of net assets acquired, the excess is recognised as negative goodwill and released to the consolidated income statement immediately.
The Groups share of additional equity contributions from other joint venture partners is taken to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
100 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued 2.3 New standards that have not been adopted by the Group as they were not effective for the year continued Business combination achieved in stages Business combination achieved in stages refers to transactions which the Group obtains control in entities which it held an equity interest immediately before the acquisition date.
The Group remeasure its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value and recognise the resulting gain or loss, if any, in the income statement.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost and principally comprise amounts due from credit card companies and from e-payment companies.
Fair value measurement The Group measures certain financial instruments, including derivatives and equity investments, at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value related disclosures are included in notes 25 and 26.
Fair value is the price that would be received or paid in an orderly transaction between market participants at a particular date, either in the principal market for the asset or liability or, in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for that asset or liability accessible to the Group.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
The fair value measurement hierarchy is based on the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value.
The inputs are categorised into three levels, with the highest level level 1 given to inputs for which there are unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest level level 3 given to unobservable inputs.
Level 2 inputs are directly or indirectly observable inputs other than quoted prices.
Derivative financial instruments From time to time the Group enters into contracts for derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts to hedge operational risks associated with foreign exchange rates.
Such derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value and are carried in the consolidated balance sheet as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values of derivatives are recorded immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and balances with banks.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
They include short-term deposits originally purchased with maturities of three months or less.
Equity Equity issued by the Company is recorded as the proceeds received from the issue of shares, net of direct issue costs.
Treasury shares Own equity instruments that are reacquired treasury shares are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Any difference between the carrying amount and the consideration, if reissued, is recognised in the share premium account.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Liabilities to customers Liabilities to customers comprise the amounts that are credited to customers' bankroll the Group's electronic wallet, including provision for bonuses granted by the Group, less fees and charges applied to customer accounts, along with full progressive provision for jackpots.
These amounts are repayable in accordance with the applicable terms and conditions.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 101 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued 2.3 New standards that have not been adopted by the Group as they were not effective for the year continued Leases Leases are classified as finance leases wherever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and rentals payable are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present or constructive obligation as a result of a past event from which it is probable that it will result in an outflow of economic benefits that can be reasonably estimated.
Dividends Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
In the case of interim dividends to equity shareholders, this is when declared by the Board of Directors and paid.
In the case of final dividends, this is when approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Equity-settled Share benefit charges Where the Company grants its employees or contractors shares or options, the cost of those awards, recognised in the consolidated income statement over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity, is measured with reference to the fair value at the date of grant.
Market performance conditions are taken into account in determining the fair value at the date of grant.
Non-market performance conditions, including service conditions, are taken into account by adjusting the number of instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the vesting period is based on the number of instruments that eventually vest.
Severance pay schemes The Group operates two severance pay schemes: Defined benefit severance pay scheme The Group operates a defined benefit severance pay scheme pursuant to the Severance Pay Law in Israel.
Under this scheme Group employees are entitled to severance pay upon redundancy or retirement.
The liability for termination of employment is measured using the projected unit credit method.
Severance pay scheme surpluses and deficits are measured as: the fair value of plan assets at the reporting date: less plan liabilities calculated using the projected unit credit method, discounted to its present value using yields available for the appropriate government bonds that have maturity dates appropriate to the terms of the liabilities.
Remeasurements of the net severance pay scheme assets and liabilities, including actuarial gains and losses on the scheme liabilities due to changes in assumptions or experience within the scheme and any differences between the interest income and the actual return on assets, are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Defined contribution severance pay scheme In 2017 the Group introduced defined contribution plan pursuant to section 14 to the Severance Pay Law.
Under this scheme the Group pays fixed monthly contributions.
Payments to defined contribution plans are charged as an expense as they fall due.
102 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 3 Segment information Segmental results are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the management team comprising mainly the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The operating segments identified are: B2C Business to Customer : including Casino and games, Poker, Sport, Bingo: and B2B Business to Business : offering Total Gaming Services under the Dragonfish trading brand.
"Dragonfish offers to its business partners use of technology, software, operations, E-payments and advanced marketing services, through the provision of offline online marketing, management of affiliates, search engine optimisation ""SEO"", customer relationship management ""CRM"" and business analytics."
There has been no aggregation of these two operating segments for reporting purposes.
The management team continues to assess the performance of operating segments based on revenue and segment profit, being revenue net of chargebacks, payment service providers' commissions, gaming duties, royalties payable to third parties, selling and marketing expenses.
B2C B2B Consolidated Casino Poker Sport Bingo Total B2C 2018 US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million 1 Segment revenue before VAT accrual 317.6 49.0 80.3 32.4 479.3 50.6 529.9 VAT accrual release 10.7 10.7 Segment revenue 490.0 50.6 540.6 2 Segment result 218.7 25.4 244.1 3 Unallocated corporate expenses 155.5 Exceptional items 11.1 Operating profit 99.7 Finance income 0.6 Finance expenses 0.7 Gain from remeasurement of previously held equity interest in joint ventures 9.3 Share of post-tax loss of equity accounted joint ventures and associates 0.2 Taxation 13.9 Profit after tax for the year 94.8 4 Adjusted profit after tax for the year 72.8 Assets Unallocated corporate assets 380.6 Total assets 380.6 Liabilities Segment liabilities 55.5 1.6 57.1 Unallocated corporate liabilities 163.2 Total liabilities 220.3 1 Revenue recognised in accordance with IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
2 Revenue net of chargebacks, payment service providers' commissions, gaming duties, royalties payable to third parties and selling and marketing expenses.
3 Including staff costs, corporate professional expenses, other administrative expenses, depreciation, amortisation and share benefit charges.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 103 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 3 Segment information continued B2C B2B Consolidated Casino Poker Sport Bingo Total B2C 2017 US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million Segment revenue 293.9 77.9 75.5 39.3 486.6 55.2 541.8 1 Segment result 213.7 22.3 236.0 2 Unallocated corporate expenses 163.1 Exceptional items 50.8 Operating profit 22.1 Finance income 0.6 Finance expenses 3.7 Share of post-tax loss of equity accounted joint ventures and associates 0.2 Taxation 6.2 Profit after tax for the year 12.6 3 Adjusted profit after tax for the year 72.1 Assets Unallocated corporate assets Total assets 396.2 Liabilities Segment liabilities 67.1 4.6 71.7 Unallocated corporate liabilities 211.3 Total liabilities 283.0 1 Revenue net of chargebacks, payment service providers' commissions, gaming duties, royalties payable to third parties and selling and marketing expenses.
2 Including staff costs, corporate professional expenses, other administrative expenses, depreciation, amortisation and share benefit charges.
Other than where amounts are allocated specifically to the B2C and B2B segments above, the expenses, assets and liabilities relate jointly to all segments.
These amounts are not discretely analysed between the two operating segments as any allocation would be arbitrary.
Geographical information The Group's performance can also be reviewed by considering the geographical markets and geographical locations within which the Group operates.
This information is outlined below: Revenue by geographical market based on location of customer 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million 1 EMEA excluding the UK and Spain 228.9 213.6 UK 170.6 203.1 Spain 68.0 63.1 Americas 48.1 46.2 Rest of world 14.3 15.8 Revenue before VAT accrual release 529.9 541.8 VAT accrual release 10.7 Total revenue 540.6 541.8 1 During the period the Group identified that the Europe Other Geographical segment used in 2017 financial statements should in fact be referred to as Europe, the Middle East and Africa EMEA.
Non-European revenue included in the segment during 2018 amount to US$45.7 million 2017: US$35.3 million.
104 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 3 Segment information continued Non-current assets by geographical location Carrying amount of non-current assets by location 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Gibraltar 135.6 138.8 Rest of world 77.6 32.1 1 Total non-current assets by geographical location 213.2 170.9 1 Excludes deferred tax assets of US$1.4 million 2017: US$1.5 million.
4 Operating profit 2018 2017 Note US$ million US$ million Operating profit is stated after charging: Staff costs including Executive Directors 6 95.7 104.2 Gaming duties 69.9 75.2 Selling and marketing expenses 155.0 162.5 Exceptional items 5 11.1 50.8 Fees payable to EY Limited, Ernst & Young LLP and its affiliates: Statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements 0.7 0.4 Other assurance services 0.1 Depreciation within operating expenses 13 5.3 5.7 Amortisation within operating expenses 12 15.0 13.6 Chargebacks 2.8 2.7 Payment of service providers commissions 23.2 23.4 5 Exceptional items The Group classifies certain items of income and expense as exceptional, as the Group considers that it allows for a further understanding of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Historical VAT 22.4 45.3 Provision regulatory matters 10.4 Exceptional legal and professional costs 0.9 UKGC payments in lieu of a fine 5.5 1 Total exceptional items 11.1 50.8 1 Tax effect of the exceptional items is US$0.3 million credit 2017: US$1.3 million tax charge.
Historical VAT During 2017, the Group recorded a provision for exceptional items of US$45.3 million in respect of historical value added tax relating to the provision of gaming services in Germany prior to 2015.
During 2018, following receipt of tax assessments from the Tax Authorities in Germany, the Group paid US$24.6 million on account of this provision and released US$22.4 million of the provision as described in note 19 below.
Provision regulatory matters During the year, the Group recorded a provision of US$10.4 million 2017: nil in respect of regulatory matters related to legacy customers activity in prior periods.
This amount represents managements best estimate of probable cash outflows related to these matters, which are closely monitored by the Group.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 105 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 5 Exceptional items continued Exceptional legal and professional costs During the year, the Group incurred legal and professional costs of US$0.9 million 2017: nil associated with M&A activity.
UKGC payments in lieu of a fine During 2017 the UK Gambling Commission UKGC conducted a review of the manner in which the Group has carried on its licensed activities in the United Kingdom.
The Group worked cooperatively with the UKGC throughout its review and took actions to address the concerns raised therein and entered into a voluntary regulatory settlement involving a payment in lieu of fine of US$5.5 million.
In respect of this settlement, the Group recorded exceptional items in 2017 consolidated income statement of US$5.5 million.
The payment was made on 26 October 2017.
6 Employee benefits Staff costs, including Executive Directors' remuneration, comprises the following elements: 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Wages and salaries 94.6 98.5 Social security 4.9 5.5 Employee benefits and severance pay scheme costs 8.0 9.1 107.5 113.1 Staff costs capitalised in respect of internally generated intangible assets 11.8 8.9 95.7 104.2 In the consolidated income statement total staff costs, excluding share benefit charges of US$8.9 million 2017: US$8.5 million, are included within the following expenditure categories: 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Operating expenses 51.9 56.3 Research and development expenses 25.6 29.1 Administrative expenses 18.2 18.8 95.7 104.2 The average number of employees by category was as follows: 2018 2017 Number Number Operations 805 838 Research and development 388 383 Administration 127 129 1,320 1,350 At 31 December 2018 the Group employed 1,364 2017: 1,310 staff.
At 31 December 2018 the Group used the services of 210 chat moderators 2017: 229 and 82 contractors 2017: 61.
106 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 6 Employee benefits continued Severance pay scheme Israel The Group has defined contribution plan pursuant to section 14 to the Severance Pay Law under which the Group pays fixed contributions and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient amounts to pay all employee benefits relating to employee service at the date of their departure.
The Group recognised an expense in respect of contribution to the defined contribution plan during the year of US$0.8 million 2017: US$0.3 million.
The Group's employees in Israel, which are not subject to section 14 to the Severance Pay Law, are eligible to receive certain benefits from the Group in specific circumstances on leaving the Group.
As such the Group operates a defined benefit severance pay plan which requires contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
The funds are held by an independent third-party company.
The current service cost and the present value of the defined benefit obligation are measured using the projected unit credit method.
Under this schedule, the Company contributes on a monthly basis at the rate of 8.3% per cent of the aggregate of members salaries.
The disclosures set out below are based on calculations carried out as at 31 December 2018 by a qualified independent actuary.
The following table summarises the employee benefits figures as included in the consolidated financial statements: 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Included in the balance sheet: Severance pay scheme liability within trade and other payables 2.2 3.3 Included in the income statement: Current service costs within operating expenses 1.6 2.0 Current service costs within research and development 1.5 1.8 Current service costs within administrative expenses 0.7 0.8 Included in the statement of comprehensive income: Remeasurement of severance pay scheme liability 1.1 1.4 Movement in severance pay scheme liability: 2018 2017 Severance pay scheme assets US$ million US$ million At beginning of year 22.5 18.8 Interest income 0.8 0.9 Contributions by the Group 3.6 4.3 Benefits paid 3.2 3.8 Return on assets less interest income already recorded 0.2 0.2 Exchange differences 1.6 2.1 At end of year 21.9 22.5 2018 2017 Severance pay plan liabilities US$ million US$ million At beginning of year 25.8 20.4 Interest expense 0.9 0.9 Current service costs 3.8 4.6 Benefits paid 3.2 3.9 Actuarial gain on past experience 0.2 0.3 Actuarial loss on changes in financial assumptions 1.2 1.2 Exchange differences 1.8 2.3 At end of year 24.1 25.8 As at 31 December 2018 the net accounting deficit of the defined benefit severance pay plan was US$2.2 million 2017: US$3.3 million.
The Scheme is backed by substantial assets amounting to US$21.9 million at 31 December 2018 2017: US$22.5 million.
The net accounting deficit of defined benefit severance plan is a result of two elements: Potential liability to pay further contributions to employees who will be made redundant, if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all benefits relating to employee service at the date of their departure.
Volatility of Israeli government bond rates may have substantial impact in absolute terms on the net liability.
A decrease in the discount rate by 0.25% per annum i. e. 4.46% to 4.21% would increase the plan liabilities by US$0.5 million 2017: US$0.6 million.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 107 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 6 Employee benefits continued Severance pay scheme Israel continued The impact of the severance deficit on the level of distributable reserves is monitored on an on-going basis.
Monitoring enables planning for any potential adverse volatility and helps the Group to assess the likely impact on distributable reserves.
Employees can determine individually into which type of investment their share of the plan assets are invested and, therefore the Group is unable to accurately disclose the proportions of the plan assets invested in each class of asset.
The expected contribution for 2019 is US$3.8 million.
The main actuarial assumptions used in determining the fair value of the Group's severance pay plan are shown below: 2018 2017 % % Discount rate nominal 4.46 3.87 Estimated increase in employee benefits costs 5.14 5.14 Voluntary termination rate 75 75 Inflation rates based on Israeli bonds 1.52 1.55 Sensitivity of balance sheet at 31 December 2018 The results of the calculations are sensitive to the assumptions used.
The balance sheet position revealed by IAS 19 calculations must be expected to be volatile, principally because the market value of assets with significant exposure to equities is being compared with a liability assessment derived from corporate bond yields.
The table below shows the sensitivity of the IAS 19 balance sheet position to small changes in some of the assumptions.
Where one assumption has been changed all the other assumptions are kept as disclosed above.
Resulted Change surplus from deficit disclosed US$ million US$ million Discount rate less 0.25% 2.7 0.5 Estimated increase in employee benefits costs plus 1% 3.9 1.7 Voluntary termination rate decrease 5% 2.3 0.1 Inflation rates up 0.25% 1.9 0.3 108 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 7 Finance income and finance expenses Finance income: 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Interest income 0.6 0.6 Finance income 0.6 0.6 Finance expenses: 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Foreign exchange losses 0.7 3.7 Finance expenses 0.7 3.7 8 Taxation Corporate taxes 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Current taxation Gibraltar taxation 2.2 0.2 Other jurisdictions taxation 11.9 8.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 0.1 13.9 8.4 Deferred taxation Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.2 Taxation expense 13.9 6.2 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 109 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 8 Taxation continued Corporate taxes continued The taxation expense for the year differs from the standard Gibraltar rate of tax.
The differences are explained below: 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Profit before taxation 108.7 18.8 Standard tax rate in Gibraltar 2018: 10%, 2017: 10% 10.9 1.9 Higher effective tax rate on other jurisdictions 4.1 0.8 Tax on dividend distribution from other jurisdictions 5.5 5.0 Deferred tax on intragroup transfer 1.9 Expenses not allowed for taxation 1.8 1.3 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 0.8 0.5 Non-taxable revaluation of equity interest 0.9 Non-taxable income 6.5 0.5 Adjustments to prior years tax charges 0.2 0.1 Total tax charge for the year 13.9 6.2 Current tax is calculated with reference to the profit of the Company and its subsidiaries in their respective countries of operation.
Set out below are details in respect of the significant jurisdictions where the Group operates and the factors that influenced the current and deferred taxation in those jurisdictions: Gibraltar Gibraltar companies are subject to a corporate tax rate of 10%.
Gibraltar corporate tax expenses for the year are significantly higher compared to 2017, as a result of higher profit before tax, partially derived from the release of provision for historical VAT recorded in 2017, as described in note 5.
Israel The domestic corporate tax rate in Israel in 2018 is 23% 2017: 24%.
The Company's Israeli subsidiary concluded an assessment agreement with respect to all tax years up to and including 2013 and entered into certain transfer pricing agreements with the Israeli Income Tax Commissioner as regards 2014-2015.
UK The Groups subsidiary in the UK is subject to a corporate tax rate of 19% 2017: 19.25%.
In addition to the previously enacted reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 19% from April 2017, the UK government announced and substantively enacted a further reduction to 17% from April 2020.
Romania The Groups subsidiary in Romania is subject to a corporate tax rate of 16% 2017: 16%.
US The Groups subsidiaries in US are subject to federal corporate tax rate of 21% 2017: 34%, and state New Jersey tax rate of 9% 2017: 9%.
Sensitivity analysis The key operating companies in the Group are incorporated, managed and controlled and tax resident in Gibraltar.
The Groups subsidiaries are located in different jurisdictions and these subsidiaries are taxed locally on their respective profits which are determined with reference to transfer pricing agreements.
Effective tax rate increased by 1% would result in an increase in the tax charge and associated provision of US$1.1 million 2017: US$0.2 million.
110 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of shares in issue and outstanding during the year during the year.
Diluted earnings per share The weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share takes into account all potentially dilutive equity instruments granted, which are not included in the number of shares for basic earnings per share.
Certain equity instruments have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS as their conditions of being issued were not deemed to satisfy the performance conditions at the end of the period or it will not be advantageous for holders to exercise them into shares, in the case of options.
The number of equity instruments included in the diluted EPS calculation consist of 5,759,968 Ordinary Shares 2017: 8,840,298 and 18,481 market-value options 2017: 49,353.
The number of equity instruments excluded from the diluted EPS calculation is 2,078,991 2017: 1,431,143.
"2018 2017 Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent US$ million 94.8 12.6 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue and oustanding 361,122,725 359,260,003 Effect of dilutive Ordinary Shares and Share options 5,778,449 8,889,651 Weighted average number of dilutive Ordinary Shares 366,901,174 368,149,654 Basic earnings per share 26.3 3.5 Diluted earnings per share 25.8 3.4 Adjusted earnings per share The Directors believe that EPS excluding VAT accrual release, exceptional items, share benefit charges, gain from remeasurement of previously held equity interest in joint ventures and share of posttax loss of equity accounted joint ventures and associates ""Adjusted EPS"" allows for a further understanding of the underlying performance of the business and assists in providing a clearer view of the performance of the Group."
"Reconciliation of profit to profit excluding exceptional items, share benefit charges, gain from remeasurement of previously held equity interest in joint ventures and share of post-tax loss of equity accounted joint ventures and associates ""Adjusted profit"" : 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent 94.8 12.6 VAT accrual release 10.7 Exceptional items see note 5 11.1 50.8 Share benefit charges see note 22 8.9 8.5 Gain from remeasurement of previously held equity interest in joint ventures 9.3 Share of post-tax loss of equity accounted associates see note 14 0.2 0.2 Adjusted profit 72.8 72.1 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 361,122,725 359,260,003 Weighted average number of dilutive Ordinary Shares 366,901,174 368,149,654 Adjusted basic earnings per share 20.2 20.1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 19.8 19.6 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 111 Corporate."
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 10 Dividends 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Dividends paid 56.6 70.5 An interim dividend of 4.2 per share was paid on 31 October 2018 US$15.2 million.
The Board of Directors will recommend to the shareholders a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 comprising 6.0 per share, and an additional one-off dividend of 2.0 per share, both of which will be recognised in the 2019 financial statements once approved.
In 2017 an interim dividend of 4.0 per share was paid on 11 October 2017 US$14.4 million and a final dividend of 5.9 per share plus an additional one-off 5.6 per share were paid on 11 May 2018 US$41.4 million.
11 Business combinations Acquisition of additional interest in AAPN Holdings LLC On 10 December 2018, the Group acquired an additional 53% interest in the voting shares of AAPN Holdings LLC AAPN, increasing its ownership interest to 100% for a cash consideration of US$28.5 million.
US$10.0 million was paid on the day of acquisition and additional US$18.5 million to be paid during the first quarter of 2019 included in other payables as at 31 December 2018, see note 19.
The acquisition represented an important strategic milestone that will facilitate the Groups future growth strategy in the US by giving 888 additional operational, technological and commercial flexibility to deliver on multiple potential growth opportunities.
The Group remeasured its previously held 47% equity interest in AAPN at its acquisition-date fair value and recognised US$9.3 million gain in the consolidated income statement.
The goodwill recognised of US$30.9 million represents the potential revenues from the US market as the states regulate online gambling.
No goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of AAPN as at the date of acquisition were: Fair value recognised on acquisition US$ million Assets Other intangible assets 9.9 Cash and cash equivalents 0.8 Trade and other receivables 0.3 Total assets 11.0 Liabilities Trade and other payables 1.8 Deferred tax liability 2.3 Total liabilities 4.1 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 6.9 Goodwill arising on acquisition 30.9 Purchase consideration transferred 28.5 Gain from remeasurement of previously held equity interest in joint ventures 9.3 Fair value of purchase consideration 37.8 Cash flow on acquisition US$ million Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 0.8 Cash paid 10.0 Net cash flow on acquisition 9.2 112 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 12 Goodwill and other intangible assets Internally Acquired generated intangible intangible Goodwill assets assets Total US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million Cost or valuation At 1 January 2017 146.1 18.8 69.4 234.3 Additions 3.6 11.2 14.8 Disposals 0.8 0.8 At 31 December 2017 146.1 21.6 80.6 248.3 Additions 2.7 12.0 14.7 Acquisition of a subsidiary AAPN buyout 30.9 9.9 40.8 At 31 December 2018 177.0 34.2 92.6 303.8 Amortisation and impairments: At 1 January 2017 20.7 14.4 40.6 75.7 Amortisation charge for the year 2.6 11.0 13.6 Disposals 0.8 0.8 At 31 December 2017 20.7 16.2 51.6 88.5 Amortisation charge for the year 3.2 11.8 15.0 At 31 December 2018 20.7 19.4 63.4 103.5 Carrying amounts At 31 December 2018 156.3 14.8 29.2 200.3 At 31 December 2017 125.4 5.4 29.0 159.8 At 1 January 2017 125.4 4.4 28.8 158.6 Following a review of fully written down assets, assets no longer in use with a total cost and accumulated depreciation of nil were written off in 2018 2017: US$0.8 million.
Acquisition during the year Fair Value of acquired intangible assets recognised on acquisition of AAPN includes licence to operate, trade names and customer relationships.
The estimated remaining useful life of the acquired intangible assets is 5 years, 5 years and up to 12 years, respectively.
Internally generated intangible assets This category of assets includes capitalised development costs in accordance with IAS 38.
The material projects as included within the carrying amount above include compliance with local regulatory requirements in certain jurisdictions US$5.6 million 2017: US$6.6 million and a major upgrade to the gaming systems platform US$23.5 million 2017: $22.4 million.
No impairment tests were considered to be required at 31 December 2018 and the carrying value of internally generated intangible assets is considered to be appropriate.
At 31 December 2018 there were projects with carrying value US$4.3 million 2017: US$3.1 million which were not completed and therefore not being amortised.
All of these projects are expected to complete and commence amortisation in 2019.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 113 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 12 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Analysis of goodwill by cash generating units: B2C B2B Consolidated Total Bingo AAPN Other Bingo goodwill US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million Carrying value at 31 December 2018 95.4 30.9 0.3 29.7 156.3 Carrying value at 31 December 2017 95.4 0.3 29.7 125.4 Impairment In accordance with IAS 36 and the Groups stated accounting policy an impairment test is carried out annually on the carrying amounts of goodwill and a review for indicators of impairment is carried out for other non-current assets.
Where an impairment test was carried out, the carrying value is compared to the recoverable amount of the asset or the cash generating unit.
In each case, the recoverable amount was the value in use of the assets, which was determined by discounting the future cash flows of the relevant asset or cash generating unit to their present value.
Goodwill Bingo B2C and B2B business Goodwill and intangible assets associated with the Bingo online business unit arose following the acquisition of the Bingo online business of Globalcom Limited during 2007 and the acquisition of the Wink Bingo business in 2009.
The income streams generated from the Bingo online business, comprising the B2C Bingo cash generating unit and the B2B cash generating unit.
In previous years these have been considered together as the risks and rewards associated with those income streams are deemed to be sufficiently similar.
In 2018 Bingo B2C and Bingo B2B revenue streams were separated following the decline in Bingo revenue mainly due to the regulatory challenges facing the UK Bingo market and the termination of contract with one of the B2B partners which resulted in a decreased available headroom.
Key assumptions and inputs used Cash flow projections have been prepared for a five year period, following which a long-term growth rate has been assumed.
Underlying growth rates, as shown in the table below which applies for each of B2B and B2C, have been applied to revenue and are based on past experience, including the results in 2018 and 2017 and projections of future changes in the UK online bingo gaming market.
B2B contracts that will not be renewed were projected accordingly.
Key assumptions in preparing these cash flow projections include moderate growth in revenue, a stable level of costs per customer acquisition, stable exchange rate for GBP US$ and the expectation that the Group will continue to operate and be subject to gaming duties in its core jurisdictions.
The pre-tax discount rate that is considered by the Directors to be appropriate is the Group's specific Weighted Average Cost of Capital, adjusted for tax, which is considered to be appropriate for the online Bingo cash generating units.
GBP US$ exchange Operating Operating rate used Pre-tax Underlying Underlying Long-term expenses expenses in the model 2 discount rate growth rate growth rate growth rate increase increase for future 1 applied year 1 years 2-5 year 6 years 1-5 year 6 periods At 31 December 2018 9% 2% 3% 2% 2% 2% 1.30 At 31 December 2017 9% 3% 1% 2% 1% 2% 1.35 1 The pre-tax discount rate is recalculated by taking into account prevailing risk free rates, equity risk premium and company beta and having regard to external data commenting upon the Weighted Average Cost of Capital applied to the Group.
2 The underlying growth rate in 2018 was calculated excluding the effect of certain B2B contracts which were terminated during 2018 and excluding the full effect of newly acquired Bingo brands.
For further information see note 28.
The calculation of value in use for Bingo B2C and Bingo B2B units is most sensitive to the following assumptions: i Revenue growth rates growth rates are based on past experience and projections of future changes in the online gaming market.
The continued highly competitive UK Bingo market as well as the proactive steps 888 has taken to address the tighter regulatory environment in the UK adversely impacted 2018 revenue growth.
A reduction of 1.3% and 1.9% in the long-term growth rates for each of B2B and B2C would result in zero headroom for Bingo B2B and Bingo B2C, respectively.
ii Cash flow forecast cash flow projections may be affected by changes in the UK gaming market including possible economic slowdown as a result of Brexit.
A reduction of 10% and 17% in the cash flow projections for each of B2B and B2C would result in zero headroom for Bingo B2B and Bingo B2C, respectively.
iii Exchange rate Management recognises that a change in GBP US$ currency rate can have a significant impact on available headroom.
A reduction by 2% and 11%in the GBP US$ currency rates for each of B2B and B2C would result in zero headroom for Bingo B2B and Bingo B2C, respectively.
114 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 12 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Goodwill AAPN The Group recognised goodwill of US$30.9 million following the acquisition of additional 53% interest in the voting shares of AAPN during December 2018, increasing the Groups ownership interest to 100%.
The recognised goodwill reflects the potentially significant opportunities in the US to create additional value for the Group.
Key assumptions and inputs used The recoverable amount of the AAPN CGU has been determined from value in use calculations based on cash flow projections from formally approved budgets.
Beyond the forecast period, management has applied an annual growth rate of 2%.
The forecast cash flows are particularly uncertain as the rate of market growth in the US is dependent on both the timing of markets opening, as well as their forecast growth rates and 888s share of those markets.
Management has applied a discount rate to the cash flows which reflect the additional risks specific to the US online gambling market.
Management analysis shows the value in use is highly sensitive and reasonably possible changes in the US market size and 888s market share could result in an impairment of the goodwill.
Acquired intangible assets Software licences No impairment tests were considered to be required at 31 December 2018 and the carrying value of licences is considered to be appropriate.
Other intangible assets No impairment tests were considered to be required at 31 December 2018 and the carrying value of other intangible assets is considered to be appropriate.
13 Property, plant and equipment Office furniture, equipment and Leasehold IT equipment motor vehicles improvements Total US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million Cost At 1 January 2017 49.9 4.4 15.1 69.4 Additions 4.1 1.2 0.3 5.6 Disposals 9.9 0.1 0.2 10.2 At 31 December 2017 44.1 5.5 15.2 64.8 Additions 6.4 0.6 0.3 7.3 Disposals 3.5 3.5 At 31 December 2018 47.0 6.1 15.5 68.6 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2017 43.6 3.3 13.4 60.3 Charge for the year 4.9 0.4 0.4 5.7 Disposals 9.9 0.1 0.2 10.2 At 31 December 2017 38.6 3.6 13.6 55.8 Charge for the year 4.4 0.5 0.4 5.3 Disposals 3.5 3.5 At 31 December 2018 39.5 4.1 14.0 57.6 Carrying amounts At 31 December 2018 7.5 2.0 1.5 11.0 At 31 December 2017 5.5 1.9 1.6 9.0 At 1 January 2017 6.3 1.1 1.7 9.1 Following a review of fully written down assets, assets no longer in use with a total cost and accumulated depreciation of US$3.5 million were written off in 2018 2017: US$10.2 million.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 115 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 14 Investments Investments in associate The following entities meet the definition of an associate and have been equity accounted in the consolidated financial statements: Effective Effective interest interest Country of 31 December 31 December Name Relationship incorporation 2018 2017 Come2Play Limited Associate Israel 20% 20% On 15 April 2015 the Group acquired 20% of the Ordinary Shares of Come2Play Limited for a cash payment of US$1.5 million.
As at 31 December 2018 the Group had investment in associate of US$0.9 million 2017: US$1.1million.
Further disclosures have not been provided as the investment is not material to the Group.
A reconciliation of the movements in the Groups interest in equity accounted associates is shown below: Associates US$ million At 1 January 2017 1.3 Share of post-tax loss of equity accounted joint ventures and associates 0.2 At 31 December 2017 1.1 Share of post-tax loss of equity accounted joint ventures and associates 0.2 At 31 December 2018 0.9 Investments in US joint ventures In 2013 the Group entered into a joint venture agreement JVA with Avenue OLG Entertainment LLC Avenue and other minority shareholders to form AAPN Holdings LLC AAPN, under which the Group had a 47% interest in AAPN.
AAPN has a 100% owned subsidiary, AAPN New Jersey LLC AAPN NJ, which has a B2C gaming offering in New Jersey.
AAPN has been equity accounted for, reflecting the Group's effective 47% interest in their consolidated results and assets.
On 10 December 2018 AAPN buyout day, the Group acquired an additional 53% interest in the voting shares of AAPN Holdings LLC AAPN, increasing its ownership interest to 100% for cash consideration of US$28.5 million.
US$10.0 million was paid to the non-controlling shareholders on the day of acquisition and additional US$18.5 million to be paid during the first quarter of 2019, included in the other payables as at 31 December 2018.
AAPN assets and liabilities as of 31 December 2018 are included in the consolidated balance sheet for further information, see note 11.
AAPN results were under the joint venture framework until AAPN buyout day.
Starting 11 December 2018 AAPN results are included in the consolidated income statement, the impact on 2018 consolidated income statement is not material.
Groups share of net assets of the joint ventures as of 31 December 2017 are as follows: 2017 Net assets of US joint ventures US$ million Non-current assets 2.5 Current assets 7.5 Current liabilities 1.1 Net assets of joint ventures 8.9 Assets attributed to class B holders 8.9 Net assets of joint ventures attributed to the Group Group effective interest in joint ventures 47% Group share of net assets of joint ventures 116 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 14 Investments continued Investments in US joint ventures continued Groups share of post-tax losses of the joint ventures as are as follows: 1 Jan 2018 10 Dec 2018 2017 Income statement of US joint ventures US$ million US$ million Revenue 2.7 2.6 Expenses 10.8 6.1 Post tax loss of joint ventures 8.1 3.5 Expenses attributed to class B holders 2.0 2.0 Total post tax loss of joint ventures attributed to the Group 10.1 5.5 Group effective interest in joint ventures 47% 47% 1 Group share of post tax loss of joint ventures 4.7 2.6 1 The Groups investment in the US joint ventures had reduced to nil due to the US joint ventures cumulative losses exceeding the Groups investment.
In 2018 the US joint ventures incurred further losses and, as a result, the Groups investment remained at nil.
As the Groups investment remained at nil, the Group did not recognise the losses of US$4.7 million in its consolidated income statement in 2018 2017: US$2.6 million.
The total amount of unrecognised loss as of AAPN buyout day is US$13.2 million 2017: US$8.5 million.
AGN LLC AGN, the entity which contracted with a Las Vegas casino licensee in connection with the operation of a B2C gaming offering in Nevada, is 100% owned by the Group.
However, the Group considers that due to the manner in which AGN was operated under the contractual arrangements in the JVA, it was regarded as a joint venture.
During 2016 AGN surrendered its Nevada licence and ceased operation and winded down as of 31 December 2017.
Other investments The Group holds equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI of US$0.2 million at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: US$0.2 million.
15 Deferred taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.
The Group's deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences, some of which are expected to be settled on a net basis, are as follows: 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Deferred tax relates to the following: Accrued severance pay 0.2 0.2 Vacation pay accrual 0.5 0.6 Property, plant and equipment 1.0 1.1 Intangible assets 2.6 0.4 0.9 1.5 Reflected in the statement of financial position as follows: Deferred tax assets 1.4 1.5 Deferred tax liabilities 2.3 The Group has no tax losses at 31 December 2018 2017: nil that are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$2.3 million have been recognised in respect of the fair value of acquired intangible assets recognised on acquisition of AAPN.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 117 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 16 Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Cash and short-term deposits 74.4 106.7 Customer funds 57.1 71.7 Restricted short-term deposits 1.5 1.2 133.0 179.6 Customer funds represent bank deposits matched by liabilities to customers and progressive prize pools of an equal value see note 20.
Restricted short-term deposits represent amounts held by banks primarily to support guarantees in respect of regulated markets licence requirements.
17 Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Trade receivables 19.0 27.8 Other receivables 10.3 11.4 Prepayments 3.7 3.9 Current trade and other receivables 33.0 43.1 Non-current prepayments 0.8 0.8 33.8 43.9 The carrying value of trade receivables and other receivables approximates to their fair value as the credit risk has been addressed as part of impairment provisioning and, due to the short-term nature of the receivables they are not subject to ongoing fluctuations in market rates.
Note 25 provides credit risk disclosures on trade and other receivables.
18 Share capital Share capital comprises the following: Authorised 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number Number US$ million US$ million Ordinary Shares of 0.005 each 1,026,387,500 1,026,387,500 8.1 8.1 Allotted, called up and fully paid 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number Number US$ million US$ million Ordinary Shares of 0.005 each at beginning of year 359,679,561 358,585,958 3.3 3.2 Issue of Ordinary Shares of 0.005 each 4,604,978 1,093,603 0.1 Ordinary Shares of 0.005 each at end of year 364,284,539 359,679,561 3.3 3.3 The narrative below includes details on issue of Ordinary Shares of 0.005 each as part of the Group's employee share option plan see note 22 during 2018 and 2017: During 2018, the Company issued 4,604,978 shares 2017: 1,093,603 out of which 60,182 shares 2017: 155,603 were issued in respect of employees' exercising market value options giving rise to an increase in share premium of US$0.1 million 2017: US$0.2 million.
Shares issued are converted into US$ at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of issue.
The issued and fully paid share capital of the Group amounts to US$3.3 million 2017: US$3.3 million and is split into 364,284,539 2017: 359,679,561 Ordinary Shares.
The share capital in UK sterling GBP is 1.8 million 2017: 1.8 million.
118 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 19 Trade, other payables and provisions 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Trade payables 30.8 38.4 1 Accrued expenses 63.6 87.3 2 Liability in respect of AAPN buyout 18.5 Other payables 23.1 31.2 Total trade and other payables 136.0 156.9 3 Provisions 11.3 47.0 147.3 203.9 1 Following the receipt of tax assessments from the German tax authorities position in respect of 2015-2017 period the Group released US$10.7 million of accrual liability in respect of VAT due relating to this period.
2 The Group acquired additional 53% interest in the voting shares of AAPN for cash consideration of US$28.5 million.
US$10.0 million was paid on the day of acquisition and additional US$18.5 million to be paid during the first quarter of 2019.
3 Includes mainly provisions in respect of regulatory matters related to legacy customers activity in prior periods 2017: US$47.0 million in respect of historical value added tax relating to the provision of gaming services in Germany prior to 2015.
The carrying value of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value given the short maturity date of these balances.
Provisions During the year, the Group recorded a provision of US$10.4 million in respect of regulatory matters related to legacy customers activity in prior periods.
During 2017, the Group recorded a provision for exceptional items of US$45.3 million in respect of historical value added tax relating to the provision of gaming services in Germany prior to 2015.
During 2018, following receipt of tax assessments from the Tax Authorities in Germany, the Group paid US$24.6 million on account of this provision and released US$22.4 million of the provision, as described in note 5.
Movement in the provision during the year is as follows: Total US$ million At 1 January 2018 47.0 Arising during the year 10.4 Paid during the year 24.6 Released to income statement during the period 22.4 Exchange rate 0.9 At 31 December 2018 11.3 Current 11.3 Non-current 20 Liabilities to customers and progressive prize pools 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Liabilities to customers 49.5 65.1 Progressive prize pools 7.6 6.6 57.1 71.7 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 119 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 21 Investments in significant subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the following principal subsidiaries of 888 Holdings plc: Percentage of Percentage of equity interest equity interest Country of 2018 2017 Name incorporation % % Nature of business VHL Financing Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Holding company VHL Financing Malta Limited Malta 100 100 Holding company Cassava Enterprises Gibraltar Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Holder of gaming licences in Gibraltar Virtual Digital Services Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Holder of gaming licences in Gibraltar for European markets which are not locally regulated Brigend Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Bingo business operator Fordart Limited Gibraltar 100 100 B2B business operator except Bingo 888 UK Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Holder of UK remote gaming licence Virtual Marketing Services Italia Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Holder of Italian online gaming licence 888 Spain Public Limited Company Gibraltar 100 100 Holder of Spanish online gaming licence 888 US Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Holder of Interactive Gaming Service Provider and Manufacturer licence in the state of Nevada 888 Atlantic Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Holder of Transactional Waiver pending application for full licensing in the state of New Jersey 888 Liberty Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Holder of Gaming Vendor License in the state of Delaware 888 Romania Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Holder of Romanian online gaming licence 888 Ireland Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Holder of Irish online betting licence 888 Denmark Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Holder of Danish online gaming licence 888 Portugal Limited Malta 100 100 Holder of Portuguese online gaming licence 888 Sweden Limited Malta 100 100 Holder of Swedish online gaming licence Virtual Emerging Entertainment Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Trademark licensor Gisland Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Payment transmission Virtual IP Assets Limited BVI 100 100 Holder of group IP assets Virtual Marketing Services Gibraltar Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Marketing acquisition Virtual Marketing Services UK Limited UK 100 100 Advertising services 888 US Services Inc. New Jersey, USA 100 100 Provider of US-based services for US operations Dixie Operations Limited Antigua 100 100 Customer call center operator Random Logic Limited Israel 100 100 Research, development and marketing support Random Logic Ventures Limited Israel 100 100 Investment holding company Sparkware Technologies SRL Romania 100 100 Software development Virtual Internet Services Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Data hosting and development services Virtual Internet Services Ireland Limited Ireland 100 100 Data hosting services Virtual Share Services Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Administration of employee equity schemes 888 US Inc. Delaware, USA 100 100 Holder of AAPN 888 US Holdings Inc. Delaware, USA 100 100 Holder of AAPN AAPN Holdings, LLC Delaware, USA 100 47 Holding company Joint venture in 2017 AAPN New Jersey LLC New Jersey, USA 100 47 Holder of Casino Service Industry Enterprise licence in New Jersey Joint venture in 2017 120 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 22 Share benefit charges Equity-settled share benefit charges As at 31 December 2018 the Group has equity-settled employee shares and share options granted under two equity-settled employee share incentive plans the 888 All-Employee Share Plan AEP, which expired according to its terms in August 2015, and the 888 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP which was adopted at the Extraordinary General Meeting on 29 September 2015.
The 888 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 is open to employees including Executive Directors and full-time consultants of the Group, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Awards under this scheme will vest in instalments over a fixed period of at least three years subject to the relevant individuals remaining in service.
Certain of these awards are subject to additional performance conditions imposed by the Remuneration Committee at the dates of grant, further details of which are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 76.
In addition, on 8 May 2017, the Board adopted a Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP in order to allow the Company to comply with the requirement contained in its Remuneration Policy pursuant to which any annual bonus payment made to an Executive Director in excess of 100% of such Executive Directors annual salary is deferred into equity awards of the Company in the form of nil cost options or share awards.
Details of equity settled shares and share options granted as part of the AEP, the LTIP and the DSBP are set out below.
Shares are granted to employees for nil consideration.
Share options granted 2018 2017 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price Number price Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1.26 97,968 1.27 259,981 Market value options lapsed during the year 1.08 4,694 1.15 6,410 Market value options exercised during the year 1.38 60,182 1.28 155,603 1,2, 3 Outstanding at the end of the year 1.08 33,092 1.26 97,968 1 Of the total number of options outstanding at 31 December 2018, 33,092 had vested and were exercisable 2017: 97,968.
2 The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at 31 December 2018 is 1.02-1.11 2017: 1.02-1.50.
3 The weighted average remaining contractual life at the year-end was 0.79 years 2017: 1.22 years.
Ordinary Shares granted without performance conditions 2018 2017 Number Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year 4,083,372 4,240,266 Shares granted during the year 910,159 35,652 Lapsed future vesting shares 141,397 169,213 Shares issued during the year 1,273,858 23,333 Outstanding at the end of the year 3,578,276 4,083,372 Averaged remaining life until vesting 0.59 years 1.09 years 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 121 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 22 Share benefit charges continued Deferred Share Bonus Plan 2018 2017 Number Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year 211,691 Shares granted during the year 197,074 211,691 Lapsed future vesting shares Shares exercised during the year 70,564 Outstanding at the end of the year 338,201 211,691 Averaged remaining life until vesting 1.02 years 1.22 years The aforementioned grants under the DSBP were approved by the Board as part of the annual bonus award to the Executive Directors for 2016-2018, pursuant to which an amount equal to 100% of salary was granted in cash, with the additional 50% of salary deferred into shares of the Company.
These grants were made on 21 March 2018 to the CEO 117,965 Shares and CFO 79,109 Shares and 28 June 2017 to the CEO 130,914 Shares and CFO 80,777 Shares, with the shares vesting in equal tranches over three years.
Ordinary Shares granted for future vesting are valued at the share price at grant date, which the Group considers approximates to the fair value.
On 28 March 2018, the Group purchased 197,074 shares and on 29-30 June 2017 the Group purchased 211,691 shares on the open market at an average price of 277.9 per share and 255.31 per share, respectively, all of which were recognised as treasury shares as of 31 December 2018.
Ordinary Shares granted subject to performance conditions 2018 2017 Number Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,991,889 5,573,612 Shares granted during the year 1,372,015 1,332,944 Lapsed future vesting shares Shares issued during the year 3,221,775 914,667 Outstanding at the end of the year 4,142,129 5,991,889 Averaged remaining life until vesting 1.25 years 1.17 years Of these grants, 50% of each are dependent on an EPS growth target, and 50% on total shareholder return TSR compared to a peer group of companies.
Further details of performance conditions that have to be satisfied on these awards are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 60 to 76.
The EPS growth target is taken into account when determining the number of shares expected to vest at each reporting date, and the TSR target is taken into account when calculating the fair value of the share grant.
Valuation information shares granted under TSR condition: Shares granted during the year: 2018 2017 Share pricing model used Monte Carlo Monte Carlo Determined fair value 1.72 1.72 Number of shares granted 686,008 666,472 Average risk-free interest rate 0.98% 0.16% Average standard deviation 26% 31% Average standard deviation of peer group 29% 29% 122 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 22 Share benefit charges continued Valuation information shares granted 2018 2017 Without With Without With performance performance performance performance conditions conditions conditions conditions Weighted average share price at grant date 2.76 2.70 2.73 2.73 Weighted average share price at issue of shares 2.29 2.30 2.65 2.71 Ordinary Shares granted for future vesting with EPS growth performance conditions are valued at the share price at grant date, which the Group considers approximates to the fair value.
The restrictions on the shares during the vesting period, primarily relating to non-receipt of dividends, are considered to have an immaterial effect on the share option charge.
In accordance with IFRS 2 a charge to the consolidated income statement in respect of any shares or options granted under the above schemes is recognised and spread over the vesting period of the shares or options based on the fair value of the shares or options at the grant date, adjusted for changes in vesting conditions at each balance sheet date.
These charges have no cash impact.
Share benefit charges 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Equity-settled Equity-settled charge for the year 8.9 8.5 Total share benefit charges 8.9 8.5 23 Related party transactions The aggregate amounts payable to key management personnel, considered to be the Directors of the Company, as well as their share benefit charges, are set out below: 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Short-term benefits 3.2 4.6 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share benefit charges equity-settled 4.2 4.7 7.6 9.5 Further details on Directors' remuneration are given in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 76.
US joint ventures During 2018 the Group charged the US joint ventures for reimbursement of costs of US$3.9 million 2017: US$2.1 million.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 123 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 24 Commitments Lease commitments Future minimum lease commitments under operating leases on properties occupied by the Group at the year-end are as follows: 2018 2017 US$ million US$ million Within one year 5.4 4.9 Between two and five years 14.9 17.7 More than 5 years 8.9 11.8 29.2 34.4 The expense relating to operating leases recorded in the consolidated income statement in the year was US$5.1 million 2017: US$5.1 million.
The disclosure in respect of transition to IFRS 16 is provided in note 2.
25 Financial risk management The Group is exposed through its operations to risks that arise from use of its financial instruments.
Policies and procedures for managing these risks are set by the Board following recommendations from the Chief Financial Officer.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of these procedures and, if required, approves specific policies and procedures in order to mitigate these risks.
The main financial instruments used by the Group, on which financial risk arises, are as follows: Cash and cash equivalents: Trade and other receivables: Trade and other payables: Customer deposits: Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI.
Detailed analysis of these financial instruments is as follows: 2018 2017 Financial assets US$ million US$ million 1 Trade and other receivables note 17 29.3 39.2 Cash and cash equivalents note 16 133.0 179.6 Equity note 14 0.2 0.2 162.5 219.0 1 Excludes prepayments and non-current other receivables.
In accordance with IFRS 9, all financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
Equity investments are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI without subsequent recycling to income statement.
2018 2017 Financial liabilities US$ million US$ million 1 Trade and other payables note 19 100.7 93.8 Customer deposits note 20 57.1 71.7 157.8 165.5 1 Excludes taxes payable.
In accordance with IFRS 9, all financial liabilities are held at amortised cost.
124 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 25 Financial risk management continued Capital The capital employed by the Group is composed of equity attributable to shareholders.
The primary objective of the Group is maximising shareholders' value, which, from the capital perspective, is achieved by maintaining the capital structure most suited to the Group's size, strategy, and underlying business risk.
There are no demands or restrictions on the Group's capital.
The main financial risk areas are as follows: Credit risk Trade receivables The Group's credit risk is primarily attributable to trade receivables, most of which are due from the Group's payment service providers PSP.
These are third-party companies that facilitate deposits and withdrawals of funds to and from customers' virtual wallets with the Group.
These are mainly intermediaries that transact on behalf of credit card companies.
The risk is that a PSP would fail to discharge its obligation with regard to the balance owed to the Group.
The Group reduces this credit risk by: Monitoring balances with PSPs on a regular basis.
Arranging for the shortest possible cash settlement intervals.
Replacing rolling reserve requirements, where they exist, with a Letter of Credit by a reputable financial institution.
Ensuring a new PSP is only contracted following various due diligence and Know Your Customer procedures.
Ensuring policies are in place to reduce dependency on any specific PSP and as a limit any concentration of risk.
The Group considers that based on the factors above and on extensive past experience, the PSP receivables are of good credit quality and there is a low level of potential bad debt as at year-end amounting to US$0.1 million arising from a PSP failing to discharge its obligation 2017: US$0.5 million.
This has been charged to the consolidated income statement.
An additional credit risk the Group faces relates to customers disputing charges made to their credit cards chargebacks or any other funding method they have used in respect of the services provided by the Group.
Customers may fail to fulfil their obligation to pay, which will result in funds not being collected.
These chargebacks and uncollected deposits, when occurring, will be deducted at source by the PSPs from any amount due to the Group.
As such the Group provides for these eventualities by way of an impairment provision based on analysis of past transactions.
This provision is set off against trade receivables and at 31 December 2018 was US$1.1 million 2017: US$1.4 million.
The Group's in-house Fraud and Risk Management department carefully monitors deposits and withdrawals by following prevention and verification procedures using internally-developed bespoke systems integrated with  third-party measures.
Cash and cash equivalents The Group controls its cash position from its Gibraltar headquarters.
Subsidiaries in its other main locations maintain minimal cash balances as required for their operations.
Cash settlement proceeds from PSPs, as described above, are paid into bank accounts controlled by the Treasury function in Gibraltar.
The Group holds the majority of its funds with highly reputable financial institutions and will not hold funds with financial institutions with a low credit rating save for limited balances for specific operational needs.
The Group maintains its cash reserves in highly liquid deposits and regularly monitors interest rates in order to maximise yield.
Customer funds Customer funds are matched by customer liabilities and progressive prize pools of an equal value.
Restricted short-term deposits Restricted short-term deposits are short-term deposits held by banks primarily to support guarantees in respect of regulated markets licence requirements.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is the amount of financial assets presented above, totalling US$162.5 million 2017: US$219.0 million.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 125 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 25 Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk exists where the Group might encounter difficulties in meeting its financial obligations as they become due.
The Group monitors its liquidity in order to ensure that sufficient liquid resources are available to allow it to meet its obligations.
The following table details the contractual maturity analysis of the Group's financial liabilities: 2018 Between 3 months More than On demand In 3 months and 1 year 1 year Total US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million 1 Trade and other payables 11.6 83.1 6.0 100.7 Customer deposits 57.1 57.1 68.7 83.1 6.0 157.8 1 Excludes taxes payable.
2017 Between 3 months More than On demand In 3 months and 1 year 1 year Total US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million 1 Trade and other payables 11.2 68.7 13.9 93.8 Customer deposits 71.7 71.7 82.9 68.7 13.9 165.5 1 Excludes taxes payable.
Market risk Currency risk The Group's financial risk arising from exchange rate fluctuations is mainly attributed to: Mismatches between customer deposits, which are predominantly denominated in US$, and the net receipts from customers, which are settled in the currency of the customer's choice and of which Pounds Sterling GBP and Euros EUR are the most significant.
Mismatches between reported revenue, which is mainly generated in US$ the Group's reporting currency and the functional currency of the majority of its subsidiaries, and a significant portion of deposits settled in local currencies.
Expenses, the majority of which are denominated in foreign currencies including Pounds Sterling GBP, Euros EUR and New Israeli Shekels ILS.
The Group continually monitors the foreign currency risk and takes steps, where practical, to ensure that the net exposure is kept to an acceptable level.
This includes the potential use of foreign exchange forward contracts designed to fix the economic impact of known liabilities when considered appropriate.
At 31 December 2018 the Group does not have any open foreign exchange forward contracts.
126 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 25 Financial risk management continued Market risk continued Currency risk continued The tables below detail the monetary assets and liabilities by currency: 2018 GBP EUR ILS USD Other Total US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million Cash and cash equivalents 37.8 38.6 13.2 39.7 3.7 133.0 Trade and other receivables 6.2 14.9 0.5 2.3 5.4 29.3 Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI 0.2 0.2 Monetary assets 44.0 53.5 13.7 42.2 9.1 162.5 Trade and other payables 16.2 16.1 19.9 46.9 1.6 100.7 Customer deposits 8.7 17.6 29.0 1.8 57.1 Monetary liabilities 24.9 33.7 19.9 75.9 3.4 157.8 Net financial position 19.1 19.8 6.2 33.7 5.7 4.7 2017 GBP EUR ILS USD Other Total US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million Cash and cash equivalents 29.5 59.5 25.8 56.7 8.1 179.6 Trade and other receivables 13.9 17.3 0.4 2.2 5.4 39.2 Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI 0.2 0.2 Monetary assets 43.4 76.8 26.2 59.1 13.5 219.0 Trade and other payables 28.4 11.3 30.5 21.4 2.2 93.8 Customer deposits 12.5 14.1 41.0 4.1 71.7 Monetary liabilities 40.9 25.4 30.5 62.4 6.3 165.5 Net financial position 2.5 51.4 4.3 3.3 7.2 53.5 Sensitivity analysis The table below details the effect on profit before tax of a 10% strengthening and weakening in the US$ exchange rate at the balance sheet date for balance sheet items denominated in Pounds Sterling, Euros and New Israeli Shekels: Year ended 31 December 2018 GBP EUR ILS US$ million US$ million US$ million 10% strengthening 1.9 2.0 0.6 10% weakening 1.9 2.0 0.6 Year ended 31 December 2017 GBP EUR ILS US$ million US$ million US$ million 10% strengthening 0.3 5.1 0.4 10% weakening 0.3 5.1 0.4 Interest rate risk At present the Group has no borrowing.
Once the Group utilise the RCF see note 28 it will be exposed to floating rate risk however given the magnitude of the max drawable amount under the RCF interest rate fluctuations are not expected to be significant.
The Group's exposure to interest rate risk is limited to the interest bearing deposits in which the Group invests surplus funds.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 127 Corporate.
888. com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 25 Financial risk management continued Market risk continued Currency risk continued The Group's policy is to invest surplus funds in low risk money market funds and in interest bearing bank accounts.
The Group arranges for excess funds to be placed in these interest bearing accounts with its principal bankers in order to maximise availability of funds for investments.
Downside interest rate risk is minimal as the Group has no floating rates borrowings.
Given current low interest rates a 0.5% downward movement in bank interest rates would not have a significant impact on finance income for the year.
However, a 0.5% increase in interest rates would, based on the year-end deposits, increase annual profits by US$0.3 million 2017: US$0.35 million.
26 Fair value measurements At 31 December 2018 and 2017, the Groups equity investment is measured at fair value level 2.
For the remaining financial assets and liabilities, the Group considers that the book value approximates to fair value.
There were no changes in valuation techniques or transfers between categories in the period.
27 Provisions, contingent liabilities and regulatory issues a The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions.
Accordingly, the Group files tax returns, provides for and pays all taxes and duties it believes are due based on local tax laws, transfer pricing agreements and tax advice obtained.
The Group is also periodically subject to audits and assessments by local taxing authorities.
Other than as provided in the Group financial statements, the Board is unable to quantify reliably any exposure for additional taxes, if any, that may arise from the final settlement of such assessments and considers it unlikely that any further liability will arise.
b In 2017, in response to an inquiry from the tax authorities in Germany relating to a legacy VAT matter, the Group disclosed a contingent liability of US$18.5 million, relating to issues on which the Group considered that it has strong arguments but regarding which it remained possible that there would be a cash outflow.
During 2018 following further discussions with tax authorities in Germany culminating in the issuance of tax assessments, the Board, supported by their updated legal advice, considered that the risk of cash outflow in respect of these services is remote, and therefore the contingent liability no longer exists.
The Board has reserved its position and all legal rights, based on the legal advice received.
The foregoing is in addition to a provision of US$45.3 million 39.6 million Euro recorded in the 2017 consolidated income statement, on account of which the Group paid US$24.6 million and released US$22.4 million during the year.
c As part of the Board's ongoing regulatory compliance and operational risk assessment process, it continues to monitor legal and regulatory developments, and their potential impact on the business, and continues to take appropriate advice in respect of these developments.
Given the nature of the legal and regulatory landscape of the industry, from time to time the Group has received notices, communications and legal actions from a small number of regulatory authorities and other parties in respect of its activities.
The Group has taken legal advice as to the manner in which it should respond and the likelihood of success of such actions.
Based on this advice and the nature of the actions, for the majority of these matters the Board is unable to quantify reliably the outflow of funds that may result, if any.
For matters where an outflow of funds is probable and can be measured reliably, amounts have been recognised in the financial statements within Provisions.
"Except for the regulatory matters described in notes 5 and 19, these amounts are not material at 31 December 2018, 28 Events after the reporting period Acquisitions after the reporting period On 19 February 2019, the Group announced the signing of an agreement for the acquisition of certain assets of Jet Management Group Limited and Jet Media Limited together, ""Jet"" for consideration of 18.0 million."
Jet is part of the group of companies headed by JPJ Group plc, which owns the Jackpotjoy brands.
The consideration of 18.0 million will be satisfied all in cash, with 12.0 million being paid to Jet upon closing of the acquisition and the remainder of 6.0 million to be paid in September 2019.
Jet has been a partner of Dragonfish, the Group's B2B Bingo division, since 2009 with brands including Costa Bingo, City Bingo and Sing Bingo.
The acquisition will give the Group full control of these successful brands from a marketing perspective to support and further strengthen the Group's position in the UK online bingo market.
On 4 March 2019, the Group announced the acquisition of BetBright's sports betting platform for 15.0 million.
The acquisition strengthens 888's product and technology capabilities and will support the long-term development strategy for 888sport.
The Directors are still in the process of performing a fair valuation of the acquisitions.
Revolving credit facility During 2019, 888 has finalised a revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank plc of up to US$50.0 million in order to finance its M&A activities in the short term.
128 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018
