GLOSSARY OF TERMS The following definitions and terms are used throughout this Annual Report.
In addition, specific terms and definitions relating to mineral reserves and resources can be found on page 107.
Acacia or the Company Acacia Mining plc, a company incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 and registered in England and Wales with registered number 7123187 Acacia Group or the Group means the Acacia corporate group of companies, including Acacia Mining plc, the UK holding and parent company of the group: Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited, the owner and operator of the Bulyanhulu mine: North Mara Gold Mine Limited, the owner and operator of the North Mara mine: and Pangea Minerals Limited, the owner and operator of the Buzwagi mine.
Further information as to the status and role of each member of the Acacia corporate group is provided in Note 1 to the financial statements.
In addition to the term Acacia, in this Report we, us and our are also used to refer to the Company and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them.
These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities.
The companies in which Acacia Mining plc has a direct or indirect interest are separate entities.
AGM annual general meeting AISC has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 182 Articles the articles of association of the Company Assay a chemical test performed on a sample of ores or minerals to determine the amount of valuable metals contained Au gold Average head grade average ore grade fed into the mill, expressed in grammes per metric tonne Average realised gold price per ounce sold has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 182 Barrick Barrick Gold Corporation, a company existing under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada Barrick Group Barrick and its subsidiary undertakings Board or Board of Directors the Board of Directors of Acacia Cash cost per ounce sold has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 182 Cash cost per tonne milled has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 182 CIL carbon in leach, a method of recovering gold and silver, in which a slurry of gold silver bearing ore, carbon and cyanide are mixed together.
The cyanide dissolves the gold, which is subsequently absorbed by the activated carbon whose base is usually ground coconut shells CIM the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum Code of Conduct Acacias Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales, as amended Concentrate a fine, powdery product of the milling process containing an economic percentage of gold, silver and copper Contained ounces represents total ounces in a mineral reserve before reduction to account for ounces not able to be recovered by the applicable metallurgical process Co-product a secondary metal or mineral product recovered in the milling process such as copper and silver CREST the computerised settlement system operated by Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited to facilitate the transfer of title to shares in uncertificated form Crushing breaking of ore from the size delivered from the mine into smaller and more uniform fragments to be then fed to grinding mills or to a leach pad CSR corporate social responsibility Cu copper Development work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit.
In an underground mine this includes shaft sinking, crosscutting, drifting and raising.
In an open pit mine, development includes the removal of overburden Directors the Directors of Acacia for the reporting period, details of whom are set out on pages 72 and 73 of this Annual Report Disclosure Guidance the disclosure guidance and transparency rules made by the FCA under Part VI of FSMA and Transparency Rules Dollar or US$ or $ United States dollars Dor dor bullion is an impure alloy of gold and silver and is generally the final product of mining and processing: the dor bullion will be transported to be refined to high purity metal 179 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Drift a horizontal underground opening that follows along the length of a vein or rock formation as opposed to a crosscut which crosses the rock formation Drilling: core a drilling method that uses a rotating barrel and an annular-shaped, diamond-impregnated rock-cutting bit to produce cylindrical rock cores and lift such cores to the surface, where they may be collected, examined and assayed Drilling: in-fill any method of drilling intervals between existing holes, used to provide greater geological detail and to help establish reserve estimates Drilling: reverse circulation drilling method that uses a rotating cutting bit circulation within a double-walled drill pipe and produces rock chips rather than core.
Air or water is circulated down to the bit between the inner and outer wall of the drill pipe.
The chips are forced to the surface through the centre of the drill pipe and are collected, examined and assayed EBITDA has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 182 ELT or Executive Leadership Team the individuals listed on page 74 or Senior Management Executive Director the executive director of the Company, being as at year-end Peter Geleta Exploration prospecting, sampling, mapping, diamond drilling and other work involved in searching for ore Financial Conduct Authority or FCA the Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom Flotation a milling process in which valuable mineral particles are induced to become attached to bubbles and float as others sink Free cash flow has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 182 FSMA the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended Grade the amount of metal in each tonne of ore, expressed as troy ounces per tonne or grammes per tonne for precious metals and as a percentage for most other metals g t gramme per metric tonne IAS International Accounting Standards IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union IPO Acacias initial public offering on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange ISO International Organization for Standardisation koz thousand ounces KPIs key performance indicators Kt thousand metric tonnes LIBOR The British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate for the relevant currency and period displayed on the appropriate page of the Reuters screen Listing Rules the rules relating to admission to the Official List made in accordance with section 73A 2 of FSMA London Stock Exchange or LSE London Stock Exchange plc Long-hole stoping a method of underground mining involving the drilling of holes up to 30 metres or longer into an ore bearing zone and then blasting a slice of rock which falls into an open space.
The broken rock is extracted and the resulting open chamber may or may not be filled with supporting material Majority shareholder Barrick MDA a mineral development agreement Mill a plant in which ore is treated and metals are recovered or prepared for smelting: also a revolving drum used for the grinding of ores in preparation for treatment Moz million ounces Mt million metric tonnes NGOs non-governmental organisations NI 43-101 Canadian National Instrument 43-101 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 180 GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED Non-Executive Directors the non-executive directors of the Company, being as at year-end Rachel English, Andre Falzon, Michael Kenyon, Steve Lucas and Stephen Galbraith Official List the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority Open pit a mine where the minerals are mined entirely from the surface.
Also referred to as open-cut or open-cast mine Operating cash flow per share has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 182 Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company Ore rock, generally containing metallic or non-metallic minerals, which can be mined and processed at a profit Ore body a sufficiently large amount of ore that can be mined economically Overburden is the material that lies above the area of economic interest, such as soil and ancillary material, that is removed during surface mining Oxide ore mineralised rock in which some of the original minerals have been oxidised.
Oxidation tends to make the ore more amenable to cyanide solutions so that minute particles of gold will be readily dissolved oz troy ounce 31.1035g Reclamation the process by which lands disturbed as a result of mining activity are modified to support beneficial land use.
Reclamation activity may include the removal of buildings, equipment, machinery and other physical remnants of mining, closure of tailings storage facilities, leach pads and other mine features, and contouring, covering and re-vegetation of waste rock and other disturbed areas Recovery rate a term used in process metallurgy to indicate the proportion of valuable material physically recovered in the processing of ore.
It is generally stated as a percentage of the material recovered compared to the total material originally present Refining the final stage of metal production in which impurities are removed from the molten metal Relationship Agreement the relationship agreement between Barrick and Acacia ROM run-of-mine, a term used loosely to describe ore of average grade SC Sustainable Communities Services Agreement the services agreement between Barrick and Acacia Shaft a vertical or inclined excavation in rock for the purpose of providing access to an ore body.
Usually equipped with a hoist at the top, which lowers and raises a conveyance for handling workers and materials Shareholders holders of Ordinary Shares Spot or spot price the purchase price of a commodity at the current price, normally at a discount to the long-term contract price Stripping removal of overburden or waste rock overlying an ore body in preparation for mining by open pit methods Tailings the material that remains after all economically and technically recoverable precious metals have been removed from the ore during processing Tailings storage facility a natural or man-made confined area suitable for depositing the material that remains after the treatment of ore TANESCO Tanzanian Electric Supply Company Limited TRA Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRIFR Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate TZS or TSH Tanzanian shilling United Kingdom or UK the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council United States or US the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any state of the United States of America and the District of Columbia VAT value-added tax VBAs village benefit agreements VBIAs village benefit implementation agreements Voluntary Principles means the United Nations Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 181 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION All-in sustaining cost AISC is a non-IFRS financial measure.
The Non-IFRS Measures Unaudited measure is in accordance with the World Gold Councils guidance Acacia has identified certain measures in this report that are not issued in June 2013.
It is calculated by taking cash cost per ounce measures defined under IFRS.
Non-IFRS financial measures disclosed sold and adding corporate administration costs, share-based payments, by management are provided as additional information to investors in reclamation and remediation costs for operating mines, corporate order to provide them with an alternative method for assessing Acacias social responsibility expenses, mine exploration and study costs, financial condition and operating results, and reflects more relevant realised gains and or losses on operating hedges, capitalised stripping measures for the industry in which Acacia operates.
These measures and underground development costs and sustaining capital expenditure.
are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, IFRS, and may be different This is then divided by the total ounces sold.
A reconciliation between from or inconsistent with non-IFRS financial measures used by other cash cost per ounce sold and AISC for the key business segments is companies.
These measures are explained further below.
presented below: Net average realised gold price per ounce sold is a non-IFRS financial US$ oz sold Year ended 31 December 2018 measure which excludes from gold revenue: Bulyanhulu North Mara Buzwagi Group Cash cost per ounce sold 599 591 906 680 Unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative contracts: and Corporate administration 44 36 32 46 Export duties Share-based payments 11 - 1 - It also includes realised gains and losses on gold hedge contracts Rehabilitation 28 7 7 9 reported as part of cost of sales.
CSR expenses 50 11 10 17 Net average realised gold price per ounce sold have been calculated Capitalised development - 143 - 91 as follows: Sustaining capital 76 78 23 62 Total AISC 786 866 977 905 Year ended US$000 31 December US$ oz sold Year ended 31 December 2017 2018 2017 1 Bulyanhulu North Mara Buzwagi Group Gold revenue 660,029 744,294 Cash cost per ounce sold 840 498 594 587 Realised gold hedge gains losses 1,784 2,693 Corporate administration 59 26 35 45 Net gold revenue 661,813 746,987 Share-based payments 6 2 2 14 Gold sold ounces 520,380 592,861 Rehabilitation Net average realised gold price US$ ounce 1,272 1,260 20 11 5 11 CSR expenses 10 11 8 14 Cash cost per ounce sold is a non-IFRS financial measure.
Cash costs Capitalised development 367 188 - 170 include all costs absorbed into inventory, as well as royalties, and Sustaining capital 83 71 27 62 production taxes, and exclude capitalised production stripping costs, Total AISC 1,373 803 667 875 inventory purchase accounting adjustments, unrealised gains losses 1 C ash cost per ounce sold and AISC per ounce sold for the quarter are non-meaningful from non-hedge currency and commodity contracts, depreciation and due to the impact of negligible sales ounces on the costs relating to reprocessed amortisation and corporate social responsibility charges.
calculated net of co-product revenue.
Cash cost per ounce sold is The Group total includes a cost of US$20 oz of unallocated corporate related costs in calculated by dividing the aggregate of these costs by total ounces sold.
Q4 2018 Q4 2017: us$19 oz The presentation of these statistics in this manner allows Acacia to AISC is intended to provide additional information on the total sustaining monitor and manage those factors that impact production costs on a cost for each ounce sold, taking into account expenditure incurred in monthly basis.
Cash costs and cash cost per ounce sold are calculated addition to direct mining costs and selling costs.
on a consistent basis for the periods presented.
Cash cost per tonne milled is a non-IFRS financial measure.
Cash costs The table below provides a reconciliation between cost of sales and total include all costs absorbed into inventory, as well as royalties, co-product cash cost to calculate the cash cost per ounce sold.
credits, and production taxes, and exclude capitalised production Year ended stripping costs, inventory purchase accounting adjustments, unrealised US$000 31 December gains losses from non-hedge currency and commodity contracts, 2018 2017 depreciation and amortisation and corporate social responsibility Total cost of sales 444,374 458,447 charges.
Cash cost is calculated net of co-product revenue.
Cash cost 1 Deduct: depreciation and amortisation 88,497 106,201 per tonne milled is calculated by dividing the aggregate of these costs Deduct: realised losses on gold hedges 1,784 2,693 by total tonnes milled.
Deduct: Co-product revenue 3,760 7,221 EBITDA is a non-IFRS financial measure.
Acacia calculates EBITDA as net Cash cost 353,901 347,718 profit or loss for the period excluding: Total ounces sold 520,380 592,861 Cash cost per ounce sold US$ ounce 680 587 Income tax expense: 1 D epreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation component of the cost of Finance expense: inventory sold Finance income: Depreciation and amortisation: and Impairment charges of goodwill and other long-lived assets.
EBITDA is intended to provide additional information to investors and analysts.
It does not have any standardised meaning prescribed by IFRS and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
EBITDA excludes the impact of cash costs of financing activities and taxes, and the effects of changes in operating working capital balances, and therefore is not ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 182 GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED necessarily indicative of operating profit or cash flow from operations as Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share have been determined under IFRS.
Other companies may calculate EBITDA differently.
calculated as follows: Year ended A reconciliation between net profit for the period and EBITDA is US$000 31 December presented below: 2018 2017 Year ended Net loss earnings 58,866 707,394 US$000 31 December Adjusted for: 2018 2017 Gain on sale of mineral royalty 45,000 - Net profit loss for the period 58,866 707,394 Restructuring cost - 34,988 Plus income tax expense credit 37,905 2,272 Discounting of indirect taxes 1 578 13,276 Plus depreciation and amortisation 88,497 106,201 One-off legal settlements 2 3,030 5,083 Plus impairment charges 28,877 850,182 1 Impairment charges write-offs 28,877 850,182 Plus finance expense 13,200 12,407 Provision for uncertain tax positions - 172,000 Less finance income 1,421 1,944 Tax impact of the above 909 221,917 EBITDA 225,924 257,180 Adjusted for: Year ended Adjusted net earnings 44,286 146,218 US$000 31 December 1 R efer to note 6 of the consolidated financial information.
2018 2017 Restructuring cost - 34,988 Adjusted net earnings per share is a non-IFRS financial measure and Gain on sale of mineral royalty 45,000 - is calculated by dividing adjusted net earnings by the weighted average One-off legal settlements 3,030 5,083 number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Discounting of indirect taxes 578 13,276 Free cash flow is a non-IFRS measure and represents the change in cash Adjusted EBITDA 183,376 310,527 and cash equivalents in a given period.
Net cash is a non-IFRS measure.
It is calculated by deducting total 1 Depreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation component of the cost of borrowings from cash and cash equivalents.
2 Refer to note 6 of the consolidated financial information.
Mining statistical information The following describes certain line items used in the Acacia Groups Adjusted EBITDA is a non-IFRS financial measure.
It is calculated by discussion of key performance indicators: excluding one-off costs or credits relating to non-routine transactions from EBITDA.
It excludes other credits and charges that, individually Open pit material mined measures in tonnes the total amount of open or in aggregate, if of a similar type, are of a nature or size that requires pit ore and waste mined.
explanation in order to provide additional insight into the underlying Underground ore tonnes hoisted measures in tonnes the total amount business performance.
EBITDA is adjusted for items a to e as of underground ore mined and hoisted.
contained in the reconciliation to adjusted net earnings below.
Underground ore tonnes trammed measures in tonnes the total EBIT is a non-IFRS financial measure and reflects EBITDA adjusted amount of underground ore mined and trammed.
for depreciation and amortisation and goodwill impairment charges.
Total tonnes mined includes open pit material plus underground ore tonnes hoisted.
Adjusted net earnings is a non-IFRS financial measure.
It is calculated by excluding certain costs or credits relating to non-routine transactions Strip ratio measures the ratio of waste to ore for open pit from net profit attributed to owners of the parent.
It includes other credit material mined.
and charges that, individually or in aggregate, if of a similar type, are of Ore milled measures in tonnes the amount of ore material processed a nature or size that requires explanation in order to provide additional through the mill.
insight into the underlying business performance.
Head grade measures the metal content of mined ore going into a mill for processing.
Milled recovery measures the proportion of valuable metal physically recovered in the processing of ore.
It is generally stated as a percentage of the metal recovered compared to the total metal originally present.
183 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Basis of preparation for the reporting of tax data Withholding taxes collected from suppliers This basis of preparation supports the reporting of tax data contained on These comprise taxes that are required to be withheld in advance on page 57 of this Annual Report.
Generally, the references to Tax in this payments made to suppliers.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected context mean any amount of money required to be paid to, or repaid by, in income tax returns made to Governments and tend to be payable, a Government.
and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout the year shortly after the submission of the return.
In overview, the key information presented as regards Tax is as follows: Taxes refunded Taxes borne These are taxes that are refunded by Governments to Acacia, and mostly These are taxes that the Acacia Group is obliged to pay to a Government comprise the following: on its own behalf, or taxes that it is obliged to pay to a third party and that can cannot be recovered from a Government.
The main taxes that Indirect taxes mainly VAT and fuel levies we have included in this category are: Typically, indirect taxes would tend to become repayable and are repaid by Governments regularly often quarterly throughout the year, shortly Government royalties after the submission of relevant sales tax returns.
Also included are These comprise payments made to Governments in the form of royalties.
Typically these tend to become payable, and are paid, in the year to which they relate.
These taxes form part of our operating costs.
Corporate income tax This comprises any tax on the business calculated on the basis of its profits, income or capital gains.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in corporate income tax returns made to Governments.
Customs duties These comprise all customs excise import and export duties.
Typically, these taxes tend to become payable and are paid to Governments at the point where goods are imported and exported from territories.
These taxes form part of our operating and capital incurred costs.
Employer payroll taxes These comprise payroll and employer taxes payable as a result of a companys capacity as an employer.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in payroll tax returns made to Governments and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout the year shortly after the submission of the return.
Environmental taxes These comprise levies or other payments to Governments relating to environmental policy.
Typically, these taxes tend to be payable on an annual basis.
These taxes are also included in our operating costs.
Indirect taxes These comprise VAT and other fuel levies that arise on the purchase of goods and services and are paid to third parties, to be refunded by Governments.
Typically, these taxes would form part of a sales tax return made to Governments.
Refunds received are included in the taxes refunded category.
Stamp duty This comprises taxes that arise on transfers of assets or capital.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in stamp duty returns made to Governments and tend to become payable, and are paid, to Governments shortly after capital or assets are transferred.
Taxes collected These are taxes that a company is obliged to collect from others and pay to Government.
The main taxes that we have included in this category are: Employee payroll taxes These comprise payroll and employee taxes withheld from employee remuneration and paid to Governments, i. e. taxes collected by Acacia and remitted to Governments on behalf of employees under arrangements such as PAYE schemes.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in payroll tax returns made to Governments and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout the year, shortly after submission of the return.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 184 SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES All enquiries concerning shareholdings, including notification of change Forward-looking statements of address or dividend payments, should be made to Acacias registrars, This report includes forward-looking statements that express or imply Computershare Investor Services plc, whose contact details are expectations of future events or results.
Forward-looking statements as follows: are statements that are not historical facts.
These statements include, without limitation, financial projections and estimates and their underlying Computershare Investor Services plc assumptions, statements regarding plans, objectives and expectations The Pavilions with respect to future production, operations, costs, projects, and Bridgwater Road statements regarding future performance.
Forward-looking statements Bristol BS99 6ZZ are generally identified by the words plans, expects, anticipates, United Kingdom believes, intends, estimates and other similar expressions.
Helpline number: 44 0 370 707 1895 All forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and Computershare online enquiry service other factors, many of which are beyond the control of Acacia, which could Computershare provides a range of services through its online cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those portal, Investor Centre, which can be accessed free of charge expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in at www.
Factors that could cause or contribute to differences between This service enables shareholders to check details of their shareholdings the actual results, performance and achievements of Acacia include, but or dividends, download forms to notify changes in personal details and are not limited to, changes or developments in political, economic or access other relevant information.
business conditions or national or local legislation or regulation in countries in which Acacia conducts or may in the future conduct Payment of dividends business, industry trends, competition, fluctuations in the spot and As a result of the inability to export concentrates following the imposition forward price of gold or certain other commodity prices such as copper of the concentrate ban in 2017, the uncertainty around a resolution of and diesel, currency fluctuations including the US dollar, South African the ongoing dispute between the Company and the GoT, and the current rand, Kenyan shilling and Tanzanian shilling exchange rates, Acacias liquidity requirements, no interim dividend was paid during 2018 and the ability to successfully integrate acquisitions, Acacias ability to recover its Board has not recommended the payment of any final dividend for the reserves or develop new reserves, including its ability to convert its year ended 31December 2018. resources into reserves and its mineral potential into resources or Electronic communications reserves, and to process its mineral reserves successfully and in a timely Acacia has obtained shareholders consent to send and supply manner, Acacias ability to complete land acquisitions required to support documents and information to shareholders in electronic form and its mining activities, operational or technical difficulties which may occur in via Acacias website, in accordance with provisions contained in the context of mining activities, delays and technical challenges associated Acacias Articles of Association.
with the completion of projects, risk of trespass, theft and vandalism, changes in Acacias business strategy including, the ongoing Increased use of electronic communications will deliver additional implementation of operational reviews, as well as risks and hazards savings to Acacia in terms of administration, printing and postage costs, associated with the business of mineral exploration, development, mining as well as speeding up the provision of information to shareholders.
and production and risks and factors affecting the gold mining industry in The reduced use of paper will also have environmental benefits.
Although Acacias management believes that the expectations Shareholder security reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, Acacia Shareholders should be cautious of any unsolicited financial advice, cannot give assurances that such statements will prove to be correct.
offers to buy shares at a discount or any other unsolicited advice Accordingly, investors should not place reliance on forward-looking regarding investment matters.
More detailed information is provided statements contained in this report.
uk consumers Any forward-looking statements in this report only reflect information Financial calendar available at the time of preparation.
Save as required under the Market 31 December 2018 Financial year-end Abuse Regulation or otherwise under applicable law, Acacia explicitly Preliminary results for 2018 11 February 2019 disclaims any obligation or undertaking publicly to update or revise any 25 April 2019 Quarterly results Q1 2019 forward-looking statements in this report, whether as a result of new Annual General Meeting 23 May 2019 information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this report should be July 2019 construed as a profit forecast or estimate and no statement made should Half year report 2019 be interpreted to mean that Acacias profits or earnings per share for any Quarterly results Q3 2019 October 2019 future period will necessarily match or exceed the historical published Production results Q4 2019 January 2020 profits or earnings per share of Acacia.
185 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 186 NOTES 187 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Acacia Mining plc Corporate Brokers 5th Floor J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd. No.
1 Cavendish Place 25 Bank Street London W1G 0QF Canary Wharf United Kingdom London E14 5JP United Kingdom Registered number: 7123187 RBC Capital Markets Investor Relations Thames Court Sally Marshak 1 Queenhithe Head of Investor Relations London EC4V 3DQ and Communications United Kingdom Phone: 44 0 20 7129 7160 E-mail: smarshak@acaciamining.
com Auditors  LLP Registrars 1 Embankment Place Computershare Investor Services PLC London WC2N 6RH The Pavilions United Kingdom Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ United Kingdom Additional information regarding Acacia can be found on our website: www.
