NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information Acacia Mining plc, formerly African Barrick Gold plc the Company, Acacia or collectively with its subsidiaries the Group was incorporated on 12 January 2010 and re-registered as a public limited company on 12 March 2010 under the Companies Act 2006.
It is registered and domiciled in the United Kingdom with registered number 7123187.
On 24 March 2010 the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, hereafter referred to as the Initial Public Offering IPO.
The address of its registered office is 5th Floor, 1 Cavendish Place, London, W1G 0QF, United Kingdom.
Barrick Gold Corporation BGC currently owns approximately 63.9% of the shares of the Company and is the ultimate parent and controlling party of the Group.
The financial statements of BGC can be obtained from www.
BGC is incorporated in Canada.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company on 27 March 2019.
The Groups primary business is the mining, processing and sale of gold.
The Group has three operating mines located in Tanzania.
The Group also has a portfolio of exploration projects located across Africa.
The principal activities of the Company, its subsidiaries and joint ventures included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: Country of Equity interest at 3 Company Principal activity incorporation Relationship 31 December 2018 & 2017 Acacia Mining plc Holding Company UK 100% 1 BUK HoldCo Limited Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% 1 BUK East Africa Limited Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% 1816962 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% Acacia Mining Barbados Corp Ltd Group Finance Company Barbados Subsidiary 100% BAPL Holding Ltd Holding Company Mauritius Subsidiary 100% Acacia Exploration Kenya Ltd Exploration Kenya Subsidiary 100% CayCo Tz Ltd Holding Company Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% ABG Exploration Limited Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% Matinje Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Itobo Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Nyanzaga Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% Barrick Tanzanian Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% Barisun Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Prime Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% Kasubuya Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 60% KMCL Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% North Mara Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% Pangea Goldfields Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% Pangea Minerals Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 1051694 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% Acacia Mining SA Pty Ltd Shared Services South Africa Subsidiary 100% East Africa Gold Mines Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% Tusker Gold Limited Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 2 Indago Autan Proprietary Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 2 IDG Aurum Tanzania Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 IDG Aurum Holdings Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 IDG Kitongo Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 Vulcan Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 Aptian Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 2 Sub-Sahara Resources Tanzania Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% BUK West Africa Ltd Holding Company United Kingdom Subsidiary 100% ABG Exploration Mali SARL Exploration Mali Subsidiary 100% African Barrick Gold Ltd Holding Company United Kingdom Subsidiary 100% Bulyanhulu Holdings Pty Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% BUK Burkina Faso Ltd Holding Company United Kingdom Subsidiary 100% Acacia Burkina Faso Exploration SARL Exploration Burkina Faso Subsidiary 100% Nyakafuru Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania Joint Venture 51% 1 Exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of S448A of Companies Act 2006.
3 A list of registered addresses for each of these Group companies can be obtained from the Acacia Plc Office address, as stated above.
There are no restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the parent in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans or advances.
The joint ventures included in the table above are currently immaterial to the Group.
124 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
Significant accounting policies classification and measurement models in IAS 39 Financial The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these instruments: Recognition and measurement with a single model that consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies has initially only two classification categories: amortised cost and fair have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless value.
The adoption of the new standard did otherwise stated.
not have a significant impact on the Group.
a Basis of preparation IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
This standard The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared is a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as with customers to achieve greater consistency in the recognition adopted by the European Union IFRS, IFRS Interpretations Committee and presentation of revenue.
Revenue is recognised based on the IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 satisfaction of performance obligations, which occurs when control applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements of good or service transfers to a customer.
Effective 1 January 2018. are prepared on a going concern basis.
The adoption of the new standard did not have a significant impact on The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the Group.
the historical cost convention basis, as modified by the revaluation of Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Sharefinancial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments based Payment Transactions.
The amendments made to AASB 2 in at fair value through profit or loss.
July 2016 clarify the measurement basis for cash-settled share-based payments and the accounting for modifications that change an award The consolidated financial statements are presented in United States from cash-settled to equity-settled.
The dollars US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand standard did not have a significant impact on the Group.
US dollars except when otherwise indicated.
Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements and Where a change in the presentational format between the prior year and IAS28, Investments in associates and joint ventures on sale or current year financial statements has been made during the period, contribution of assets.
The IASB has issued this amendment to comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
No presentational eliminate the inconsistency between IFRS 10 and IAS 28.
The IASB changes were made in the current year.
decided to defer the application date of this amendment, until such The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS time this is not applicable.
The amendment did not have a significant requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires impact on the Group.
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the c New and amended standards and interpretations Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of not yet adopted judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates The following standards and amendments to existing standards have are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods in Note2d.
beginning on or after 1 January 2019: The impact of the seasonality on operations is not considered as IFRS 16 Leases.
IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17, Leases, IFRIC 4, significant on the consolidated financial information.
Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC 15, In assessing the Acacia Groups going concern status the Directors have Operating Leases Incentives and SIC 27, Evaluating the Substance taken into account the impact of the concentrate export ban on ongoing of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
IFRS 16 will affect operations as well as the following factors and assumptions: the current primarily the accounting by lessees and will result in the recognition of cash position: the latest mine plans, the short-term gold price, and almost all leases on balance sheet.
The standard removes the current Acacia Groups capital expenditure and financing plans.
In addition, the distinction between operating and financing leases and requires Directors have considered a range of scenarios around the various recognition of an asset the right to use the leased item and a financial potential outcomes for the resolution of the current operating challenges liability to pay rentals for virtually all lease contracts.
Effective 1 in Tanzania in the circumstances, including the cash flow impact of an January 2019.
Management has reviewed the impact of the new extended concentrate export ban: and the potential impacts of the timing standard in order to put all frameworks and systems in place.
Based on and final terms of any comprehensive settlement which might be initial investigation, the standard is not expected to have asignificant approved by the Company which reflect key terms of the framework impact on the Group, due to majority of our existing contracts being announcements made by Barrick and the Government of Tanzania GoT classified as short-term leases with contracts expiring within in October 2017, including the lifting of the concentrate export ban and 12months from the effective date as well as the majority of contracts staged payments of US$300 million relating to historical tax matters.
In relating to service agreements or the performance obligations based on addition, the Directors have assumed that the Group will not be required variable terms and thus not resulting in a right ofuse asset.
The group to settle its current outstanding borrowing obligations and will repay intends to apply the simplified transition approach and will not restate these in accordance with the current terms of the relevant agreements.
comparative amounts for the year prior to first adoption.
Right-of-use After making appropriate enquiries and considering the uncertainties assets for property leases will be measured on transition as if the new described above, the Directors consider that it is appropriate to adopt rules had always been applied.
All other right-of-use assets will be the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statement measured at the amount of the lease liability on adoption adjusted for however have concluded that the combination of the above any prepaid or accrued lease expenses.
circumstances represents a material uncertainty that may cast d Significant judgements in applying accounting policies significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
and key sources of estimation uncertainty The consolidated financial statement does not include any adjustments Many of the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements that would result if the Group was unable to continue as a going concern require management to make judgements and or estimates.
These should the assumptions referred to above prove not to be correct.
judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated and are based on managements experience and best knowledge of the relevant facts b New and amended standards adopted by the Group and circumstances, but actual results may differ from the amounts The following amendments to standards are applicable and were included in the consolidated financial statements.
The life of mine adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning plans are central to a number of key estimates.
Information about 1January 2018: such judgements and estimations is included in the accounting policies ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 125 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED e Basis of consolidation 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial and or notes to the consolidated financial statements, and the key position as at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, and operating areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement and key sources results and cash flows for the years then ended.
The consolidated of estimation uncertainty that have the most significant effect on the financial statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements include: the Company and companies controlled by the Company its Estimates subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities to which the Company is exposed For material estimates, sensitivities were included in the notes to the or has the rights to variable returns from its involvement and has the consolidated financial statements.
ability to affect those returns through its power.
Control exists when the Company has existing rights that give the ability to direct relevant Estimates of the quantities of proven and probable gold and copper activities, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement and reserves Note 2h.
the ability to use its power to affect the amount of returns.
The Estimates included within the life of mine planning such as the consolidated financial statements include all of the assets, liabilities, timing and viability of processing of long-term stockpiles Note 2n.
revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating intercompany transactions as noted above.
Review of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets carrying value, the determination of whether a trigger for an impairment review Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary exists, whether these assets are impaired and the measurement of to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
impairment charges or reversals Notes 2o, 2p, 2q, 2r, 19 and 20.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements The estimated fair values of Cash Generating Units for impairment from the date on which control passed to the Group, and have tests, including estimates of future costs to produce proven and been excluded from the date on which control transferred out of probable reserves, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates the Group.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and net and discount rates Notes 2r and 6. earnings attributable to non-controlling interests are presented as The estimated useful lives of tangible and long-lived assets and the Equity attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated measurement of depreciation expense Notes 2o and 19. balance sheet and Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests in Recognition of a provision for environmental rehabilitation and the the consolidated income statement, respectively.
estimation of the rehabilitation costs and timing of expenditure Notes f Business combinations 2u and 28.
On acquiring a business, the acquisition method of accounting is used, Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable, and in whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable net particular the indirect tax receivables from the GoT, a provision for assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Provisional obsolescence on consumables inventory and the impact of discounting fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months the non-current element of the indirect tax receivable Notes 2n, 2z, of the acquisition date.
When purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the initial Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for cost of the acquisition recorded includes an estimate of the fair value uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The and indirect taxes Notes 2z, 12 and 21. cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, Judgements with corresponding adjustments made to the income statement.
The capitalisation of production stripping costs Note 2i.
When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values of the identifiable The capitalisation of exploration and evaluation expenditures Notes 2l net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill, which and 8. is reviewed for impairment annually or when there is an indication Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases Notes 2o of impairment.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the and 19. identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference Whether to recognise a liability for loss contingencies and the amount is recognised in the income statement.
of any such provision Notes 2u, 28 and 34. g Foreign currency translation Determination of the cost incurred in the productive process of The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different ore stockpiles, gold in process, gold dor bullion and concentrate, currencies primarily US dollars, Tanzanian shillings shillings, South as well as the associated net realisable value and the split between the African rands rands, UK pounds sterling pounds and Australian long-term and short-term portions Notes 2n and 16. dollars.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated in US Determination of fair value of derivative instruments Notes 2w and 30. dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its main subsidiaries functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
Determination of fair value of share options and cash-settled sharebased payments Notes 2v and 25.
Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar are translated Judgements around the prospect, timing and final terms of any at the exchange rates as at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets comprehensive negotiated settlement that the Company might be able and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the US dollar are to agree with the GoT, including by reference to the key terms of the translated to US dollars at year-end exchange rates.
All differences framework announcements made in October 2017 by Barrick and the that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets GoT and including judgements around the timing and quantum of any measured at historical cost in a currency other than US dollars are cash outflows that might be made in respect of historical tax matters.
translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
Judgements around the timing of Bulyanhulus restart and production Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a currency ramp up.
other than US dollars they are translated into US dollars using the exchange rates on the date when the fair value was determined.
The following exchange rates to the US dollar have been applied: 126 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS j Revenue recognition Average As at Year ended Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence exists that all of the 31 December 31 December following criteria are met according to IFRS 15: 2018 2018 South African rand US$:ZAR 14.39 13.16 Identified contracts with customers: Tanzanian shilling US$:TZS 2,281 2,264 Identify the separate performance obligation: Australian dollar US$:AUD 1.42 1.34 Determine the transaction price of the contract: UK pound US$:GBP 0.78 0.75 Allocated the transaction price to each of the separate performance obligations: and Average As at Year ended Recognised the revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied.
31 December 31 December 2017 2017 For comparatives, revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence South African rand US$:ZAR 12.36 13.30 exists that all of the following criteria are met according to IAS 18: Tanzanian shilling US$:TZS 2,230.07 2,229.00 the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been Australian dollar US$:AUD 1.28 1.30 transferred to the buyer: UK pound US$:GBP 0.74 0.78 neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold has h Determination of ore reserves been retained: The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: on information compiled by Qualified Persons as defined in accordance it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will with the Canadian Securities Administrators National Instrument flow to the Group: and 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects requirements.
Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year.
Proven and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be probable 2P reserves, and for certain mines other mineral resources, measured reliably.
determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine Gold dor sales stripping ratios and for forecasting the timing of the payments related to Gold dor is unrefined gold bullion bars usually consisting of 90% gold that the environmental rehabilitation provision.
is refined to pure gold bullion prior to sale to our customers.
The sale of gold dor is classified as a single performance obligation, and revenue is In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral recognised at a point in time when control has passed to the customer.
resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree The sales price is based on the gold spot price at the time ofsale.
of confidence of economic extraction.
Concentrate sales There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, and Concentrate is a processing product containing the valuable ore mineral assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly gold, copper and silver from which most of the waste mineral has been when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of eliminated, that undergoes a smelting process to convert it into gold commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may bullion, copper and silver concentrate.
Under the terms of concentrate change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the sales contracts with independent smelting companies, gold, copper and reserves being revised.
The key assumptions above have been considered silver in concentrate is sold at trailing monthly average spot prices based as part of managements impairment assessment refer Note 6 on contract quotational periods.
i Stripping costs The sale of concentrate is classified as a single performance obligation, In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and revenue is recognised at a point in time when control has passed to and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be the customer.
Revenue is recorded at the shipped on board date, which extracted economically.
The process of mining overburden and waste is also when control pass to the smelting companies, using market materials is referred to as stripping.
Stripping costs incurred in order prices on the expected date that final sales prices will be fixed.
Variations to provide initial access to the ore body referred to as pre-production between the price recorded at the shipment date and the actual final stripping are capitalised as mine development costs.
price set under the smelting contracts are caused by changes in market Stripping costs incurred during the production stage of a pit are accounted prices, and result in an embedded derivative in accounts receivable.
for as the costs of the inventory produced during the period that the The embedded derivative is recorded at fair value each period until final stripping costs were incurred, unless these costs provide a future economic settlement occurs, with changes in fair value classified as provisional benefit to an identifiable component of the ore body.
Production phase price adjustments and included as a component of revenue.
stripping costs generate a future economic benefit when the related Co-products stripping activity: i improves access to a component of the ore body to be Revenue from the sale of co-products, such as copper and silver, mined in the future: ii increases the fair value of the mine or pit as access contained in dor or concentrates are recognised in revenue.
to future mineral reserves becomes less costly: iii increases the productive capacity or extends the productive life of the mine or pit.
For production k Cost of sales phase stripping costs that generate a future economic benefit, the current Cost of sales consists of direct mining costs which include personnel period stripping costs are capitalised as open pit mine development costs.
costs, general and administrative costs, energy costs principally diesel fuel and electricity, maintenance and repair costs, operating supplies, Capitalised open pit mine development costs are depreciated on a units external services, third-party smelting, refining and transport fees, of production basis whereby the denominator is the estimated ounces of and depreciation related to sales as well as production taxes and royalty recoverable gold in proven and probable reserves and the portion of expenses for the period.
Cost of sales is based on average costing for resources considered probable of economic extraction based on the contained or recoverable ounces sold as well as production taxes and current life of mine plan in the components of the ore body that have royalty expense for the period.
All costs are net of any impairment to been made more accessible through the stripping activity.
Capitalised reduce inventory to its net realisable value.
open pit mine development costs are depreciated once the open pit has entered production and the future economic benefit is being derived.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 127 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Evaluation expenditures incurred at operating mines development 2.
Significant accounting policies continued projects are capitalised as a component of property, plant and l Exploration and evaluation equipment, Mining properties and development costs, respectively.
Exploration expenditures Exploration expenditures relate to the initial search for mineral Acquired exploration and evaluation properties deposits with economic potential as well as expenditures incurred Exploration and evaluation stage properties acquired either as an for the purposes of obtaining more information about existing mineral acquisition of individual assets or as part of a business combination are deposits.
Exploration expenditures typically comprise costs that are capitalised as an intangible asset, Acquired exploration and evaluation directly attributable to: properties.
Exploration and evaluation stage properties represent interests in properties that do not have mineralised material classified researching and analysing existing exploration data: within proven and probable reserves.
The value of such properties is conducting geological studies: primarily driven by the nature and amount of mineralised material exploratory drilling and sampling for the purposes of obtaining core contained in such properties, including value attributable to the rights to samples and the related metallurgical assay of these cores: and explore or develop: i a property containing mineralised material drilling to determine the volume and grade of deposits in an area known classified as a measured, indicated or inferred resource: or ii a to contain mineral resources or for the purposes of converting mineral prospective greenfield property with significant exploration potential.
resources into proven and probable reserves.
Exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred on such properties subsequent to their acquisition are expensed as incurred until the Exploration expenditures incurred at greenfield sites sites where technical and commercial viability of developing the property has been the Group does not have any mineral deposits that are already being demonstrated under the same criteria described above for exploration mined or developed are typically expensed as incurred, unless it can and evaluation expenditures.
be demonstrated that the related evaluation expenditures will generate a future economic benefit.
Exploration expenditures incurred at m Earnings per share brownfield sites sites that are adjacent to a mineral deposit that is Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net profit for the period classified within proven and probable reserves and are already being attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average mined or developed are capitalised if the following criteria are met: number of Ordinary Shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if additional the drilling is being done in an inferred or measured and indicated Ordinary Shares are assumed to be issued under securities that entitle resource: and their holders to obtain Ordinary Shares in the future.
For share options, there is an existing proven and probable reserve that is contiguous the number of additional shares for inclusion in diluted earnings per or adjacent to where the drilling is being done: and share calculations is determined using the treasury share method.
it is probable that the resource will be converted to a proven and Under this method, share options, whose exercise price is less than probable reserve.
the average market price of our Ordinary Shares, are assumed to be exercised and the proceeds are used to repurchase Ordinary Shares The assessment of probability is based on the following factors: at the average market price for the period.
The incremental number results from previous drill programmes: results from a geological study: of Ordinary Shares issued under share options and repurchased from results from a mine scoping study confirming economic viability of the proceeds is included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
resource: and preliminary estimates of the volume and grade of the deposit, and the net cash flows expected to be generated from its n Inventories development.
Costs incurred at brownfield sites that meet the above Material extracted from the Groups mines is classified as either criteria are capitalised as a component of property, plant and equipment ore or waste.
Ore represents material that, at the time of extraction, mine development costs pursuant to IAS 16, Property, Plant and is expected to be processed into a saleable form and sold at a profit.
All other drilling and related exploration costs incurred Waste represents material that is required to be removed to access at these sites are expensed as mine site exploration.
Ore stockpiles are classified within inventory as material expenditures incurred for the purposes of determining additional is extracted from the open pit or underground mine.
Ore is accumulated information on a mineral deposit that is classified within proven and in stockpiles that are subsequently processed into gold in a saleable probable reserves or for the purposes of extending an existing mineral form under a mine plan that takes into consideration optimal scheduling deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves and is of production of our reserves, present plant capacity, and the market already being mined or developed are also capitalised as mine price of gold and copper.
Work in process inventory represents gold, development costs.
copper and silver in the processing circuit that has not completed the production process, and is not yet in a saleable form.
Finished goods Evaluation expenditures inventory represents gold in saleable form that has not yet been shipped.
Evaluation expenditures arise from a detailed assessment of deposits Mine operating supplies represent commodities and other raw materials or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential consumed in the production process, as well as spare parts and other in order to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability.
maintenance supplies that are not classified as capital items.
Inventories They typically include costs directly attributable to: are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with cost being detailed engineering studies: determined on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated by reference to the cost of inventory at the beginning of the examination and testing of extraction methods and metallurgical period together with the cost of inventory produced in a period.
treatment processes: surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements: Gold, copper and silver ore contained in stockpiles is measured by estimating the number of tonnes added and removed from the stockpile, permitting activities: and and the associated estimate of gold contained therein based on assay detailed economic evaluations to determine whether development data and applying estimated metallurgical recovery rates based on of the reserves is commercially justified, including the preparation the expected processing method.
Stockpile ore tonnages are verified of scoping, pre-feasibility and final feasibility studies.
Costs are allocated to ore stockpiles based on Evaluation expenditures incurred at greenfield and brownfield sites are quantities of material stockpiled using current mining costs incurred expensed as incurred, unless it can be demonstrated that the related up to the point of stockpiling the ore and include: direct labour costs: evaluation expenditures will generate a future economic benefit.
materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the 128 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS extraction of ore, including an allocation of stripping costs attributable Plant and equipment to current period production: an allocation of mine site overhead costs: Plant and equipment is recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation and depreciation of mining properties and property, plant and equipment and applicable impairment losses.
Cost includes all expenditures used in the extraction of ore, reduced by an allocation of capitalised incurred to prepare an asset for its intended use including: the stripping costs.
As ore is processed, costs are removed based on purchase price: brokers commissions: and installation costs including recoverable quantities of gold and the stockpiles average cost per unit.
architectural, design and engineering fees, legal fees, survey costs, Ore that is not expected to be processed in the 12 months following the site preparation costs, freight charges, transportation insurance costs, balance sheet date is classified as non-current.
Costs capitalised in process and finished goods inventory include: Costs that extend the productive capacity or useful economic life of an the cost of stockpiles processed: the cost of commodities and raw asset are capitalised.
Costs incurred that do not extend the productive materials consumed in the production process: direct labour: repair capacity or useful economic life of an asset are considered repairs and and maintenance costs: energy costs: depreciation of property, plant maintenance and expensed as incurred.
and equipment used in the production process: and an allocation The Group enters into leasing arrangements and arrangements that of mine site overhead costs.
Costs are removed from finished goods are in substance leasing arrangements.
The determination of whether inventory and recorded in cost of sales based on the average cost an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance per ounce of gold, copper and silver sold in the period.
of the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment Cost of mine operating supplies is the purchase cost, including allocated of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or freight costs where applicable.
assets or whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment after inception is only made in specific circumstances.
Provisions are recorded to reduce ore stockpiles, work in process and Leasing arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and finished goods inventory to net realisable value where the net realisable rewards of ownership of the asset to the Group are classified as value of the inventory is lower than its cost at each balance sheet date.
Net realisable value is determined with reference to relevant market prices less applicable variable selling expenses.
Provisions recorded also Finance leases are recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability reflect an estimate of the remaining costs of completion to bring the at an amount equal to the lower of the fair value of the leased property inventory into its saleable form.
Provisions are recorded to reduce mine and the present value at the beginning of the lease term of the minimum operating supplies to net realisable value, which is generally calculated lease payments over the term of the lease.
Each lease payment is by reference to its salvage or scrap value, when it is determined that the allocated between the liability and finance costs using the effective supplies are slow moving and or obsolete.
Provisions are reversed to interest method, whereby a constant rate of interest expense is reflect subsequent recoveries in net realisable value where the inventory recognised on the balance of the liability outstanding.
The interest is still on hand at the balance sheet date.
element of the lease is charged to the income statement as a finance expense.
The property, plant and equipment assets acquired under o Property, plant and equipment finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the Mineral properties and mine development costs asset and the lease term.
All other leases are classified as operating Mineral properties and mine development costs are stated at cost, leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in less accumulated depreciation and applicable accumulated impairment the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The acquisition cost of a mineral property is the estimated fair value of proven and probable reserves and measured, indicated Assets under construction and inferred resources acquired as a result of a business combination Assets in the course of construction at both our development projects or asset acquisition.
Where the asset is acquired separately, the and operating mines are capitalised in the assets under construction cost is given the fair value of the consideration given.
The cost of assets under construction comprises its purchase development costs include: pre-production stripping costs: production price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working stripping costs that result in a future economic benefit refer to Note 2i condition for its intended use, at which point it is transferred to property, for capitalisation criteria for stripping costs : costs incurred to access plant and equipment and depreciation commences.
Development reserves at underground mining operations: and exploration and projects are recorded at cost, less applicable accumulated impairment evaluation expenditures that result in a probable future economic losses.
Development projects represent interests in properties that benefit refer to Note 2i for capitalisation criteria for exploration and contain proven and probable reserves and where development activities evaluation expenditures.
The cost of development projects is composed of: the estimated fair value of development stage assets acquired as a result of Development costs incurred at underground mines to build new shafts, a business combination or an asset acquisition: and costs associated drifts and ramps that provide physical access to the underground ore with the construction of tangible assets, such as processing plants, are capitalised as incurred.
These costs can be incurred throughout permanent housing facilities and other tangible infrastructure associated the life of the underground mine.
Assets under construction also contain deposits on long lead items.
The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation activities is initially included in assets under construction and subsequently transferred to Mineral Properties.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 129 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Depreciation q Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment is depreciated, net of residual value, Intangible assets acquired by way of an asset acquisition or business over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter, on a combination are recognised if the asset is separable or arises from straight-line basis.
For mineral properties and mine development costs, contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on the economic benefits of the assets are consumed in a pattern which initial recognition.
On acquisition of a mineral property in the exploration is linked to the production level.
Such assets are depreciated on a unit stage, we prepare an estimate of the fair value attributable to the of production basis.
Depreciation commences when assets are available exploration potential, including mineral resources, if any, of that property.
In applying the units of production method, The fair value of the exploration potential is recorded as an intangible depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of gold, copper asset acquired exploration potential as at the date of acquisition.
and silver extracted from the mine or pit in the period as a percentage When an exploration stage property moves into development, any of the total quantity of material expected to be extracted in current acquired exploration intangible asset balance attributable to that and future periods based on estimates of recoverable proven and property is transferred to non-depreciable mining interests within probable reserves and, for some mines, mineral resources.
Such property, plant and equipment.
non-reserve material may be included in the depreciation calculations Impairment testing and the reversal of impairments are conducted where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction in accordance with accounting policy Note 2r.
and the production of the non-reserve material is reflected in the life of mineplan.
r Impairment of non-current assets Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or at any time during the Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an ore body and year if an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.
We review which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves are depreciated and test the carrying amounts of intangible assets when events or over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of that discrete changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be section.
Discrete sections include capitalised underground development recoverable.
costs or production stripping costs incurred for the purposes of providing access to specific ore blocks or areas of the mine and which only provide Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if there is an economic benefit over the period of mining that ore block or area.
any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Development costs incurred which benefit the entire ore body are An impairment loss shall be recognised for a CGU if, and only if, the depreciated over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of the recoverable amount of the unit is less than the carrying amount of the entire ore body.
The impairment loss shall first be allocated to goodwill and then to The expected depreciation rates of the major categories of assets are the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount asfollows: of each asset in the unit.
1 Mineral properties and development costs UOP An impairment loss recognised in prior years for non-financial assets Plant and equipment 4% 25% other than goodwill shall be reversed if, and only if, there has been Underground mobile equipment 14.3% 20% change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable Light vehicles and other mobile equipment 33.3% 50% amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
This reversal is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is limited Furniture, computer and office equipment 33.3% 50% to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of any 1 U OP indicates assets which are depreciated on the basis of units of production depreciation, had no impairment been recognised in prior years.
After UOP, in this case ounces of gold, copper and silver produced in a period divided by such a reversal, any depreciation charge is adjusted prospectively.
the total recoverable reserves and resources of gold, copper and silver expected to be mined based on the current life of mine plans.
The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the Each assets estimated residual value and useful life is reviewed, higher of value in use VIU being the net present value NPV and adjusted if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The estimate of of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair residual value and useful life is based on the physical condition and value less costs to dispose FVLCD.
Impairment assessments are life limitations of buildings, plant and equipment and the present conducted at the level of CGUs, which is the lowest level for which assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine for the identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other mining property and development cost asset.
Changes to the estimated assets.
Each operating mine and development project represents a residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
CGU for impairment testing purposes.
An impairment loss is recognised for any excess of carrying amount of a CGU over its recoverable amount.
p Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair The FVLCD of a CGU is based on an estimate of the amount that value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially determined based There is no active market for the Groups CGUs.
Consequently, FVLCD on provisional fair values.
Fair values are finalised within 12 months of is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future the acquisition date.
For non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, non-controlling cash flows of a CGU, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
interests are initially recorded based on the minorities proportion of the Cost to sell is based on managements best estimates of future selling fair values for the assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition.
costs at the time of calculating FVLCD.
Costs attributable to the sale of a CGU are not considered significant.
Goodwill that is acquired through business combinations is allocated to Cash Generating Units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
Each of the Groups CGUs that has an allocation of goodwill is also an operating segment as defined by IFRS 8.
Consequently, goodwill is tested for impairment at the individual CGU level.
Goodwill is not amortised: rather it is tested annually for impairment in accordance with accounting policy Note 2r.
Goodwill impairments are not reversible.
130 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The expected future cash flows utilised in the NPV model are derived s Other reserves from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of The Company did not exist until 12 January 2010, and did not become production and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine LOM the parent company for the Group until 22 February 2010 when plan for each CGU, which are updated on an annual basis.
The Groups the transfer of the members of the Group pursuant to the Pre-IPO LOM plans reflect proven and probable reserves and convertible Reorganisation was completed.
As part of the IPO Reorganisation in resources and are based on detailed research, analysis and modelling to 2010 a distributable reserve was created following a capital reduction.
optimise the internal rate of return for each CGU.
As such, these plans t Share capital consider the optimal level of investment, overall production levels and Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly sequence of extraction taking into account all relevant characteristics of attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity the ore body, including waste-to-ore tonnes ratios, ore grades, haul as a deduction from the proceeds.
distances, chemical and metallurgical properties impacting process recoveries and capacities of available extraction, haulage and processing u Provisions equipment.
Projected future revenues reflect the forecasted future Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation production levels at each CGU as detailed in the LOM plans.
Included legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that in these forecasts is the production of some mineral resources that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and do not currently qualify for inclusion in proven and probable ore reserves a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the where there is a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction.
effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined This is consistent with the approach that a market participant would by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that utilise in preparing a forecast of expected production levels.
Projected reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, future revenues also reflect the Groups estimate of long-term gold where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting prices, which is determined based on current prices, an analysis of the is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is expected total production costs of producers and forward pricing curves recognised as a finance cost.
and forecasts of expected long-term prices prepared by research Rehabilitation costs analysts.
These estimates often differ from current price levels, but this The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group methodology is consistent with how a market participant would assess normally give rise to obligations for environmental rehabilitation.
Rehabilitation works can include facility decommissioning and dismantling, The estimates of future cash costs of production and capital removal or treatment of waste materials and site and land rehabilitation.
expenditures are derived from the LOM plans for each CGU.
Costs The extent of work required and the associated costs are based on legal incurred in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US and constructive requirements and dependent on the requirements of dollars using expected long-term exchange rates based on the relevant relevant authorities and the Groups .
forward pricing curve for that currency.
Oil prices are a significant Provisions for the cost of each rehabilitation programme are recognised component, both directly and indirectly, of the expected cash costs of at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
Estimates for long-term oil prices used in the LOM plans are of disturbance increases over the life of an operation, the provision based on the spot price at the time, the forward pricing curve and is increased accordingly.
The major parts of the carrying amount of long-term oil price forecasts prepared by analysts.
provisions relate to tailings pond closure rehabilitation: demolition The discount rate applied to present value is based upon the real of buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and ongoing weighted average cost of capital applicable to the CGU.
The discount care and maintenance of closed mines.
Costs included in the provision rate reflects equity risk premiums over the risk-free rate, the impact encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity expected to occur of the remaining economic life of the CGU and the risks associated progressively over the life of the operation and at the time of closure with the relevant cash flows based on the country in which the CGU in connection with disturbances at the reporting date.
These risk adjustments are based on observed equity risk included in the determination of the provision reflect the risks and premiums, historical country risk premiums and average credit default probabilities of alternative estimates of cash flows required to settle swap spreads for the period.
the obligation at each particular operation.
Routine operating costs that may impact the ultimate closure and rehabilitation activities, such as In determining FVLCD, a market multiple is applied to the NPV of each waste material handling conducted as an integral part of a mining or CGU.
Gold companies typically trade at a market capitalisation that production process, are not included in the provision.
Costs arising is based on a multiple of their underlying NPV.
Consequently, a market from unforeseen circumstances, such as the contamination caused by participant would generally apply an NPV multiple when estimating unplanned discharges, are recognised as an expense and liability when the fair value of a gold property.
The NPV multiple utilised in the the event occurs that gives rise to an obligation and reliable estimates determination of the FVLCD of a CGU considers the NPV multiples of the required rehabilitation costs can be made.
These observed multiples are primarily derived from research analyst reports and take into The timing of the actual rehabilitation expenditure is dependent upon a consideration the following: i estimate of underlying NPV prepared by number of factors such as the life and nature of the asset, the operating the analyst: ii estimate of target market capitalisation prepared by the licence conditions and the environment in which the mine operates.
analyst: iii market capitalisation on the date of the analyst report: and Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for iv market capitalisation on the date of the impairment test.
The NPV an extended period of time depending on rehabilitation requirements.
multiple applied also takes into consideration the remaining economic The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid over periods life of the CGU.
For CGUs with a remaining economic life of five years or of up to 30 years with some payments into perpetuity.
Rehabilitation less, an NPV multiple on the lower end of the observed multiple range is provisions are measured at the expected value of future cash flows, utilised.
For other CGUs, the median observed NPV multiple is utilised.
discounted to their present value using a current, market-based estimate of the real risk-free pre-tax discount rates.
The unwinding of the discount The VIU of a CGU is generally lower than its FVLCD, due primarily to is included in finance expense and results in an increase in the amount the inclusion of future, as yet unapproved, capital expenditure when of the provision.
Provisions are updated each reporting period for the determining its FVLCD.
Consequently, the recoverable amount of a CGU effect of a change in the discount rate and the change in estimate is for impairment testing purposes is determined based on its FVLCD.
added or deducted from the related asset and depreciated prospectively over the assets useful life.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 131 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Long-term incentive plans 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The Company has a cash-settled, Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for Significant judgements and estimates are involved in forming select employees.
Under the terms of the RSU plan, selected employees expectations of future activities and the amount and timing of the are granted RSUs where each RSU has a value equal to one Ordinary associated cash flows.
Those expectations are formed based on existing Share of the Company.
RSUs granted to Executive Directors and the environmental and regulatory requirements or, if more stringent, Group other members of the Executive Leadership Team vest based on the environmental policies which give rise to a constructive obligation.
Companys total shareholder return TSR performance against the When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially recognised, market cap-weighted TSR of a comparator group of companies over the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing part the vesting period referred to as Performance RSUs.
RSUs vest over of the cost of acquiring the future economic benefits of the operation.
a two-and-a-half or three-year period and are settled in cash.
Additional The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation activities is recognised RSUs are credited to reflect dividends paid on Ordinary Shares of the in property, plant and equipment and depreciated accordingly.
Company during the vesting period with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
A liability for RSUs is measured at fair value on It is possible that managements estimates of provisions could change the grant date and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting as a result of changes in regulations, the extent of rehabilitation required, period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
and the means of reclamation or cost estimates.
Rehabilitation At the grant date the fair value of the awards is determined from the provisions are adjusted as a result of changes in estimates.
Those market value of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for any adjustments are accounted for as a change in the corresponding value of market based vesting conditions attached to the award e. g. relative the related asset, except where a reduction in the provision is greater TSR performance.
Changes in the fair value of the RSU liability, due to than the remaining net book value of the related assets, in which case changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the Company, are recorded the value is reduced to nil and the remaining adjustment is recognised in each period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
In the case of closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes to Compensation expenses recognised for RSUs incorporate an estimate the capitalised cost result in an adjustment to future depreciation and for expected forfeiture rates.
The expected forfeiture is estimated based finance expense.
On an annual basis, the Group reviews for changes in on historical forfeiture rates of the Group and expectations of future cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
Adjustments to compensation expense are recognised in periods where the actual forfeiture rate differs from the expected rate.
v Employee benefits The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation LTIP deferred share units plan the Share Option Plan, a long-term incentive plan the LTIP, Under the Deferred Share Unit DSU plan, the Non-Executive Directors a legacy restricted share unit plan the Legacy RSU Plan and can elect to receive all or part of their annual director fees in DSUs.
Each a deferred share unit plan the DSU Plan.
DSU has the same value as one Acacia Ordinary Share.
DSUs must be retained until the Director leaves the Board, at which time the cash value Share-based payments of the DSU is paid out.
Additional DSUs are credited to reflect dividends Share options paid on Acacia Ordinary Shares.
A liability for DSUs is measured at fair Share options can be granted under either the Company LTIP or the value on the grant date and is recognised on a straight-line basis over Share Option Plan.
The Company receives services from employees the vesting period, with a corresponding charge to the Directors as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
At the grant date the fair value of the awards is value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the determined from the market value of the shares at the date of award.
options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed Changes in the fair value of the DSU liability, due to changes in the price is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: of Ordinary Shares of the Company, are recorded each period, with including any market performance conditions: a corresponding charge to the Directors compensation expense.
excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance LTIP zero cost options vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and Members of the Executive Leadership Team are granted nil-cost options remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period : and where each option has a value equal to one Ordinary Share of the excluding the impact of any non-vesting conditions.
Nil-cost options granted vest subject to the assessment of the Companys TSR performance against a comparator group of companies Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about over the vesting period.
Nil-cost options vest over a five year period and the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is when exercised the Company may issue new shares, procure the transfer recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of existing shares to satisfy the exercise or settle the options in cash.
of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At the end of each A liability for nil-cost options is measured at fair value on the grant date reporting period, the Company revises its estimates of the number and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
At the grant date conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, the fair value of the awards is determined from the market value of the if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
shares at the date of award and adjusted for market based vesting When the options are exercised, the Company may issue new shares conditions attached to the award.
Changes in the fair value of the option or procure the transfer of existing shares to satisfy the exercise.
Where liability, due to changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the Company, shares are issued, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable are recorded each period, with a corresponding charge to the transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share compensation expense.
premium when the options are exercised.
The grant by the Company Compensation expenses recognised for nil-cost options incorporate of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary an estimate for expected forfeiture rates.
The expected forfeiture undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair is estimated based on historical forfeiture rates of the Group and value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant expectations of future forfeiture rates.
Adjustments to compensation date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase expense are recognised in periods where the actual forfeiture rate to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit differs from the expected rate.
132 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Defined contribution plan Derivatives The Groups Tanzanian employees are members of either the National Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative Social Security Fund NSSF or the Parastatal Pension Fund PPF, contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair which are defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on a plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all derivatives as: employees the benefits relating to the employee service in the current a hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm and prior periods.
The Group and employees both contribute 10% of the commitment fair value hedge : or employees gross salaries to the schemes.
The contributions are charged to the income statement when they are due.
b h edges of the income cost of a highly probable forecast transaction or commitment cash flow hedge : or Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee net investmenthedge.
accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group The Group documents at inception of the transaction the relationship recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk to either: terminating the employment of current employees according management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes sheet date are discounted to their present value.
in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Bonus plans The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where it is purposes are disclosed in Note 31.
Movements in the hedging reserve contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created are shown in other comprehensive income.
The full fair value of a hedging a constructive obligation.
derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the Other entitlements remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a The estimated monetary liability for employees accrued annual current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item leave entitlement at the balance sheet date is recognised as an is less than 12 months.
Trading derivatives are classified as a current expenseaccrual.
w Financial instruments a Fair value hedge From 1 January 2018, the Group the group classifies its financial assets Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify in the following measurement categories: those to be measured as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together subsequently at fair value either through OCI or through profit or loss : with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are and those to be measured at amortised cost.
attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
Cash and cash equivalents The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair income statement within other charges.
Changes in the fair value of value.
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents the hedge attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income include cash, and money market funds.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement within finance costs.
statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the Loans and receivables effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value, and are the period to maturity.
subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities b Cash flow hedge greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that classified as non-current assets, where the receivables are discounted are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other and held at their net present value.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, other other charges.
assets and cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the From 1 January 2018, the group assesses, on a forward-looking basis, periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the expected credit losses associated with its debt instruments carried the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
The gain or loss relating at amortised cost and FVOCI Fair Value through Other Comprehensive to the effective portion is recognised in the income statement.
The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition has been a significant increase in credit risk.
of a non-financial asset for example, inventory or fixed assets, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset.
The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in cost of goods sold in the case of inventory or in depreciation in the case of property, plant and equipment.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 133 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED z Taxes 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised income or directly in equity, respectively.
Current income tax When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid transferred to the income statement within other charges.
Management periodically evaluates positions c Net investment hedge taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where similarly to cash flow hedges.
appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the incomestatement.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting Embedded derivatives purposes.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates enacted Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with apply when the related deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are differences can be utilised.
separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary Financial liabilities differences, except: Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, facility to which it relates.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary subsequently held at amortised cost using the effective interest differences arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability rate method.
in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time x Finance income and finance expense of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the profit or loss: and effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the investments in subsidiaries deferred income tax assets are recognised estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available interestincome.
against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Interest is recognised as a borrowing cost on a time proportion basis The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs that relate directly each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer to the construction of property, plant and equipment during the time that probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all it is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use are or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each y Other income charges balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become Other income charges comprises one-off credits or costs relating to probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to non-routine transactions included in profit and loss.
credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate, if of a similar type, are of a nature or size that requires explanation in order to provide additional insight into the underlying business performance.
134 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates bb Leases that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries basis over the period of the lease.
raised and additional tax assessments issued, have been measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach.
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax assets lease payments.
against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes Each finance lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, Indirect tax are included in other liabilities.
The interest element of the finance Indirect tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment taken in indirect tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions or useful life of the asset and the lease term.
receivables where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be cc Dividend distribution paid to or received from the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively a liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which enacted by the balance sheet date.
If the receivable is expected to be the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
received in more than 12 months from year-end, the receivable is discounted and held at its present value.
Amounts expected to be dd Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale payable or receivable in more than 12 months are classified as nonThe Group classifies non-current assets or disposal groups as held for current assets or liabilities in the balance sheet, as appropriate.
sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use and a sale is considered aa Royalties highly probable.
Royalty arrangements based on mineral production are in place at each operating mine.
The primary type of royalty is a net smelter return They are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value NSR royalty.
Under this type of royalty the Group pays the holder an less costs to sell, except for assets such as deferred tax assets, assets amount calculated as the royalty percentage multiplied by the value of arising from employee benefits, financial assets and investment property gold production at market gold prices less third-party smelting, refining that are carried at fair value and contractual rights under insurance and transportation costs.
contracts, which are specifically exempt from this requirement.
The North Mara mine is also subject to a land royalty land tenements An impairment loss is recognised for any initial or subsequent write-down LT based on the net revenue derived from the open pit mines.
of the asset or disposal group to fair value less costs to sell.
A gain is recognised for any subsequent increases in fair value less costs to sell In addition, a new 1% clearing fee on mineral exports was introduced.
of an asset or disposal group, but not in excess of any cumulative These payments are being made under protest, without prejudice to impairment loss previously recognised.
A gain or loss not previously our MDAs.
recognised by the date of the sale of the non-current asset or disposal Royalty expense is recorded when revenue from the sale of gold, copper group is recognised at the date of derecognition.
and silver production is recognised.
Non-current assets including those that are part of a disposal group are The following percentages apply: not depreciated or amortised while they are classified as held for sale.
Interest and other expenses attributable to the liabilities of a disposal 1 Bulyanhulu 6% NSR group classified as held for sale continue to be recognised.
1 North Mara Nyabirama and Nyabigena pits 6% NSR, 1% LT 1 Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the assets of a North Mara Gokona pit and underground 6% NSR, 1.1% LT 1 2 disposal group classified as held for sale are presented separately from Buzwagi 6% NSR, 30% NPI the other assets in the balance sheet.
The liabilities of a disposal group 1 T he Group agreed to a voluntary 1% increase in the NSR royalty rate in 2012, and classified as held for sale are presented separately from other liabilities since early July 2017 satisfied the requirements imposed by new legislation as in the balance sheet.
regards the increased royalty rate applicable to metallic minerals such as gold, copper and silver of 6% 2016: 4%.
2 T he NPI is calculated as a percentage of profits realised from the Buzwagi mine after all capital, exploration and development costs and interest incurred in relation to the Buzwagi mine have been recouped and all operating costs relating to the Buzwagi mine have been paid.
No amount is currently payable.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 135 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Segment reporting The Group has only one primary product produced in a single geographic location, being gold produced in Tanzania.
In addition, until the fourth quarter of 2017 when the Group ceased gold concentrate production, the Group produced copper and silver as a co-product.
Reportable operating segments are based on the internal reports provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to evaluate segment performance, decide how to allocate resources and make other operating decisions.
After applying the aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds contained in IFRS 8, the Groups reportable operating segments were determined to be: North Mara gold mine: Bulyanhulu gold mine: Buzwagi gold mine: and a separate Corporate and Exploration segment, which primarily consists of costs related to other charges and corporate social responsibility expenses.
Segment results and carrying values include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment carrying values are disclosed and calculated as shareholders equity after adding back debt and inter-company liabilities, and subtracting cash and inter-company assets.
Segment liabilities are not reported since they are not considered by the CODM as material to segment performance.
Capital expenditures comprise additions to property, plant and equipment.
The Group has also included segment cash costs per ounce sold and all-in sustaining cost per ounce sold non-IFRS financial performance measures.
Segment information for the reportable operating segments of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 is set out overleaf.
Segment information for the reportable operating segments of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 is set out below.
For the year ended 31 December 2018 in thousands of United States dollars, except per ounce amounts North Mara Bulyanhulu Buzwagi Other Total Gold revenue 421,332 52,718 185,979 660,029 Co-product revenue 1,900 998 862 3,760 Total segment revenue 423,232 53,716 186,841 663,789 1 Segment cash operating cost 198,121 25,893 133,647 357,661 Realised gains on gold hedges 1,183 601 1,784 Corporate administration 12,115 1,820 4,632 5,246 23,813 Share-based payments 117 456 116 381 74 Exploration and evaluation costs 13,343 13,343 Other charges and corporate social responsibility expenses 12,998 34,352 3,617 6,061 44,906 2 EBITDA 201,064 7,893 45,662 12,909 225,924 Impairment charges 28,877 28,877 4 Depreciation and amortisation 61,632 23,144 2,478 1,243 88,497 2 EBIT 139,432 31,037 43,184 43,029 108,550 Finance income 1,421 Finance expense 13,200 Profit before taxation 96,771 Tax expense 37,905 Net profit for the year 58,866 Capital expenditure: Sustaining 25,513 3,164 3,503 336 32,516 Expansionary 8,335 3,899 12,234 Capitalised development 47,496 47,496 81,344 7,063 3,503 336 92,246 Non-cash capital expenditure adjustments Reclamation asset adjustment 865 1,955 5,665 8,485 Other non-cash capital expenditure 820 820 Total capital expenditure 80,479 5,108 2,162 1,156 84,581 Segmental cash operating cost 198,121 25,893 133,647 357,661 Deduct: co-product revenue 1,900 998 862 3,760 Total cash costs 196,221 24,895 132,785 353,901 Sold ounces 332,195 41,555 146,630 520,380 2 Cash cost per ounce sold 591 599 906 680 Corporate administration charges 36 44 32 46 Share-based payments 11 1 Rehabilitation accretion and depreciation 7 28 7 9 Corporate social responsibility expenses 11 50 10 17 Capitalised stripping UG development 143 91 Sustaining capital expenditure 78 76 23 62 2 All-in sustaining cost per ounce sold 866 786 977 905 3 Segment carrying value 277,064 588,292 195,467 45,746 1,106,569 136 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2017 in thousands of United States dollars, except per ounce amounts North Mara Bulyanhulu Buzwagi Other Total Gold revenue 406,917 134,110 203,267 744,294 Co-product revenue 1,296 2,937 2,988 7,221 Total segment revenue 408,213 137,047 206,255 751,515 1 Segment cash operating cost 163,001 93,521 98,417 354,939 Realised gains on gold hedges 1,294 1,399 2,693 Corporate administration 8,313 6,314 5,694 6,592 26,913 Share-based payments 511 593 349 6,783 8,236 Exploration and evaluation costs 571 24,258 24,829 Other charges and corporate social responsibility expenses 13,243 52,916 13,605 18,819 98,583 2 EBITDA 225,461 15,682 90,287 42,886 257,180 Impairment charges 837,921 12,261 850,182 4 Depreciation and amortisation 54,826 46,531 4,288 556 106,201 2 EBIT 170,635 900,134 85,999 55,703 699,203 Finance income 1,944 Finance expense 12,407 Loss before taxation 709,666 Tax credit 2,272 Net profit for the year 707,394 Capital expenditure: Sustaining 20,927 9,033 4,338 1,259 35,557 Expansionary 10,270 1,190 113 11,573 Capitalised development 61,066 39,543 100,609 92,263 49,766 4,338 1,372 147,739 Non-cash capital expenditure adjustments Reclamation asset adjustment 2,951 4,158 1,978 9,087 Other non-cash capital expenditure 1,212 1,212 Total capital expenditure 89,312 45,608 2,360 2,584 139,864 Segmental cash operating cost 163,001 93,521 98,417 354,939 Deduct: co-product revenue 1,296 2,937 2,988 7,221 Total cash costs 161,705 90,584 95,429 347,718 Sold ounces 324,455 107,855 160,552 592,861 2 Cash cost per ounce sold 498 840 594 587 Corporate administration charges 26 59 35 45 Share-based payments 2 6 2 14 Rehabilitation accretion and depreciation 11 20 5 11 Corporate social responsibility expenses 11 10 8 14 Capitalised stripping UG development 188 367 170 Sustaining capital expenditure 71 83 27 62 2 All-in sustaining cost per ounce sold 803 1,373 667 875 3 Segment carrying value 249,170 600,359 194,385 82,864 1,126,778 1 T he CODM reviews cash operating costs for the three operating mine sites separately from corporate administration costs & exploration costs.
Consequently, the Group has reported costs in this manner.
2 T hese are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning under IFRS.
Refer to Non IFRS measures on page 182 for definitions.
3 Segment carrying values are calculated as shareholders equity after adding back debt and intercompany liabilities, and subtracting cash and intercompany assets and include outside shareholders interests.
4 Depreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation component of the cost of inventory sold.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 137 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
Revenue For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Gold dor sales 720,755 660,029 Gold concentrate sales 23,539 Copper concentrate sales 4,001 Silver sales 3,760 3,220 Total 663,789 751,515 1 C oncentrate sales includes negative provisional price adjustments to the accounts receivable balance due to changes in market gold, silver and copper prices prior to final settlement as follows: US$3.6 million for the year ended 31 December 2017.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 2 Revenue by location of customer Europe Switzerland 121,133 140,691 Germany 11,615 Asia India 542,656 582,943 China 437 Japan 15,829 Total revenue 663,789 751,515 2 Revenue by location of customer is determined based on the country to which the gold is delivered.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2018 was made up of sales to two customers.
Cost of sales For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Direct mining costs 304,614 299,591 Third-party smelting costs 2,679 9,675 1 Depreciation 88,497 106,201 Realised gains losses on economic hedges 446 743 Realised gains on gold hedges 1,784 2,693 Royalty expense 50,814 44,930 2 Total 444,374 458,447 1 Depreciation includes the depreciation component relating to the cost of inventory sold.
2 Cost of sales less depreciation equals cash operating costs.
138 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
Impairment assessment In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IAS 38 Intangible Assets a review for impairment of goodwill is undertaken annually, or at any time an indicator of impairment is considered to exist, and in accordance with IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment a review for impairment of long-lived assets is undertaken at any time an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.
At the end of the reporting period, there remained a number of potential triggers for impairment testing, including the ongoing uncertainty surrounding a potential resolution of the Companys disputes with the GoT, the revised Bulyanhulu business model, the updated geological models at North Mara and Bulyanhulu and the fact that the Companys market capitalisation has been lower than its carrying value during the current reporting period.
As a result, the Group has undertaken a carrying value assessment of its affected CGUs and long life intangible assets.
The assessment compared the recoverable amount of CGU to the carrying value of the CGUs.
The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use VIU, being the net present value NPV of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair value less costs to dispose FVLCD.
The FVLCD of a CGU is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
There is no active market for the Groups CGUs.
Consequently, FVLCD is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future cash flows of a CGU, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
Cost to dispose is based on managements best estimates of future selling costs at the time of calculating FVLCD.
Costs attributable to the disposal of a CGU are not considered significant.
For the purpose of carrying value assessments in accordance with applicable accounting standards, management has based its calculation of future cash flows of the affected CGUs by reference to the key terms of the Framework announcements by Barrick and by the GoT in October 2017.
Based on Barricks announcements, and absent any changes in its position in discussions and exchanges with Acacia, Acacia understands that it remains Barricks belief that it will be able to agree with the GoT a detailed proposal for a comprehensive settlement of the situation, and that this will be in a form that Barrick could recommend to Acacia for review.
Key assumptions applied in these calculations include a 50% economic share of future economic benefits for the GoT in the form of taxes, royalties and a 16% free carry interest in the CGUs, as well as a US$300 million payment in relation to historical tax claims paid in instalments as concentrate sales recommence.
In addition the Framework announcements provided for Acacia to contribute certain monies to fund specific projects in Tanzania.
With no updated information from Barrick, management has had to make a best estimate of what can reasonably be assumed for timing of conclusion of discussions between Barrick and the GoT and an agreement of a proposal to be put to the Company for review, with consequent timing for the commencement of concentrate sales and potential resumption of underground mining at Bulyanhulu.
Management considers that it is reasonable for review purposes to assume a six month prolongation to the end of H1 2019 to the discussions between Barrick and the GoT, and that in these circumstances there would be a further three to six months delay thereafter for the resumption of concentrate sales and exports, with concentrate revenues commencing in Q1 2020 and the resumption of production from underground mining at Bulyanhulu in late 2020.
VAT refunds are assumed to recommence and historic carried forward tax losses are assumed to continue to be available to offset against future taxable profits from 1 January 2020.
Acacia has been providing support to Barrick to seek to ensure that they can have informed discussions with the GoT, but has not received for review a detailed proposal that has been agreed between Barrick and the GoT, and therefore no conclusions can be made by Acacia as to whether any particular terms of settlement would be approved by Acacia.
In the meantime, Acacia continues to reserve its rights including under our Mineral Development Agreements, the disputes between Acacia and the GoT have not yet been resolved, and PML and BGML remain in international arbitration with the GoT.
Acacia continues to prefer a negotiated resolution, but there remain a range of potential outcomes to the current situation.
Acacia considers that, in conducting the review of carrying values in accordance with applicable accounting standards as at 31 December 2018, the discount rate used should: a reflect the uncertainty around the final terms of any comprehensive settlement that might be agreed or whether settlement will be reached at all, and b best reflect the potential reduction in value as a result of the proposed 16% free carry interest for the GoT which cannot otherwise be included in calculations of value at a CGU level conducted on a 100% basis.
Therefore, for the purposes of the carrying value review of the affected CGUs, we have kept a discount rate of 11% compared to Acacias calculated weighted average cost of capital of 6.5% 2017: 11%.
Using the latest information received and updated with the latest understanding of the framework agreement between Barrick and the GoT, the carrying values of all our assets are below the Companys view of its recoverable values.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 139 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
Impairment assessment continued The carrying value for the Group is now approximately US$1.1 billion, made up of US$0.6 billion for Bulyanhulu, US$0.3 billion for North Mara and US$0.2 billion for Buzwagi.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Gold price per ounce US$1,200 US$1,200 Copper price per pound US$2.75 US$2.75 British Pound US$:GBP 0.76 0.76 Tanzanian Shilling US$:TZS 2,250 2,250 Long-term oil price per barrel US$70 US$60 WACC 6.5% 6.5% Discount rate used in carrying value review 11% 11% NPV multiples 1 1 During the year, OreCorp, Acacias JV partner in the Nyanzaga Project in Tanzania, executed its option under the earn-in agreement to increase its stake to 51% in the project through the payment of US$3 million to Acacia.
Further to that, Acacia signed a completion agreement to sell its remaining 49% stake to OreCorp for US$7 million and a net smelter royalty capped at US$15 million based on future production.
In line with the applicable accounting standard and driven by the uncertainty surrounding the current environment, management did not recognise an asset for the right to the royalty.
As a result of the agreement, and managements commitment to a sale, Acacia expects to recover the value of the asset through sale and not through value in use and as such has valued the asset at fair value less costs to sell of US$10 million and recorded an impairment charge of US$24.2 million and reclassified the associated non-current assets and liabilities to held for sale on the balance sheet.
In addition, as part of the year-end carrying value assessment we have impaired US$3.2 million of property plant and equipment mainly relating to previously capitalised drilling costs in Tanzania and US$1.5 million relating to other historical exploration assets.
The impairment charges recognised in the income statement for the periods ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017 comprise thefollowing: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Bulyanhulu 837,921 1 Nyanzaga exploration property & other exploration assets 28,877 12,261 Gross impairment charge 28,877 850,182 Comprising: Impairment of goodwill 121,546 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 3,167 686,375 Impairment of supplies inventory 30,000 Impairment of intangible assets 24,234 12,261 Impairment of other exploration assets liabilities 1,476 Gross impairment charge, before tax 28,877 850,182 Deferred income tax 205,912 Total impairment charge 28,877 644,270 1 The Nyanzaga exploration property & other exploration assets are located in Tanzania.
Acquired mineral interests exploration and evaluation assets are classified as intangible assets and have indefinite useful lives.
Managements view is that the recoverable values are most sensitive to changes in the assumptions around gold prices, discount rates and the timing of the resolution of the export ban.
As a result, sensitivity calculations were performed for these assumptions.
The sensitivity analysis is based on a decrease in the long-term gold price of US$100 per ounce, and an increase in the discount rate of 1%, and a delay of resolution by 12months.
Under these scenarios, a reasonably possible decrease in the gold price assumption of US$100 per ounce would result in an impairment charge, net of tax, of approximately US$17 million at Buzwagi while North Mara and Bulyanhulu remain unaffected.
A reasonably possible increase in discount rate of 1% would not result in any additional impairment charges.
A further delay of 12 months in the resolution of the export ban will also not result in any additional impairment charges.
Should a negotiated resolution of the current situation not eventuate, the recoverable values of the identified CGUs may be further impacted, and these will be reviewed at such time.
140 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
Employee benefits For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Wages and salaries 39,410 67,400 Pension and social security costs 5,142 8,722 1 Other employee benefits 33,274 59,045 2 Share-based compensation charge 600 7,655 Total 78,426 127,512 1 Other employee benefits include bonuses, leave pay, pensions, medical expenses, severance costs 2018: US$3.0 million: 2017: US$22.0 million and other benefits.
2 S hare-based compensation charges include costs incorporated in corporate administration, cost of sales and other charges as applicable to the relevant employees.
Further details of the Groups share options and other share-based compensation plans are provided in note 25.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December Average number of employees per month 2018 2017 Operations 1,272 2,495 Exploration 71 43 Administration 200 210 Total average headcount 1,543 2,748 8.
Exploration and evaluation costs The following represents a summary of exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred at each site.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Expensed during the year: North Mara Bulyanhulu 571 Kenya 6,222 12,208 West Africa 5,517 11,119 1 Other 1,603 931 Total expensed 13,343 24,829 Capitalised during the year: Bulyanhulu 1,790 North Mara 8,335 10,270 Total 10,125 35,099 1 I ncluded in other are the exploration activities conducted through ABG Exploration Limited.
All primary greenfield exploration and evaluation activities in Tanzania are conducted in this company.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 141 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
Other charges net For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Other expenses Restructuring costs 5,337 25,077 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 13,276 Bulyanhulu reduced operations costs 28,817 24,804 Foreign exchange losses 5,291 2,710 Disallowed indirect taxes 2,552 Unrealised non-hedge derivative losses 2,295 Legal costs 28,420 14,421 Once off legal settlements 3,030 5,083 Project development costs 1,485 Inventory write-downs 1,500 Other 6,935 5,573 Total 82,677 93,929 Other income Unrealised non-hedge derivative gains 200 Gain on sale of mineral royalty 45,000 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 578 Insurance proceeds 842 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 163 Other 3,359 Total 46,583 3,559 Total other charges net 36,094 90,370 10.
Auditors remuneration During the year the Group including its subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditors: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Audit fees Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 506 447 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 479 437 Audit-related assurance services 216 227 Tax compliance services 163 66 Other taxation services 106 214 Other services 10 10 Total 1,480 1,401 11.
Finance income For the For the period ended period ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Interest on time deposits 146 Total 146 Finance costs For the For the period ended period ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Bank charges 11 13 Total 11 13 142 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b.
Finance expense For the For the year year ended ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 1 Unwinding of discount 3,627 3,364 2 Revolving credit facility charges 2,302 2,341 Interest on CIL facility 1,878 2,911 Premium on gold put options 3,877 2,113 Interest on finance leases 204 Bank charges 440 583 Other 1,076 891 Total 13,200 12,407 1.
The unwinding of discount is calculated on the environmental rehabilitation provision.
Included in credit facility charges are the amortisation of the fees related to the revolving credit facility as well as the monthly interest and facility fees.
Tax expense For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Current tax: Current tax on profits for the year 36,539 35,667 1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3,120 172,000 Total current tax charge 39,659 207,667 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,754 209,939 Total deferred tax 1,754 209,939 Income tax expense 37,905 2,272 1 The prior year charge included in 2018 relates to 2017 final tax adjustments at North Mara.
Included in 2017 is a provision for uncertain tax positions of US$68.5 million relating to North Mara and US$103.5 million relating to Bulyanhulu, for uncertain tax positions, based on an estimate of the impact of a comprehensive settlement reflecting the key terms of the framework announcements made by Barrick and the GoT in October 2017.
Income tax expense is recognised based on managements estimate of the weighted average effective annual income tax rate expected for the full financial year.
The effective annual tax rate used for the year ended 31 December 2018 is 39%, compared to 0.4% for the prior year.
The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the profits of the consolidated entities as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Profit loss before tax 96,771 709,666 Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits in the respective countries 30,932 209,074 Tax effects of: 2 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 7,270 49,142 Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 3,622 9,611 Utilisation of previously recognised tax losses 11,414 25,594 Adjustment is respect of prior years provisions etc.
6,102 172,000 Other permanent differences 1,393 1,643 Tax charge credit 37,905 2,272 2 Mainly relates to the impairment accounts written off as part of the other exploration entities recoverability reviews and in 2017 it relates to impairment charges relating to goodwill, intangibles and supplies inventory.
In December 2017, Acacia raised an additional tax provision of US$172 million relating to the estimated uncertain tax positions for its operating companies.
Acacia based its calculation on an estimate of the impact of a comprehensive settlement reflecting the key terms of the framework announcements made by Barrick and the GoT in October 2017, including in respect of historical tax claims.
This brought total provisions for Acacias uncertain tax positions to US$300 million.
No additional provision has been raised for 2018.
Acacia continues to reserve and protect all its legal rights, as noted above and including through the arbitrations commenced by Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited and Pangea Minerals Limited, and no liability has been incurred by Acacia as a result of the framework announcements.
The additional provision was required, however, to meet applicable accounting standards requiring assessment of current obligations for accounting purposes based on an assessment of relevant cash outflows from the relevant operating companies in respect of uncertain tax positions.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 143 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
Tax expense continued Tax periods remain open to review by the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of tax periods remain open to review by tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
Earnings loss Per Share EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit loss for the period attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
Diluted earnings loss per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has dilutive potential Ordinary Shares in the form of stock options.
The weighted average number of shares is adjusted for the number of shares granted assuming the exercise of stock options.
At 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, earnings loss per share have been calculated as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Earnings loss Net profit loss attributable to owners of the parent 58,866 707,394 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 410,085,499 410,085,499 Adjusted for dilutive effect of stock options Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 410,085,499 410,085,499 Earnings loss per share Basic earnings loss per share cents 14.4 172.5 Dilutive earnings loss per share cents 14.4 172.5 14.
Dividends Acacia has a cash flow based dividend policy where we aim to pay a dividend of between 15-30% of our operational cash flow after sustaining capital and capitalised development but before expansion capital and financing costs.
As a result of the continuing inability to export concentrates following the imposition of the concentrate export ban in 2017, the uncertainty around a resolution of the ongoing dispute between the Company and the GoT, and current liquidity requirements, the Board of Directors has not recommended any dividends for 2018.
Cash flow other items a Operating cash flows other items Movements relating to working capital items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 1 Indirect and corporate taxes 54,344 89,560 Increase in indirect tax receivable 11,927 51,703 Income tax paid Final 4,187 3,257 Income tax paid Provisional 38,230 34,600 Other current assets 464 10,774 Trade receivables 6,392 745 2 Inventories 5,678 172,180 3 Other liabilities 2,867 7,301 3 Share based payments 1,303 1,780 4 Trade and other payables 22 31,170 5 Other working capital items 407 1,071 Total 57,765 313,091 1 During the year, we made US$42.4 million 2017: US$37.9 million at December corporate tax payments.
This was funded through an offset against indirect taxes that were due for refund.
2 The inventory adjustment includes the movement in current as well as the non-current portion of inventory.
3 The other liabilities adjustment mainly relates to the revaluation of future share-based payments.
During the year, share-based payments of US$1.3 million 2017: US$1.8 million were made.
4 The trade and other payables adjustment exclude statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
5 Other working capital items include exchange rate losses associated with working capital.
144 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other non-cash items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Adjustments for non-cash income statement items: Foreign exchange losses 4,834 2,900 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 578 13,276 Provisions added 7,550 Provisions settled 3,434 Movement in derivatives 2,480 1,495 Share option expense 27 Provisional tax offsets Other non-cash items 183 92 Exchange loss on revaluation of cash balances 457 190 Total 3,942 22,160 b Investing cash flows other items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Other long-term receivables 499 194 Rehabilitation expenditure 4,689 3,106 Total 4,190 2,912 16.
Inventories For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Raw materials Ore in stockpiles 34,974 22,253 2 Mine operating supplies 125,885 117,946 Work in process 3,509 5,103 Finished products Gold dor bullion 8,900 7,078 1 Gold, copper and silver concentrate 139,641 139,500 Total current portion of inventory 312,909 291,880 Non-current ore in stockpiles 118,198 133,550 Total 431,107 425,430 1 Gold, copper and silver concentrate on hand includes approximately 186,000 ounces of gold contained in concentrate, approximately 12.1 million pounds of copper contained in concentrate and approximately 159,000 ounces of silver contained in concentrate.
The value of the Gold, copper and silver concentrate on hand relate to finished products at Bulyanhulu US$88.2 million and Buzwagi US$51.4 million due to the inability to export concentrate since March 2017.
Approximately 26,000 ounces of gold contained in concentrate, approximately 1.6 million pounds of copper and approximately 19,000 ounces of silver contained in concentrate are currently being held at the port and warehouses.
2 Mine operating supplies are net of a provision for obsolescent stock of US$65.2 million 2017: US$56.5million.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in the cost of sales amounts to US$99.5 million 2017: US$132.2 million relating to consumables, fuel and lubricants and a change in inventory charge of US$7.8 million compared to a credit in 2017 of US$140.9 million.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 145 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
Trade and other receivables As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Trade and other receivables: Amounts due from dor and concentrate sales 63 18 Amounts due from realised gains on gold put options 1,356 1,356 Amounts due from royalty income 1,453 1,453 Other receivables 9,363 16,156 Due from related parties 40 40 Less: Provision for doubtful debt on other receivables 582 938 Total 11,693 18,085 1 Other receivables relates to employee and supplier backcharge-related receivables and refundable deposits.
Trade receivables other than concentrate receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90-day terms.
Concentrate receivables are generally on 60-120-day terms depending on the terms per contract.
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
The carrying value of trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any credit losses.
From 1 January 2018, the group assesses, on a forward-looking basis, the expected credit losses associated with its debt instruments carried at amortised cost and FVOCI Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income.
The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Cash at bank and on hand 77,444 65,246 Money market funds 52,751 15,267 Total 130,195 80,513 146 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Property, plant and equipment Mineral properties and mine For the year ended 31 December 2018 Plant and development Assets under in thousands of United States dollars equipment costs construction Total At 1 January 2018, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment 245,568 486,059 38,947 770,574 Additions 92,246 92,246 Non-cash reclamation asset adjustments 8,485 8,485 Other non-cash adjustments 820 820 Disposals write-downs 196 196 2 Impairment 3,167 3,167 3 Depreciation 42,327 47,962 90,289 Transfers between categories 39,283 59,258 98,541 Transfers to held for sale assets 690 690 At 31 December 2018 235,055 493,498 32,652 761,205 At 1 January 2018 Cost 1,943,643 1,887,068 38,947 3,869,658 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,698,075 1,401,009 3,099,084 Net carrying amount 245,568 486,059 38,947 770,574 At 31 December 2018 Cost 1,974,960 1,945,636 32,652 3,953,248 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,739,905 1,452,138 3,192,043 Net carrying amount 235,055 493,498 32,652 761,205 Mineral properties and mine For the year ended 31 December 2017 Plant and development Assets under in thousands of United States dollars equipment costs construction Total At 1 January 2017, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment 553,993 842,019 47,164 1,443,176 Additions 147,739 147,739 Non-cash reclamation asset adjustments 9,087 9,087 Other non-cash adjustments 1,212 1,212 Disposals write-downs 123 123 2 Impairment 274,608 411,767 686,375 3 Depreciation 71,984 53,984 125,968 Transfers between categories 46,165 109,791 155,956 At 31 December 2017 245,568 486,059 38,947 770,574 At 1 January 2017 Cost 1,914,522 1,777,277 47,164 3,738,963 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,360,529 935,258 2,295,787 Net carrying amount 553,993 842,019 47,164 1,443,176 At 31 December 2017 Cost 1,943,643 1,887,068 38,947 3,869,658 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,698,075 1,401,009 3,099,084 Net carrying amount 245,568 486,059 38,947 770,574 1 Assets under construction represents a sustaining capital expenditures incurred constructing property, plant and equipment related to operating mines and advance deposits made towards the purchase of property, plant and equipment: and b expansionary expenditure allocated to a project on a business combination or asset acquisition, and the subsequent costs incurred to develop the mine.
Once these assets are ready for their intended use, the balance is transferred to plant and equipment and or mineral properties and mine development costs.
2 The impairment in 2017 relates to property, plant and equipment at Bulyanhulu.
3 The lower depreciation expense compared to the prior year was as a result of the 2017 impairment of property, plant and equipment at Bulyanhulu.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 147 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19.
Property, plant and equipment continued Leases Property, plant and equipment includes assets relating to the design and construction costs of power transmission lines and related infrastructure.
At completion, ownership was transferred to TANESCO in exchange for amortised repayment in the form of reduced electricity supply charges.
Nofuture lease payment obligations are payable under these finance leases.
Property, plant and equipment also includes four drill rigs purchased under short-term finance leases.
The following amounts were included in property, plant and equipment where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Cost capitalised finance leases 51,618 51,618 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 44,301 42,948 Net carrying amount 7,317 8,670 20.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets Acquired exploration and For the year ended 31 December 2018 evaluation 1 in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total At 1 January, net of accumulated impairment 6,352 76,031 82,383 Disposals write-downs 32 32 2 Impairment 24,234 24,234 3 Reclassified as non-current asset held for sale 19,017 19,017 At 31 December 2018 6,352 32,748 39,100 At 31 December 2018 Cost 401,250 93,793 495,043 Accumulated impairment 394,898 61,045 455,943 Net carrying amount 6,352 32,748 39,100 Acquired exploration and For the year ended 31 December 2017 evaluation in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total At 1 January, net of accumulated impairment 127,898 88,292 216,190 Impairment 121,546 12,261 133,807 At 31 December 2017 6,352 76,031 82,383 At 31 December 2017 Cost 401,250 112,842 514,092 Accumulated impairment 394,898 36,811 431,709 Net carrying amount 6,352 76,031 82,383 1 Exploration and evaluation assets classified as intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
2 Impairments recognised in 2018 relate to the Nyanzaga exploration property located in Tanzania US$24.2 million.
Refer to note 6 for further details.
3 Intangible assets related to the Nyanzaga exploration property have been reclassified as non-current asset for sale as a result of managements intention to sell the property.
148 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Tax losses 570,416 599,569 Total 570,416 599,569 The above tax losses, which translate into deferred tax assets of approximately US$159 million 2017: US$165 million, have not been recognised in respect of these items due to uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, or there being uncertainty regarding future taxable income against which these assets can be utilised.
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Balance sheet classification Assets Liabilities Net in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Property, plant and equipment 201,307 196,921 201,307 196,921 Provisions 7,975 8,293 7,975 8,293 Interest deferrals 69 59 57 542 12 483 Tusker acquisition 6,235 6,235 Tax loss carry-forwards 271,495 265,326 271,495 265,326 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 279,539 273,678 201,364 203,698 78,175 69,980 Legal entities Assets Liabilities Net in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 North Mara Gold Mine Ltd 97,918 91,321 97,918 91,321 Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd 169,239 160,600 169,239 160,600 Pangea Minerals Ltd 6,681 8,258 6,681 8,258 Other 173 655 8,212 173 7,557 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 176,093 169,513 97,918 99,533 78,175 69,980 Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses in respect of enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued by the TRA, have been measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach resulting in the recognition of all applicable deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Alternative acceptable measurement policies e. g. on a weighted average expected outcome basis could result in a change to deferred tax assets and liabilities being recognised, and the deferred tax charge in the income statement.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences, and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to US$427 million 2017: US$412 million.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 149 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Other assets a Other current assets As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Current portion of indirect tax receivables 68,102 38,285 1 Other receivables and advance payments 31,405 31,870 Total 99,507 70,155 1 Other receivables and advance payments relate to prepayments for insurance and income taxes offset against outstanding refunds for VAT and fuel levies and current amounts receivable from the NSSF of US$7.4 million 2017: US$4.8 million.
b Other non-current assets As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 1 Amounts due from Government 9,275 11,629 Operating lease prepayments TANESCO powerlines 249 374 2 Prepayments Acquisition of rights over leasehold land 30,777 35,948 3 Non-current portion of indirect tax receivables 110,603 132,405 Other 161 352 Total 151,065 180,708 1 Included in this amount are amounts receivable from the NSSF of US$4.5 million 2017: US$5.8 million.
2 Prepayments made to the landowners in respect of acquisitions of the rights over the use of the leasehold land.
3 The non-current portion of indirect tax receivables was subject to discounting to its current value using a discount rate of 6.5% December 2017: 6.5%.
There was a reversal of the discounting charge in 2018 in the income statement of US0.6 million December 2017: US$13.3 million charge.
Non-current assets and liabilities classified as held for sale During the year, OreCorp, Acacias JV partner in the Nyanzaga Project, executed its option under the earn-in agreement to increase its stake to 51% in the project through the payment of US$3 million to Acacia.
As a result of the agreement, and managements commitment to a sale, Acacia expects to recover the value of the asset through sale and not through value in use and as such has valued the asset at fair value less costs to sell of US$10 million and recorded an impairment charge of US$24.2 million and reclassified the associated non-current assets and liabilities to held for sale on the balance sheet as shown below.
The transaction is expected to be concluded within 12 months from the reclassification of these assets and liabilities as held for sale.
As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Property, plant and equipment 690 Intangible assets 19,017 Disposal group assets held for sale 19,707 Long term contingent liabilities 3,472 Deferred Tax Liability 6,235 Disposal group liabilities held for sale 9,707 Net assets and liabilities of disposal group held for sale 10,000 24.
No share movements have taken place in the current year.
150 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
Share-based compensation a Share options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected employees.
The exercise price of the granted options is determined by the Compensation Committee before the grant of an option provided that this price cannot be less than the average of the middle-market quotation of such shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date ofgrant.
All options outstanding at the end of the year ending 31 December 2017 expired in November 2018.
The vesting period of the options was four years, with an exercise period of seven years from the date of grant.
A new class of zero cost options were granted to the Executive Leadership in April 2017 however these are expected to be cash settled and have therefore been included as part of the Employee share-based liability.
Movements in the number of options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are reflected in pence as follows: 2018 2017 Average Average exercise price exercise price in pence in pence For the year ended 31 December per share Options per share Options At 1 January 497 137,701 295 1,328,989 Forfeited Expired 497 137,701 539 349,980 Exercised 160 841,308 At 31 December 497 137,701 No equity-settled share options were granted during the year.
b LTIP Restricted Share Units Included in other liabilities are RSUs with a fair value of US$2.2 million as at 31 December 2018 2017: US$2.4 million.
Number of Fair value RSUs US$000 At 1 January 2017 1,501,959 2,830 Settled for cash 584,898 847 Forfeited 118,058 404 Granted 486,981 215 Credits for dividends 24,309 20 Change in value 627 At 31 December 2017 1,310,293 2,441 Settled for cash 718,554 1,535 Forfeited 586,692 Granted 2,959,252 1,167 Credits for dividends Change in value 137 At 31 December 2018 2,964,299 2,210 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 151 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
Share-based compensation continued c LTIP Performance Restricted Share Units PRSUs Included in other liabilities are PRSUs with a fair value of nil as at 31 December 2018 2017: US$0.6 million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of United States dollars PRSUs US$000 At 1 January 2017 4,136,466 8,428 Settled for cash 218,728 Forfeited 2,214,007 Granted 923,481 Credits for dividends 39,408 Change in value 7,801 At 31 December 2017 2,666,620 627 Settled for cash Forfeited 127,148 Granted Credits for dividends Change in value 627 At 31 December 2018 2,539,472 d LTIP Deferred Share Units Included in other liabilities are DSUs with a fair value of US$0.2 million as at 31 December 2018 2017: US$0.2 million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of United States dollars DSUs US$000 At 1 January 2017 248,208 1,117 Settled for cash 167,964 810 Credits for dividends 3,723 10 Change in value 91 At 31 December 2017 83,967 226 Settled for cash Credits for dividends Change in value 29 At 31 December 2018 83,967 197 e LTIP Zero Cost Options A new class of zero cost options was granted to the Executive Leadership in 2017.
Included in other non-current liabilities are zero cost options with a fair value of US$0.2 million as at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
Number Fair value in thousands of United States dollars of options US$000 At 31 December 2017 615,602 Granted 2,554,859 390 Forfeited Change in value 190 At 31 December 2018 3,170,461 200 26.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Trade payables 63,290 62,610 Income tax payable 8,684 11,442 Accrued expenses 40,420 40,958 Payroll-related payables 13,335 12,185 Royalty payable 1,877 988 1 Provision for uncertain tax positions 206,912 206,912 Trade payables to related parties 14,597 15,355 Total 349,115 350,450 1 I ncluded in the 2017 and 2018 amounts are provisions raised for uncertain tax positions of US$68.5 million relating to North Mara and US$103.5 million relating to Bulyanhulu, based on an estimate of the impact of a comprehensive settlement reflecting the key terms of the framework announcements made by Barrick and the GoT in October 2017.
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
152 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.
Borrowings During 2013, a US$142 million facility was put in place to fund the bulk of the costs of the construction of one of Acacias key growth projects, the Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion project Project.
The Facility has a term of seven years with a spread over LIBOR of 250 basis points.
In common with borrowing agreements of this nature the facility includes various covenants as well as a material adverse effect clause.
The interest rate has been fixed at 3.6% through the use of an interest rate swap.
The seven-year Facility is repayable in ten equal US$14.2 million bi-annual instalments over the term of the Facility, after a two year repayment holiday period.
The full facility of US$142 million was drawn at the end of 2013.
The first principal payment of US$14.2 million was paid in H2 2015 and regular repayments have been made each half year.
As at 31 December 2018 the balance owing was US$42.6 million 2017: US$71 million and all covenants have been complied with.
A waiver agreement was in place for the period ended 31 December 2018, this was subsequently extended to end of June 2019.
Interest accrued to the value of US$0.4 million 2017:US$0.5 million was included in accounts payable at the end of the period.
Interest incurred on the borrowings as well as hedging losses on the interest rate swap for the period ended 31 December 2018 was US$1.9 million 2017: US$2.9 million.
This expenditure arises at different times over the LOM for the different mine sites and is expected to be utilised in terms of cash outflows between years 2019 and 2036 and beyond, varying from mine site to mine site.
The change in estimate in the current year relates mainly to deferrals in estimated cash flows resulting in a lower net present value combined with slight changes in US risk free rates driving a change in discount rate.
If the US risk free rates decreased by 0.5%, the rehabilitation provision would increase by US$6.3 million.
2 O ther provisions relate to provisions for legal and tax-related liabilities where the outcome is not yet certain but it is expected that it will lead to a probable outflow of economic benefits in future US$4.0 million 2017: US$3.9 million as well as severance provisions mainly at Corporate offices due to restructuring, redundancies at Buzwagi and at Bulyanhulu as part of the reduced operations US$1.0 million.
Rehabilitation obligations arise from the acquisition, development, construction and normal operation of mining property, plant and equipment, due to Government controls and regulations that protect the environment on the closure and reclamation of mining properties.
The major parts of the carrying amount of the obligation relate to tailings and waste rock dump closure rehabilitation: surface contouring: demolition of buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and ongoing care and maintenance of closed mines.
The fair values of rehabilitation provisions are measured by discounting the expected cash flows using a discount factor that reflects the credit-adjusted risk-free rate of interest.
Acacia prepares estimates of the timing and amount of expected cash flows when an obligation is incurred and updates expected cash flows to reflect changes in facts and circumstances.
The principal factors that can cause expected cash flows to change are: the construction of new processing facilities: changes in the quantities of material in reserves and a corresponding change in the life of mine plan: changing ore characteristics that impact required environmental protection measures and related costs: changes in water quality that impact the extent of water treatment required: and changes in laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment.
Each year Acacia assesses cost estimates and other assumptions used in the valuation of the rehabilitation provision at each mineral property to reflect events, changes in circumstances and new information available.
Changes in these cost estimates and assumptions are recorded as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the corresponding asset.
Rehabilitation provisions are adjusted to reflect the passage of time accretion calculated by applying the discount factor implicit in the initial fair-value measurement to the beginning-of-period carrying amount of the provision.
Settlement gains losses will be recorded in other income expense.
Other environmental remediation costs that are not rehabilitation provisions are expensed as incurred.
Other liabilities As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Employee benefit share-based liabilities 2,590 3,294 Other 3,459 Total 2,590 6,753 Current portion 801 1,715 Non-current portion 1,789 5,038 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 153 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
Financial assets and liabilities a Financial assets Carrying value as at 31 December Fair value as at 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 130,195 80,513 130,195 80,513 Trade and other receivables 11,693 18,085 11,693 18,085 Derivative financial instruments 1,053 3,526 1,053 3,526 1 Total other assets excluding prepayments 212,729 204,576 212,729 204,576 Total financial assets 355,670 306,700 355,670 306,700 Less: Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 130,195 80,513 130,195 80,513 Trade and other receivables 11,693 18,085 11,693 18,085 Derivative financial instruments 633 2,619 633 2,619 Other current assets excluding prepayments 92,802 60,760 92,802 60,760 Total other non-current financial assets 120,347 144,723 120,347 144,723 1 Prepayments are excluded from other assets in the analysis as they are not a financial instrument.
The fair value of financial assets, excluding other assets, equals their carrying amount as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Included in other assets are indirect tax receivables from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority, which were subject to discounting: refer to note 22.
As at 31 December 2018 Assets at fair Derivatives Loans and value through used for in thousands of United States dollars receivables profit and loss hedging Total Assets as per balance sheet: Cash and cash equivalents 130,195 130,195 Trade and other receivables 11,693 11,693 Derivative financial instruments 232 821 1,053 Other assets excluding prepayments 212,729 212,729 Total financial assets 354,617 232 821 355,670 As at 31 December 2017 Assets at fair Derivatives Loans and value through used for in thousands of United States dollars receivables profit and loss hedging Total Assets as per balance sheet: Cash and cash equivalents 80,513 80,513 Trade and other receivables 18,085 18,085 Derivative financial instruments 2,328 1,198 3,526 Other assets excluding prepayments 204,576 204,576 Total financial assets 303,174 2,328 1,198 306,700 b Financial liabilities Carrying value as at 31 December Fair value as at 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 2018 2017 Derivative financial instruments 488 481 488 481 Trade and other payables 349,115 350,450 349,115 350,450 Other liabilities 2,590 6,753 2,590 6,753 Borrowings 42,600 71,000 42,600 71,000 Total 394,793 428,684 394,793 428,684 Less: Current financial assets Derivative financial instruments 462 481 462 481 Trade and other payables 349,115 350,450 349,115 350,450 Other current liabilities 801 1,715 801 1,715 Borrowings 28,400 28,400 28,400 28,400 Total non-current portion of financial liabilities 16,015 47,638 16,015 47,638 154 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other liabilities relate to cash-settled share-based plans and their valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
Also included in other liabilities are the finance lease liabilities and their valuation is based on observable market data.
Derivative financial instruments are valued based upon inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active or either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2018 Liabilities at fair Derivatives Other financial value through used for liabilities at in thousands of United States dollars profit and loss hedging amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet: Derivative financial instruments 199 289 488 Trade and other payables 349,115 349,115 Other liabilities 2,590 2,590 Borrowings 42,600 42,600 Total financial liabilities 199 289 394,305 394,793 As at 31 December 2017 Liabilities at fair Derivatives Other financial value through used for liabilities at in thousands of United States dollars profit and loss hedging amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet: Derivative financial instruments 481 481 Trade and other payables 350,450 350,450 Other liabilities 6,753 6,753 Borrowings 71,000 71,000 Total financial liabilities 481 428,203 428,684 In common with borrowing agreements of this nature the facility includes various covenants as well as material adverse effect clauses.
Revolving credit facility The Group has a revolving credit facility in place for a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million, which was negotiated on 24 November 2010 with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Citibank.
The facility has been provided to service the general corporate needs of the Group and to fund potential acquisitions.
All provisions contained in the credit facility documentation have been negotiated on normal commercial and customary terms for such finance arrangements and when drawn the spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
The term of the facility was successfully extended to November 2019 at a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million.
At 31 December 2018, none of the funds were drawn under the facility.
The shares of all significant subsidiaries have been pledged as security for the loan.
Costs associated with the revolving credit facility have been included in finance expenses.
In common with borrowing agreements of this nature the facility includes various covenants as well as material adverse effect clauses.
Derivative financial instruments The tables below analyse financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The Group has derivative financial instruments in the form of economic and cash flow hedging contracts which are all defined as level two instruments as they are valued using inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liabilities.
The following tables present the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
For the year ended 31 December 2018 Assets Liabilities in thousands of United States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Interest contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges 401 420 289 0 Commodity contracts: Not designated as accounting hedges 232 0 173 26 Total 633 420 462 26 For the year ended 31 December 2017 Assets Liabilities in thousands of United States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Interest contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges 531 667 481 Commodity contracts: Not designated as accounting hedges 2,088 240 Total 2,619 907 481 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 155 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
Financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: a market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks: b credit risk: and c liquidity risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Board of Directors has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
a Market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as commodity prices, foreign exchange rates or interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
Gold price The market price of gold is one of the most significant factors in determining the profitability of the Groups operations.
The price of gold is subject to volatile price movements over short periods of time, especially in the current market environment, and is affected by numerous industry and macro-economic factors that are beyond the Groups control.
In 2018 the price ranged from US$1,178 to US$1,335 per ounce, with an average market price of US$1,268 per ounce 2017: US$1,257 per ounce.
The Groups policy is to sell gold at prevailing market prices.
During 2018, the Group hedged 170,000 ounces of gold production for March, April to June, November and December 2018 and 35,000 ounces for January 2019 to protect the downside price risk and mitigate cash outflows.
This accounted for approximately 66% of the Groups overall production in 2018.
The Group added 205,000 ounces of gold put contracts with an average strike price of US$1,300 per ounce for 2018 and 2019.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had 35,000 ounces of gold put contracts outstanding that will mature in 2019 at a strike price of US$1,255 per ounce.
These transactions are economic hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
Changes in the fair value of these options are recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market price on gold.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups profit after tax for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes by 10% with all other variables held constant.
The impact of a similar change in copper and silver is not material to the Groups loss after tax.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Gain associated with 10% increase from year-end price 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Gold 42,968 48,453 Co-product prices There were no copper sales during the year.
In 2018, the silver price ranged from US$14 to US$18 per ounce, with an average market price of US$16 per ounce 2017: US$17 per ounce.
The Group did not add any further copper contracts for calendar year 2018 and did not have any contracts outstanding as at 31 December 2018.
Oil price Diesel fuel is refined from crude oil and is therefore subject to the same price volatility affecting crude oil prices.
The Group enters into Brent oil option contracts to manage the impact of oil price fluctuations.
In 2018, oil prices traded between US$51 and US$86 per barrel with an average market price of US$71 2017: US$55 per barrel.
156 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market prices of crude oil.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes by US$10 per barrel with all other variables held constant.
The effect on profit after tax before hedging is calculated based on actual consumption for the year and does not address the indirect impact of a change in the oil price on other costs.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Gain loss associated with US$10 decrease increase from year-end price 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Oil 1,620 2,571 The Group did not add any further Brent oil collar contracts for calendar year 2018.
At 31 December 2018, the Group had a total 114,000 barrels of Brent crude oil net purchase options outstanding.
These contracts mature in 2019 consisting of sold put options with average strike prices of US$48 per barrel and bought call options with average strike prices of US$71 per barrel.
During the year, the Group added 72,000 barrels of Brent oil collar contracts for the 2019 calendar year.
These contracts are treated as accounting hedges in accordance with IFRS 9.
Hedged items are identified as the first stated quantity of forecasted consumption purchased in a future month.
Hedge effectiveness is assessed using linear regression utilising the concept of the hypothetical derivative method.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the commodity contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted expenditure impacts earnings.
These hedges did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment as a result of not meeting the hedge effectiveness criteria.
Changes in the fair value of these options were therefore recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
Risks relating to the use of derivatives By using derivatives, in addition to credit risk, we are affected by market risk.
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of a derivative might be adversely affected by a change in commodity prices, interest rates, or currency exchange rates, and that this in turn affects our financial condition.
We manage market risk by establishing and monitoring parameters that limit the types and degree of market risk that may be undertaken.
Foreign currency risk The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily US dollars, Tanzanian shillings shillings, South African rands rands, UK pounds sterling pounds and Australian dollars.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated in US dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its subsidiaries functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
Therefore, transactions in currencies other than the US dollar give rise to foreign currency translation risk.
The Groups primary exposure to this risk arises from direct mine operating costs and corporate administration costs that are transacted in shillings and rands, respectively.
Consequently, fluctuations in the US dollar shilling rand exchange rates increase the volatility of cost of sales, corporate administration costs and overall net earnings, which are reported in US dollars.
The vast majority of all direct mining costs and corporate administration costs are denominated and settled in US dollars.
Consequently, the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations on the Groups reported direct mining and corporate administration costs is not significant.
The exchange rates at the end of each financial year are detailed in note 2g.
Historically, the relationship between the gold price and the value of the shilling and rand provide a natural hedge against fluctuations in the exchange rate of these currencies against the US dollar.
Generally, a strengthening of the shilling rand, which would cause an increase in reported US dollar operating costs, corresponds with an increase in the US dollar gold price, which results in an increase in reported US dollar revenues.
The Group does have significant financial assets denominated in a currency other than US dollars.
These financial assets are as follow: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Indirect tax receivables denominated in Tanzanian shillings 178,705 170,690 Total 178,705 170,690 The following sensitivity analyses give the estimated effect of a reasonably possible change in the full year closing US dollar exchange rate on the value of the financial assets.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 US dollar strengthens by 10% to the Tanzanian shilling Increase in total indirect tax receivables 19,856 18,966 US dollar weakens by 10% to the Tanzanian shilling Decrease in total indirect tax receivables 16,246 15,517 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 157 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalents.
At present, available funds are held with financial institutions at variable rates and primarily denominated in US dollars: interest income is not materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates.
During 2013, the Group entered into an Export Credit Insurance Company ECIC backed seven-year term loan facility of US$142 million to fund the construction of the CIL Process plant at Bulyanhulu.
The first principal payment of US$14.2 million was paid in H2 2015 and during 2018 two payments of US$14.2 million were paid.
As at 31 December 2018 the balance owing was US$42.6 million 2017: US$71.0 million.
Interest is payable on the loan at LIBOR plus 250 basis points.
The revolving credit facilitys spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
Group debt levels are impacted by the amount of operating cash flow generated by its operating mines, as well as capital expenditure requirements related to existing operations and development projects.
In 2013, the Group entered into interest rate swap contracts to hedge the interest on the ECIC backed loan for the Bulyanhulu CIL Process plant.
The terms of the interest rate swap contracts fix this at 3.59% versus the floating rate of LIBOR plus 2.50%.
These contracts are treated as accounting hedges in accordance with IAS 39.
Hedged items are identified as the first stated quantity of rand spent during the month.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the currency contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted expenditure occurs.
These gains or losses have been included as part of interest expense in the income statement.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfil its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument.
For cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, credit risk represents the carrying amount on the balance sheet, net of any overdraft positions.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, and deposits with banks, as well as trade and other receivables.
The Groups financial assets are held with counterparties who the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
Location of credit risk is determined by physical location of the bank branch, customer or counterparty.
The maximum allowable term to maturity for any individual security is three months.
Investment counterparties must have a credit rating of at least Baa1 or better by Moodys Investor Services or BBB by Standard and Poors.
No more than 25% of the aggregate market value of the investment portfolio is maintained in any one country, with the exception of the United States of America or the United Kingdom, or in any one industry group.
Investments are primarily held in United States dollars.
Cash and cash equivalents in other foreign currencies are maintained for operational requirements.
As at 31 December 2018 the Group has money market and short-term investments of US$52.7 million 2017: US$14.7 million.
All of the funds have at least a BBB rating from Standard and Poors.
The Group also has US$77.5 million 2017: US$65.7 million of cash on hand with banks with credit ratings ranging from A-1 to A-2.
With respect to other receivables, the most significant debtor is the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA.
Following the abolishment of Government Notices regarding VAT relief and fuel duty exemption for mining companies in 2009, Acacia signed a Memorandum of Settlement during 2011 with the TRA to address the treatment of certain outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel levies and VAT that allows Acacia to offset income tax payable against outstanding VAT and fuel levy refunds as it becomes payable.
Also, the Minister of Finance reinstated VAT relief and the fuel exemption followed by an agreement to allow for an escrow facility in respect of fuel and road levies.
Again through the Finance Act, 2012 issued on 19 October 2012, VAT relief was abolished.
Throughout the past three years, Acacia has been actively involved in discussions with the GoT and the TRA to resolve the issue.
The amendments conflict with certain provisions contained in the Groups existing Mineral Development Agreements MDAs which guarantee the fiscal stability of its operations.
As part of a short-term solution, the Government during the third quarter of 2013, agreed to an escrow arrangement on VAT in relation to imported goods and services, whereby funds are restricted to the repayment of VAT refunds.
As at 31 December 2018, the discounted amounts due to the Group were approximately US$178.7 million 2017: US$170.7 million.
We received no direct refunds during 2018 2017: nil.
Provisional and final corporate tax payments offset against indirect taxes receivable amounted to US$42.4 million 2017: US$37.9 million during the year under review.
Group policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of a counterpartys failure to honour its obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with trade customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each of the counterparties.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties who the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, receivables to the value of approximately US$27 million 2018: nil were advanced by a financial institution under two factoring agreements for two concentrate counterparties.
Three agreements reduced the risk of default of receivables in 2017.
Maximum exposure to credit risk at each reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets described in note 30.
The Group does not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
The Group does not grade the credit quality of receivables.
158 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of loss from not having access to sufficient funds to meet both expected and unexpected cash demands.
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by ensuring that its operating and strategic liquidity levels are well above minimum internal requirements.
Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash balances, and the availability of funding from an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
At the end of both 2018 and 2017 the Group was in a positive net cash position, as disclosed in note 18.
Details of the undrawn revolving credit facility are given in note 30.
In the ordinary course of business, the Group receives cash proceeds from its operations and is required to fund working capital and capital expenditure requirements.
The cash is managed to ensure surplus funds are invested to maximise returns while ensuring that capital is safeguarded to the maximum extent possible by investing only with financial institutions with a strong credit rating.
Insignificant uncommitted overdraft facilities are maintained with several banking counterparties to meet the Groups normal funding requirements.
The Groups primary source of liquidity is operating cash flow, and over the past three years the Group has generated an average of about US$150 million per year.
The principal risk factor affecting operating cash flow is market gold prices.
The principal uses of liquidity are sustaining capital expenditures at existing operating mines, construction activities at development projects, and interest payments.
Sustaining capital expenditures, including capitalised development costs, have averaged about US$112 million per year over the past two years.
The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial assets into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
For the year ended 31 December 2018 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents 130,195 130,195 Accounts receivable 11,693 11,693 Derivative financial instruments 633 420 1,053 1 Other assets excluding prepayments 92,802 133,203 226,005 Total 235,323 133,623 368,946 For the year ended 31 December 2017 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents 80,513 80,513 Accounts receivable 18,085 18,085 Derivative financial instruments 2,619 907 3,526 1 Other assets excluding prepayments 60,760 157,092 217,852 Total 161,977 157,999 319,976 1 Prepayments are excluded from other assets in the analysis as they are not a financial instrument.
Included in the balance for years 1 to 3 is the discounting impact of indirect taxes receivable amounting to US$12.7 million.
The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
For the year ended 31 December 2018 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Derivative financial instruments 462 26 488 Other liabilities 807 1,789 2,596 1 Trade and other payables 133,519 133,519 Borrowings 28,400 42,600 71,000 Total 163,188 44,415 207,603 For the year ended 31 December 2017 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Derivative financial instruments 481 481 Other liabilities 1,715 1,566 3,472 6,753 1 Trade and other payables 132,096 132,096 Borrowings 28,400 42,600 71,000 Total 162,692 44,166 3,472 210,330 1 Trade and other payables exclude statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable including provisions made for uncertain tax positions.
Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from settlement of current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 159 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
Financial risk management continued Capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio to support its business and provide financial flexibility in order to maximise shareholder value.
In order to ensure a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions, which are approved by the Executive Leadership Team before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
Operating lease arrangements For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year 8,506 8,494 Total 8,506 8,494 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Within one year 2,054 4,520 In the second to fifth years inclusive 4,861 3,488 After five years Total 6,915 8,008 Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of office space by regional business units of the Group and rental of Gensets at Buzwagi.
Commitments and contingencies The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group has the following commitments and or contingencies: a Legal contingencies As at 31 December 2018, the Group was a defendant in a number of lawsuits.
The plaintiffs are claiming damages and interest thereon for the alleged loss caused by the Group due to one or more of the following: unlawful eviction, termination of services and or, non-payment for services, defamation, negligence by act or omission in failing to provide a safe working environment, unpaid overtime, public holiday compensation and various other commercial project disputes.
At present, Acacia considers the majority of cases to be without merit and therefore the likelihood of any material unfavourable outcome is remote and therefore no contingency is required.
b Tax-related contingencies The TRA has issued a number of tax assessments to the Group related to past taxation years from 2002-onwards.
The Group believes that the majority of these assessments are incorrect and has filed objections and appeals accordingly in an attempt to resolve these matters by means of discussions with the TRA or through the Tanzanian appeals process.
Overall, it is the current assessment that the relevant assessments and claims by the TRA are without merit.
The claims include a TRA assessment to the value of US$41.3 million for withholding tax on certain historic offshore dividend payments paid by Acacia Mining plc to its shareholders in 2010 to 2013.
Acacia is appealing this assessment on the substantive grounds that, as an English incorporated company, it is not resident in Tanzania for taxation purposes.
The appeal is currently pending at the Court of Appeal.
In addition, the Company has raised certain tax provisions amounting to US$300 million in aggregate, based on the potential impact of a comprehensive settlement of all outstanding tax disputes, including, according to Barrick, historic tax claims, reflecting the key terms of the Framework announcements by Barrick and the GoT in October 2017.
Refer to note 9 for further information.
c Regulatory contingencies In 2018, and particularly during the final quarter of the year, the operating environment became increasingly challenging for Acacia with criminal charges brought by the GoT against three current Acacia employees and a former employee, three of whom continue to be held under non-bailable offences.
On 10 October 2018, one of the Groups employees in Tanzania, a South African national, was charged by the Tanzanian Prevention and Combating of Corruption Bureau PCCB with an offence under the Tanzanian Prevention and Combating of Corruption Act.
The employee pleaded not guilty and was granted bail.
The charges related to the historical activities of a Land Task Force LTF conceived and agreed between the GoT and North Mara Gold Mine Limited NMGML in 2012 to create a transparent, safe, fair and inclusive process for valuing land that might be purchased by agreement around the North Mara mine, and which operated between 2013 and 2015.
The allegations made by the PCCB are denied and the charges are being defended.
160 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On 17 October 2018 a current and a former employee of the Companys Tanzanian businesses, together with three individual companies, were charged by the PCCB with a number of different offences, including breaches of the Tanzanian Anti-Money Laundering Act.
A total of 39 charges were brought, either against the current and former employee and or against one or more of the Companys operating subsidiaries in Tanzania, Pangea Minerals Limited PML, Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Limited BGML and North Mara Gold Mine Limited NMGML, as well as a Canadian company, Explorations Minieres du Nord Ltd. On 23 October 2018, a senior manager of one of the Companys Tanzanian businesses, a Tanzanian national, was also arrested and charged by the PCCB.
The senior manager was charged as an additional accused to some but not all of the 39 criminal charges brought by the PCCB on 17 October.
Each of the companies and the two current employees and the former employee pleaded not guilty to all charges.
The Company notes with concern that under Tanzanian law, offences under the Anti-Money Laundering Act are not bailable, and, accordingly, the accused have not been released on bail.
The majority of the 39 charges and allegations brought by the PCCB appear to relate to the historical structuring and financing of PML, BGML and NMGML dating back as far as 2008, prior to the creation of the Acacia Group.
The charges are wide ranging and include: tax evasion: conspiracy: a charge under organised crime legislation: forgery: money laundering and corruption.
The great majority of the allegations in the criminal proceedings by the GoT relate to matters already being considered in the arbitrations commenced by BGML and PML in July 2017 regarding their disputes with the GoT under their respective MDAs, which are progressing towards a hearing and in which the GoT are fully participating.
These allegations and charges against the group and current and former employees are refuted and are being defended.
Acacia considers the allegations to be without merit and that the likelihood of any material unfavourable outcome is remote, and no contingency has been made.
In addition, on 17 December 2018 the Company issued a news release noting media speculation claiming an investigation into the Company by the Serious Fraud Office SFO.
The Company confirmed that it was not aware that the SFO was investigating the Company, but that the Company had been in contact with the SFO about the allegations of corrupt activities which are the subject of criminal proceedings in Tanzania.
The Company has provided information to the SFO and will continue to do so, but has not been notified that the SFO has commenced a criminal investigation.
d Purchase commitments At 31 December 2018, the Group had purchase obligations for supplies and consumables of approximately US$34.6 million 2017: US$32.5 million.
e Capital commitments In addition to entering into various operational commitments in the normal course of business, the Group entered into contracts for capital expenditure of approximately US$10.9 million in 2018 2017: US$10.2 million.
Related party balances and transactions The Group had the following related party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by BGC, which is the ultimate controlling party of the Group.
Transactions with related parties are as follows: a Transactions For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Provision of goods and services 70 97 Purchase of goods and services 208 1,373 Dividend payments 21,972 Total 138 23,248 Provision and purchase of goods and services to from related parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions.
Provision of services relates to cost incurred by the Group and recharged to related parties.
Purchase of goods and services relates to cost incurred by related parties and recharged to the Group.
Services purchased relate mainly to insurance, software licences and professional services including legal, audit and consulting charges.
Goods purchased relate mainly to consumables and capital equipment.
b Balances due from related parties As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Placer Dome Technical Services 37 37 Other 3 3 Total 40 40 The receivables are unsecured in nature and bear no interest.
There are no provisions held against receivables from BGC.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 161 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED c Balances due to related parties As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Due to holding company: Barrick Gold Corporation 13,781 14,558 Due to fellow subsidiaries: BIBC 5 Barrick Gold North America 777 Barrick Administration Company 778 Other 38 15 Total 14,597 15,355 The payables to Barrick arise mainly from purchase transactions noted above.
The payables are unsecured and bear no interest.
d Remuneration of key management personnel Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership Team who receive remuneration.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2018 2017 Short-term employee benefits 7,159 6,756 Post-employment benefits 626 477 Share-based payments 19 1,057 1 Total 7,804 8,290 1 Also refer to the Remuneration Report on page 87 for total remuneration received by each Director for the year ending 31 December 2018.
Prospecting licences The Group holds exploration mineral rights in the United Republic of Tanzania.
These rights are held in the form of prospecting licences issued by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and are held either directly by the Group or indirectly pursuant to third-party agreements.
The licences held by the Group as at 31 December 2018 are summarised in the following table.
Licences directly held by Acacia Active prospecting licences Active prospecting licences managed by Acacia not managed by Acacia Number of Area in square Number of Area in square in thousands of United States dollars licences kilometres licences kilometres ABG Exploration Limited 19 102 1 1 North Mara Gold Mine Limited 13 69 Nyanzaga Mining Company Limited 22 208 Pangea Mineral Limited 7 57 1 6 Sekenke Exploration Limited 2 28 Vulcan Resources Tanzania Limited 3 21 Total 39 228 29 264 Licences indirectly held by Acacia Number of Area in square in thousands of United States dollars licences kilometres Managed by Acacia Not managed by Acacia 6 27 162 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37.
Post-balance sheet events a Dividends Acacia has a cash flow based dividend policy where we aim to pay a dividend of between 15-30% of our operational cash flow after sustaining capital and capitalised development but before expansion capital and financing costs.
As a result of the inability to export concentrates following the imposition of the concentrate ban in 2017, the uncertainty around a resolution of the ongoing dispute between the Company and the GoT, and the current liquidity requirements, the Board of Directors has not recommended a final dividend for 2018. b Update on Discussions between Barrick and GoT On 20 February 2019 the Company noted further announcements by the GoT and by Barrick regarding their direct discussions, but has not yet received a detailed proposal agreed in principle between Barrick and the GoT for a comprehensive resolution of Acacias disputes with the GoT.
Acaciacontinues to engage with Barrick to understand Barricks plans for the next steps in its direct discussions with the GoT.
Any proposal received by Acacia in the future for a comprehensive resolution of the Companys disputes with the GoT that might be agreed in principle between Barrick and the GoT as a result of their direct discussions will be subject to review by the Independent Committee of the Acacia Board of Directors and, if recommended by the Independent Committee and the Board, would be put to a shareholder vote.
c North Mara Environmental Protection Order EPO Post year-end our North Mara mine received an Environmental Protection Order EPO from the National Environment Management Council NEMC requiring payment of a fine of US$130,000 in relation to alleged breaches of environmental regulations in Tanzania.
NEMCs reported findings allege discharges of a hazardous substance at the North Mara mine.
The mine has not received any supporting reports, findings or testing data in relation tothe matters set out in the EPO.
On 8 March 2019 the GoT directed the North Mara mine to resolve an incident that had resulted in the spillage of water into the local environment.
The spillage resulted from a security incident in which sections of the pipe used to transport water from the polishing pond to the tailings storage facility TSF were either vandalised or stolen.
The incident led to the switching off of the pump used to transport water to the TSF, and the water level in the polishing pond subsequently overflowed.
Following North Mara mines remedial actions, the temporary overspill from the pond was stopped.
North Mara mine welcomed the support of the GoT on resolving the issue, and is working closely with the authorities to implement improvements to security measures around the polishing pond in order to help prevent any reoccurrence.
The North Mara mines technical team continues to work with the GoT within anagreed timeframe to address their concerns regarding seepage from the TSF and has undertaken to manage all seepage through the use ofadditional pumps and construction of other containment facilities to return any seepage to the TSF and ensure it is confined to the mine site.
Allseepage is contained on the site, does not flow into the surrounding environment or present a risk of contamination to any public water source.
Operations at the North Mara mine remain unaffected.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 163
