DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT Under applicable UK law, the Directors are responsible for preparing Responsibility statement required by Disclosure Guidance and the Annual Report, the consolidated financial statements and parent Transparency Rules company financial statements in accordance with applicable law The Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 72 and and regulation.
73 of this Annual Report, confirm to the best of their knowledge that: Responsibility for financial statements The financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to prepare financial accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and prepared the Group and parent company financial statements in the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Management report, which is comprised of the Strategic report as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the Directors and the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied and performance of the business and the position of the Company that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole, and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: that they face.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Approval of Strategic report and the Directors Report The Strategic report and the Directors Report have been approved Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable by the Board and signed on its behalf by and prudent.
State whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in Charlie Ritchie business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Company Secretary accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
They are also responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website and legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
106 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
