Glossary ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Throughout this report, the Group uses a number of Alternative Performance Measures APMs : measures that are not required or commonly reported under International Financial Reporting Standards, the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP under which the Group prepares its financial statements.
These APMs are used by the Group, alongside GAAP measures, for both internal performance analysis and to help shareholders and other users of the Annual Report and financial statements to better understand the Groups performance in the period in comparison to previous periods and the Groups competitors.
The table below defines and explains the primary APMs used in this report.
Financial APMs are usually derived from financial statement items and are calculated using consistent accounting policies to those applied in the financial statements, unless otherwise stated.
Non financial KPIs incorporate information that cannot be derived from the financial statements but provide further insight into the performance and financial position of the Group.
APMs may not necessarily be defined in a consistent manner to similar APMs used by the Groups competitors.
They should be considered as a supplement rather than a substitute for GAAP measures.
Turnover is defined as total premiums written as below, other revenue and income from Admiral loans.
It is Turnover reconciled to financial statement line items in note 13a to the financial statements.
This measure has been presented by the Group in every Annual Report since it became a listed Group in 2004.
It reflects the size of the revenue generated by the Group and analysis of this measure over time provides a clear indication of the size and growth of the Group.
The measure was developed as a result of the Groups business model.
The core UK Car insurance business has historically shared a significant proportion of the risks with Munich Re, a third party reinsurance Group, through a co-insurance arrangement, with the arrangement subsequently being replicated in some of the Groups international insurance operations.
Premiums and claims accruing to the external co-insurer are not reflected in the Groups income statement and therefore presentation of this metric enables users of the Annual Report to see the scale of the Groups insurance operations in a way not possible from taking the income statement in isolation.
Total premiums written are the total forecast premiums, net of forecast cancellations written in the Total Premiums Written underwriting year within the Group, including co-insurance.
It is reconciled to financial statement line items in note 13a to the financial statements.
It reflects the total premiums written by the Groups insurance intermediaries and analysis of this measure over time provides a clear indication of the growth in premiums, irrespective of how co-insurance agreements have changed over time.
The reasons for presenting this measure are consistent with that for the Turnover APM noted above.
Groups share of Profit Groups share of profit before tax represents profit before tax, excluding the impact of Non-controlling Interests.
It is reconciled to statutory profit before tax in note 13d to the financial statements.
before Tax This measure is useful in presenting the limit of the Groups exposure to the expenditure incurred in starting up new businesses and demonstrates the test-and-learn strategy employed by the Group to expansion into new territories.
In 2018, Groups share of Profit before Tax is presented on a -0.75% and a 0% Ogden basis.
-0.75% represents the Groups share of estimated profit before tax at an Ogden rate of -0.75%, before the impact of the change in actuarial best estimate to an Ogden rate of 0% following Royal Assent of the Civil Liability Bill in 2018.
Underwriting result For each insurance business an underwriting result is presented showing the segment result prior to the inclusion of profit commission, other income contribution and instalment income.
It demonstrates the profit or loss insurance result, i. e. premium revenue and investment income less claims incurred and insurance expenses.
190 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Loss Ratio Reported loss ratios are expressed as a percentage of claims incurred divided by net earned premiums.
There are a number of instances within the Annual Report where adjustments are made to this calculation in order to more clearly present the underlying performance of the Group and operating segments within the Group.
The calculations of these are presented within note 13b to the accounts and explanation is as follows.
UK reported motor loss ratio: Within the UK insurance segment the Group separately presents motor ratios, i. e. excluding the underwriting of other products that supplement the car insurance policy.
The motor ratio is adjusted to i exclude the impact of reserve releases on commuted reinsurance contracts and ii exclude claims handling costs that are reported within claims costs in the income statement.
International insurance loss ratio: As for the UK motor loss ratio, the international insurance loss ratios presented exclude the underwriting of other products that supplement the car insurance policy.
The motor ratio is adjusted to exclude the claims element of the impact of reinsurer caps as inclusion of the impact of the capping of reinsurer claims costs would distort the underlying performance of the business.
Group loss ratios: Group loss ratios are reported on a consistent basis as the UK and international ratios noted above.
Adjustments are made to i exclude the impact of reserve releases on commuted reinsurance contracts, ii exclude claims handling costs that are reported within claims costs in the income statement, iii exclude the claims element of the impact of international reinsurer caps and iv exclude the claims impact of extreme weather and subsidence on UK Household.
Expense Ratio Reported expense ratios are expressed as a percentage of net operating expenses divided by net earned premiums.
The calculations of these are presented within note 13c to the accounts and explanation is as follows.
UK reported motor expense ratio: Within the UK insurance segment the Group separately presents motor ratios, i. e. excluding the underwriting of other products that supplement the car insurance policy.
The motor ratio is adjusted to i include claims handling costs that are reported within claims costs in the income statement and ii include intra-group aggregator fees charged by the UK price comparison business to the UK insurance business.
International insurance expense ratio: As for the UK motor loss ratio, the international insurance expense ratios presented exclude the underwriting of other products that supplement the car insurance policy.
The motor ratio is adjusted to i exclude the expense element of the impact of reinsurer caps as inclusion of the impact of the capping of reinsurer expenses would distort the underlying performance of the business and ii include intra-group aggregator fees charged by the overseas price comparison businesses to the international insurance businesses.
Group expense ratios: Group expense ratios are reported on a consistent basis as the UK and international ratios noted above.
Adjustments are made to i include claims handling costs that are reported within claims costs in the income statement, ii include intra-group aggregator fees charged by the Groups price comparison businesses to the Groups insurance businesses and iii exclude the expense element of the impact of international reinsurer caps.. Reported combined ratios are the sum of the loss and expense ratios as defined above.
Explanation of these Combined Ratio figures is noted above and reconciliation of the calculations are provided in notes 13b and 13c.
Return on Equity Return on equity is calculated as profit after tax for the period attributable to equity holders of the Group divided by the average total equity attributable to equity holders of the Group in the year.
This average is determined by dividing the opening and closing positions for the year by two.
The relevant figures for this calculation can be found within the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Group Customers Group customer numbers reflect the total number of cars, households and vans on cover at the end of the year, across the Group.
It reflects the size of the Groups customer base and analysis of this measure over time provides a clear indication of the growth.
It is also a useful indicator of the growing significance to the Group of the different lines of business and geographic regions.
Effective Tax Rate Effective tax rate is defined as the approximate tax rate derived from dividing the Groups profit before tax by the tax charge going through the income statement.
It is a measure historically presented by the Group and enables users to see how the tax cost incurred by the Group compares over time and to current corporation tax rates.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 191 Glossary continued ADDITIONAL TERMINOLOGY There are many other terms used in this report that are specific to the Group or the markets in which it operates.
These are defined as follows: The year in which an accident occurs, also referred to as the earned basis.
Accident year Actuarial best estimate The probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios calculated using historical data, actuarial methods and judgement.
Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings a statistical index that is typically used for calculation inflation of ASHE annual payment amounts under Periodic Payment Order PPO claims settlements.
A monetary amount set aside for the future payment of incurred claims that have not yet been settled, thus Claims reserves representing a balance sheet liability.
Co-insurance An arrangement in which two or more insurance companies agree to underwrite insurance business on a specified portfolio in specified proportions.
Each co-insurer is directly liable to the policyholder for their proportional share.
Commutation An agreement between a ceding insurer and the reinsurer that provides for the valuation, payment, and complete discharge of all obligations between the parties under a particular reinsurance contract.
The Group typically commutes UK car insurance quota share contracts after 24 months from the start of an underwriting year where it makes economic sense to do so.
Although an individual underwriting year may be profitable on an ultimate basis, the margin held in the financial statement claims reserves means that an accounting loss on commutation must be recognised at the point of commutation of the reinsurance contracts.
This loss on commutation unwinds in future periods as the financial statement loss ratios develop to ultimate.
The tendency for the insurance market to swing between highs and lows of profitability over time, with the Insurance market cycle potential to influence premium rates also known as the underwriting cycle.
The cost of claims incurred in the period, less any claims costs recovered under reinsurance contracts.
It Net claims includes both claims payments and movements in claims reserves.
Net insurance premium Also referred to as net earned premium.
The element of premium, less reinsurance premium, earned in the period.
revenue The discount rate used in calculation of personal injury claims settlements.
The rate is set by the Ogden discount rate Lord Chancellor.
A compensation award as part of a claims settlement that involves making a series of annual payments to a Periodic Payment Order claimant over their remaining life to cover the costs of the care they will require.
PPO Premium A series of payments are made by the policyholder, typically monthly or annually, for part of or all of the duration of the contract.
Written premium refers to the total amount the policyholder has contracted for, whereas earned premium refers to the recognition of this premium over the life of the contract.
A clause found in some reinsurance and coinsurance agreements that provides for profit sharing.
Profit commission Reinsurance Contractual arrangements whereby the Group transfers part or all of the insurance risk accepted to another insurer.
This can be on a quota share basis a percentage share of premiums, claims and expenses or an excess of loss basis full reinsurance for claims over an agreed value.
Securitisation A process by which a group of assets, usually loans, is aggregated into a pool, which is used to back the issuance of new securities.
A company transfer assets to a special purpose entity SPE which then issues securities backed by the assets.
An entity that is created to accomplish a narrow and well defined objective.
There are specific restrictions or Special Purpose Entity limits around ongoing activities.
The Group uses an SPE set up under a securitisation programme.
SPE Ultimate loss ratio A projected actuarial best estimate loss ratio for a particular accident year or underwriting year.
The year in which the policy was incepted.
Underwriting year Underwriting year basis Also referred to as the written basis.
Claims incurred are allocated to the calendar year in which the policy was underwritten.
Underwriting year basis results relate to the 2018 underwriting year, are calculated on the whole account including co-insurance and reinsurance shares and include all premiums, claims, expenses incurred and other revenue for example instalment income and commission income relating to the sale of products that are ancillary to the main insurance policy relating to policies incepting in the relevant underwriting year.
A policy can be written in one calendar year but earned over a subsequent calendar year.
Written Earned basis 192 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors and advisors DIRECTORS REGISTRAR Annette Court Link Asset Services Chairman The Registry 34 Beckenham Road David Stevens, CBE Beckenham Chief Executive Officer Kent BR3 4TU Geraint Jones JOINT CORPORATE BROKERS Chief Financial Officer Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2 King Edward Street Mike Brierley London EC1A 1HQ Non-Executive Director UBS Investment Bank Karen Green 5 Broadgate Non-Executive Director London EC2M 2QS Justine Roberts, CBE SOLICITORS Non-Executive Director Clifford Chance LLP Owen Clarke 10 Upper Bank Street London E14 5JJ Non-Executive Director CORPORATE WEBSITE Jean Park The Groups corporate website is at www.
Non-Executive Director A range of information about the Admiral Group is presented, Manning Rountree including the Groups history, financial reports and press releases, corporate responsibility and governance.
The website also includes Non-Executive Director the contact details for investor relations.
Andy Crossley FINANCIAL CALENDAR Non-Executive Director Final 2018 dividend COMPANY SECRETARY 9 May 2019 Ex dividend date Mark Waters 10 May 2019 Record date T Admiral 31 May 2019 Payment date David Street Cardiff CF10 2EH Annual General Meeting 25 April 2019 AUDITOR Deloitte LLP Interim results Hill House 14 August 2019 1 Little New Street The Group does not produce printed copies of interim results for London shareholders unless requested.
The interim results will be available EC4A 3TR on the corporate website from 14 August 2019.
ACTUARIAL ADVISOR REGISTERED OFFICE Lane Clark & Peacock LLP T Admiral 95 Wigmore Street David Street London W1U 1DQ Cardiff CF10 2EH BANKERS Lloyds Bank plc City Office Bailey Drive Gillingham Business Park Kent ME8 0LS Registered office T Admiral David Street Cardiff CF10 2EH www.
