Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to any matter referred to in this report or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from: a a stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom: or b another appropriately authorised independent financial adviser if you are not resident in the United Kingdom.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Aggreko plc please pass this report, together with the accompanying documents except the accompanying personalised form of proxy, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual Resolution 11 into, Ordinary Shares in the capital of the General Meeting of Aggreko plc the To re-elect Ian Marchant as a Director Company Ordinary Shares wholly for Company will be held at 200 SVS, of the Company.
cash pursuant to any authority for the 200 St Vincent Street, Glasgow G2 5RQ time being in force under Section 551 Resolution 12 on Thursday 25 April 2019 at 11.00am of the Act or by way of a sale of treasury To re-elect Miles Roberts as a Director to consider and, if thought t, pass the shares within the meaning of Section of the Company.
Resolutions 560 3 of the Act, as if Section 561 1 16 to 19 inclusive will be proposed as Resolution 13 of the Act did not apply to any such special resolutions.
All other resolutions To re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of allotment or sale, provided that this will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
the Company to hold of ce from the power shall be limited to the allotment conclusion of the meeting until the of equity securities and the sale of conclusion of the next general meeting Treasury shares for cash: Ordinary resolutions at which accounts are laid before the a in connection with or pursuant Resolution 1 Company.
to a rights issue, open offer or other To receive the reports of the Directors Resolution 14 pre-emptive offer in favour of holders and Auditors and to adopt the To authorise the Audit Committee of the of Ordinary Shares Ordinary Companys accounts for the year Board to determine the remuneration of Shareholders on the register of ended 31 December 2018. the Companys auditor.
members on a date xed by the Resolution 2 Board where the equity securities Resolution 15 To approve the annual statement by the respectively attributable to the That the Board of Directors of the Remuneration Committee Chair as set interests of all such Ordinary Company the Board be and is hereby out on pages 62 to 66 and the annual Shareholders are proportionate as generally and unconditionally authorised report on remuneration excluding the nearly as may be practicable to the pursuant to and in accordance with Directors Remuneration Policy as set respective numbers of Ordinary section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 out on pages 67 to 76 of the Annual Shares held by them on that date the Act to exercise all the powers of Report and Accounts for the year ended subject to such exclusions or other the Company to allot shares in the 31 December 2018. arrangements as the Board may capital of the Company and to grant deem necessary or expedient to Resolution 3 rights to subscribe for or to convert any deal with Treasury shares, fractional To declare a final dividend on security into shares in the Company entitlements or legal or practical the Companys Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount problems arising under the laws of 17.74 pence per share.
of 4,126,149, such authority to expire of any overseas territory or the on the earlier of 30 June 2020 or at the Resolution 4 requirements of any regulatory conclusion of the next Annual General To re-elect Ken Hanna as a Director body or stock exchange or by virtue Meeting of the Company after the of the Company.
of shares being represented by passing of this resolution, save that the depositary receipts or any other Resolution 5 Company may before such expiry make matter whatsoever : and To re-elect Chris Weston as a Director an offer or enter into an agreement of the Company.
which would or might require equity b otherwise than pursuant to securities to be allotted after such sub-paragraph a above, up Resolution 6 expiry and the Board may allot equity to an aggregate nominal amount To re-elect Heath Drewett as a Director securities in pursuance of such an of 618,922 of the Company.
offer or agreement as if the authority provided that this power shall unless Resolution 7 conferred hereby had not expired.
previously renewed or revoked expire To re-elect Dame Nicola Brewer on the earlier of 30 June 2020 or at the as a Director of the Company.
Special resolutions conclusion of the next Annual General Resolution 8 Meeting of the Company after the Resolution 16 To re-elect Barbara Jeremiah passing of this resolution, save that the That if resolution 15 is passed, the Board as a Director of the Company.
Company may before such expiry make of Directors of the Company the an offer or enter into an agreement Resolution 9 Board be and is hereby generally which would or might require equity To re-elect Uwe Krueger as a Director empowered, pursuant to Sections 570 securities to be allotted after such of the Company.
and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 expiry and the Board may allot equity the Act, to allot equity securities Resolution 10 securities in pursuance of such an offer within the meaning of Section 560 of To re-elect Diana Lay eld as a Director or agreement as if the power conferred the Act including the grant of rights to of the Company.
subscribe for, or to convert any securities Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Resolution 17 Resolution 18 Resolution 19 That if resolution 15 is passed, in addition That the Company be and is hereby That a general meeting of the Company to any authority granted pursuant to generally and unconditionally authorised other than an Annual General resolution 16 proposed at the Annual for the purposes of Section 701 of the Meeting may be called on not less General Meeting, the Directors be and Companies Act 2006 the Act to make than 14 clear days notice, provided are hereby generally empowered one or more market purchases within that this authority shall expire at the pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act conclusion of the next Annual General Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot of ordinary shares in the capital of the Meeting of the Company.
equity securities within the meaning Company Ordinary Shares on such of Section 560 1 of the Act including terms and in such manner as the the grant of rights to subscribe for, or Directors of the Company may By order of the Board to convert any securities into, Ordinary determine, provided that: Shares in the capital of the Company a the maximum aggregate number Ordinary Shares for cash pursuant to of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised any authority for the time being in force to be purchased is 25,612,820: under Section 551 of the Act and or by way of a sale of Treasury shares within b the maximum price which may be Peter Kennerley the meaning of Section 560 3 of the paid for any Ordinary Share is an Company Secretary Act, as if Section 561 1 of the Act did amount equal to the higher of i 6 March 2019 not apply to any such allotment or 105% of the average of the middle Registered of ce: sale, provided that this power shall: market quotations for an Ordinary Aggreko plc Share as derived from the London a be limited to the allotment of equity 8th Floor Stock Exchange Daily Of cial List for securities and the sale of Treasury 120 Bothwell Street the five business days immediately shares for cash up to an aggregate Glasgow G2 7JS preceding the day on which the nominal amount of 618,922: and Scotland share is contracted to be purchased: United Kingdom b be used only for the purposes of and ii the higher of the price of nancing or re nancing, if the the last independent trade and the authority is to be used within six highest current independent bid Registered in Scotland months after the original transaction on the trading venue where the number: SC177553 a transaction which the Directors purchase is carried out, and the of the Company determine to be minimum price which may be paid an acquisition or other capital for any Ordinary Share is its nominal investment of a kind contemplated value in each case exclusive of by the Statement of Principles on associated expenses, Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights provided that the authority hereby most recently published by the conferred shall expire on the earlier of Pre-Emption Group prior to the 30 June 2020 or at the conclusion of date of this notice the next Annual General Meeting of and shall expire on the earlier of the Company after the passing of this 30 June 2020 or at the conclusion resolution, save that a contract of of the next Annual General Meeting of purchase may be made before such the Company after the passing of this expiry which will or may be completed resolution, save that the Company may wholly or partly thereafter, and a before such expiry make an offer or purchase of Ordinary Shares may be enter into an agreement which would made in pursuance of any such contract.
or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 144 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING A person who is not a member of the 1 Attending the Annual 5 Appointment of a proxy Company but who has been nominated General Meeting in person through CREST by a member to enjoy information If you wish to attend the Annual General CREST members who wish to appoint rights does not have a right to appoint Meeting in person, you should arrive a proxy or proxies through the CREST any proxies under the procedures set at the venue for the Annual General electronic proxy appointment service out in these Notes and should read Meeting in good time to allow your may do so by using the procedures Note 9 below.
It is described in the CREST Manual and advisable to have some form of by logging on to the following website: 3 Appointment of a proxy identi cation with you as you may www.
CREST online be asked to provide evidence of your personal members or other CREST identity to the Companys Registrar sponsored members, and those CREST As an alternative to appointing a proxy prior to being admitted to the Annual members who have appointed a voting using the form of proxy or CREST, General Meeting.
service provider s, should refer to their members can appoint a proxy online CREST sponsor or voting service at http: shares.
In order provider s who will be able to take the to appoint a proxy using this website, 2 Appointment of proxies appropriate action on their behalf.
members will need their personal Members are entitled to appoint one identi cation Investor Code.
If for any In order for a proxy appointment or or more proxies to exercise all or any reason a member does not have this instruction made using the CREST of their rights to attend, speak and vote information, they should contact the service to be valid, the appropriate at the Annual General Meeting.
Calls are CREST message a CREST Proxy need not be a member of the Company charged at the standard geographic rate Instruction must be properly but must attend the Annual General and will vary by provider.
Calls outside authenticated in accordance with Meeting to represent a member.
To the UK are charged at the applicable Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds be validly appointed a proxy must be international rate.
Lines are open speci cations, and must contain appointed using the procedures set between 9.00am and 5.30pm, Monday the information required for such out in these Notes and in the notes to Friday excluding public holidays in instruction, as described in the CREST to the accompanying form of proxy.
If members wish their proxy to speak on com CREST.
The message, regardless of Members may appoint a proxy using their behalf at the meeting, members whether it constitutes the appointment the website no later than 48 hours will need to appoint their own choice of a proxy or is an amendment to the excluding non-working days before of proxy not the Chairman of the instruction given to a previously the time of the Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting and give appointed proxy, must, in order to be or any adjournment of that meeting.
their instructions directly to them.
valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Registrar CREST ID RA10 no later Members can only appoint more than 4 Appointment of a proxy than 48 hours excluding non-working one proxy where each proxy is appointed using a form of proxy days before the time of the Annual to exercise rights attached to different A form of proxy for use in connection General Meeting or any adjournment of shares.
Members cannot appoint more with the Annual General Meeting is that meeting.
For this purpose, the time than one proxy to exercise the rights enclosed.
To be valid, any form of proxy of receipt will be taken to be the time attached to the same share s. If a or other instrument appointing a proxy, as determined by the timestamp member wishes to appoint more than together with any power of attorney or applied to the message by the CREST one proxy, they should contact the other authority under which it is signed Application Host from which the Companys Registrar, Link Asset Services, or a certi ed copy thereof, must be Registrar is able to retrieve the message on Tel: 0371 664 0300.
Calls are charged received by post or during normal by enquiry to CREST in the manner at the standard geographic rate and business hours only by hand to prescribed by CREST.
After this time will vary by provider.
Calls outside the Link Asset Services, The Registry, any change of instructions to proxies UK are charged at the applicable 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, appointed through CREST should be international rate.
Lines are open Kent BR3 4TU by no later than 48 hours communicated to the appointee between 9.00am and 5.30pm, Monday excluding non-working days before the through other means.
to Friday excluding public holidays in time of the Annual General Meeting or England and Wales.
CREST members and, where applicable, any adjournment of that meeting.
their CREST sponsors or voting service A member may instruct their proxy provider s should note that Euroclear If you do not have a form of proxy to abstain from voting on any of the UK & Ireland Limited does not make and believe that you should have one, resolutions to be considered at the available special procedures in CREST for or you require additional forms of meeting by marking the Withheld any particular message.
Normal system proxy, please contact the Registrar on option when appointing their proxy.
timings and limitations will, therefore, Tel: 0371 664 0300.
Calls are charged It should be noted that an abstention apply in relation to the input of CREST at the standard geographic rate and is not a vote in law and will not be Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility will vary by provider.
Calls outside the counted in the calculation of the of the CREST member concerned to UK are charged at the applicable proportion of votes For or Against take or, if the CREST member is a international rate.
Lines are open the relevant resolution.
CREST personal member, or sponsored between 9.00am and 5.30pm, The appointment of a proxy will not member, or has appointed a voting Monday to Friday excluding public prevent a member from attending service provider s, to procure that his holidays in England and Wales.
the Annual General Meeting and her CREST sponsor or voting service voting in person if he or she wishes.
provider s take s such action as shall Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145 NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED be necessary to ensure that a message 9 Nominated persons 12 Members resolution is transmitted by means of the CREST Any person to whom this notice is sent Under Section 338 and Section 338A system by any particular time.
In this who is a person nominated under of the Companies Act 2006, members connection, CREST members and, where Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 meeting the threshold requirements in applicable, their CREST sponsors or the Act to enjoy information rights those sections have the right to require voting system providers are referred, in a Nominated Person may, under the Company a to give to members of particular, to those sections of the CREST an agreement between him her and the Company entitled to receive notice Manual concerning practical limitations the member by whom he she was of meeting, notice of any resolution of the CREST system and timings.
nominated, have a right to be appointed which may properly be moved and is The Company may treat as invalid or to have someone else appointed as intended to be moved at the meeting a CREST Proxy Instruction in the a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
and or b to include in the business to circumstances set out in Regulation If a Nominated Person has no such proxy be dealt with at the meeting any matter 35 5 a of the Uncerti cated Securities appointment right or does not wish other than a proposed resolution Regulations 2001. to exercise it, he she may, under any which may be properly included in the such agreement, have a right to give business.
A resolution may properly instructions to the member as to the be moved or a matter may properly 6 Appointment of a proxy exercise of voting rights.
be included in the business unless a by joint holders in the case of a resolution only it would, In the case of joint holders, where more if passed, be ineffective whether by 10 Website giving information than one of the joint holders purports reason of inconsistency with any regarding the Annual General to appoint one or more proxies, only the enactment or the Companys Meeting purported appointment submitted by constitution or otherwise, b it is the most senior holder will be accepted.
Information regarding the Annual defamatory of any person, or c it is Seniority is determined by the order in General Meeting, including information frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request which the names of the joint holders required by Section 311A of the Act, may be in hard copy form or in appear in the Companys register of and a copy of this notice of Annual electronic form, must identify the members in respect of the joint holding General Meeting is available at resolution of which notice is to be given the first named being the most senior.
or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the 7 Corporate representatives person or person making it, must be 11 Audit concerns received by the Company not later Any corporation which is a member Members should note that it is possible than 14 March 2019, being the date six can appoint one or more corporate that, pursuant to requests made by weeks before the meeting, and in the representatives.
Members can only members of the Company under case of a matter to be included in the appoint more than one corporate Section 527 of the Act, the Company business only must be accompanied representative where each corporate may be required to publish on a by a statement setting out the grounds representative is appointed to exercise website a statement setting out any for the request.
rights attached to different shares.
matter relating to: a the audit of the Members cannot appoint more than Companys accounts including the 13 Voting rights one corporate representative to exercise auditors report and the conduct of the the rights attached to the same share s. As at 5 March 2019 being the latest audit that are to be laid before the practicable date prior to the publication Annual General Meeting: or b any of this notice, the Companys issued circumstance connected with an auditor 8 Entitlement to attend share capital consisted of 256,128,201 of the Company ceasing to hold of ce and vote Ordinary Shares of 4329395 pence each, since the previous meeting at which To be entitled to attend and vote at the carrying one vote each: 188,251,587 annual accounts and reports were laid Annual General Meeting and for the Deferred Shares of 984775 pence each, in accordance with Section 437 of the purpose of determining the votes they 18,352,057,648 Deferred Shares of 1775 Act.
The Company may not require the may cast, members must be registered pence each, 182,700,915 Deferred Shares members requesting any such website in the Companys register of members of 61825 pence each and 573,643,383,325 publication to pay its expenses in at close of business on Tuesday 23 April Deferred Shares of 1306125 pence each.
complying with Sections 527 or 528 of 2019 or, if the Annual General Meeting The deferred share classes do not carry the Act.
Where the Company is required is adjourned, at close of business on the voting rights in any circumstances.
In to place a statement on a website under day, two days prior to the adjourned addition, the Company did not hold any Section 527 of the Act, it must forward meeting.
Changes to the register of shares in treasury.
Therefore, the total the statement to the Companys auditor members after the relevant deadline voting rights in the Company as at not later than the time when it makes will be disregarded in determining the 5 March 2019 were 256,128,201 votes.
the statement available on the website.
rights of any person to attend and vote The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting.
at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 146 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 14 Noti cation EXPLANATORY NOTES Re-election of Directors of shareholdings Resolutions 4 to 12 The following provide an explanation of the resolutions to be considered Any person holding 3% or more of Resolutions 4 to 12 refer to the Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
the total voting rights of the Company standing for re-election in line with the who appoints a person other than UK Corporate Governance Code, which Resolutions 1 to 15 will be proposed as the Chairman of the Annual General states that all directors of FTSE 350 ordinary resolutions.
This means that Meeting as his her proxy will need to companies should be subject to annual for each of those resolutions to be ensure that both he she, and his her election by shareholders.
passed, more than half of the votes proxy, comply with their respective cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Biographical details for each of the disclosure obligations under the UK Resolutions 16 to 19 will be proposed as Directors seeking re-election are set out Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
This means that for on pages 48 to 49 of this document and each of those resolutions to be passed, are also available to view online 15 Further questions at least three-quarters of the votes cast at www.
The Board must be in favour of the resolution.
and communication also con rms that, following a formal performance evaluation, each of the Under Section 319A of the Act, the Directors standing for re-election Annual Report and Accounts Company must cause to be answered continues to perform effectively, any question relating to the business Resolution 1 demonstrates commitment to their being dealt with at the Annual General This resolution deals with the receipt role, and has the capacity to discharge Meeting put by a member attending and adoption of the accounts for the their responsibilities fully, given their the meeting unless answering the financial year ended 31 December existing time commitments to other question would interfere unduly with 2018 and the associated reports of organisations.
Therefore, the Board the preparation for the meeting or the Directors and Auditors.
unanimously recommends the reinvolve the disclosure of con dential election of the Directors proposed.
information, or the answer has already Annual Statement and Annual been given on a website in the form External auditor Report on Remuneration of an answer to a question, or it is Resolutions 13 and 14 undesirable in the interests of the Resolution 2 Company or the good order of the These resolutions deal with the reResolution 2 seeks approval of the meeting that the question be answered.
appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors annual statement by the Remuneration of the Company and the authorisation Committee Chair set out on pages 62 Members who have any queries about of the Audit Committee to determine to 66 and the annual report on the Annual General Meeting should their remuneration.
Remuneration set out on pages 67 contact the Company Secretary by to 76 of this document.
writing to Aggreko plc, 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow G2 7JS.
Authority to allot shares We are required by law to seek Resolution 15 shareholders approval for the Annual Members may not use any electronic Statement and Annual Report on address provided in this notice or in In line with last year, this resolution Remuneration on an annual basis.
any related documents including will authorise the Directors to allot The current Directors Remuneration the accompanying form of proxy Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate Policy was approved by shareholders at to communicate with the Company nominal value of 4,126,149 representing the 2018 Annual General Meeting, and for any purpose other than those 85,376,067 Ordinary Shares of 4329395 the Annual Report on remuneration expressly stated.
This amount represents sets out the Companys policy applied approximately one third of the issued to Directors remuneration in 2018.
Ordinary Share capital of the Company 16 Documents available The full Directors Remuneration Policy as at 5 March 2019, being the latest for inspection is available on www.
practicable date prior to the publication The following documents will be of this circular.
As at 5 March 2019, the This vote is advisory in respect of the available for inspection at the registered Company held no Treasury shares overall remuneration package and the of ce of the Company during normal and there were no warrants over Directors entitlements to remuneration business hours on any weekday Ordinary Shares.
are not conditional upon this resolution Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays being passed.
The authority sought under this excepted from the date of this notice resolution will expire on the earlier of until the conclusion of the Annual 30 June 2020 the latest date by which Final dividend Resolution 3 General Meeting and on the date of the Company must hold an Annual the Annual General Meeting at 200 SVS, Shareholders are being asked to General Meeting in 2020 or the 200 St Vincent Street, Glasgow G2 5RQ: approve a final dividend of 17.74 pence conclusion of the Annual General per Ordinary Share for the year ended a copies of the service contracts of the Meeting of the Company to be held 31December 2018.
If shareholders Companys Executive Directors: and in 2020. approve the recommended final b copies of the letters of appointment dividend, it will be paid on 24 May 2019 The Directors have no present intention of the Companys Non-executive to all Ordinary Shareholders who are on to issue new shares other than in relation Directors.
the register of members on 23 April 2019. to the issue of shares under the Companys executive and employee share schemes in circumstances where they do not consider it appropriate to satisfy awards vesting using market purchase.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 147 NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED The Board does not intend to allot shares Disapplication of Statutory Notice of general meetings for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis Pre-Emption Rights Resolution 19 above 7.5% of the total issued Ordinary Resolutions 16 and 17 Under the Companies Act 2006, all Share capital of the Company over general meetings of the Company must a rolling three-year period without Resolution 16 will be proposed as a be held on 21 clear days notice unless consulting shareholders first.
This special resolution and will authorise shareholders agree to a shorter notice complies with the PEG Principles.
the Directors to disapply the statutory period on an annual basis and certain pre-emption rights of shareholders on The authority under these resolutions other conditions are met.
The Company allotment of equity securities for cash will expire at the conclusion of the is currently able to call general meetings up to an aggregate nominal value Annual General Meeting to be held in other than Annual General Meetings of 618,922 representing 12,806,410 2020 or on 30 June 2020, whichever is on 14 clear days notice.
The Board is Ordinary Shares of 4329395 pence each, the earlier.
The Directors intend to seek proposing this resolution as a special being approximately 5% of the issued renewal of this power at subsequent resolution at the Annual General Ordinary Share capital of the Company Annual General Meetings.
Meeting so that the Company can as at 5 March 2019, being the latest continue to be able to convene general practicable date prior to the publication meetings on 14 clear days notice.
Purchase of Own Shares of this circular.
This resolution also Resolution 18 disapplies statutory pre-emption rights The Board intends that this shorter to the extent necessary to facilitate notice period would not be used as The Directors recommend that rights issues.
a matter of routine, but would only be shareholders renew the authority of the used where the exibility was justi ed Company to purchase its own Ordinary Resolution 17 will also be proposed as by the business of the meeting and Shares.
Accordingly, this resolution will a special resolution and will authorise it would be to the advantage of be proposed as a special resolution the Directors to allot a further 5% of shareholders as a whole.
seeking authority to make such the issued Ordinary Share capital of the purchases in the market.
The Directors Company otherwise than in connection If this resolution is passed, the authority will only use this authority when they with a pre-emptive offer to existing to convene general meetings on 14 clear consider it to be in the best interests shareholders for the purpose of days notice will remain effective until of shareholders generally and an nancing a transaction or re nancing the Companys next Annual General improvement in earnings per share within six months of the transaction Meeting, when it is intended that a would result.
Any Ordinary Shares which the Directors determine to be an similar resolution will be proposed.
purchased under this authority will acquisition or other capital investment The notice period for Annual General either be cancelled and the number contemplated by the Pre-Emption Meetings will remain 21 clear days.
of Ordinary Shares in issue reduced Groups revised Statement of Principles, or be held in treasury.
published on 12 March 2015 the PEG Recommendation Principles, being the Statement of This resolution speci es the maximum The Board considers that all the Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption number of Ordinary Shares which resolutions to be considered at the Rights most recently published by the may be purchased representing Annual General Meeting are in the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of approximately 10% of the Companys best interests of the Company and this notice.
issued Ordinary Share capital as at its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board 5March 2019, being the latest This additional disapplication authority will be voting in favour of them and practicable date prior to the is in line with the PEG Principles, and unanimously recommends that you publication of this circular and the provides the Company with greater do so as well.
minimum and maximum prices at exibility by allowing the Company to which they may be bought.
allot shares with a nominal value of 618,922 representing 5% of the issued The Directors intend to seek renewal Ordinary Share capital of the Company of this power at subsequent Annual as at 5 March 2019 for cash pursuant General Meetings.
to this authority where that allotment As at 5 March 2019, there were options is in connection with an acquisition over Ordinary Shares 5,918,821 in the or speci ed capital investment as capital of the Company which described in the PEG Principles which represented 2.3% of the Companys is announced at the same time as the issued Ordinary Share capital at that allotment, or which has taken place in date.
If the authority to purchase the the preceding six-month period and is Companys Ordinary Shares were disclosed in the announcement of that exercised in full, these options would allotment.
represent 2.6% of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 148 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial calendar Payment of dividends Shareholder queries 18 April 2019 We encourage shareholders to have Our share register is maintained Ex-dividend date Final dividend dividends paid directly into their bank by our Registrar, Link Asset Services.
accounts as this has a number of Shareholders with queries relating to 23 April 2019 advantages, including ensuring ef cient their shareholding should contact Link Record date to be eligible for the payment to receive cleared funds on the Asset Services directly.
For more general final dividend payment date.
queries, shareholders can look at our 25 April 2019 website at www.
com If shareholders would like to receive their Annual General Meeting dividends directly to their bank account, Unsolicited mail and 24 May 2019 they should contact our Registrar, Link Final dividend payment for the year Asset Services.
UK shareholders may shareholder fraud to 31 December 2018 also register using the share portal.
Shareholders are advised to be wary of unsolicited mail or telephone calls 30 July 2019 Overseas shareholders may be able to offering free advice, to buy shares at Half year results announcement have the dividend converted to local a discount or offering free company for the year to 31 December 2019 currency before payment to their bank reports.
To nd more detailed account using the international payment 6 September 2019 information on how shareholders can service.
Please contact our Registrar, Ex-dividend date Interim dividend be protected from investment scams Link Asset Services, for details.
uk consumers scams 7 September 2019 investment-scams  date to be eligible for the Dividend reinvestment plan boiler-room-scams interim dividend DRIP 4 October 2019 This allows eligible shareholders to Our Registrar Interim dividend payment for the year purchase additional shares in Aggreko to 31 December 2019 Link Asset Services with their dividend payment.
Further The Registry, information and a mandate can be 34 Beckenham Road Our website obtained from our Registrar, Link Asset Beckenham Services, or by using the share portal.
Provides access to share price and Kent dividend information as well as sections BR3 4TU on managing your shareholding online, Duplicate documents United Kingdom corporate governance and other investor Some shareholders nd that they receive Share portal: https: shares.
duplicate documentation and split Website: www.
com dividend payments due to having more To access the website, please visit Email: enquiries@linkgroup.
co. uk than one account on the share register.
com If you think you fall into this group and Telephone: 0371 664 0300 would like to combine your accounts, Calls are charged at the standard geographic Managing your shares online please contact our Registrar, Link rate and will vary by provider.
Shareholders can manage their holding Calls outside the UK are charged at the Asset Services.
online by registering to use our share Lines are open 9.00am 5.30pm, portal at https: shares.
Monday to Friday excluding public holidays Changes of address This service is provided by our Registrar, in England and Wales.
To avoid missing important Link Asset Services, giving quick and correspondence relating to your easy access to your shareholding, Registered of ce shareholding, it is important that you allowing you to manage all aspects 8th Floor inform our Registrar, Link Asset Services, of your shareholding online, with 120 Bothwell Street of your new address as soon as possible.
Glasgow G2 7JS Sharegift Electronic communications Scotland If you have a very small shareholding We encourage shareholders to consider United Kingdom that is uneconomical to sell, you may receiving their communications Telephone: 44 0 141 225 5900 want to consider donating it to Sharegift electronically.
Choosing to receive your Email: investors@aggreko.
10526886, a communications electronically means charity that specialises in the donation Registered in Scotland No.
SC177553 you receive information quickly and of small, unwanted shareholdings to securely and allows us to communicate good causes.
You can nd out more in a more environmentally friendly and by visiting www.
org or by cost-effective way.
You can register for calling 44 0 207 930 3737. this service online using our share portal.
Designed and produced by: Friend www friendstudio.
com Paper This report is printed on Revive 100 Silk paper.
Revive 100 Silk is made from 100 per cent fide-inked post consumer waste and produced in mills which hold IS0 9001 and ISO 14001 accreditation.
Printing This publication is produced by a CarbonNeutral company and Carbon Balanced with World Land Trust.
Balancing is delivered by World Land Trust, an international conservation charity, who offset carbon emissions through the purchase and preservation of high conservation value land.
Through protecting standing forests, under threat of clearance, carbon is locked in that would otherwise be released.
These protected forests are then able to continue absorbing carbon from the atmosphere, referred to as REDD Reduced Emissions from Deforestation CBP00019082504183028 and forest Degradation.
This is now recognised as one of the most cost-effective and swiftest ways to arrest the rise in atmospheric CO2 and global warming effects.
Additional to the carbon bene ts is the ora and fauna this land preserves, including a number of species identi ed at risk of extinction on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.
