Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Explanatory notes The following notes provide an explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the one hundred and fourteenth annual general meeting the AGM of A. G. BARR p. l. c. the Company.
Resolutions 1 to 15 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolutions 16 and 17 will be proposed as special resolutions.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least threequarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolution 1 Receive and approve the reports and accounts Shareholders are being asked to receive and approve the audited accounts of the group and the Company as audited by Deloitte LLP for the year ended 27 January 2018 together with the associated reports of the directors and auditor.
Resolution 2 Directors remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report is divided into three parts: the annual statement by the chairman of the remuneration committee, the directors remuneration policy and the Directors Remuneration Report.
The annual statement by the chairman of the remuneration committee which is set out on page 48 of this report.
The directors remuneration policy which is set out on pages 62 to 71 of this report sets out the Companys future policy on directors remuneration.
The Directors Remuneration Report which is set out on pages 48 to 71 of this report gives details of the payments and share awards made to the directors in connection with their and the Companys performance during the year ended 27 January 2018.
It also details how the Companys policy on directors remuneration will be operated in the coming year.
This Resolution invites shareholders to approve the annual statement by the chairman of the remuneration committee and the Directors Remuneration Report other than the part containing the directors remuneration policy which was approved at the 2017 AGM and which it is expected will not be voted on until the 2020 AGM for the year ended 27 January 2018.
This resolution is an advisory vote and will not affect the way in which the Companys remuneration policy has been implemented.
Each year, shareholders will be given an advisory vote on the implementation of the directors remuneration policy in relation to the payments and share awards made to directors during the year under review.
Resolution 3 Final dividend Shareholders are being asked to approve a final dividend of 11.84 pence per ordinary share of 4 1 6 pence for the year ended 27 January 2018.
If shareholders approve the recommended final dividend, it will be paid on 8 June 2018 to all shareholders on the Companys register of members on 11 May 2018.
Resolutions 4 to 13 inclusive Re-election and election of directors The Companys articles of association require that all newly appointed directors retire at the first annual general meeting following their appointment.
Consequently, Ms Susan Verity Barratt will retire and offer herself for election.
The board of directors of the Company the Board complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code whereby all directors are subject to annual re-election.
Accordingly, all other directors of the Company are retiring and offering themselves for re-election.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 38 and 39 of this report.
The Board has confirmed that, following formal performance evaluation, all of the directors continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The Board therefore unanimously recommends the proposed re-election or election in the case of Ms Susan Verity Barratt of the directors.
Resolution 14 Re-appointment of auditor The Company is required to appoint an auditor at each general meeting at which accounts are presented to shareholders and Deloitte LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Accordingly, shareholders are being asked to approve the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the audit committee of the Board to fix their remuneration.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 Explanatory notes continued Resolution 15 Authority to allot shares The directors may not allot shares in the Company unless authorised to do so by shareholders in general meeting.
Sub-paragraph a of Resolution 15, if passed, will authorise the directors to allot shares having an aggregate nominal value of up to 1,603,365.38, representing approximately one third of the Companys issued share capital as at 24 April 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report.
The directors have no present intention to exercise this authority.
In line with guidance issued by the Investment Association, sub-paragraph b of Resolution 15, if passed, will authorise the directors to allot additional shares in connection with a rights issue having an aggregate nominal value of up to 1,603,365.38, representing approximately one third of the Companys issued share capital as at 24 April 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report.
The directors have no present intention to exercise the authority sought under sub-paragraph b of Resolution 15.
However, if such authority is obtained, it will give the Company greater flexibility to allot additional shares for the purpose of a pre-emptive rights issue.
This authority will be used when the directors consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders.
The authorities sought under Resolution 15 will expire on the earlier of 31 July 2019 being the latest date by which the Company must hold its annual general meeting in 2019 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2019.
Resolution 16 Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights If the directors wish to allot new shares for cash, the Companies Act 2006 states that the shares must be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
For legal, regulatory and practical reasons, it might not be possible or desirable for shares allotted by means of a pre-emptive offer to be offered to certain shareholders, particularly those resident overseas.
Furthermore, it might, in some circumstances, be in the Companys interests for the directors to be able to allot some shares for cash without having to offer them first to existing shareholders.
To enable this to be done, shareholders statutory pre-emption rights must be disapplied.
Accordingly, Resolution 16, if passed, will empower the directors to allot a limited number of new equity securities without shareholders statutory pre-emption rights applying to such allotment.
The authority conferred by Resolution 16 would also cover the sale of treasury shares for cash.
Sub-paragraph a of Resolution 16 would confer authority on the directors to make any arrangements which may be necessary to deal with any legal, regulatory or practical problems arising on a rights issue, an open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders, for example, by excluding certain overseas shareholders from such issue or offer.
Sub-paragraph b of Resolution 16 would disapply shareholders statutory pre-emption rights by empowering the directors to allot equity securities for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis but only new equity securities having a maximum aggregate nominal value of 240,504.81, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued share capital as at 24 April 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report.
The authority sought under Resolution 16 will expire on the earlier of 31 July 2019 being the latest date by which the Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2019 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2019.
Resolution 17 Purchase of own shares The Companies Act 2006 permits a company to purchase its own shares provided the purchase has been authorised by shareholders in general meeting.
Resolution 17, if passed, would give the Company the authority to purchase any of its own issued ordinary shares at a price of not less than an amount equal to the nominal value of an ordinary share and not more than the higher of: i 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five dealing days before any purchase is made: and ii the higher of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
The authority will enable the purchase of up to a maximum of 11,464,814 ordinary shares, representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of the AGM, and will expire on the earlier of 31 July 2019 being the latest date by which the Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2019 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2019.
On 28 March 2017, the Company announced that the Board has decided to return up to 30 million to shareholders via an on-market share repurchase programme.
The programme commenced in May 2017 and it is anticipated that it will be completed by May 2019.
Accordingly, the directors intend to use the authority granted by this resolution to continue to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares under the repurchase programme.
The directors will only exercise the authority to purchase ordinary shares where they consider that such purchases will be in the best interests of shareholders generally and will result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share.
Purchases are expected to be financed out of distributable profits and shares purchased will either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced accordingly or held as treasury shares.
144 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Other than in connection with the announced buy back programme, the directors will only exercise this buy back authority after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company.
Purchases would be financed out of distributable profits and shares purchased would either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced accordingly or held as treasury shares.
The Company operates two share option schemes under which awards may be satisfied by the allotment or transfer of ordinary shares to a scheme participant.
However, in practice, the Company has always satisfied awards to participants by the transfer of ordinary shares from the trustee of each of the schemes.
As at 1 April 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report, options had been granted over 497,738 ordinary shares the Option Shares representing approximately 0.43% of the Companys issued share capital at that date.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares as described in Resolution 17 were exercised in full, the Option Shares would have represented approximately 0.48% of the Companys issued share capital as at 1 April 2018.
As at 1 April 2018, the Company did not hold any treasury shares.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145
