Notice of Annual General Meeting THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to any matter referred to in this report or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from: i a stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom: or ii another appropriately authorised independent financial adviser if you are not resident in the United Kingdom.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in A. G. BARR p. l. c. please pass this report, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and fourteenth annual general meeting of A. G. BARR p. l. c. the Company will be held at the offices of Ernst & Young LLP, G1 Building, 5 George Square, Glasgow, G2 1DY on Wednesday 30 May 2018 at 11.00 a. m. to consider and, if thought fit, pass the resolutions set out below.
Resolutions 1 to 15 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 16 and 17 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive and approve the audited accounts of the group and the Company for the year ended 27 January 2018 together with the directors and auditors reports thereon.
To receive and approve the annual statement by the chairman of the remuneration committee and the directors remuneration report other than the part containing the directors remuneration policy as set out on page 48 and pages 49 to 71 of the Companys annual report and accounts for the year ended 27 January 2018.
To declare a final dividend of 11.84 pence per ordinary share of 4 1 6 pence for the year ended 27 January 2018.
To re-elect Mr John Ross Nicolson as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Roger Alexander White as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Stuart Lorimer as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Jonathan David Kemp as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Andrew Lewis Memmott as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr William Robin Graham Barr as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Martin Andrew Griffiths as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms Pamela Powell as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr David James Ritchie as a director of the Company.
To elect Ms Susan Verity Barratt as a director of the Company.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid, and to authorise the audit committee of the board of directors of the Company to fix their remuneration.
140 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 15.
THAT the board of directors of the Company the Board be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the capital of the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company: a up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,603,365.38: and b up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 1,603,365.38 provided that: i they are equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the 2006 Act : and ii they are offered by way of a rights issue in favour of the holders of shares excluding the Company in its capacity as a holder of treasury shares on the register of members of the Company on a date fixed by the Board where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of shares held by them on that date subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board deem necessary or expedient to deal with: a equity securities representing fractional entitlements: b treasury shares: or c legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever, provided that this authority shall expire on the earlier of 31 July 2019 and the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted, or rights to subscribe for or to convert securities into shares to be granted, after such expiry and the Board may allot shares or grant such rights in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 15 set out in the notice of the annual general meeting of the Company convened for 30 May 2018 Resolution 15, the board of directors of the Company the Board be and is hereby generally empowered, pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the 2006 Act including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any securities into, ordinary shares of 4 1 6 pence each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, wholly for cash either pursuant to the authority conferred on them by Resolution 15 or by way of a sale of treasury shares within the meaning of section 560 3 of the 2006 Act as if section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities, for cash, in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer in favour of holders of Ordinary Shares excluding the Company in its capacity as a holder of treasury shares on the register of members of the Company on a date fixed by the Board where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them on that date subject to such exclusions or other arrangements in connection with the rights issue, open offer or other offer as the Board deem necessary or expedient to deal with: i equity securities representing fractional entitlements: ii treasury shares: or iii legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 240,504.81, provided that this authority shall expire on the earlier of 31 July 2019 and the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the expiry of this authority and the Board may allot equity securities pursuant to such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 17.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of ordinary shares of 4 1 6 pence each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, on such terms and in such manner that the directors think fit, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 11,464,814: b the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five dealing days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary Share on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: c the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to its nominal value in each case exclusive of associated expenses : d unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier of 31 July 2019 and the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, but a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares may be made before such expiry which will or may be completed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract: and e an Ordinary Share so purchased shall be cancelled or, if the directors so determine and subject to the provisions of applicable laws or regulations of the Financial Conduct Authority, held as a treasury share.
By order of the Board Julie A. Barr Company Secretary 25 April 2018 Registered Office A. G. BARR p. l. c. Westfield House 4 Mollins Road Cumbernauld G68 9HD Registered in Scotland SC005653 Shareholders should also read the notes to this Notice of Annual General Meeting which are set out on pages 146 to 148 of this report.
Those notes provide further information about shareholders entitlement to attend, speak and vote at the Annual General Meeting or appoint another person to do so on their behalf.
142 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018
