NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2018 Going concern statements where IFRS 15 and 1 Accounting policies Given the proven ability of the business IFRS 9 have been applied.
Changes The Company is a public limited to fund organic growth from operating to signi cant accounting policies company which is listed on the London cash ows, and the nature of our are described below.
Stock Exchange and is incorporated and business model, we believe it is sensible domiciled in the UK.
The address of the IFRS 15 to run the business with a modest registered of ce is 120 Bothwell Street, IFRS 15 deals with revenue recognition amount of debt.
We say modest Glasgow G2 7JS, UK.
The principal and establishes principles for reporting because we are strongly of the view accounting policies applied in the useful information to users of financial that it is unwise to run a business which preparation of these consolidated statements about the nature, amount, hashigh levels of operational gearing financial statements are set out below.
timing and uncertainty of revenue and with high levels of debt.
Given the These policies have been consistently cash ows arising from an entitys above considerations, we believe that applied to all years presented, unless contracts with customers.
Revenue a NetDebt to EBITDA ratio of around otherwise stated.
is recognised in accordance with the one times is appropriate for the Group five-step model included in IFRS 15 Basis of preparation over the longer term.
which speci es that revenue should The Group financial statements have The Group maintains suf cient facilities be recognised when or as an entity been prepared in accordance with to meet its normal fundingrequirements transfers control of goods or services International Financial Reporting over the medium term.
At 31 December to a customer at an amount to which Standards as adopted by the European 2018, these facilities totalled 1,191 million the entity expects to be entitled.
Union EU IFRS, IFRIC interpretations in the form of committed bank facilities and the Companies Act 2006 applicable The Group has applied IFRS 15 arranged on a bilateral basis with to companies reporting under EU IFRS.
retrospectively using the practical anumber of international banks and The financial statements have been expedient not torestate for contract private placement notes.
The financial prepared under the historical cost extensions before 1 January 2017. covenants attached to these facilities convention, as modi ed by the Comparative numbers for the year are that EBITDA should be no less than revaluation of certain financial assets ended 31 December 2017 have been four times interest and net debt should and financial liabilities including restated.
The main changes from be no more than three times EBITDA: derivative instruments at fair value.
adopting IFRS 15 are detailed below.
at 31 December 2018, these stood at The preparation of financial statements 14 times and 1.3 times respectively.
The Mobilisation and demobilisation in conformity with EU IFRS requires the Group does not expect tobreach these Mobilisation costs are classi ed as use of estimates and assumptions that covenants in the year from the date of ful lment costs where they are affect the reported amounts of assets approval of this report and the Group separately identi able and speci c to a and liabilities at the date of the financial expects to continue to be able to arrange project and where the mobilisation does statements and the reported amounts suf cient finance to meet its future not itself form a separate performance of the revenues and expenses during funding requirements.
In these circumstances, the reporting period.
the Groups custom and practice to mobilisation costs are capitalised as they re finance its facilities in advance of their relate to future performance obligations, Although these estimates are based maturity dates, providing that there i. e. the provision of power is the future on managements best knowledge of is an ongoing need for those facilities.
performance obligation, which begins the amount, event or actions, actual Net debt amounted to 686 million when the power starts to be generated.
results ultimately may differ from at 31 December 2018 and, at that date, During the phase of mobilisation this those estimates.
undrawn committed facilities were service has not yet started and as such Adjusted measures 465 million.
represents a future performance The Directors assess the performance obligation.
The costs incurred during The Group balance sheet shows of the Group and its reportable mobilisation are directly related to the consolidated net assets of 1,367 million segments based on adjusted measures.
contract and enable Aggreko to earn 2017: 1,314 million of which These measures are used for internal revenue from the provision of power.
1,057million 2017: 1,104 million performance management and are They are expected to be recovered relates to eet assets.
The fide ned believed to be most appropriate for because the contract is pro table bene t pension surplus is 1 million explaining underlying performance although they will be reviewed carefully 2017: fide cit of 25 million.
to users of the accounts including for any indication of impairment.
shareholders of the Company and other More detail can be found within the With respect to demobilisation costs stakeholders.
The adjusted measures Risks section on pages 38 to 45 and in the Group has a legal obligation to incur in relation to pro t exclude 2017 the assessment of prospects and viability demobilisation costs once the assets are exceptional items.
These exceptional section on page 45. installed on site, as this is required by the items are explained on page 109.
In Based on the above the Directors are contract.
This creates a legal obligation comparing performance year on year con dent that it is appropriate for the from a past event.
The majority of these we also exclude the impact of currency going concern basis to be adopted costs can be measured reliably and and pass-through fuel.
The Group in preparing the year end financial therefore they meet the fide nition of a reports separately fuel revenue from statements.
These costs are capitalised as a contracts in our Power Solutions Utility ful lment cost asset as they are incurred business in Brazil and Sri Lanka where Changes in accounting policy in relation to a performance obligation we manage fuel on a pass-through basis and disclosures delivering power and are expected to on behalf of our customers.
The reason a New and amended standards be recovered and generate or enhance for the separate reporting is that fuel adopted by the Group resources because they facilitate revenue on these contracts is entirely The Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue Aggrekosdelivery of the contract.
dependent on fuel prices and volumes from Contracts with Customers and of fuel consumed, and these can be IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from volatile and may distort the view of the 1January 2018 therefore this is the performance of the underlying business.
first set of the Groups annual financial Calculation is on pages 141 and 142.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 96 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The financial impact of these items for Rehire arrangements 1 Accounting policies the year ended 31 December 2017 is Principal vs.
Agent continued detailed below Note references refer Aggreko will sometimes hire The ful lment costs mobilisation and to tables below : equipment from a third party to use demobilisation costs are amortised to on a contract.
Before IFRS 15 the Note 1: Revenue for the year ended the income statement over the period revenue and cost associated with 31 December 2017 is 2 million ofthe initial contract.
The amortisation this was accounted for separately as higher re ecting revenue now being starts when we start to earn revenue and Aggreko was the principal.
Under recognised during the provision stops when the initial contract period IFRS15 Aggreko is acting as anagent of power.
Deferred revenue in the ends.
If there is a signed extension, the rather than principal in this instance balance sheet also increases by unamortised amount left in the balance mainly because Aggreko does not 2 million.
sheet when the extension is signed is control the provision of the service then amortised over the remaining Note 2: Cost of sales for the year due to factors such as the fact that period of the initial contract and the ended 31 December 2017 is 7 million the third party is still responsible for extension period.
higher re ecting mobilisation and repairs to the equipment.
Under demobilisation costs amortised to the IFRS 15 the cost of the rehire is netted In contracts where mobilisation and income statement over the period of against revenue.
demobilisation income timing is the contract.
speci cally stipulated in the contract Note 3: The impact of this for the year in order to match the timing of Note 5: A ful lment asset of 8 million ended 31 December 2017 was to associated costs, then this income is was recognised as at 31 December reduce revenue and cost of sales by now recognised duringthe period 2017, with 5 million less than one year 34 million.
There is no impact on ofprovision of power.
and 3 million greater than one year.
operating pro t. Note 6: A demobilisation provision of 10 million was recognised as at 31 December 2017, with 9 million less than one year and 1 million greater than one year.
Note 11: IFRS 9 requires any impairment loss on trade receivables to be shown separately on the face of the income statement.
Impact on financial statements Group income statement Year ended 31 December 2017 As previously Adjustment reported Adjustments As restated Notes million million million Revenue 1,3 1,730 32 1,698 Cost of sales 2,3 810 27 783 Gross pro t 920 5 915 Distribution costs 493 25 468 Administrative expenses 242 242 Impairment loss on trade receivables 11 25 25 Other income 3 3 Operating pro t 188 5 183 Net finance costs 34 34 Pro t before taxation 154 5 149 Taxation 4 48 1 47 Pro t for the period 106 4 102 Basic earnings per share pence 41.54 1.50 40.04 Diluted earnings per share pence 41.51 1.50 40.01 Notes Notes: 1, 2, 3, 11 Refer to narrative above Note: 4 Tax impact of adjustments 1, 2 & 3 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued Group balance sheet 31 December 2017 As previously Adjustment reported Adjustments As restated notes million million million Non-current assets Other non-current assets 1,471 - 1,471 Fu lment asset 5 -33 1,471 3 1,474 Current assets Other current assets 1,096 - 1,096 Fu lment asset 5 -55 1,096 5 1,101 Total assets 2,567 8 2,575 Current liabilities Other current liabilities 1,4 617 1 618 Demobilisation provision 6 - 9 9 617 10 627 Non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities 633 - 633 Demobilisation provision 6 - 1 1 633 1 634 Total liabilities 1,250 11 1,261 Net assets 1,317 3 1,314 Shareholders equity Other 40 - 40 Retained earnings 1,277 3 1,274 Total shareholders equity 1,317 3 1,314 Group cash ow statement Year ended 31 December 2017 As previously Adjustment reported Adjustments As restated notes million million million Pro t for the year 7 106 4 102 Adjustments for: Tax 848 1 47 Ful lment assets 9 - 20 20 Demobilisation provisions 10 - 9 9 Cash ows relating to ful lment assets 9 - 12 12 Cash ows relating to demobilisation provisions 10 - 10 10 Increase in trade and other payables 113 2 111 Other items 183 - 183 Cash generated from operations 450 - 450 Notes 5 & 6 Refer to narrative on page 97 Notes 7 & 8 Refer to income statement above Note 9 Refer to Note 15 to the Accounts Ful lment assets Note 10 Refer to Note 21 to the Accounts Demobilisation provision Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 98 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information There are some contracts performed by The accounting policy for ful lment 1 Accounting policies the Group to develop software or control assets and demobilisation provisions continued systems and construct energy storage are detailed above.
Where the outcome of a During the year 44 million of Revenue is measured based on the contract can be measured reliably, ful lment assets were capitalised consideration speci ed in a contract contract revenue is recognised over the mainly relating to mobilisation costs with a customer and excludes amounts period of the contract by reference to for new contracts in Bangladesh, Brazil collected on behalf of third parties.
the value of work done at the balance and St Croix.
The Group recognises revenue when sheet date with reference to third-party it transfers control over a service to certi cation where available.
Where the Key judgements a customer as detailed below.
outcome of a contract cannot be reliably Identi cation of performance estimated, contract costs are recognised obligations As explained on page 3 Aggreko as an expense when incurred and Judgement is required in determining has three operating segments as revenue is only recognised to the extent the number of performance obligations detailed below: of the contract costs incurred that it is in relation to each revenue stream Rental Solutions: This business probable will be recoverable.
In both given a number of services including provides power, heating and cases, any expected contract loss is mobilisation and demobilisation that cooling in developed markets.
can be provided as part of the contract.
These customers requirements In the majority of cases Aggreko will A receivable is recognised by the tend to revolve around smaller, only have two performance obligations.
Group when the service is provided short-term projects and key events.
In Rental Solutions and shorter-term to the customer.
Payment terms vary rental contracts within Power Solutions Power Solutions Industrial: This across the Group and the majority of Industrial the Group provides rental business comprises medium-term receivables across the Group are paid contracts for the supply of temporary projects for industrial customers, as within or close to the payment terms.
power, temperature control, oil-free well as shorter-term rental contracts However, some of the contracts the compressed air and related services.
Group undertakes in developing Power Solutions Utility: This business In Power Solutions Utility and mediumcountries in our Power Solutions Utility provides longer-term projects term projects for industrial customers business are very large and are in providing power to national utility the Group supplies temporary power, jurisdictions where payment practices customers.
temperature control, oil-free can be unpredictable.
These are compressed air and related services.
A detailed description of these operating explained in more detail on page 102.
We believe these are performance units can be found on page 7 of the Variable consideration obligations as any services to mobilise Annual Report.
The Group is liable to penalties on or demobilise assets are not considered The Group has two performance certain contracts if we fail to ful l distinct from the provision of power.
In Rental solutions and the relevant performance obligation.
The Groups services are considered to shorter-term rental contracts within If our assessment of these penalties be a service or series of services that are Power Solutions Industrial the Group means that it is highly probable that substantially the same and have the provides rental contracts for the supply a signi cant reversal of the revenue same pattern of transfer to the customer.
of temporary power, temperature recognised will occur they are netted Rehire arrangements control, oil-free compressed air and against revenue.
Principal vs Agent related services.
In Power Solutions Disaggregation of revenue These arrangements are described on Utility and medium-term projects In Note 4 to the Accounts revenue page 97.
Judgement is required in for industrial customers the Group from contracts with customers determining if there is a Principal Agent supplies temporary power, temperature is disaggregated by business unit, relationship in the relevant contracts.
control, oil-free compressed air and geography and sector.
IFRS 9 Contract balances IFRS 9 addresses the classi cation, In both these performance obligations The following table provides information measurement and recognition of revenue is recognised over time and about receivables, accrued income, financial assets and liabilities.
The can comprise a xed rental charge and ful lment assets contract assets and Group has adopted IFRS 9 using the a variable charge related to the usage demobilisation provisions contract cumulative effect method and therefore of assets or other services including liabilities from contracts with comparatives have not been restated.
a xed charge on certain contracts The main changes from implementing by providing agreed levels of power 2018 2017 IFRS 9 are detailed below: Notes million million generation capacity to the customer Impairment of financial assets and this is recognised when availability Receivables 17 502 490 IFRS 9 replaces the incurred loss model criteria in the contract are met.
Accrued income 17 169 139 in IAS39 with an expected credit loss Variable charges are earned as the ECL model.
Under IFRS 9 credit losses Ful lment assets 15 44 8 Group provides power or rental and tend to be recognised earlier than under Demobilisation associated services in accordance with IAS 39.
Receivables including accrued provisions 21 11 10 contractual arrangements and are revenue are required to be considered recognised as the power is produced immediately for impairment to re ect or the service is provided.
Revenue is the possibility of future default or accrued or deferred at the balance sheet non-collectability.
date depending on the period covered by the most recent invoice issued and the contractual terms.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 1 Accounting policies continued The Group assesses the ECL as explained below: Power Solutions Industrial and Rental Solutions The Group has taken advantage of the practical expedient in IFRS 9 to use a provision matrix to simplify the calculation where accounts receivable are split into various risk categories e. g. based on Credit Rating Agencies and then a percentage is applied to each category to obtain the impairment allowances.
An example of the provision matrix is detailed below: 0-30 31-60 Ageing Notes Current days days 61-90 days 90 days Risk Low risk 1 Medium risk 1 High risk 1 Speci c 2 Notes 1.
Classi cation based on assessment of customer credit risk 2.
Speci c provision for customers Each operating unit within the Power 2018 was 4 million 2017: 4 million.
The Group plans to apply IFRS 16 initially Solution Industrial and Rental Solutions This financial instrument was included in on 1 January 2019, using a modi ed businesses has used this provision retrospective approach.
Previously the change matrix to calculate the provision and in fair value of these notes was re ected cumulative effect of adopting IFRS 16 will each matrix is speci c to the economic in the statement of changes in equity, be recognised as an adjustment to the and operating conditions of each however under IFRS 9 the changes in opening balance of retained earnings operating unit.
In applying this matrix at 1 January 2019, with no restatement the fair value are now re ected in the the operating units will also consider the income statement.
There has been no of comparatives.
following: signi cant financial dif culties change to the fair value of these notes in IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax of the debtor, probability that the debtor year ended 31 December 2018. treatments will enter bankruptcy or financial b New standards, amendments and IFRIC 23 comes in to effect from 1 reorganisation and default, or large and interpretations issued but not January 2019.
Management has assessed old outstanding balances, particularly effective for the financial year the impact of this change and this is in countries where the legal system beginning 1 January 2018 and not expected to be immaterial.
is not easily used to enforce recovery.
early adopted When a trade receivable is uncollectable Basis of consolidation IFRS 16 Leases it is written off against the provision The Group financial statements IFRS 16 applies to annual periods for impairment of trade receivables.
consolidate the financial statements of beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and More detail is contained on page 102.
Aggreko plc and all of its subsidiaries requires lessees to recognise all leases on for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Power Solutions Utility PSU balance sheet with limited exemptions Subsidiaries are those entities over Within our PSU business when for short-term leases and low value which the Group has control.
The Group considering the risk pro le of the leases $10,000.
This will result in the controls an entity when the Group is debtors and the relevant impairment recognition of a right-to-use asset and exposed to, or has rights to, variable provision the Group considers each corresponding liability on the balance returns through its power over the entity.
debtor and customer individually, within sheet, with the associated depreciation Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the relevant environment to which it and interest expense being recorded in the date on which control is transferred relates, taking into account a number the income statement over the lease to the Group.
They are deconsolidated of factors.
These factors include the period.
The Group has completed its from the date that control ceases.
political and economic conditions in the impact assessment of this standard and relevant country, duration and quality of the expected impact of applying IFRS 16 The Group uses the acquisition method relationship with the customer, age of in its first full year of application is of accounting for business combinations.
debt, cash ows from the customer and detailed below.
The consideration transferred for the any relevant communication throughout acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair The total annual income statement the year.
We then apply the matrix value of the assets transferred, the charge is expected to increase by circa approach detailed above to any debtors liabilities incurred and the equity 2 million.
that do not have a speci c provision.
interests issued by the Group.
The EBITDA is expected to increase by consideration transferred includes the Based on this there is no material impact around 30 to 40 million as the fair value of any asset or liability resulting to the Group.
expense is now depreciation and from a contingent consideration Classi cation and measurement of interest.
Acquisition related costs financial assets and financial liabilities are expensed as incurred.
Identi able The total income statement charge There are no material changes relating assets and liabilities and contingent over the life of the leases isunchanged to derivatives, however we will defer liabilities assumed in a business the difference under IFRS 16 is a implementation until the macro combination are measured initially at front-loading of the recognition of the hedging requirements are nalised.
their fair values at the acquisition date.
In September 2016 the Group signed Inter-company transactions, balances Recognition of a right-of-use asset and 14million of private placement notes and unrealised gains on transactions lease liability in the range of 100-110 with one customer in Venezuela PDVSA between Group companies are million with no impact on net assets.
to progress clearing the overdue debt.
Unrealised losses are also This resulted in a financial instrument In addition, the combined impact of eliminated.
Accounting policies of which replaced the net trade receivable IFRS 16 on operating pro t and net subsidiaries have been changed where balance.
The financial instrument was operating assets is expected to reduce necessary to ensure consistency with booked at fair value which re ected our the Groups return on capital employed the policies adopted by the Group.
estimation of the recoverability of these by circa 0.3pp.
This fair value at 31 December Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 100 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information are reviewed on an annual basis and the viability of the product has been proven, 1 Accounting policies principal periods used are as follows: the development cost can be measured continued reliably, future economic bene ts are Rental eet 8 to 12 years Segmental reporting probable and the Group intends, and Operating segments are reported in Vehicles, plant has suf cient resources, to complete a manner consistent with the internal and equipment 4 to 15 years the development and to use or sell reporting provided to the chief operating the assets.
Any such capitalised Intangibles decision maker.
The chief operating development expenditure is amortised Intangible assets acquired as part of a decision maker has been identi ed on a straight-line basis so that it is business combination are capitalised, as the Board of Directors.
charged to the income statement over separately from goodwill, at fair value the expected useful life of the resulting Aggreko has two business units: at the date of acquisition if the asset product or technology, which is currently Rental Solutions and Power Solutions.
is separable or arises from contractual deemed to be between three to six years.
Within Power Solutions we serve or legal rights and its fair value can be both Utility and Industrial customers.
Impairment of property, plant and measured reliably.
Amortisation is Aggreko therefore has three segments calculated on a straight-line method equipment and other intangible comprising: Rental Solutions, Power to allocate the fair value at acquisition assets excluding goodwill Solutions Industrial and Power of each asset over their estimated useful Property, plant and equipment and Solutions Utility.
A description of these other intangible assets are amortised lives as follows: customer relationships: business units is contained on page 7.
5-10 years, non-compete agreements: depreciated and reviewed for This is re ected by the Groups divisional over the life of the non-compete impairment whenever events or management and organisational agreements, technology intangible changes in circumstances indicate structure and the Groups internal that the carrying amount may not be assets acquired: four years.
An impairment loss is The useful life of intangible assets recognised for the amount by which The Global Solutions results and assets, is reviewed on an annual basis.
the assets carrying amount exceeds as well as central administrative costs, its recoverable amount.
The recoverable Goodwill are allocated between segments based amount is the higher of an assets fair On the acquisition of a business, fair on revenue.
values are attributed to the net assets value less costs to sell and value in Exceptional items acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair use.
Value in use is calculated using Exceptional items are items which estimated cash ows.
These are value of the consideration given for a individually or if of a similar type, in discounted using an appropriate business exceeds the fair value of such aggregate, need to be disclosed by assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is long-term pre-tax interest rate.
virtue of their size or incidence if the capitalised and is subject to impairment For the purposes of assessing financial statements are to be properly impairment, assets are grouped at reviews, both annually and when there understood.
To monitor our financial the lowest levels for which there are are indicators that the carrying value performance we use a pro t measure may not be recoverable.
separately identi able cash ows that excludes exceptional items.
For the purpose of the impairment We exclude these items because, if testing, goodwill is allocated to each Foreign currencies included, these items could distort of the Groups cash-generating units Items included in the financial understanding of our performance for statements for each of the Groups expected to bene t from the synergies the year and comparability between entities are measured using the currency of the combination.
The income statement has been of the primary economic environment Cash-generating units to which goodwill presented in a columnar format, which in which the entity operates functional has been allocated are tested for separately highlights exceptional items.
The Groups consolidated impairment annually, or more frequently This is intended to enable users of the financial statements are presented when there is an indication that the unit financial statements to determine more in Sterling, which is the Groups may be impaired.
If the recoverable readily the impact of exceptional items presentational currency.
amount of the cash-generating unit on the results of the Group.
is less than the carrying amount of At individual company level, transactions Property, plant and equipment the unit, then the impairment loss is denominated in foreign currencies are Property, plant and equipment is carried translated at the rate of exchange on allocated first to reduce the carrying at cost less accumulated depreciation the day the transaction occurs.
Assets amount of any goodwill allocated to the and impairment losses.
Cost includes unit and then to the other assets of the and liabilities denominated in foreign purchase price, and directly attributable unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying currency are translated at the exchange costs of bringing the asset into the rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
amount of each asset in the unit.
location and condition where it is Non-monetary assets are translated An impairment loss recognised capable for use.
Borrowing costs are at the historical rate.
In order to hedge for goodwill is not reversed in a not capitalised since the assets are its exposure to certain foreign exchange subsequent period.
Any impairment assembled over a short period of time.
risks, the Group enters into forward of goodwill is recognised immediately contracts and foreign currency options.
Freehold properties are depreciated in the income statement.
on a straight-line basis over 25 years.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities Research and development costs Short leasehold properties are of subsidiary undertakings are translated All research expenditure is charged to depreciated on a straight-line basis into Sterling at closing rates of exchange.
the income statement in the period in over the terms of each lease.
Income and cash ow statements are which it is incurred.
translated at average rates of exchange Other property, plant and equipment for the period.
Gains and losses from the Development expenditure is charged are depreciated on a straight-line basis settlement of transactions and gains and to the income statement in the period at annual rates estimated to write off the in which it is incurred unless it relates losses on the translation of monetary cost of each asset over its useful life from to the development of a new product assets and liabilities denominated in the date it is available for use.
Assets in other currencies are included in the or technology and it is incurred after the course of construction are not income statement.
the technical feasibility and commercial depreciated.
The periods of depreciation Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED price less cost to completion and selling As at 31 December 2018, provisions 1 Accounting policies expenses.
When the reasons for a totalled 2 million 2017: 8 million continued write-down of the inventory have ceased and they relate to the Group Business Taxation to exist, the write-down is reversed.
Deferred tax The provisions are generally in respect Deferred tax is provided in full, using Employee bene ts of depot closure costs.
the liability method, on temporary Wages, salaries, social security differences arising between the tax base contributions, paid annual leave and These provisions are detailed in Note 20. of assets and liabilities and their carrying sick leave, bonuses and non-monetary A contingent liability is disclosed where amounts in the financial statements.
bene ts are accrued in the year in which the existence of the obligation will only In principle, deferred tax liabilities are the associated services are rendered by be con rmed by future events, or where recognised for all taxable temporary the employees of the Group.
Where the the amount of the obligation cannot be differences and deferred tax assets are Group provides long-term employee measured with reasonable reliability.
recognised to the extent that it is bene ts, the cost is accrued to match Contingent assets are not recognised, probable that taxable pro ts will be the rendering of the services by the but are disclosed where an in ow of available against which deductible employees concerned.
economic bene ts is probable.
temporary differences can be utilised.
The Group operates a fide ned bene t Such assets and liabilities are not Cash and cash equivalents pension scheme and a number of recognised if the temporary difference Cash and cash equivalents comprise fide ned contribution pension schemes.
arises from goodwill, negative goodwill cash on hand, deposits with a maturity The cost for the year for the fide ned or from the acquisition of an asset, of three months or less and short-term bene t scheme is determined using which does not affect either taxable overdrafts.
the Projected unit method with actuarial or accounting income.
Deferred tax is updates to the valuation being carried Borrowings determined using tax rates and laws out at each balance sheet date.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair that have been enacted or substantively value, net of transaction costs incurred.
enacted by the balance sheet date and Remeasurements are recognised in Borrowings are subsequently stated at are expected to apply when the related full, directly in retained earnings, in amortised cost.
Any difference between deferred tax asset is realised or the the period in which they occur and the proceeds, net of transaction costs, deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred are shown in the statement of and the redemption value is recognised tax is charged or credited in the income comprehensive income.
The current in the income statement over the period statement, except when it relates to service cost of the pension charge of the borrowings using the effective items credited or charged directly to and administrative expenses are interest rate.
equity, in which case the deferred tax included in arriving at operating pro t. is also dealt with in equity.
Interest income on scheme assets and Key assumptions, estimations interest on pension scheme liabilities and signi cant judgements Deferred tax is provided on temporary are included in net finance costs.
The Group uses estimates and makes differences arising on investments in judgements in the preparation of subsidiaries, except where the timing of The retirement bene t obligation its Accounts.
The most sensitive the reversal of the temporary difference recognised in the balance sheet is areas affecting the Accounts are is controlled by the Group and it is the present value of the fide ned discussed below.
probable that the temporary difference bene t obligation at the balance sheet will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
date less the fair value of the scheme Trade receivables assets.
The present value of the fide ned The trade receivables accounting policy Provision for income taxes, mainly bene t obligation is determined by is noted above and the impact of IFRS 9 withholding taxes, which could arise discounting the estimated future cash is on page 99. on the remittance of retained earnings, ows using interest rates of high-quality principally relating to subsidiaries, is only The approach to exercising judgement corporate bonds.
made where there is a current intention in this area is to consider each signi cant to remit such earnings.
Contributions to fide ned contribution debtor and customer individually, within pension schemes are charged to the the relevant environment to which it Current tax income statement in the period in which relates, taking into account a number The charge for current tax is based they become payable.
These factors include the on the results for the year, as adjusted political and economic conditions in the for items which are non-assessable Trade receivables relevant country, duration and quality or disallowed.
It is calculated using Trade receivables are recognised initially of relationship with the customer, age taxation rates that have been enacted at fair value which is the same as cost.
of debt, cash ows from the customer or substantially enacted by the balance The trade receivables impairment policy and any relevant communication sheet date.
is discussed above in the Impact of throughout the year.
A review of the IFRS 9 section.
Inventories provision for bad and doubtful debts Inventories are valued at the lower of Trade payables is performed at each month end and cost and net realisable value, using the Trade payables are recognised initially speci cally at the end of each reporting weighted average cost basis.
Cost of raw at fair value and subsequently measured period.
It is an assessment of the materials, consumables and work in at amortised cost using the effective potential amount of trade receivables progress includes the cost of direct interest method.
which will not be paid by the customer materials and, where applicable, direct after the balance sheet date.
This is Provisions labour and those overheads that have calculated by reference to the factors Provisions are recognised where a legal been incurred in bringing the inventories above as well as the information or constructive obligation has been to their present location and condition.
disclosed in Note 17, notably the incurred which will probably lead to ageing of past due but not impaired.
Inventory is written down on a case an out ow of resources that can be by case basis if the anticipated net reasonably estimated.
Provisions are The management of trade receivables is realisable value declines below the recorded for the estimated ultimate the responsibility of the operating units, carrying amount of the inventory or to liability that is expected to arise, taking although they report monthly to the take account of inventory losses.
Net into account the time value of money Group on debtor days, debtor ageing realisable value is the estimated selling where material.
and signi cant outstanding debts.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 102 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information the Groups net exposure including the courts.
We do not anticipate that this 1 Accounting policies private placement notes with PDVSA in matter will progress to conclusion over continued Venezuela of $16 million and $10 million, the course of the coming financial Trade receivables continued respectively, in each of these countries.
year and believe that it may be many At an operating unit level a credit These net exposure positions re ect years before the matter is resolved.
rating is normally established for each a combination of bad debt provisions Our position is supported by a strong customer based on ratings from external and payment security guarantees legal opinion and so we are of the agencies.
Where no ratings are available, representing 78% and 59% of the gross opinion that we will be successful in cash in advance payment terms are receivable value in each of Venezuela the courts.
We therefore believe that often established for new customers.
and Yemen, together with a 75% fair there is no likelihood of further financial Credit limits are reviewed on a regular value adjustment against the private exposure on this in the coming year.
The majority of the contracts the placement notes with PDVSA.
While Group enters into are small relative to For other uncertain direct tax we believe that we remain relatively well the size of the Group and, if a customer positions, excluding Bangladesh, as at positioned to recover these net exposure fails to pay a debt, this is dealt with in 31December 2018, we had tax provisions amounts when the current situation the normal course of business.
However, totalling 24 million 2017: 31 million in each of the countries stabilises, we some of the contracts the Group The movement in provisions between also recognise that there is a range undertakes in developing countries in 2017 and 2018 is principally due to the of potential outcomes for each, both our Power Solutions Utility business are release of a provision in respect of an above and below the net exposure.
very large, and are in jurisdictions where historic matter 2006-2014 in Yemen, Net exposure is fide ned as the gross payment practices can be unpredictable.
which has not moved for many years debtor value plus accrued revenue, During the year we continued to see and which we do not currently believe less any payment security guarantees delays in payments from a handful of will crystallise.
The remaining provisions and bad debt provision.
customers in our Power Solutions Utility are principally held to manage the tax business in Africa, Yemen and Venezuela.
Contracts are reviewed on a case by impact of various other potential historic The bad debt provision for this business case basis to determine the customer tax exposures, largely in connection with unit at 31 December 2018 was $83 million and country risk.
As a result of the our Power Solutions Utilities business in 2017: $82 million.
Although the overall rigorous approach to risk management, Africa and Latin America, and potential provision was broadly in line with the historically the Group has had a low level transfer pricing risks faced by the Group prior year, re ecting the differing of bad debt write-offs.
The Group does with respect to how we transact circumstances by customer, the bad operate in countries, especially in our internationally within the business.
debt provision against speci c PSU business, where payments are Due to the uncertainty associated with customers in Africa, Yemen and unpredictable, where political and such tax positions, it is possible that at Venezuela increased by $6 million, economic conditions mean that there a future date, on conclusion of these while progress elsewhere during the is a risk of default and that risk can open tax positions, the final outcome year led to a reduction in provision increase quickly, and has increased may vary signi cantly.
While a range against other customers of $5 million.
this year as set out above, therefore the of outcomes is reasonably possible, Groups history in this area may not be The Group monitors the risk pro le and based on managements historic indicative of the likely future outcome.
debtor position of all such contracts experiences of these issues, we believe When a trade receivable is uncollectable, regularly, and deploys a variety of a likely range of outcomes is additional it is written off against the provision techniques to mitigate the risks of liabilities of up to 12 million and for impairment of trade receivables.
delayed or non-payment: these include a reduction in liabilities of around At 31 December 2018, the provision for securing advance payments and 10 million.
The range of sensitivities impairment of trade receivables in the guarantees.
On the largest contracts, depends upon quanti cation of the balance sheet was 85 million 2017: all such arrangements are approved liability, risk of technical error and 80 million.
difference in approach taken by tax Taxation authorities in different jurisdictions.
In forming its view on the Aggrekos tax charge is based on the In addition, the recognition of deferred appropriateness of the Groups provision pro t for the year and the applicable tax assets is dependent upon an against its receivables balances, the tax rates in force at the balance sheet estimation of future taxable pro ts Audit Committee discussed the 15 most date.
As well as corporation tax, Aggreko available against which deductible signi cant debtors in the PSU business, is subject to indirect taxes such as temporary differences can be utilised.
which accounted for 82% 2017: 78% sales and employment taxes across of the total PSU overdue debtor value Other areas of judgement the tax jurisdictions in which the Group at 31 December 2018 before taking into and consideration operates.
The varying nature and account provisions or payment security IFRIC 4 Determining whether an complexity of the tax laws requires the guarantees.
At 31 December 2018, 81% arrangement constitutes a lease Group to review its tax positions and 2017: 83% of the PSU impairment The Directors have considered the make appropriate judgements at the provision related to these top 15 debtors.
requirements of IFRIC 4 Determining balance sheet date.
Among these debtors, the Group had a whether an arrangement constitutes net exposure above $40 million to one Due to the uncertain nature of the tax a lease.
customer, a net exposure between environment in many of the countries in IFRIC 4 requires that any arrangement $30-$40 million to two customers, a net which we operate, it can take some time that is dependent on the use of a exposure between $20-$30 million to to settle our tax position.
We therefore speci c asset or assets: and that conveys four customers and a net exposure of create appropriate tax provisions for a right to use the asset is accounted for less than $20 million to each of the signi cant potential or contentious as a lease.
The Directors, have concluded others.
In addition to these PSU debtors, tax positions and these are measured that none of the Groups contracts are the Committee discussed the Groups using the most likely outcome method.
dependent on the use of a speci c asset overall exposure to Venezuela, which Provisions are considered on an or assets as the Group can swap in and includes some outstanding balances individual basis.
out the rental eet required to provide within the PSI business.
Given the We continue to have an open tax issue in the services to our customers.
current political uncertainty in Venezuela Bangladesh.
This was appealed in 2017 and the ongoing civil war in Yemen, the and is now waiting to be heard by the Committee considered in speci c detail Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED The Group maintains suf cient Group borrowings are predominantly 1 Accounting policies facilities to meet its normal funding drawn down in the currencies affecting continued requirements over the medium term.
The Group manages its Hyperin ationary environments At 31 December 2018, these facilities currency ows to minimise foreign The Group operates in Venezuela totalled 1,191 million in the form of exchange risk arising on transactions which is considered a hyperin ationary committed bank facilities arranged denominated in foreign currencies environment.
The Group does not on a bilateral basis with a number and uses forward contracts where consider that the provisions of IAS 29 of international banks and private appropriate in order to hedge net Financial Reporting in Hyperin ationary placement notes.
Economies apply to the Groups operations in Venezuela as the The financial covenants attached to The impact of currency decreased our functional currency of the Venezuelan these facilities are that EBITDA should revenues by 112 million 2017: increased operation is US Dollars.
The Group be no less than four times interest and by 84 million and operating pro t by operates in Argentina which is net debt should be no more than three 24 million 2017: increased by 9 million considered a hyperin ationary times EBITDA: at 31 December 2018, for the year ended 31 December 2018. environment however the impact these stood at 14 times and 1.3 times The Group monitors the impact of is not material.
The Group does not expect exchange closely and regularly carries to breach these covenants in the year Financial risk management out sensitivity analysis.
For every 5% from the date of approval of these Financial risk factors movement in the US Dollar to GBP financial statements.
The Groups operations expose it to a exchange rate there is an approximate variety of financial risks that include The Group expects to be able to arrange impact of 4 million 2017: 4 million in liquidity, the effects of changes in foreign suf cient finance to meet its future operating pro t in terms of translation.
currency exchange rates, interest funding requirements.
It has been Currency translation also gave rise to rates and credit risk.
The Group has a the Groups custom and practice to a 24 million decrease in reserves as centralised treasury operation whose re finance its facilities in advance of their a result of year on year movements primary role is to ensure that adequate maturity dates, providing that there in the exchange rates 2017: decrease liquidity is available to meet the Groups is an ongoing need for those facilities.
For every 5% movement funding requirements as they arise, Net debt amounted to 686 million in the US Dollar, there is an approximate and that financial risk arising from at 31 December 2018 and, at that date, impact in equity of 30 million 2017: the Groups underlying operations is undrawn committed facilities were 31 million arising from the currency effectively identi ed and managed.
The maturity pro le translation of external borrowings which of the borrowings is detailed in Note 18 The treasury operations are conducted in are being used as a net investment in the Annual Report and Accounts.
accordance with policies and procedures hedge.
However, this will be offset by a approved by the Board and are reviewed Interest rate risk corresponding movement in the equity annually.
Financial instruments are The Groups policy is to manage the of the net investment being hedged.
only executed for hedging purposes exposure to interest rates by ensuring The principal exchange rates which and transactions that are speculative an appropriate balance of xed and impact the Groups pro t and net assets in nature are expressly forbidden.
are set out in the Financial Review on Monthly reports are provided to senior At 31 December 2018, 591 million of page 27. management and treasury operations the net debt of 686 million was at xed are subject to periodic internal and Credit risk rates of interest resulting in a xed to external review.
Cash deposits and other financial oating rate net debt ratio of 86:14 instruments give rise to credit risk Liquidity, funding and capital 2017: 94:6.
The proportion of our debt on amounts due from counterparties.
management with xed interest rates was higher than The Group manages this risk by limiting The intention of Aggrekos strategy usual at the 2018 and 2017 year ends due the aggregate amounts and their is to deliver long-term value to its to some xed rate debt maturities in the duration depending on external credit shareholders while maintaining a first half of 2018 and 2019. ratings of the relevant counterparty.
balance sheet structure that safeguards The Group monitors its interest rate In the case of financial assets exposed the Groups financial position through exposure on a regular basis by applying to credit risk, the carrying amount in economic cycles.
Total capital is equity forecast interest rates to the Groups the balance sheet, net of any applicable as shown in the Group balance sheet.
forecast net debt pro le after taking provisions for loss, represents the Given the proven ability of the business into account its existing hedges.
amount exposed to credit risk.
to fund organic growth from operating The Group also calculates the impact Management of trade receivables cash ows, and the nature of our on pro t and loss of a fide ned interest Refer to page 102. business model, we believe it is sensible rate shift for all currencies.
Based on the to run the business with a modest Insurance simulations performed, the impact on amount of debt.
We say modest The Group operates a policy of buying pro t or loss of a 100 basis-point because we are strongly of the view that cover against the material risks which shift, after taking into account existing it is unwise to run a business which has the business faces, where it is possible hedges, would be 1 million 2017: high levels of operational gearing with to purchase such cover on reasonable 1 million.
The sensitivity analysis high levels of financial gearing.
Where this is not possible, is performed on a monthly basis above considerations, we believe that or where the risks would not have and is reported to the Board.
a Net Debt to EBITDA ratio of around a material impact on the Group one times is appropriate for the Group Foreign exchange risk as a whole, we self-insure.
This is well within The Group is subject to currency our covenants to lenders which stand exposure on the translation of its net at three times Net Debt to EBITDA.
investments in overseas subsidiaries into Sterling.
In order to reduce the At 31 December of 2018, Net Debt to currency risk arising, the Group uses EBITDA was 1.3 times 2017: 1.2 times.
direct borrowings in the same currency as those investments.
Calculation is on pages 141 and 142.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 104 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment In the cash ow statement, proceeds from sale of PPE comprise: 2018 2017 million million Net book amount 8 11 Pro t on sale of PPE 7 3 Proceeds from sale of PPE 15 14 Pro t on sale of PPE is shown within other income in the income statement.
3 Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 million million Cash at bank and in hand 85 71 Bank overdrafts Note 18 9 12 Cash and cash equivalents 76 59 4 Segmental reporting A As a result of the Groups increased sector focus we have re ned our segmental reporting and reassigned all non-utility customer contracts from within our Power Solutions Utility business into Power Solutions Industrial.
Accordingly the comparative gures have been restated.
The impact was to reduce the previously stated Power Solutions Utility balances and results and to increase the Power Solutions Industrial balances and results by the amounts shown below.
2017 million Revenue 93 Operating pro t 17 Depreciation and amortisation 17 Capital expenditure 8 Net operating assets 122 Average number of employees 454 Note 30 contains a reconciliation between previously reported segmental information and restated segmental information for the year ended 31 December 2017.
B Revenue by segment External revenue 2017 Restated 2018 Notes 1, 4 a million million Power Solutions Industrial 424 429 Utility 514 579 938 1,008 Rental Solutions 822 690 Group 1,760 1,698 i Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
All inter-segment revenue was less than 1 million.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 4 Segmental reporting continued B Revenue by segment continued Disaggregation of revenue In the tables below revenue is disaggregated by geography and by sector.
Revenue by geography 2017 Restated 2018 Note 1 million million North America 460 369 UK 106 93 Continental Europe 179 136 Eurasia 77 85 Middle East 148 168 Africa 200 246 Asia 166 168 Australia Paci c 100 89 Latin America 324 344 1,760 1,698 Revenue by sector 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 PSI PSU RS Group PSI PSU RS Group million million million million million million million million Utilities 27 514 99 640 24 579 79 682 Oil & gas 163 110 273 166 - 63 229 Petrochemical & re ning 9 147 156 8 - 114 122 Building services & construction 48 151 199 62 - 148 210 Events 53 80 133 37 - 66 103 Manufacturing 32 56 88 42 - 57 99 Quarrying & mining 53 43 96 55 - 35 90 Other 39 136 175 35 - 128 163 424 514 822 1,760 429 579 690 1,698 C Pro t by segment Operating pro t 2017 Restated 2018 Notes 1, 4 a million million Power Solutions Industrial 71 73 Utility 43 70 114 143 Rental Solutions 105 81 Operating pro t pre-exceptional items 219 224 Exceptional items Note 7 41 Operating pro t post-exceptional items 219 183 Finance costs net 37 34 Pro t before taxation 182 149 Taxation 57 47 Pro t for the year 125 102 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 106 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 4 Segmental reporting continued D Depreciation and amortisation by segment 2017 Restated 2018 Note 4 a million million Power Solutions Industrial 90 89 Utility 104 115 194 204 Rental Solutions 104 96 Group 298 300 E Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets by segment 2017 Restated 2018 Note 4 a million million Power Solutions Industrial 55 63 Utility 76 175 131 238 Rental Solutions 109 75 Group 240 313 Capital expenditure comprises additions of property, plant and equipment PPE of 216 million 2017: 272 million, additions of intangible assets of 10 million 2017: 5 million, acquisitions of PPE of 13 million 2017: 28 million, and acquisitions of intangible assets of 1 million 2017: 8 million.
F Assets liabilities by segment Assets Liabilities 2017 2017 Restated Restated 2018 Notes 1, 4 a 2018 Notes 1, 4 a million million million million Power Solutions Industrial 714 802 94 112 Utility 996 943 214 224 1,710 1,745 308 336 Rental Solutions 833 765 76 100 Group 2,543 2,510 384 436 Tax and finance assets liabilities 59 65 90 86 Derivative financial instruments 1 1 3 Borrowings 762 711 Retirement bene t surplus obligation 1 25 Total assets liabilities per balance sheet 2,604 2,575 1,237 1,261 G Average number of employees by segment 2017 Restated 2018 Notes 4 a Number Number Power Solutions Industrial 1,954 1,834 Utility 1,314 1,629 3,268 3,463 Rental Solutions 2,759 2,515 Group 6,027 5,978 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 4 Segmental reporting continued H Geographical information Non-current assets 2017 Restated 2018 Note 4 a million million North America 288 253 UK 161 110 Continental Europe 137 119 Eurasia 59 70 Middle East 251 343 Africa 153 159 Asia 151 150 Australia Paci c 70 67 Latin America 164 161 1,434 1,432 Non-current assets exclude deferred tax.
I Reconciliation of net operating assets to net assets 2017 Restated 2018 Note 1 million million Net operating assets 2,159 2,074 Retirement bene t surplus obligation 1 25 Net tax and finance payable 31 21 2,129 2,028 Borrowings and derivative financial instruments 762 714 Net assets 1,367 1,314 5 Pro t before taxation The following items have been included in arriving at pro t before taxation: 2018 2017 million million Staff costs Note 8 422 401 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 293 296 Amortisation of intangibles included in administrative expenses 5 4 Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 7 3 Research costs 1 2 i Net foreign exchange gains losses 1 2 Operating lease rentals payable 38 39 i The translational impact of currency on the Groups revenue and pro t is discussed in the Group Performance Review on page 27.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 108 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6 Auditors remuneration 2018 2017 000 000 Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts and consolidated financial statements 332 248 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1,029 941 other assurance related services 43 50 tax compliance 3 9 In addition to the above services, the Groups auditor acted as auditor to the Groups fide ned bene t pension scheme.
The appointment of the auditor to this pension scheme and the fees paid in respect of the audit and for any other services are agreed by the Trustee of the scheme, who acts independently from the management of the Group.
The aggregate fees paid to the Groups auditor for audit and non-audit services to the pension scheme during the year were 8k 2017: 8k.
7 Exceptional items The fide nition of exceptional items is contained within Note 1 of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
There were no exceptional items in 2018.
An exceptional charge of 41 million before tax was recorded in the year to 31 December 2017 in respect of the Groups Business Priorities programme.
The costs comprised 22 million of employee related costs, 8 million of professional fees and 11 million of property related costs.
The employee costs related to severance costs as well as the costs of employees who were working full time on the Business Priorities programme implementation.
This exceptional charge was split into Rental Solutions 13 million, Power Solutions Industrial 11 million and Power Solutions Utility 17 million.
8 Employees and Directors Staff costs for the Group during the year: 2018 2017 million million Wages and salaries including severance costs 363 345 Social security costs 33 32 Share-based payments 10 8 Pension costs fide ned contribution plans 14 13 Pension costs fide ned bene t plans Note 29.
A5 2 3 422 401 Key management personnel compensation Full details of Directors remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 79.
The key management comprises the Executive Committee as set out on page 50 as well as Non-executive Directors.
Key management compensation comprised the following: 2017 2018 Restated million million Short-term employee bene ts 10 7 Share-based payments 2 1 12 8 In the prior year key management comprised Executive and Non-executive Directors.
In 2018 this fide nition was changed to the Executive Committee members as well as Non-executive Directors.
Prior year numbers have been changed to re ect this.
The impact of the restatement is to increase short-term employee bene ts for 2017 by 4 million and share-based payments by 1 million.
9 Net finance charge 2018 2017 million million Finance cost on bank loans and overdrafts 37 36 Finance cost on employee bene t scheme liabilities Note 29.
A5 4 41 36 Finance income on bank balances and deposits 1 2 Finance income on employee bene t scheme assets Note 29.
A5 3 4 2 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 10 Taxation Total before exceptional Exceptional items 2017 items 2017 Restated Note 7 Restated 2018 Note 1 2017 Note 1 million million million million Analysis of charge in year Current tax expense: UK corporation tax 6 11 2 9 Overseas taxation 62 77 7 70 68 88 9 79 Adjustments in respect of prior years: UK 2 2 2 Overseas 17 3 3 49 83 9 74 Deferred taxation Note 22 : Temporary differences arising in current year 5 27 27 Movements in respect of prior years 3 57 56 9 47 i Prior year exceptional items are explained in Note 7 and comprised costs of 41 million relating to our Business Priorities programme.
Of these costs, 41 million were tax deductible and resulted in an exceptional tax credit of 9 million.
The tax charge relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2018 2017 million million Deferred tax on hedging reserve movements 1 Deferred tax on retirement bene ts 5 1 5 2 Variances between the current tax charge and the standard 19% 2017: 19% UK corporate tax rate when applied to pro t on ordinary activities for the year are as follows: Total before exceptional Exceptional items 2017 items 2017 Restated Note 7 Restated 2018 Note 1 2017 Note 1 million million million million Pro t before taxation 182 190 41 149 Tax calculated at 19% standard UK corporate tax rate 35 37 8 29 Differences between UK and overseas tax rates 32 30 1 29 Expenses not tax effected 6 8 8 Income not subject to tax 1 3 3 Impact of deferred tax rate changes in relation to US tax reform 10 10 Impact of deferred tax rate changes non US 1 1 1 Tax on current year pro t 73 61 9 52 Prior year adjustments current tax 19 5 5 Prior year adjustments deferred tax 3 Total tax on pro t57 56 9 47 Effective tax rate 31% 29% 23% 31% The main components of the prior year credit are the release of a provision in respect of a historic matter in Yemen and other Power Solutions movements.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 110 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 11 Dividends 2018 2018 2017 2017 million per share p million per share p Final paid 45 17.74 45 17.74 Interim paid 24 9.38 24 9.38 69 27.12 69 27.12 In addition, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2018 of 17.74 pence per share which will utilise an estimated 45 million of Shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 24 May 2019 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 23 April 2019.
12 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share have been calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary Shareholders by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts which are treated as cancelled.
2017 Restated 2018 Note 1 Pro t for the year million 125.4 102.0 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue million 254.8 254.7 Basic earnings per share pence 49.22 40.04 For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares.
These represent share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys Ordinary Shares during the year.
The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options.
2017 Restated 2018 Note 1 Pro t for the year million 125.4 102.0 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue million 254.8 254.7 Adjustment for share options 0.2 0.2 Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue million 255.0 254.9 Diluted earnings per share pence 49.18 40.01 Aggreko plc assesses the performance of the Group by adjusting earnings per share, calculated in accordance with IAS 33, to exclude items it considers to be non-recurring and believes that the exclusion of such items provides a better comparison of business performance.
The calculation of earnings per Ordinary Share on a basis which excludes exceptional items is based on the following adjusted earnings.
2017 Restated 2018 Note 1 million million Pro t for the year 125.4 102.0 Exclude exceptional items 31.7 Pro t for the year pre-exceptional items 125.4 133.7 An adjusted earnings per share gure is presented below.
Basic earnings per share pre-exceptional items pence 49.22 52.48 Diluted earnings per share pre-exceptional items pence 49.18 52.44 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 13 Goodwill 2018 2017 million million Cost At 1 January 184 159 Acquisitions Note 28 3 35 Exchange adjustments 3 10 At 31 December 184 184 Accumulated impairment losses Net book value 184 184 Goodwill impairment tests Goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units CGUs as follows: 2018 2017 million million Power Solutions Industrial 59 54 Utility 22 34 81 88 Rental Solutions 103 96 Group 184 184 Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Goodwill is monitored by management at an operating segment level.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations which use cash ow projections based on the five-year strategic plan approved by the Board.
The key assumptions for value in use calculations are those relating to expected changes in revenue utilisation and rates and the cost base, discount rates and long-term growth rates, are as follows: 2018 2017 Post-tax Pre-tax Long-term Post-tax Pre-tax Long-term EBITDA discount discount growth EBITDA discount discount growth million rate rate rate million rate rate rate Power Solutions Industrial 161 8.4% 12.2% 3% 127 8.1% 11.4% 3% Power Solutions Utility 147 8.4% 12.2% 3% 225 8.1% 11.4% 3% Rental Solutions 209 8.4% 12.2% 3% 177 8.1% 11.4% 3% Values in use were determined using current year cash ows, a prudent view of the medium-term business strategy and exclude any growth capital expenditure.
A terminal cash ow was calculated using a long-term growth rate of 3%.
On the basis that the business carried out by all CGUs is closely related and assets can be redeployed around the Group as required, a consistent Group discount rate has been used for all CGUs.
As at 31 December 2018, based on internal valuations, management concluded that the values in use of the CGUs exceeded their net asset value with the highest headroom value being 1.4 billion and the lowest 236 million.
Given these headroom numbers the Directors consider that there is no reasonably possible change in the key assumptions made in their impairment assessment that would give rise to an impairment.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 112 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 14 Property, plant and equipment Year ended 31 December 2018 Vehicles, Freehold Short leasehold plant and properties properties Rental eet equipment Total million million million million million Cost At 1 January 2018 86 20 3,400 152 3,658 Exchange adjustments 4 1 102 2 109 Additions 2 2 196 16 216 Acquisitions Note 28 13 13 Disposals 99 2 101 At 31 December 2018 92 23 3,612 168 3,895 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2018 35 15 2,296 98 2,444 Exchange adjustments 2 77 3 82 Charge for the year 3 1 273 16 293 Disposals 91 2 93 At 31 December 2018 40 16 2,555 115 2,726 Net book values: At 31 December 2018 52 7 1,057 53 1,169 At 31 December 2017 51 5 1,104 54 1,214 Year ended 31 December 2017 Vehicles, Freehold Short leasehold plant and properties properties Rental eet equipment Total million million million million million Cost At 1 January 2017 91 22 3,475 136 3,724 Exchange adjustments 3 1 256 7 267 Additions 1 1 246 24 272 Acquisitions 23 5 28 Disposals 3 2 88 6 99 At 31 December 2017 86 20 3,400 152 3,658 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2017 36 16 2,272 91 2,415 Exchange adjustments 2 172 5 179 Charge for the year 3 1 275 17 296 Disposals 2 2 79 5 88 At 31 December 2017 35 15 2,296 98 2,444 Net book values: At 31 December 2017 51 5 1,104 54 1,214 At 31 December 2016 55 6 1,203 45 1,309 Assets in course of construction are included within Rental eet.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 15 Ful lment asset 2018 2017 million million Balance at 1 January 8 16 Capitalised in period 44 12 Provision created for future demobilisation costs 3 2 Amortised to the income statement 12 22 Exchange 1 - Balance at 31 December 44 8 Analaysis of ful lment assets Current 15 5 Non-current 29 3 Total 44 8 16 Inventories 2018 2017 million million Raw materials and consumables 226 221 Work in progress 3 11 229 232 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales amounted to 85 million 2017: 112 million.
The write down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to 5 million 2017: 6 million.
17 Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 million million Trade receivables 587 570 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 85 80 Trade receivables net 502 490 Prepayments 45 57 Accrued income 169 139 Other receivables Note i 65 84 Total receivables 781 770 i In September 2016, the Group signed 14 million of private placement notes with one customer in Venezuela PDVSA to progress clearing the overdue debt.
This resulted in a financial instrument which replaced the net trade receivable balance.
The financial instrument is booked at fair value which re ects our estimation of the recoverability of these notes.
This fair value is estimated to be 4 million 2017: 4 million.
This financial instrument is included in other receivables.
Other material amounts included in other receivables include indirect taxes receivable such as sales taxes of 21 million 2017: 24 million and deposits of 15 million 2017: 11 million.
ii The value of trade and other receivables quoted in the table above also represents the fair value of these items.
The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2018 2017 million million Sterling 24 33 Euro 125 110 US Dollar 373 348 Other currencies 259 279 781 770 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 114 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 17 Trade and other receivables continued Movements on the Groups provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2018 2017 million million At 1 January 80 67 Net provision for receivables impairment 7 25 Utilised 2 3 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 2 3 Exchange 2 6 At 31 December 85 80 Credit quality of trade receivables The table below analyses the total trade receivables balance per operating segment into fully performing, past due and impaired.
31 December 2018 Fully performing Past due Impaired Total million million million million Power Solutions Industrial 56 56 11 123 Utility 53 202 64 319 109 258 75 442 Rental Solutions 71 64 10 145 Group 180 322 85 587 31 December 2017 Fully performing Past due Impaired Total Restated Restated Restated Restated million million million million Power Solutions Industrial 55 47 8 110 Utility 62 188 62 312 117 235 70 422 Rental Solutions 67 71 10 148 Group 184 306 80 570 2017 numbers have been restated to take account of the transfer of non-utility balances from Power Solutions Utility to Power Solutions Industrial.
Ageing of past due but not impaired trade receivables 2018 2017 million million Less than 30 days 72 90 Between 30 and 60 days 50 36 Between 60 and 90 days 38 24 Greater than 90 days 162 156 322 306 The Group assesses credit quality as explained below: Power Solutions Industrial This is a transaction intensive business and the majority of the contracts in this business are small relative to the size of the Group.
There is no concentration of credit risk in this business and there is a large number of customers who are unrelated and internationally dispersed.
The management of trade receivables is the responsibility of the operating units, although they report monthly to Group on debtor days, debtor ageing and signi cant outstanding debts.
At an operating unit level a credit rating is normally established for each customer based on ratings from external agencies.
Where no ratings are available, cash in advance payment terms are often established for new customers.
Credit limits are reviewed on a regular basis.
The effectiveness of this credit process has meant that the Group has historically had a low level of bad debt in this business.
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable as a percentage of total gross debtors was 2% 2017: nil%.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 17 Trade and other receivables continued Power Solutions Utility This business concentrates on medium to very large contracts.
Customers are mainly state owned utilities in emerging markets.
In many instances these contracts are in jurisdictions where payment practices can be unpredictable.
The Group monitors the risk pro le and debtor position of all such contracts regularly, and deploys a variety of techniques to mitigate the risks of delayed or non-payment: including securing advance payments, bonds and guarantees.
On the largest contracts, all such arrangements are approved at a Group level.
Contracts are reviewed on a case by case basis to determine the customer and country risk.
To date the Group has also had a low level of bad debt in the Power Solutions Utility business.
The total trade receivables balance as at 31 December 2018 for our Power Solutions Utility business was 319 million 2017: 312 million.
Within this balance, receivable balances totalling 32 million 2017: 41 million had some form of payment cover attached to them.
This payment cover guards against the risk of customer default rather than the risk associated with customer disputes.
The risk associated with the remaining 287 million 2017: 271 million is deemed to be either acceptable or payment cover is not obtainable in a cost-effective manner.
Rental Solutions This business is similar to the Power Solutions Industrial business above and the management of trade receivables is similar.
Again the Group has historically had a low level of bad debt in the Rental Solutions business.
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable as a percentage of total gross debtors was 1% 2017: 2%.
18 Borrowings 2018 2017 million million Non-current Bank borrowings 134 103 Private placement notes 493 481 627 584 Current Bank overdrafts 9 12 Bank borrowings 115 72 Private placement notes 20 55 144 139 Total borrowings 771 723 Cash at bank and in hand 85 71 Net borrowings 686 652 Overdrafts and borrowings are unsecured.
i Maturity of financial liabilities The maturity pro le of the borrowings was as follows: 2018 2017 million million Within 1 year, or on demand 144 139 Between 1 and 2 years 104 79 Between 2 and 3 years 157 26 Between 3 and 4 years 11 146 Greater than 5 years 355 333 771 723 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 116 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 18 Borrowings continued ii Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed oating rate borrowing facilities available at 31 December 2018 in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 2018 2017 million million Expiring within 1 year 77 Expiring between 1 and 2 years 276 64 Expiring between 2 and 3 years 100 383 Expiring between 3 and 4 years 89 50 Expiring between 4 and 5 years 50 465 624 19 Trade and other payables 2017 Restated 2018 Note 1 million million Trade payables 134 160 Other taxation and social security payable 15 16 Other payables 99 78 Accruals 115 127 Deferred income 8 29 371 410 The value of trade and other payables quoted in the table above also represents the fair value of these items.
20 Provisions Business Priorities Programme million At 1 January 2018 8 Utilised 6 Exchange adjustments At 31 December 2018 2 Analysis of total provisions Current 2 Non-current Total 2 The provisions for the implementation of the Business Priorities programme are generally in respect of depot closure costs.
The provision is expected to be fully utilised by the end of 2019.
21 Demobilisation provision 2018 2017 million million Balance at 1 January 10 11 New provisions 4 9 Utilised 4 10 Exchange 1 Balance at 31 December 11 10 Analysis of demobilisation provision Current 6 9 Non-current 5 1 Total 11 10 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 22 Deferred tax 31 December 2018 Debit to Debit to other At income comprehensive Exchange At 1 January statement income differences 31 December 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 million million million million million Fixed asset temporary differences 40 4 44 Retirement bene t obligations 4 5 1 Overseas tax on unremitted earnings 1 1 Tax losses 32 2 30 Other temporary differences 24 5 2 17 20 8 5 5 2 31 December 2017 Credit debit Debit to other Deferred tax At to income comprehensive in relation to Exchange At 1 January statement income acquisition differences 31 December 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 million million million million million million Fixed asset temporary differences 71 32 2 1 40 Retirement bene t obligations 5 1 4 Overseas tax on unremitted earnings 1 1 Tax losses 40 8 32 Derivative financial instruments 1 1 Other temporary differences 22 2 24 4 27 2 2 1 20 A deferred tax liability of 1 million 2017: nil has been recognised in respect of unremitted earnings.
No other deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries.
It is likely that the majority of the overseas earnings will qualify for the UK dividend exemption and the Group can control the distribution of dividends by its subsidiaries.
In some countries, local tax is payable on the remittance of a dividend.
Were dividends to be remitted from these countries, the additional tax payable would be 15 million.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the period are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that the realisation of the related deferred tax bene t through future taxable pro ts is probable based on current forecasts.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of 31 million 2017: 23 million of which 27 million 2017: 21 million relates to carried forward tax losses and 4 million 2017: 2 million relates to xed asset timing differences as our forecasts indicate that these assets will not reverse in the near future.
Deferred tax assets of 23 million 2017: 32 million have been recognised in respect of entities which have suffered a loss in either the current or preceding period.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised on the basis it is probable there will be future taxable pro ts against which they can be utilised based on current forecasts and secured long term contracts.
The majority of these assets can be carried forward inde nitely.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net million million million million million million Fixed asset temporary differences 15 59 44 12 52 40 Retirement bene t obligations 4 4 Overseas tax on unremitted earnings 1 1 Tax losses 30 30 32 32 Other temporary differences 23 6 17 24 24 Total 68 66 2 72 52 20 Offset of deferred tax positions 32 32 30 30 Net deferred tax 36 34 2 42 22 20 The net deferred tax asset due after more than one year is 2 million 2017: asset of 20 million.
24 Treasury shares 2018 2017 million million Treasury shares 17 7 329 Interests in own shares represents the cost of 1,949,676 of the Companys Ordinary Shares nominal value 4 395 pence.
Movement during the year was as follows: 2018 2017 Number Number of shares of shares 1 January 527,373 1,048,816 Purchase of shares 1,601,295 Long-term Incentive Plan maturity 1,698 Deferred shares and restricted stock 178,992 519,745 31 December 1,949,676 527,373 These shares represent 0.8% of issued share capital as at 31 December 2018 2017: 0.2%.
These shares were acquired by a Trust in the open market using funds provided by Aggreko plc to meet obligations under the Long-term Incentive Plan and Aggreko Sharesave Plans.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement of the Company in the period to which they relate.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2018 was 14 million 2017: 4 million.
25 Capital commitments 2018 2017 million million Contracted but not provided for property, plant and equipment 19 32 26 Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments 2018 2017 million million Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 29 20 Later than one year and less than five years 67 53 After five years 21 25 Total 117 98 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 27 Investments in subsidiaries The subsidiary undertakings of Aggreko plc at 31 December 2018, and the main countries in which they operate, are shown below.
All companies are wholly owned and, unless otherwise stated, incorporated in the UK or in the principal country of operation and are involved in the supply of modular, mobile power, heating, cooling and related services.
All shareholdings are of Ordinary Shares or other equity capital.
Country of Company incorporation Registered address Aggreko Algeria SPA Algeria Extension La Zone Des Activities, N 01, Adrar, Algeria Aggreko Angola Lda Angola Rua 21 Jan, Qunintalao Escola fide Enfermagem, Bairro Morro Bento III, District of Samba, Luanda, Angola Aggreko Argentina S. R. L. Argentina 465, 2D, Av.
L. N. Alem, Buenos Aires, 1001, Argentina Aggreko Aruba VBA Aruba Weststraat 13, Aruba Aggreko Generators Rental Pty Limited Australia 101, Woodlands Drive, Braeside, VIC, 3195, Australia Aggreko Bangladesh Power Solutions Limited Bangladesh Concord Baksh Tower, Level-6, Plot-11A, Road-48, Block-CWN A, Kamal Ataturk Avenue, Gulshan-2, Dhaka, Bangladesh Aggreko Belgium NV Belgium 7, Smallandlaan, Antwerpen, 2660, Belgium Aggreko Energia Locacao fide Geradores Ltda Brazil 3500, Av.
das Amricas, Ed Toronto 2000 6 Andar Barra da Tijuca, Rio fide Janeiro, 22640-102, Brazil Aggreko Cameroon S. R. L. Cameroon Centre des Affaires Flatters, Rue Flatters, BP 4999, Bonanjo, Doula, Cameroon Aggreko Canada Inc Canada 199, Bay Street, Suite 2800, Commerce Court West, Toronto, ON, M5L1A9, Canada Younicos Energy Services Ltd Canada 95 Foundry Street, Suite 300, Moncton NB, E1C 5H7, Canada Aggreko Financial Holdings Limited Cayman 89, Nexus Way, Camana Bay, PO Box 31106, Grand Cayman, KY1-1205, Cayman Islands Islands Aggreko Chile Limitada Chile Galvarino 9450, Parque Industrial Buenaventura, Quilicura, Region Metropolitana, Santiago, Chile Aggreko Shanghai Energy Equipment Rental China Building 16, No 99 HuaJia Road, SongJiang District, Shanghai, 201611, China Company Limited Aggreko Colombia SAS Colombia Parque Industrial Gran Sabana Vereda Tibitoc Lote M Unidad 67-A, Tocancipa, Colombia Aggreko Power Solutions Colombia SA ESP Colombia Parque Industrial Gran Sabana, Carretera Snrto Zipaquira Lote 67, Tocancipa Cundinamarca, Colombia Aggreko Costa Rica S. A. Costa Rica Centro Corporativo Forum I, Torre G, Piso 1, Santa Ana, San Jos, Costa Rica Aggreko Cote dIvoire S. A. R. L. Cote dIvoire Vridi Canal Base Centrale thermique gaz, Abidjan, Cote dIvoire Aggreko Curacao B. V. Curacao Hoogstraat 30, PO Box 3961, Curacao Aggreko Middle East Limited Cyprus 3 Themistokli Dervi, Julia House, P. C. 1066, Nicosia, Cyprus Aggreko DRC S. P. R. L. Democratic 50, Avenue Goma-Commune fide la Gombe, Kinshasa Republic of the Congo Aggreko Dominican Republic SRL Dominican Paseo fide los Locutores No.
53, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic Republic Aggreko Energy Ecuador CIA Ecuador E 2324, Rumipamba y Av.
Amazonas, Quito, NA, Ecuador Aggreko Finland Oy Finland Hatanpaan Valtatie 13, Tampere, Finland Aggreko France SARL France 5, Rue Boole, Saint-Michel sur Orge, 91240, France Aggreko Gabon S. A. R. L. Gabon Residence Du Golf, Libreville, BP: 4568, Gabon Aggreko Deutschland GmbH Germany Barbarastrae 62, 46282 Dorsten, Germany Younicos GmbH Germany Am Studio 16, 12489 Berlin, Germany Aggreko Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Lots 1845 and 1846 in DD125 Ho Tsuen, Yuen Long, N. T. Hong Kong, SAR, 00852, Hong Kong Aggreko Energy Rental India Private Limited India The Chambers, Of ce No 501, Plot No 4 12 13, Viman Nagar, Pune, 411014, India Aggreko Energy Services Indonesia PT Indonesia Talavera Tower Lantai 5 Talavera Of ce Park, Jl.
Letjend TB Simatupang Kav 22 26, Cilandak Barat Cilandak, Jakarta Selatan, DKI Jakarta 12430 PT Kertabumi Teknindo Indonesia Talavera Tower Lantai 5 Talavera Of ce Park, Jl.
Letjend TB Simatupang Kav 22 26, Cilandak Barat Cilandak, Jakarta Selatan, DKI Jakarta 12430 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 120 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 27 Investments in subsidiaries continued Country of Company incorporation Registered address Aggreko Ireland Ltd Ireland Riverside One, Sir John Rogersons Quay, Dublin 2, D02 X576, Ireland Aggreko Italia S. R. L. Italy 29, Via A. Einstein, Assago MI, 20090, Italy Aggreko Japan Limited Japan 4F, Ace Kudan Building, 2-2-1 Kudan-Minami, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Aggreko Events Services Japan Ltd Japan 4F, Ace Kunda Building, 2-2-1 Kudan-Minami, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Aggreko Kenya Energy Rentals Limited Kenya Plot 12100, Tulip House, Mombasa Road, P. O.
Box 10729, 00100, Nairobi, Kenya Aggreko Malaysia SDN BHD Malaysia Level 8 Symphony House Berhad Pusat Dagangan Dana 1 Jalan PJU 1A 46, Petaling Jaya, 47301, Malaysia Aggreko Mali S. A. R. L. Mali Bamako-La abougou ACI 2000, Immeuble Samassa, 1 Etage, porte 02 Aggreko Africa Limited Mauritius co o Abax Corporate Services Ltd, 6th Floor, Tower A, 1 CyberCity, Mauritius Aggreko Energy Mexico SA fide CV Mexico 8, Carretera Coacalco Tultepec, Estado fide Mexico, 55717, Mexico Aggreko Services Mexico SA fide CV Mexico 8, Carretera Coacalco Tultepec, Estado fide Mexico, 55717, Mexico Aggreko SA fide CV Mexico Mar Cantabrico No.
20, Co. Popotla C. P. 11400, Mexico, D. F. Mexico Aggreko Mocambique Limitada Mozambique 7 Andar, Av.
24 fide Julho, No 7, Bairro Polana Cimento, Distrito Urbano 1, Maputo, Mozambique Aggreko Myanmar Co Limited Myanmar No.
112 First Floor, 49th Street, Pazundaung Township, Yangon, Myanmar Aggreko Namibia Energy Rentals Pty Ltd Namibia 344 Independence Avenue, Windhoek, Namibia Aggreko NZ Limited New Zealand Level 8, 188 Quay Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand Aggreko Projects Limited Nigeria 27 Festival Road, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria Aggreko Gas Power Generation Limited Nigeria 27 Festival Road, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria Aggreko Norway AS Norway 44, Dragonveien, Bygg 31, Oslo, Norway Aggreko Energy Rentals Panama SA Panama Patton, Moreno & Asvat of ces in Capital Plaza Building, 8th oor, Roberto Motta y Costa del Este Avenue, Panama, PA, 507, Panama Aggreko Generator Rentals PNG Limited Papua New c - Ashurst PNG, Level 4, Mogoru Moto Building, Champion Parade, Port Guinea Moresby, National Capital District, Papua New Guinea Aggreko Peru S. A. C. Peru Avenida Elmer Faucett 4800, Callao, Peru Aggreko Energy Rental Solutions Inc Philippines Unit 1101, Picadily Star Building, 4th Avenue, 27th Street Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines Aggreko Polska Spolka Zorganiczana Poland Fort Ordona 6 street, Czosnow, 05-152, Poland Graciolica Lda Portugal Estrada Velha Do Quitadouro, Ilha da Graciosa, 9880 315 Santa Cruz da Graciosa, Portugal Aggreko South East Europe S. R. L. Romania Soseaua fide Centura 7A, Tunari, Ilfov, 077180, Romania Aggreko Eurasia LLC Russia Building 1, House 8, 2nd km Stariy Tobolsky Trakt, Tyumen, 625000, Russian Federation Aggreko Rwanda Limited Rwanda 1st Floor, Omega House, Boulevard fide los, Nyarugenge, Rwanda Aggreko Senegal S. A. R. L. Senegal Route fide Ngor 29912, Dakar, Senegal Aggreko Singapore PTE Limited Singapore 8B Buroh Street, Singapore, 627532 Milman International PTE LTD Singapore 8B Buroh Street, Singapore, 627532 Aggreko Energy Rental South Africa Proprietary South Africa 2 Eglin Road, Sunninghill, 2157, South Africa Limited Aggreko South Korea Limited South Korea Unit 3203 S-Trenue, 37 Gukjegeumyung-ro 2-gil, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Aggreko Iberia SA Spain 35-37, Avinguda Torre Mateu, Pol.
Industrial Can Salvatella, Barbera del Valles, 08210, Spain Aggreko Sweden AB Sweden Box 16285, Stockholm, 103 25, Sweden Aggreko Energy Rentals Tanzania Limited Tanzania Ubungo Plaza Unit 209, 2nd Floor, PO Box 158, Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania Aggreko Thailand Limited Thailand Central World, 29th Floor, Rama I Road, Pathumwan Sub-district, Pathumwan District, Bangkok, Thailand Aggreko Americas Holdings B. V. The Amstelveenseweg 760, 1081 JK Amsterdam, Netherlands Netherlands Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 27 Investments in subsidiaries continued Country of Company incorporation Registered address Aggreko Euro Holdings B. V. The Amstelveenseweg 760, 1081 JK Amsterdam, Netherlands Netherlands Aggreko Rest of the World Holdings B. V. The Amstelveenseweg 760, 1081 JK Amsterdam, Netherlands Netherlands Aggreko Investments B. V. The 3, Fuutweg, Haven 461b, Klundert, 4791PB, Netherlands Netherlands Aggreko Nederland B. V. The 3, Fuutweg, Haven 461b, Klundert, 4791PB, Netherlands Netherlands Aggreko International Power Projects B. V. The Between Roundabouts 7 and 8, Opposite Red Sea Housing, PO Box 17576, Netherlands Jebel Ali, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Aggreko Trinidad Limited Republic of 5 7 Sweet Briar Road, St. Clair, Trinidad and Tobago Trinidad & Tobago Aggreko Enerji five Isi Kontrol Ticaret Anonim Turkey EGS Business Park B2 Blok Kat:6 D:227 Yeilky, Bakrky, Istanbul, Turkey Sirketi Aggreko Middle East Limited FZE UAE E-LOB Of ce No E2-112F-40, PO Box 52462, Hamriyah Free Zone, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates Aggreko Events Services Limited UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom Aggreko Finance Limited UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom Aggreko Holdings Limited UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom Aggreko International Projects Holdings UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom Limited Aggreko International Projects Limited UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom Aggreko Pension Scheme Trustee Limited UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom Aggreko Russia Finance Limited UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom Aggreko UK Finance Limited UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom Aggreko UK Limited UK Overburn Avenue, Dumbarton, G82 2RL, Scotland, United Kingdom Aggreko US Limited UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom Aggreko Generators Limited UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom Aggreko Luxembourg Holdings UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom Dunwilco 680 Limited UK 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow, G2 7JS, Scotland, United Kingdom Golden Triangle Generators Limited UK Aggreko House Orbital 2, Voyager Drive, Cannock, Staffordshire, WS11 8XP, England, United Kingdom Aggreko Ukraine LLC Ukraine 77, 709, Sichovyh Strilstiv St, Kyiv, Ukraine, 04053 Aggreko Uruguay S. A. Uruguay 675, Of 20, Peatonal Sarandi, Montevideo, Uruguay Aggreko Holdings Inc USA Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc, 1105 N. Market Street, Suite 1300, Wilmington fide, 19801, United States Aggreko USA LLC USA The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States Aggreko LLC USA The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide, 19801, United States Younicos Inc USA 3100 Alvin Devane Blvd, Building A, Suite 200, Austin, TX, 78741, United States Aggreko fide Venezuela C. A. Venezuela Av.
Lamaletto, piso 5, o cina Unica, El Rosal, Caracas Joint venture: Aggreko ownership is 49%, remainder is held by RedMed.
Administered from Dubai and registered in the UK.
The financial year end of Aggreko Energy Rental India Private Limited is 31 March due to local taxation requirements.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 122 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 28 Acquisitions and investments A Contact Electric Rentals A Contact On 15 February 2018 the Group completed the acquisition of the business and assets of A Contact.
The acquisition furthers Aggrekos leadership position in the speciality rental market and long-term growth strategy to excel through specialised rental solutions.
A Contact specialises in the rental of medium and high voltage electrical distribution equipment in North America.
The revenue and operating pro t included in the consolidated income statement from 15 February 2018 to 31 December 2018 contributed by A Contact was 10 million and 4 million respectively.
Had A Contact been consolidated from 1 January 2018, the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 would show revenue and operating pro t of 1,760 million and 219 million respectively.
The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted and the goodwill arising on the purchase has been capitalised.
Acquisition related costs of 0.3 million have been expensed in the period and are included within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Goodwill represents the value of synergies arising from the integration of the acquired business.
Synergies include combining Acontacts specialised equipment with Aggrekos to offer extended bene ts to our customers.
Included within this maximum consideration is 3 million which was deposited into an escrow account as contingent consideration and security against any issues with the assets acquired.
The escrow period is eighteen months from date of acquisition, with 50% to be released twelve months after the acquisition date and the remaining balance eighteen months after the acquisition date.
No claims have been identi ed to date and the Directors have assessed the fair value of the consideration as 3 million.
Generator Hire Service GHS On 31 May 2018 the Group completed the acquisition of the business and assets of GHS in Australia.
GHS specialises in general rental equipment and it strengthens Aggrekos leadership position in the events sector.
The revenue and operating pro t included in the consolidated income statement from 31 May 2018 to 31 December 2018 contributed by GHS was 0.9 million and 0.2 million respectively.
Had GHS been consolidated from 1 January 2018, the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 would show revenue and operating pro t of 1,760 million and 219 million respectively.
Acquisition related costs of 0.2 million have been expensed in the period and are included within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Synergies include direct cost savings and a reduction in overheads, as well as the ability to leverage Aggreko systems and access to assets.
The details of the transactions and the fair value of assets acquired in the two acquisitions are shown in the table below: A Contact GHS Total million million million Property, plant and equipment 11 2 13 Intangible assets 1 1 Inventory 6 6 Trade and other receivables 1 1 Net assets acquired 19 2 21 Goodwill 21 3 Consideration per cash ow 21 3 24 Investment in Origami Energy Limited Origami On 21 March 2018 the Group acquired a 14% share in Origami for a consideration of 9 million.
Origami was founded in 2013 and has developed intelligent software that optimises the revenue earning capability of grid connected assets.
This investment extends Aggrekos capability in evolving energy markets and supports our distributed energy strategy.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED Cash ow hedges Share-based payments 29 Notes to the Group Changes in the fair value of derivative IFRS 2 Share-based Payment has Accounts appendices financial instruments that are been applied to all grants of equity 29.
A1 Accounting policies designated, and effective, as hedges of instruments.
The Group issues equityDerivative financial instruments future cash ows are recognised directly settled share-based payments to certain The activities of the Group expose it in equity and any ineffective portion is employees under the terms of the directly to the financial risks of changes recognised immediately in the income Groups various employee-share and in forward foreign currency exchange statement.
If the cash ow hedge is option schemes.
Equity-settled sharerates and interest rates.
The Group uses of a rm commitment or forecasted based payments are measured at fair forward foreign exchange contracts, and transaction that subsequently results in value at the date of the grant.
The fair interest rate swap contracts to hedge the recognition of an asset or a liability value determined at the grant date of these exposures.
The Group does not then, at the time the asset or liability equity-settled share-based payments use derivative financial instruments is recognised, the associated gains is expensed on a straight-line basis over for speculative purposes.
or losses on the derivative that had the vesting period, based on an estimate previously been recognised in equity of the shares that will ultimately vest.
Derivatives are initially recorded and are included in the initial measurement Fair value is measured using the subsequently measured at fair value, of the asset or liability.
For hedges of Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
which is calculated using standard transactions that do not result in the industry valuation techniques in Own shares held under trust for the recognition of an asset or a liability, conjunction with observable market Groups employee share schemes are amounts deferred in equity are data.
The fair value of interest rate swaps classed as Treasury shares and deducted recognised in the income statement is calculated as the present value of in arriving at Shareholders equity.
in the same period in which the hedged estimated future cash ows using No gain or loss is recognised on disposal item affects net pro t and loss.
market interest rates and the fair value of Treasury shares.
Purchases of own of forward foreign exchange contracts Changes in the fair value of derivative shares are disclosed as changes in is determined using forward foreign financial instruments that do not qualify Shareholders equity.
exchange market rates at the reporting for hedge accounting are recognised Leases date.
The treatment of changes in fair in the income statement as they arise.
Leases where substantially all of the value of derivatives depends on the Hedge accounting is discontinued risks and rewards of ownership are not derivative classi cation.
The Group when the hedging instrument no longer transferred to the Group are classi ed designates derivatives as hedges of quali es for hedge accounting.
At that as operating leases.
Rentals under highly probable forecasted transactions time any cumulative gain or loss on operating leases are charged against or commitments cash ow hedge.
the hedging instrument recognised operating pro t on a straight-line In order to qualify for hedge accounting, in equity is retained in equity until basis over the term of the lease.
the Group is required to document in the forecasted transaction occurs.
Dividend distribution advance the relationship between the If a hedged transaction is no longer Dividend distribution to the Companys item being hedged and the hedging expected to occur, the net cumulative Shareholders is recognised as a liability instrument.
The Group is also required gain or loss recognised in equity is in the Groups financial statements to document and demonstrate an transferred to the income statement.
in the period in which the dividends assessment of the relationship between Overseas net investment hedges are approved by the Companys the hedged item and the hedging Certain foreign currency borrowings Shareholders.
Interim dividends instrument, which shows that the are designated as hedges of the Groups are recognised when paid.
hedge will be highly effective on an overseas net investments, which are ongoing basis.
This effectiveness denominated in the functional currency testing is re-performed at each period of the reporting operation.
end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net investment in foreign entities and of borrowings are taken to equity on consolidation to the extent the hedges are deemed effective.
All other exchange gains and losses are dealt with through the income statement.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 124 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 29 Notes to the Group Accounts appendices continued 29.
A2 Other intangible assets Year ended 31 December 2018 Customer relationships and noncompete Development agreements expenditure Technology Total million million million million Cost At 1 January 2018 56 10 3 69 Acquisitions Note 28 1 1 Additions 10 10 Exchange adjustments 1 4 5 At 31 December 2018 58 24 3 85 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2018 38 38 Charge for the year 4 1 5 Exchange adjustments At 31 December 2018 42 1 43 Net book values At 31 December 2018 16 24 2 42 At 31 December 2017 18 10 3 31 Amortisation charges in the year mainly comprised amortisation of assets arising from business combinations and have been recorded in administrative expenses.
Year ended 31 December 2017 Customer relationships and noncompete Development agreements expenditure Technology Total million million million million Cost At 1 January 2017 56 5 61 Acquisitions 5 3 8 Additions 5 5 Exchange adjustments 5 5 At 31 December 2017 56 10 3 69 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2017 37 37 Charge for the year 4 4 Exchange adjustments 3 3 At 31 December 2017 38 38 Net book values At 31 December 2017 18 10 3 31 At 31 December 2016 19 5 24 Amortisation charges in the year mainly comprised amortisation of assets arising from business combinations and have been recorded in administrative expenses.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 29 Notes to the Group Accounts appendices continued 29.
A3 Borrowings i Interest rate risk pro le of financial liabilities The interest rate pro le of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2018, after taking account of the interest rate swaps used to manage the interest pro le, was: Fixed rate debt Weighted average Weighted period for average which rate Floating rate Fixed rate Total interest rate is xed million million million % Years Currency: US Dollar 13 591 604 4.0 5.4 Euro 61 61 Canadian Dollar 23 23 Mexican Pesos 18 18 Indonesian Rupiah 23 23 Other currencies 42 42 As at 31 December 2018 180 591 771 Fixed rate debt Weighted average Weighted period for average which rate Floating rate Fixed rate Total interest rate is xed million million million % Years Currency: US Dollar 7 610 617 4.0 5.9 Mexican Pesos 17 17 Russian Roubles 10 10 Brazil Reals 10 10 Indonesian Rupiah 17 17 Indian Rupees 10 10 Other currencies 42 42 As at 31 December 2017 113 610 723 The oating rate financial liabilities principally comprise debt which carries interest based on different benchmark rates depending on the currency of the balance and are normally xed in advance for periods between one and three months.
The weighted average interest rate on xed debt is derived from the xed leg of each interest rate swap and coupons applying to xed rate private placement notes.
The effect of the Groups interest rate swaps is to classify 79 million 2017: 74 million of borrowings in the above table as xed rate.
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2018 was 79 million 2017: 74 million.
ii Interest rate risk pro le of financial assets Cash at bank and in hand million Currency: US Dollar 22 Russian Roubles 9 Other currencies 54 As at 31 December 2018 85 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 126 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 29 Notes to the Group Accounts appendices continued 29.
A3 Borrowings continued Cash at bank and in hand million Currency: US Dollar 26 Other currencies 45 As at 31 December 2017 71 All of the above cash and short-term deposits are oating rate and earn interest based on relevant LIBID London Interbank Bid Rate equivalents or market rates for the currency concerned.
A4 Financial instruments As stated in our accounting policies Note 29.
A1 on page 124 the activities of the Group expose it directly to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
The movement in the hedging reserve is shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
i Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The following table provides a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and the fair values of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities at 31 December 2018.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Market values have been used to determine fair values.
2018 2017 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value million million million million Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: Current borrowings and overdrafts 144 144 139 139 Non-current borrowings 627 627 584 584 Cash at bank and in hand 85 85 71 71 Derivative financial instruments held: Interest rate swaps 2 2 Net forward foreign currency contracts 1 1 Trade receivables 502 502 490 490 PDVSA private placement notes 44 44 Trade payables 134 134 160 160 ii Summary of methods and assumptions Interest rate swaps and foreign currency derivatives Fair value is based on market price of these instruments at the balance sheet date.
In accordance with IFRS 13, interest rate swaps are considered to be Level 2 with fair value being calculated as the present value of estimated future cash ows using market interest rates.
Forward foreign currency contracts are considered to be Level 1 as the valuation is based on quoted market prices at the end of the reporting period.
Private placement notes are Level 2.
Current borrowings and overdrafts short-term deposits The fair value of short-term deposits and current borrowings and overdrafts approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
Non-current borrowings In the case of non-current borrowings, the fair value approximates to the carrying value reported in the balance sheet.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 29 Notes to the Group Accounts appendices continued 29.
A4 Financial instruments continued iii Derivative financial instruments Hedge of net investment in foreign entity The Group has designated as a hedge of the net investment in its overseas subsidiaries foreign currency denominated borrowings as detailed in the table below.
The fair value of these borrowings were as follows: 2018 2017 million million US Dollar 604 610 Euro 61 A foreign exchange loss of 46 million 2017: gain of 55 million on translation of the borrowings into Sterling has been recognised in exchange reserves.
iv The exposure of the Group to interest rate changes when borrowings reprice is as follows: As at 31 December 2018 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total million million million million Total borrowings 144 272 355 771 Effect of interest rate swaps and other xed rate debt 99 137 355 591 45 135 180 As at 31 December 2017 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total million million million million Total borrowings 139 251 333 723 Effect of interest rate swaps and other xed rate debt 55 222 333 610 84 29 113 As at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, all of the Groups oating debt was exposed to repricing within three months of the balance sheet date.
The Groups interest rate swap portfolio is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure it is consistent with the Group policy as described on page 104.
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: 2018 2017 Bank overdrafts 9.4% 12.1% Bank borrowings 3.8% 4.9% Private placement 3.9% 3.9% Maturity of financial liabilities The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial liabilities into the relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
As at 31 December 2018 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years million million million million Borrowings 145 104 179 454 Trade and other payables 134 279 104 179 454 As at 31 December 2017 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years million million million million Borrowings 140 80 192 444 Derivative financial instruments 1 2 Trade and other payables 162 303 82 192 444 No trade payable balances have a contractual maturity greater than 90 days.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 128 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 29 Notes to the Group Accounts appendices continued 29.
A4 Financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments settled on a gross basis The table below analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As at 31 December 2018 1 year million Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges Out ow 114 In ow 114 As at 31 December 2017 1 year million Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges Out ow 141 In ow 140 1 All of the Groups forward foreign currency exchange contracts are due to be settled within one year of the balance sheet date.
A5 Pensions Overseas Pension arrangements for overseas employees vary and schemes re ect best practice and regulation in each particular country.
The charge against pro t is the amount of contributions payable to the fide ned contribution pension schemes in respect of the accounting period.
The pension cost attributable to overseas employees for 2018 was 12 million 2017: 11 million.
United Kingdom The Group operates pension schemes for UK employees.
The Aggreko plc Pension Scheme the Scheme is a funded, contributory, fide ned bene t scheme.
Assets are held separately from those of the Group under the control of the Directors of Aggreko Pension Scheme Trustee Limited.
The Scheme is subject to valuations at intervals of not more than three years by an independent actuary.
The Trustee of the Scheme has control over the operation, funding and investment strategy of the Scheme but works closely with the Company to agree funding and investment strategy.
A valuation of the Scheme was carried out as at 31 December 2014 using the Attained Age method to determine the level of contributions to be made by the Group.
The actuaries adopted a valuation basis linked to market conditions at the valuation date.
Assets were taken at market value.
The major actuarial assumptions used were: Return on investments 3.6% Growth in average pay levels 4.8% Increase in pensions 3.2% At the valuation date, the market value of the Schemes assets excluding AVCs was 92 million which was suf cient to cover 92% of the bene ts that had accrued to members, after making allowances for future increases in earnings.
As part of the valuation at 31 December 2014, the Company and the Trustee agreed upon a Schedule of Contributions and a Recovery Plan.
Company contributions for bene ts building up in the future increased from 35.9% to 41.0% on 1 February 2016.
To address the Scheme fide cit the Company has already made additional contributions of 1.25 million in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 and plans to make further additional contributions of 1.25 million each year until 2022.
Employee contributions are 6% of pensionable earnings.
The Group has the right to a refund of any pension surplus at the end of the Scheme and as such has not recognised an additional liability in accordance with IFRIC 14.
The Scheme closed to all new employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002.
New employees are given the option to join a fide ned contribution scheme.
Contributions of 2 million were paid to this fide ned contribution scheme during the year 2017: 2million.
There are no outstanding or prepaid balances at 31 December 2018.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 129 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 29 Notes to the Group Accounts appendices continued 29.
A5 Pensions continued An update of the Scheme was carried out by a quali ed independent actuary using the latest available information for the purposes of this statement.
The major assumptions used in this update by the actuary were: 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Rate of increase in salaries 3.7% 4.9% Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.2% 3.1% Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.4% 3.4% Discount rate 3.0% 2.6% In ation assumption 3.4% 3.4% Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners years Men 22.4 24.3 Women 24.5 26.9 Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners years Men 24.0 26.9 Women 26.6 29.7 The assets in the Scheme were: Value at Value at 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Equities million million UK equities 9 10 Overseas equities 12 13 Diversi ed growth 8 8 Absolute return 1 8 Index-linked bonds 43 49 Bonds 19 19 Cash 5 2 Total 97 109 The amounts included in the balance sheet arising from the Groups obligations in respect of the Scheme are as follows: 2018 2017 million million Fair value of assets 97 109 Present value of funded obligations 96 134 Asset liability recognised in the balance sheet 1 25 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 130 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 29 Notes to the Group Accounts appendices continued 29.
A5 Pensions continued Movement in fide ned bene t liability during the year: fide ned bene t obligation Fair value of Scheme assets Net fide ned bene t surplus liability 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 million million million million million million Balance at 1 January 134 135 109 105 25 30 Included in the income statement Service cost 2 2 2 2 Interest cost 4 4 4 4 Interest income 3 3 3 3 6 6 3 3 3 3 Included in the statement of comprehensive income Remeasurements Effects of changes in demographic assumptions 15 15 Effect of changes in financial assumptions 13 2 13 2 Effect of experience adjustments 5 5 Return on plan assets excluding interest income 7 3 7 3 33 2 7 3 26 5 Other Employer contributions 3 3 3 3 Bene ts paid 11 5 11 5 11 5 8 2 3 3 Balance at 31 December 96 134 97 109 1 25 The service cost includes 0.3 million in relation to the guaranteed minimum pension GMP requirements.
The Projected Unit method has been used for the valuation of the liabilities.
Under this method each participants bene ts under the Scheme are attributed to years of service, taking into consideration future salary increases and the Schemes bene t allocation formula.
Thus, the estimated total pension to which each participant is expected to become entitled at retirement is broken down into units, each associated with a year of past or future credited service.
The bene t obligation is the total present value assessed using appropriate assumptions of the individuals attributed bene ts for valuation purposes at the measurement date.
The discount rate was derived from the AA corporate bond yield curve and based on Scheme speci c cash ow data from the last actuarial valuation to arrive at an appropriate single-equivalent rate.
The fair value of the assets is based on the underlying bid value statements issued by the various investment managers.
The manager statements re ect the relevant pricing basis of the units held in the underlying pooled funds.
An alternative method of valuation is the estimated cost of buying out bene ts at 31 December 2018 with a suitable insurer.
This amount represents the amount that would be required to settle the Scheme liabilities at 31 December 2018 rather than the Company continuing to fund the ongoing liabilities of the Scheme.
The Company estimates the amount required to settle the Schemes liabilities at 31 December 2018 is around 132 million which gives a Scheme shortfall on a buyout basis of approximately 35 million.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 131 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 29 Notes to the Group Accounts appendices continued 29.
A5 Pensions continued Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity 2018 2017 million million At 1 January 58 63 Actuarial gains recognised in the year 26 5 At 31 December 32 58 The actual return on Scheme assets was a loss of 7 million 2017: gain of 3 million.
Risks to which the Scheme exposes the Group There is a risk of asset volatility leading to a fide cit in the Scheme.
Working with the Company, the Trustee has agreed investment derisking triggers which, when certain criteria are met, will decrease corporate bond holding and increase the holding of index linked bonds.
Over time, this will result in an investment portfolio which better matches the liabilities of the Scheme thereby reducing the risk of asset volatility.
However there remains a signi cant level of investment mismatch in the Scheme.
This is deliberate and is aimed at maximising the Schemes long term investment return while retaining control of the funding risks.
Through the Scheme, the Group is exposed to a number of other risks: Changes in bond yields a decrease in corporate bond yields will increase Scheme liabilities.
In ation risk pension obligations are linked to in ation and higher in ation will lead to higher liabilities.
Life expectancy an increase in life expectancy will result in an increase in the Scheme liabilities.
The measurement of the fide ned bene t obligation is particularly sensitive to changes in key assumptions as described below: The discount rate has been selected following actuarial advice and taking into account the duration of the liabilities.
A decrease in the discount rate of 0.5% per annum would result in a 13 million increase in the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation.
The weighted average duration of the fide ned bene t obligation liabilities is around 25 years.
The in ation assumption adopted is consistent with the discount rate used.
It is used to set the assumptions for pension increases, salary increases and deferred revaluations.
An increase in the in ation rate of 0.5% per annum would result in a 12 million increase in the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation.
The longevity assumptions adopted are based on those recommended by the Scheme actuary advising the Trustee of the Scheme and re ect the most recent mortality information available at the time of the Trustee actuarial valuation.
The increase in the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation due to members living one year longer would be 3 million.
There is a risk that changes in the above assumptions could increase the fide cit in the Scheme.
Other assumptions used to value the fide ned bene t obligation are also uncertain, although their effect is less material.
2018 2017 million million fide ned bene t obligation by participant status Actives 31 59 Deferreds 34 47 Pensioners 31 28 96 134 The duration of the liabilities is approximately 25 years.
Expected cash ows in future years Expected employer contributions for the year ending 31 December 2019 are 3 million.
Expected total bene t payments: approximately 2 million per year for the next 10 years.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 132 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 30 Segmental disclosures: Reconciliation of previously reported to restated results Year ended 31 December 2017 Revenue IFRS 15 Impact As reported PSU PSI Mob demob Rehire Restated million million million million million Power Solutions Industrial 340 93 4 429 Utility 670 93 2 579 1,010 2 4 1,008 Rental Solutions 720 30 690 Group 1,730 2 34 1,698 Operating pro t IFRS 15 Impact As reported PSU PSI Mob demob Restated million million million million Power Solutions Industrial 55 17 1 73 Utility 93 17 6 70 148 5 143 Rental Solutions 81 81 Group 229 5 224 Depreciation and amortisation As reported PSU PSI Restated million million million Power Solutions Industrial 72 17 89 Utility 132 17 115 204 204 Rental Solutions 96 96 Group 300 300 Capital expenditure on property, plant & equipment and intangible assets As reported PSU PSI Restated million million million Power Solutions Industrial 55 8 63 Utility 183 8 175 238 238 Rental Solutions 75 75 Group 313 313 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 133 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 30 Segmental disclosures: Reconciliation of previously reported to restated results continued Assets IFRS 15 Impact As reported PSU PSI Mob demob Restated million million million million Power Solutions Industrial 628 170 4 802 Utility 1,109 170 4 943 1,737 8 1,745 Rental Solutions 765 765 Group 2,502 8 2,510 Liabilities IFRS 15 Impact As reported PSU PSI Mob demob Restated million million million million Power Solutions Industrial 61 48 3 112 Utility 263 48 9 224 324 12 336 Rental Solutions 100 100 Group 424 12 436 Note: As well as a change in operating assets there is also a 1 million decrease in corporation tax payable.
Average number of employees As reported PSU PSI Restated Power Solutions Industrial 1,380 454 1,834 Utility 2,083 454 1,629 3,463 3,463 Rental Solutions 2,515 2,515 Group 5,978 5,978 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 134
