Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Notes to the Accounts 1.
Accounting policies General information A. G. BARR p. l. c. the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group manufacture, distribute and sell soft drinks.
The Group has manufacturing sites in the UK and sells mainly to customers in the UK with some international sales.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in Scotland.
The address of its registered office is Westfield House, 4 Mollins Road, Cumbernauld, G68 9HD.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 27 January 2018 prior financial year 52 weeks ended 28 January 2017.
Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated and parent Company financial statements of A. G. BARR p. l. c. have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
They have been prepared under the historical cost accounting rules except for the derivative financial instruments and the assets of the Group pension scheme which are stated at fair value and the liabilities of the Group pension scheme which are valued using the projected unit credit method.
The directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these accounts for the reasons set out in Note 30.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed on page 99.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented a separate income statement or statement of comprehensive income for the Company.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures a New and amended standards adopted by the Group The following revised IFRSs have been adopted in this consolidated financial information.
The application of these revised IFRSs has not had any material impact on the amounts reported for the current and prior periods.
Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows.
Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS 12.
Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20142016 Cycle IFRS 12. b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 29 January 2017 and not adopted early A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for future year ends, and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
These standards and amendments are listed in the table below.
Note this list is limited to those standards which are expected to impact the Group.
Financial year beginning which International Accounting Standards and Interpretations standard becomes effective IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 28 January 2018 Classification and measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2 28 January 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 28 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 27 January 2019 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 27 January 2019 Standards not yet endorsed by the EU.
Management have considered the potential impact of the implementation of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
It is expected that IFRS 9 will not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91
