Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Notes to the Accounts 1.
Accounting policies General information A. G. BARR p. l. c. the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group manufacture, distribute and sell soft drinks.
The Group has manufacturing sites in the UK and sells mainly to customers in the UK with some international sales.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in Scotland.
The address of its registered office is Westfield House, 4 Mollins Road, Cumbernauld, G68 9HD.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 27 January 2018 prior financial year 52 weeks ended 28 January 2017.
Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated and parent Company financial statements of A. G. BARR p. l. c. have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
They have been prepared under the historical cost accounting rules except for the derivative financial instruments and the assets of the Group pension scheme which are stated at fair value and the liabilities of the Group pension scheme which are valued using the projected unit credit method.
The directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these accounts for the reasons set out in Note 30.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed on page 99.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented a separate income statement or statement of comprehensive income for the Company.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures a New and amended standards adopted by the Group The following revised IFRSs have been adopted in this consolidated financial information.
The application of these revised IFRSs has not had any material impact on the amounts reported for the current and prior periods.
Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows.
Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS 12.
Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20142016 Cycle IFRS 12. b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 29 January 2017 and not adopted early A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for future year ends, and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
These standards and amendments are listed in the table below.
Note this list is limited to those standards which are expected to impact the Group.
Financial year beginning which International Accounting Standards and Interpretations standard becomes effective IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 28 January 2018 Classification and measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 2 28 January 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 28 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 27 January 2019 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 27 January 2019 Standards not yet endorsed by the EU.
Management have considered the potential impact of the implementation of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
It is expected that IFRS 9 will not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Changes in accounting policy and disclosures continued IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
During the year ended 27 January 2018 management have carried out a detailed review of the current recognition criteria for revenue against the requirements of IFRS 15.
Under IAS 18, the timing of revenue recognition from the sale of goods is based primarily on the transfer of risks and rewards.
IFRS 15 instead focuses on when control of those goods has transferred to the customer.
Management have assessed that the primary impact will be a reclassification of certain payments and customer incentives which are not viewed as being in relation to distinct goods or services.
These are currently recognised as selling and distribution costs and going forward will be set against revenue.
The adoption of the standard is not expected to impact profit before tax.
Had the standard been adopted in the current year the impact would have been a reduction in revenue in the range of 10m to 13m and a decrease of selling and distribution costs of the same amount.
Profit before tax would be unchanged and gross margin would have been between 2.0% and 2.6% lower.
It is expected that IFRS 16 will materially affect the consolidated financial statements.
As at the reporting date, the Group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of 8.3m refer to Note 24, the vast majority of which relate to production equipment held at the Milton Keynes facility.
Management have performed an analysis of these leases to assess the expected impact of IFRS 16.
If IFRS 16 was implemented in the year ended 27 January 2018, its effect would be to increase the net book value of property, plant and equipment by 7.8m, with a corresponding finance lease liability of 9.3m.
The net impact on retained earnings for the year ended 27 January 2018 would be a charge of 1.1m.
The impact on the income statement for the year would be immaterial.
To date, 8.6m of operating lease rentals have been recognised in respect of the assessed leases.
Under IFRS 16, 7.6m of depreciation would have been charged, plus a further 2.0m of interestcharges.
Two changes of accounting policies have been adopted in the year to 27 January 2018: i Change in the treatment of deferred tax on the recovery of the carrying value of property The carrying value of the property is expected to be recovered through both use and subsequent disposal.
Previously, a single tax base was attributed to that asset, compared against a single carrying amount, resulting in a single temporary difference being recognised.
Following a review of the accounting policies with our auditor we have changed our accounting policy such that the deferred tax recognised more closely reflects the extent to which the applicable tax rules interact.
Under the new policy the deferred tax is based on consideration of how much of the carrying value of the property is expected to be recovered through use and how much through sale, comparing each against their relevant tax bases.
The deductible temporary difference from the capital gains tax base is not viewed as recoverable since there is no expectation of a capital gain against which to offset it, so no deferred capital gains tax asset is recognised.
As a result, the opening deferred tax balance at January 2016 has been adjusted to reflect only the taxable temporary difference arising to the extent recovery of the property is expected through use.
The accounting policy for tax is now as follows: Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, in the consolidated financial statements.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: The initial recognition of goodwill: and Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Where the expected manner of recovery will impact which tax rules apply, for example with properties, the deferred tax is calculated by considering how much of the carrying value will be recovered through use and how much through sale, and then being calculated by assessing these amounts against the relevant tax bases and respective tax rules.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the year end date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
92 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts As this change is a historic adjustment, the effect of the change to the accounting policy has been taken to retained earnings for the earliest reporting period presented in the Annual Report and Accounts to 27 January 2018: 30 January 28 January 2016 2017 m m Deferred tax liability under previous accounting policy 12.2 9.6 Effect of change in accounting policy 1.6 1.6 Restated deferred tax liability 13.8 11.2 30 January 28 January 2016 2017 m m Retained earnings under previous accounting policy 171.9 174.4 Effect of change in accounting policy 1.6 1.6 Restated retained earnings 170.3 172.8 This change in accounting policy has no other impact on the financial statements.
ii Offsetting of the pension prepayment against the retirement benefit obligation In the A. G. BARR p. l. c. Company accounts the previous accounting treatment had been to recognise a prepayment in respect of a payment of 21m made to the pension scheme for the rental of the property that was transferred from the Company into the pension scheme as part of the asset backed funding arrangement.
This asset backed funding arrangement was entered into during the year to 26 January 2014.
Following a review of the accounting policy with the auditor the Company is changing its accounting policy in relation to the prepayment and including this as a reduction in the carrying value of the retirement benefit obligation.
This treatment is in line with the treatment adopted by other companies which have entered into an asset backed funding arrangement.
Restatement of Company statement of financial position: 28 January 28 January 2017 2017 m m Pension prepayments non-current assets 17.9 Pension prepayments current assets 1.2 Effect of change in accounting policy 17.9 Effect of change in accounting policy 1.2 Restated pension prepayments non-current assets Restated pension prepayments current assets 28 January 2017 m Retirement benefit obligation 27.4 Effect of change in accounting policy 19.1 Restated retirement benefit obligation 8.3 The change in the accounting policy has no effect on the Companys income statement or the Companys cash flow statement.
The restatement of the Group and Company financial position as at 30 January 2016 can be found in Note 33.
Consolidation subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
The Company controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date over which control commences until the date on which controlceases.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Consolidation subsidiaries continued The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group and for acquisitions prior to 1 July 2009 costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Currently, there are no noncontrolling interests in any of the entities within the Group.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired less liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised as a credit in profit or loss.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Profits and losses resulting from intercompany transactions that are recognised in net assets are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with those adopted by the Group.
Revenue recognition Revenue is the net invoiced sales value, after deducting promotional sales related discounts invoiced by customers, including brand support costs, and exclusive of value added tax of goods and services supplied to external customers during the year.
Brand support costs are investments in customer promotional activities.
Sales are recorded based on the price specified in the sales invoices, net of any agreed discounts and rebates.
Revenue is recognised when the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount can be measured reliably.
Sales related discounts and rebates are calculated based on the expected amounts necessary to meet the claims of the Groups customers in respect of these discounts and rebates.
Brand support accruals are included in the statement of financial position in respect of these.
Segment reporting An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components and for which discrete financial information is available.
Segment results that are reported to the Management Committee as chief operating decision maker include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those which can be allocated on a consistent basis.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Functional and presentation currency items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement in the same line in which the transaction is recorded.
Exceptional items As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, an item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by its nature or scale, and is of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
In determining whether an item is sufficiently unusual or significant so as to be classified as exceptional, management will consider where the item fits in the context of the financial statements as a whole, as well as the likelihood and previous history of recurrence.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment charges.
Impairment charges on goodwill are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
94 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside of goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Brands Separately acquired brands are recognised at cost at the date of purchase.
Brands acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Brands acquired separately or through a business combination are assessed at the date of acquisition as to whether they have an indefinite life.
The assessment includes whether the brand name will continue to trade, and the expected lifetime of the brand.
All brands acquired to date have been assessed as having an indefinite life as they are expected to continue to contribute to the long term future of the Group.
The brands are reviewed annually for impairment, being carried at cost less accumulated impairment charges.
The fair value of a brand at the date of acquisition is based on the Relief from Royalties method, which is a valuation model based on discounted cash flows.
Customer relationships Customer relationships acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
The customer relationships have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method over the expected life of the customer relationship.
The closing balance in the current year represents the carrying value of the customer relationships acquired during the acquisitions of Rubicon Drinks Limited and Funkin Limited.
The fair value of the customer relationships at the acquisition date was based on the Multiple Excess Earnings Method MEEM which is a valuation model based on discounted cash flows.
The useful lives of customer relationships are based on the churn rate of the acquired portfolio and are up to 10 years corresponding to a yearly amortisation of between 10% and 33%.
The useful lives of all intangible assets are reviewed annually and amended, as required, on a prospective basis.
Internally generated software development costs Internally generated software development costs comprise internal and third party consultancy costs incurred in relation to the Business Process Redesign project.
Amortisation is charged from the date the software is available for use.
This is calculated using the straight-line method over the expected useful life of the software, which is 10 years.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings comprise mainly factories, distribution sites and offices.
All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
The purchase price of an asset will include the fair value of the consideration paid to acquire the asset.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to acquisition, construction and or production of assets that take a substantial time to complete are capitalised.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of any replaced part is derecognised.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation is charged from the date that assets, other than land, are available for use.
It is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost to the residual values of the related assets using the following rates: Buildings 1% Leasehold buildings Term of lease Plant, equipment and vehicles 10% to 33% Computer hardware 20% The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each year end date.
The carrying value of the property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the recoverable amount may be less than the carrying value.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment continued An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal or where no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the net proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within administration costs in the income statement.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
The Group has four heritable properties held under operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other payables.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not berecoverable.
An impairment charge is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that is based on current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised although any reversal cannot result in a carrying amount that would exceed the carrying amount that would have been recognised, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade payables.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the estimated cash flows.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of a bad debt provision account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within administration costs.
When a trade receivable becomes uncollectable it is written off against the bad debt provision.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
96 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Investments Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less impairment in the parent Company accounts.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the cash flow statement.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestbearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
At the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in Note 15.
Movements on the hedging reserve in shareholders equity are shown in the statement of changes in equity.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as non-current when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months from the statement of financial position date and as current when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months from the statement of financial position date.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within administration costs.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled through the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward foreign currency contracts hedging overseas purchases is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within administration costs.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised within the income statement when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of completing production and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their primary distribution location and condition.
This includes direct labour costs and an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating activity.
Company shares held by employee benefit trusts Company shares are purchased on behalf of employee benefit trusts to satisfy the liability of various employee share schemes.
The amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a charge in equity.
Purchased shares are classified as Company shares held by employee benefit trusts, and presented as a deduction from retained earnings.
Current and deferred income tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is charged in the income statement except where it relates to tax on items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is charged to equity.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Current and deferred income tax continued Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the year end date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, in the consolidated financial statements.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Employee benefits Retirement benefit plans The Group operates two pension schemes as detailed in Note 26.
The schemes are generally funded through payments to trustee-administered funds.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
Defined contribution pension plans A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Obligations for contributions are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they fall due.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Defined benefit pension plans A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The liability surplus recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of plan assets less the fair value of the defined benefit obligation.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The Group recognises gains and losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs.
The gain or loss on a settlement is the difference between the present value of the defined benefit obligation being settled as determined on the date of settlement and the settlement price, including any plan assets transferred and any payments made directly by the Group in connection with the settlement.
The Groups defined benefit plan was closed to future accrual on 1 May 2016.
Share-based compensation The Group grants equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
These are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the grant date.
The fair value of the equity settled share-based payment determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase the Companys ordinary shares at a discount to the current market value through payroll.
98 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts The Group records as an expense the fair value of the discount on the shares purchased by the employee as a charge to the income statement and a credit to the share options reserve.
At each year end date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to the share options reserve.
Profit-sharing and bonus plans The Group recognises a liability and an expense for various bonuses based on formulae that take into consideration the profit attributable to the Companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
The Group recognises a provision where there is a contractual obligation or where there is a past practice that has created a .
Provisions A provision is recognised if, as the result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan which has been either announced or has commenced.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
Dividend distributions Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Share repurchase programme During the 52 weeks ended 27 January 2018, a share repurchase programme has been in progress.
The adopted accounting policy is to cancel the repurchased shares and replace the permanent capital through creation of a Capital Redemption Reserve.
The Capital Redemption Reserve is included in Other reserves within equity.
Alternative performance measures Alternative performance measures APMs are tracked by management to assess the Groups operating performance and to inform financial, strategic and operating decisions.
These are therefore presented within the Annual Report and Accounts.
Definitions of APMs and reconciliation to GAAP measures can be found in the Glossary on page 137.
Exceptional items The Group identifies items as exceptional where the nature or scale of the item requires to be separately presented in order to better understand trading performance.
For further detail refer to Note 7.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the statement of financial position date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
Due to the nature of estimation, the actual outcomes may well differ from these estimates.
The principal estimates that have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below: Retirement benefit obligations key source of estimation uncertainty The determination of any defined benefit pension scheme surplus obligation is based on assumptions determined with independent actuarial advice.
The assumptions used include discount rate, inflation, pension increases, salary increases, the expected return on scheme assets and mortality assumptions.
The material estimations are those for which a sensitivity analysis is provided in Note 26.
The directors consider that those sensitivities provided in Note 26 represent reasonable sensitivities which could occur.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99
