Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 24.
Lease commitments The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows for the Group and Company: 2018 2017 m m No later than one year 3.1 3.1 More than one year but not more than five years 5.2 6.7 Due beyond five years Total lease commitments 8.3 9.8 25.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, cash flow and fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out in accordance with policies approved by the Board of directors.
Management identifies, evaluates and manages financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups business units.
The Board provides guidance on overall market risk management including use of derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
In addition, treasury matters are dealt with by the Treasury Committee.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally.
The Group primarily buys and sells in sterling but does make purchases and sales denominated in US dollars and euros.
Due to the hedging arrangements that have been in place for the year ended 27 January 2018, if sterling had weakened strengthened by 10% against the US dollar or euro, with all other variables held constant, there would have been an immaterial effect on post-tax profit year ended 28 January 2017: immaterial impact on post-tax profit.
The Group periodically enters into forward option contracts to purchase foreign currencies for known purchases where the value and volume of trading purchases is known.
The Treasury Committee assesses whether hedge accounting should be applied for each forward option contract.
Price risk The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk because no such investments are held by the Group other than within Pension Scheme assets.
The Group purchases a wide range of commodities in the ordinary course of business.
Exposure to changes in the market price of certain of these commodities, including sugar, plastic, aluminium and mango, is managed through the use of forward physical supply contracts, primarily to convert floating or indexed prices to fixed prices.
The use of such contracts to hedge commodity exposures is governed by the Groups risk management policies and is continually monitored by the Treasury Committee.
Commodity derivatives also provide a way to meet customers pricing requirements whilst achieving a price structure consistent with the Groups overall pricing strategy.
All of the Groups commodity derivatives are treated as own use contracts, which are outside the scope of IAS 39, since they are both entered into, and continue to be held, for the purposes of the Groups ordinary operations, and are not net settled the Group takes physical delivery of the commodity concerned.
Own use contracts do not require accounting entries until the commodity purchase actually crystalises.
The majority of the Groups forward physical contracts and commodity derivatives have original maturities of less than one year.
As all of the commodity contracts qualify for the own use treatment, no sensitivity analysis has been carried out.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123
