I II III IV OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY: PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND OTHER TERMS Throughout this document a number of terms are used Gearing Net is a measure of the Trusts financial leverage to describe performance.
Where not described in detail and calculated by dividing the Trusts net borrowings i. e. elsewhere set out here is what these terms mean.
total borrowings minus cash by its Net Asset Value.
Active Risk is a measure of the risk in a portfolio that is Leverage For the purposes of the Alternative Investment due to active management decisions.
It is calculated as Fund Managers AIFM Directive, leverage is a term used to the standard deviation of the excess returns of a portfolio describe any method by which the Company increases its over its benchmark, in the case of the Trust the MSCI ACWI.
exposure, whether through borrowing gearing or through For the equity portfolio as at 31 December 2018 this was leverage embedded in derivative positions, or by any other calculated as 2.5% in relation to the MSCI ACWI benchmark.
As required by AIFMD, leverage is calculated using two methods: the gross method which gives the overall Active Share is a measure of how actively a portfolio is total exposure, and the commitment method which takes managed, is the percentage of the portfolio that differs from into account hedging and netting offsetting positions.
As the its comparative index.
It is calculated by deducting from 100 leverage calculation includes exposure created by the Companys the percentage of the portfolio that overlaps with the comparative investments, it is only described as leveraged if its overall index.
An active share of 100 indicates no overlap with the index exposure is greater than its net asset value.
This is shown as and an active share of zero indicates a portfolio that tracks the a leverage ratio of greater than 100%.
For the equity portfolio as at 31 December 2018 this was calculated as 80% in relation to the MSCI ACWI benchmark.
MSCI means MSCI Inc which provides information relating to the benchmark, the MSCI All Country World Index MSCI Benchmark Volatility is a measure of the variability of the ACWI, against which the performance target for the benchmark returns, MSCI ACWI.
It is calculated as the standard equity portfolio has been set.
deviation of the benchmark returns over a one year period.
The benchmark volatility as at 31 December 2018 was MSCI All Country World Index MSCI ACWI is a market calculated to be 12.5%.
capitalisation weighted index designed to provide a broad measure of equity-market performance throughout the Beta is a measure of the risk, defined as the volatility world.
It is comprised of stocks from both developed and of a stock or the portfolio compared to the benchmark.
In general, a beta less than 1 indicates that the investment emerging markets.
The index used measures performance in is less volatile than the benchmark, while a beta greater sterling and that as much as possible of a companys dividend than 1 indicates that the investment is more volatile than distributions are reinvested back into the index.
For example, if a stock has a Beta of 0.5, amount is equal to the total dividend amount distributed to you would expect it to increase or decrease in value, half as persons residing in the country of the dividend paying company, much as the benchmark increases or decreases.
The equity excluding any tax credits.
MSCIs disclaimer regarding the portfolio has a Beta of 0.94 as at 31 December 2018 so it information provided by it can be found on our website.
should increase or decrease in value by less than the NAV Total Return is a measure of the performance of the movement of the benchmark.
Trusts Net Asset Value NAV over a specified time period.
Equity Portfolio Total Return is a measure of the It combines any appreciation in the NAV and dividends paid.
performance of the Trusts equity portfolio over a specified The comparator used for NAV Total Return is the MSCI ACWI period.
It combines any appreciation in the value of the equity total return.
The comparator used for Equity After fees NAV Total Return including income with debt at Portfolio Total Return is the MSCI ACWI total return.
The Equity Fair Value was -5.4% at 31 December 2018.
Portfolio Total Return was -4.2% over the year to end 31 December 2018 before managers fees and including the effect Net Asset Value NAV is the value of total assets less liabilities of managers' cash holdings.
On page 23 an analysis of the including borrowings.
The NAV per share is calculated by investment portfolio and equity portfolio return is provided.
dividing this amount by the number of ordinary shares in issue and is stated on a cum-income basis.
The Trusts Gearing at its simplest, gearing is borrowing.
Just like any balance sheet net asset value as at 31 December 2018 is other public company, an investment trust can borrow 2.4bn divided by 333,626,020 ordinary shares in issue on money to invest in additional investments for its portfolio.
that date, giving a NAV per share of 723.6p.
This includes The effect of the borrowing on the shareholders assets is income and with debt at fair value.
If the Companys assets grow, the shareholders assets grow proportionately more because the debt remains Non-core Assets or Non-core Investments are the assets the the same.
But if the value of the Companys assets falls, Trust holds aside from the global equity portfolio.
These include the situation is reversed.
Gearing can therefore enhance mineral rights, shares in Liontrust Asset Management PLC and performance in rising markets but can adversely impact a number of private equity holdings.
During 2018, the Trust performance in falling markets.
has successfully sold a significant part of the legacy non-core assets portfolio with the remaining non-core assets expected Gearing Gross Total Gearing is a measure of the Trusts to be sold or be wound down in 2019 as part of the Trusts financial leverage.
It is calculated by dividing the Trusts total borrowings by its Net Asset Value.
The Gross Gearing calculation strategy to simplify and focus on the global equity portfolio.
includes any cash or non-equity holdings.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 97 GLOSSARY: PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND OTHER TERMS CONTINUED Ongoing Charges represent the total ongoing costs and are Total Expense Ratio TER is a measure of the total costs calculated in accordance with the guidelines issued by the associated with managing and operating of the Trust.
These Association of Investment Companies AIC.
More detailed costs consist primarily of management fees and additional information can be found on page 29. expenses, such as trading fees, legal fees, auditor fees and other operational expenses.
The total cost of the Trust is Ongoing Charge Ratio OCR The total expenses excluding divided by the Trusts total assets to arrive at a percentage borrowing costs incurred by the Trust as a percentage of the amount, which represents the TER.
The TER over the year to average NAV with debt at fair value.
A fuller explanation and end 31 December 2018 was 0.68%.
the method of calculation can be found on page 29.
Total Shareholder Return TSR is the return to shareholders Portfolio Volatility is a measure of the dispersion or after reinvesting the net dividend on the date that the share variability of the equity portfolio returns.
It is calculated as price goes ex-dividend.
The comparator used for the TSR is the standard deviation of the portfolio returns over a one the MSCI ACWI total return.
This measure shows the actual year period.
It is calculated as the standard deviation of the return received by a shareholder from their investment.
benchmark returns over a one year period.
The benchmark The TSR as at 31 December 2018 was -6.1%.
volatility as at 31 December 2018 is calculated to be 11.9%.
Total Assets represents total net assets less current liabilities, before deduction of all borrowings.
| 98 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018
