I II III IV OTHER INFORMATION INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS INCORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Alliance Trust PLC is incorporated in Scotland with the registered number 1731.
The Trust sends paper Annual Reports only to shareholders who have requested this.
All shareholders receive notices The Trusts Register of Members is held at of the Trusts general meetings and information on how to Computershare Investor Services PLC, access our Annual Report either in paper form or electronically.
Leven House, 10 Lochside Place, Shareholders can opt to receive all notifications electronically Edinburgh Park, Edinburgh EH12 9DF by going to www-uk.
com investor GENERAL ENQUIRIES TAXATION If you have an enquiry about the Trust, or wish to receive If you are in any doubt about your liability to tax arising from a paper copy of our Annual Report, please contact the a shareholding in the Trust, you should seek professional advice.
Company Secretary at our registered office: CAPITAL GAINS TAX 8 West Marketgait, For investors who purchased shares prior to 31 March 1982, Dundee DD1 1QN the cost of those shares for capital gains tax purposes is Tel: 01382 321010 deemed to be the price of the share on that date.
The market Email: investor@alliancetrust.
co. uk value of each Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share on that The Trusts website www.
co. uk contains date was 2.85 which, when adjusted for the split on a 10 for information about the Trust, including daily share price 1 basis on 21 June 2006, gives an equivalent value of 0.285 and Net Asset Value.
The market value of each Second Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share on 31 March 1982 was 2.35.
Holders REGISTRARS of Second Alliance Trust PLC shares received 8.7453 ordinary Our Registrars are: 2.5p shares for each 25p ordinary share they held on 20 June 2006 and are treated as though they acquired these shares at Computershare Investor Services PLC the same time and at the same cost as the Second Alliance PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Trust shares they previously held.
This gives an equivalent Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH value of 0.269 per share.
Change of address notifications and enquiries for shareholdings DIVIDEND TAX ALLOWANCE registered in your own name should be sent to the Trusts Registrars at the above address.
You should also contact Shareholders will normally have a tax-free allowance across the Registrars if you would like the dividends on shares their entire share portfolio.
Above this amount, shareholders registered in your own name to be sent to your bank or will pay tax on their dividend income at a rate dependent on building society account.
You may check your holdings and their income tax bracket and personal circumstances.
view other information about Alliance Trust shares registered The Trusts Registrars provide registered shareholders with a in your own name at www-uk.
com investor confirmation of the dividends paid by the Trust.
Shareholders DATA PROTECTION should include this with any other dividend income when calculating and reporting total dividend income received Where the Trust has personal information, it will be held and to HMRC.
processed by the Trust as a data controller in accordance with the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation If you have any tax queries, you should seek professional and any other applicable legislation.
This may be information advice.
received from or about shareholders or investors for example INVESTOR DISCLOSURE DOCUMENT from a stockbroker, whether by telephone or in writing, or by any electronic or digital means of communication The EU AIFMD requires certain information to be made may be processed.
available to investors prior to their purchase of shares in the Trust.
The Trusts Investor Disclosure Document is available Information held on the Trusts Register of Members is, at www.
co. uk by law, information to which the public may, for a proper purpose, have access and the Trust cannot prevent any person inspecting it or having copies of it for such purpose, on payment of the statutory fee.
If you do not want to receive information from the Trust other than that which the Trust is obliged to issue to shareholders, please let us know and you will be removed from our mailing lists.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 99 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED The Trust is prohibited from advising shareholders on whether SHARE INVESTMENT to buy or to sell shares in the Trust, but recommend that if The Trust invests primarily in equities and aims to generate you wish to sell your shares you deal only with a financial capital growth and a progressively rising dividend from its services firm that is authorised by the FCA.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Trust currently conducts its affairs so that its shares can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors in The 131st Annual General Meeting of the Trust will be held accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to non-mainstream at 11.00 am on Thursday 25 April 2019 at the Apex City Quay investment products and intends to continue to do so for Hotel, 1 West Victoria Dock Road, Dundee, DD1 3JP.
The shares are excluded from the The Notice of Meeting, detailing the business of the meeting, FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment is sent to all shareholders.
The Meeting will be followed in products because they are shares in an investment trust.
the afternoon by a presentation from two of the Trusts stock Shares in the Trust may also be suitable for institutional pickers, Andrew Wellington of Lyrical Asset Management and investors who seek a combination of capital and income Rob Rohn of Sustainable Growth Advisers.
Private investors should consider consulting an independent financial adviser who specialises in advising FINANCIAL CALENDAR on the acquisition of shares and other securities before Proposed dividend payment dates for the financial year to acquiring shares.
31 December 2019 are on or around: Investors should be capable of evaluating the risks and merits 1 July 2019 of such an investment and should have sufficient resources to 30 September 2019 bear any loss that may result.
31 December 2019 31 March 2020 RISKS If you wish to acquire shares in the Trust, you should take COMMON REPORTING STANDARDS professional advice as to whether an investment in our shares You may have received requests from the Trusts Registrar is suitable for you.
You should be aware that: for personal information to comply with legal obligations Investment should be made for the long term.
introduced to reduce tax evasion.
While it is not compulsory that you complete and return these requests, the Trust is The price of a share will be affected by the supply and required by law to make these requests and to report on the demand for it and may not fully represent the underlying value responses received to HMRC.
of the assets of the Trust.
The price generally stands below the net asset value of the Trust at a discount but it may also Please note that only a small number of our shareholders stand above it at a premium.
Your capital return will depend fall into the category where these requests have to be made.
upon the movement of the discount premium over the period If you have any queries on the validity of any document you own the share, as well as the capital performance of the received from our Registrars, you can contact them directly Trusts own assets.
The assets owned by the Trust may have exposure to KEY INFORMATION DOCUMENT currencies other than Sterling.
Changes in market movements Investment trust companies and other providers of and in rates of exchange may cause the value of your investment products are required to publish a Key investment to go up or down.
This required the inclusion of Past performance is not a guide to the future.
What you get standardised illustrations of theoretical risk and returns.
back will depend on investment performance.
You may not The intention is to allow investors to enable a comparison get back the amount you invest.
of different investment products across a wide range of financial sectors.
Caution should be used in using KIDs as BOGUS COMMUNICATIONS the sole basis for your investment decisions.
The Trust is aware of contact being made with shareholders, generally by telephone, seeking information about their shareholdings.
These unsolicited callers may state this is in connection with a takeover bid or some other reason.
They may offer to buy your shares at a price significantly above the current market price.
If you have any concerns about the genuineness of any such communication you may call us on 01382 321010.
| 100 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018
