Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER ITEMS IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 38.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES IFRS 9 Financial Instruments became effective for the Group from 1 January A.
BASIS OF PREPARATION 2018, replacing IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Basis of preparation The impacts of adopting IFRS 9 on the Group results have been as follows: The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee Impairment: The standard introduces an expected credit loss model for IFRIC interpretations as adopted for use by the European Union, with those the assessment of impairment of financial assets held at amortised cost.
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under The impact of this transition difference is not considered material to the IFRS and with the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency rules of Group and hence comparative values and opening retained earnings at the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom as applicable to 1January 2018 have not been restated.
If comparative values had been periodic financial reporting.
The financial statements have been prepared restated, the impact would have been to reduce the Groups opening retained under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of pension earnings at 1 January 2017 by $18 million, to decrease the Groups operating assets and liabilities and certain financial instruments.
A summary of the costs by $17 million and to increase the Groups profit before tax and principal Group accounting policies is set out below.
underlying earnings by $17 million for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted Classification and measurement: The measurement and accounting accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that treatment of the Groups financial assets is materially unchanged on affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial application of the new standard with the exception of equity securities statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the previously categorised as available for sale.
These are now held at fair value reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best through other comprehensive income, meaning the recycling of gains and knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ losses on disposal and impairment losses is no longer permitted for this from those estimates.
There is no material impact to the net assets of the Group at1 January 2017, 31 December 2017 or 1 January 2018, or to the Groups As permitted by UK company law, the Groups results are presented in results for the year ended 31 December 2017 from this change.
USdollars, the currency in which its business is primarily conducted.
Hedge accounting: The Group has elected to adopt the IFRS 9 hedge accounting Changes in accounting policies and disclosures requirements from 1 January 2018.
The adoption of the new standard had no The accounting policies applied are consistent with those adopted and disclosed effect on the amounts recognised in relation to hedging arrangements for the in the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017, except year ended 31 December 2017 or the year ended 31December 2018. for changes arising from the adoption of the following new accounting The adoption of these new accounting pronouncements has not had a pronouncements which became effective in the current reporting period: significant impact on the accounting policies, methods of computation IFRS 9 Financial Instruments or presentation applied by the Group.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The Group has not early adopted any other amendment, standard or IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration interpretation that has been issued but is not yet effective.
It is expected that where applicable, these standards and amendments will be adopted on each Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2014-16 Cycle: IFRS 1 and IAS 28 respective effective date.
Clarifications to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Going concern Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Transactions The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers became effective for the resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Group from 1 January 2018, replacing all previous revenue standards and Thus the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial interpretations.
statements continues to be adopted.
Further details are contained in the The Groups revenue is primarily derived from commodity sales, for which the Directors report on page 217. point of recognition is dependent on the contract sales terms, known as the New IFRS accounting standards, amendments and interpretations International Commercial Terms Incoterms.
As the transfer of risks and not yet adopted rewards generally coincides with the transfer of control at a point in time The following are the major new IFRS accounting standards in issue but not under the Incoterms, the timing and amount of revenue recognised by the yet effective: Group for the sale of commodities is not materially affected.
IFRS 16 Leases For the Incoterms Cost, Insurance and Freight CIF and Cost and Freight IFRS 16 Leases became effective for the Group from 1 January 2019, CFR the seller must contract for and pay the costs and freight necessary to replacing IAS 17 Leases.
The Group has completed the necessary changes to bring the goods to the named port of destination.
Consequently, the freight internal systems and processes to embed the new accounting requirements.
service on export commodity contracts with CIF CFR Incoterms represents aseparate performance obligation as defined under the new standard, and The principal impact of IFRS 16 is to change the accounting treatment by aportion of the revenue earned under these contracts, representing the lessees of leases currently classified as operating leases.
Lease agreements obligation to perform the freight service, is deferred and recognised over time will give rise to the recognition by the lessee of a right-of-use asset and a as this obligation is fulfilled, along with the associated costs.
related liability for future lease payments.
The impact of this transition difference is not considered material to the The most significant impact on the Group of applying IFRS 16, based on Group and hence comparative values have not been restated.
If comparative contractual arrangements in place at 31 December 2018, will be the values had been restated, the impact would have been to reduce revenue recognition of lease liabilities of $0.5 billion, along with right-of-use assets with and operating costs respectively for the year ended 31 December 2017 a similar aggregate value.
This liability corresponds to the minimum lease by $29 million with no impact on profit.
Current assets and current liabilities payments under operating leases disclosed in note 30 to these consolidated as at 31 December 2017 would each have been higher by $39 million.
financial statements, adjusted for the effect of discounting.
The present value of liabilities for existing operating leases of $0.5 billion will be included in net There was no impact on opening retained earnings as at 1 January 2018 as debt on transition to IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019. aresult of this transition difference.
The Group will not bring leases of low value assets or short leases with 12 or fewer months remaining on to the Consolidated balance sheet at 1 January 2019.
In the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2019, the total amount of cash paid will be separated between repayments of principal and repayment of interest, both presented within cash flows from financing activities.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 187 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER ITEMS Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign 38.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued entities are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the Lease liabilities principally relate to corporate offices, diamond jewellery closing rate.
The impact of the standard on underlying earnings and profit before tax following adoption is not expected to be Tenon significant although the income statement presentation of the cost of leases Tenon Investment Holdings Proprietary Limited Tenon, a wholly owned ischanged.
Instead of a rental charge recognised within operating costs, the subsidiary of Anglo American South Africa Limited AASA, has entered into cost of leases will be allocated between the depreciation of right-of-use agreements with Epoch Investment Holdings RF Proprietary Limited assets, and a finance charge representing the unwind of the discount on lease Epoch, Epoch Two Investment Holdings RF Proprietary Limited Epoch liabilities.
Two and Tarl Investment Holdings RF Proprietary Limited Tarl The Group has elected to apply the modified retrospective approach on collectively the Investment Companies, each owned by independent transition.
The cumulative effect of transition to IFRS 16 will be recognised charitable trusts whose trustees are independent of the Group.
Under the in retained earnings at 1 January 2019 and the comparative period will not terms of these agreements, the Investment Companies have purchased be restated.
Anglo American plc shares on the market and have granted to Tenon the right to nominate a third party which may include Anglo American plc but not any B.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION of its subsidiaries to take transfer of the Anglo American plc shares each has Basis of consolidation purchased on the market.
Tenon paid the Investment Companies 80% of the The financial statements incorporate a consolidation of the financial cost of the Anglo American plc shares including associated costs for this right statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its to nominate, which together with subscriptions by Tenon for non-voting subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where the Company is exposed, or has participating redeemable preference shares in the Investment Companies, rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has provided all thefunding required to acquire the Anglo American plc shares theability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
These payments by Tenon were sourced from the cash The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are resources ofAASA.
Tenon is able to exercise its right of nomination at any included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition time up to 31December 2025 against payment of an average amount of orupto the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
$3.77 per share to Epoch, $5.87 per share to Epoch Two and $4.87 per share to Tarl which will be equal to 20% of the total costs respectively incurred by Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, joint Epoch, Epoch Two and Tarl in purchasing shares nominated for transfer to arrangements and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with the third party.
These funds will then become available for redemption of the those used by the Group.
Intra-group transactions, balances, income and preference shares issued by the Investment Companies.
The amount payable expenses are eliminated on consolidation, where appropriate.
by the third party on receipt of the Anglo American plc shares will accrue to For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are presented Tenon and, as these are own shares of the Company, any resulting gain or inequity separately from the equity attributable to shareholders of the loss recorded by Tenon will not be recognised in the Consolidated income Company.
Profit or loss and other comprehensive income are attributed to statement of Anglo American plc.
theshareholders of the Company and to non-controlling interests even ifthis Under the agreements, the Investment Companies will receive dividends on results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
the shares they hold and have agreed to waive the right to vote on those Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries that do not result in a change shares.
The preference shares issued to the charitable trusts are entitled to incontrol are accounted for in equity.
The carrying amounts of the controlling aparticipating right of up to 10% of the profit after tax of Epoch and 5% of the and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their profit after tax of Epoch Two and Tarl.
The preference shares issued to Tenon relative interests in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by will carry a fixed coupon of 3% plus a participating right of up to 80% of the which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of the profit after tax ofEpoch and 85% of the profit after tax of Epoch Two and Tarl.
consideration paid or received is recorded directly in equity and attributed Any remaining distributable earnings in the Investment Companies, after the tothe shareholders of the Company.
above dividends, are then available for distribution as ordinary dividends to the charitable trusts.
Foreign currency transactions and translation Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are recognised in the The structure effectively provides Tenon with a beneficial interest in the price functional currencies of the companies at the exchange rate ruling on the risk on these shares together with participation in future dividend receipts.
At each reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities TheInvestment Companies will retain legal title to the shares until Tenon that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates exercises its right to nominate a transferee.
prevailing on the reporting date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation At 31 December 2018 the Investment Companies together held 112,300,129 areincluded in the income statement for the period and are classified in the 2017: 112,300,129 Anglo American plc shares, which represented 8.0% income statement according to the nature of the monetary item giving rise 2017:8.0% of the ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares with tothem.
The Investment Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical Companies are not permitted to hold more than an aggregate of 10% of the cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date issued share capital of AngloAmericanplc at any one time.
The Investment Companies are considered to be structured entities.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations Although the Group has no voting rights in the Investment Companies and are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at exchange rates cannot appoint or remove trustees of the charitable trusts, the Group prevailing on the reporting date.
Income and expense items are translated at considers that the agreement outlined above, including Tenons right to the average exchange rates for the period where these approximate the rates nominate the transferee of the Anglo American plc shares held by the at the dates of the transactions.
Any exchange differences arising are Investment Companies, result in the Group having control over the classified within the statement of comprehensive income and transferred to Investment Companies as defined under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial the Groups cumulative translation adjustment reserve.
Accordingly, the Investment Companies are required to be on foreign currency balances with foreign operations for which settlement is consolidated by the Group.
neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, and therefore form part of the Groups net investment in these foreign operations, are offset in the cumulative translation adjustment reserve.
Cumulative translation differences are recycled from equity and recognised as income or expense on disposal of the operation to which they relate.
188 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER ITEMS Rental costs under operating leases are recognised in the income statement 38.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
C. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Revenue recognition Borrowing costs Revenue is recognised in a manner that depicts the pattern of the transfer Interest on borrowings directly relating to the financing of qualifying assets ofgoods and services to customers.
The amount recognised reflects the inthe course of construction is added to the capitalised cost of those projects amount to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those under Capital works in progress, until such time as the assets are goods and services.
Sales contracts are evaluated to determine the substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Where funds have been performance obligations, the transaction price and the point at which there is borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents transfer of control.
The transactional price is the amount of consideration due the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where the funds used to finance a in exchange for transferring the promised goods or services to the customer, project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated and is allocated against the performance obligations and recognised in using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings accordance with whether control is recognised over a defined period or at of the Group during the period.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in aspecific point in time.
the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Revenue is derived principally from commodity sales, and is measured at the D. CAPITAL BASE fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, Business combinations and goodwill arising thereon volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale is recognised The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, when control has been transferred.
This is usually when title and insurance ajoint arrangement or an associate, which can be measured reliably, are risk have passed to the customer and the goods have been delivered to a recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
estimation of the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities is subjective Sales of metal concentrate are stated at their invoiced amount which is net of and the use of different valuation assumptions could have a significant impact treatment and refining charges.
Sales of certain commodities are on financial results.
Goodwill isthe fair value of the consideration transferred provisionally priced such that the price is not settled until a predetermined including contingent consideration and previously held non-controlling future date and is based on the market price at that time.
These sales are interests less the fair valueof the Groups share of identifiable net assets marked to market at each reporting date using the forward price for the onacquisition.
period equivalent to that outlined in the contract.
Revenue on provisionally Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously priced sales is recognised at the forward market price when control passes to held interests in the acquiree are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition the customer and is classified as revenue from contracts with customers.
date and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent mark-to-market adjustments are recognised in revenue from other sources.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are Revenues from the sale of material by-products are recognised within reclassified to the income statement, where such treatment would be revenue at the point control passes.
Where a by-product is not regarded as appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
significant, revenue may be credited against the cost of sales.
Transaction costs incurred in connection with the business combination Revenue from services is recognised over time in line with the policy above.
Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the For contracts which contain separate performance obligations for the sale of acquisition date.
commodities and the provision of freight services, the portion of the revenue representing the obligation to perform the freight service is deferred and Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint operations is included within recognised over time as the obligation is fulfilled, along with the associated intangible assets.
Goodwill relating to associates and joint ventures is costs.
In situations where the Group is acting as an agent, amounts billed to included within the carrying value of the investment.
customers are offset against the relevant costs.
Where the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired exceeds the Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal costof the acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on the outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
acquisition, is recognised directly in the income statement in the period ofacquisition.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are initially recorded at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of net Exploration and evaluation expenditure assets recognised at acquisition.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is expensed in the year in which it isincurred.
Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Exploration expenditure is the cost of exploring for Mineral Resources other Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the group of cash than that occurring at existing operations and projects and comprises generating units CGUs that is expected to benefit from synergies of the geological and geophysical studies, exploratory drilling and sampling and combination, and represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored Mineral Resource development.
by the Groups Board of directors for internal management purposes.
The Evaluation expenditure includes the cost of conceptual and pre-feasibility recoverable amount of the CGU, or group of CGUs, to which goodwill has studies and evaluation of Mineral Resources at existing operations.
been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or when events or changes When a decision is taken that a mining project is technically feasible and in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
commercially viable, usually after a pre-feasibility study has been completed, Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
subsequent directly attributable expenditure, including feasibility study costs, Impairment of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
are considered development expenditure and are capitalised within property, At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its plant and equipment.
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether Exploration properties acquired are recognised on the balance sheet when there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If such an indication management considers that their value is recoverable.
These properties are exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
the extent of any impairment.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable Leases amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an In addition to lease contracts, other significant contracts are assessed to indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is determine whether in substance they are, or contain, a lease.
This includes an indication that the asset may be impaired.
assessment of whether the arrangement is dependent on use of a specific asset and the right to use that asset is conveyed through the contract.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 189 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER ITEMS In certain instances significant levels of waste removal may occur during the 38.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued production phase with little or no associated production.
This may occur at Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and both open pit and underground mines, for example longwall development.
value in use VIU assessed using discounted cash flow models, as explained in note 7.
In assessing VIU, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to The cost of this waste removal is capitalised in full to Mining properties their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market andleases.
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for All amounts capitalised in respect of waste removal are depreciated using the which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
unit of production method for the component of the orebody to which they If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its relate, consistent with depreciation of property, plant and equipment.
carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its The effects of changes to the Life of Mine Plan on the expected cost of waste recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
removal or remaining Ore Reserves for a component are accounted for Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the prospectively as a change in estimate.
asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the Property, plant and equipment carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment been Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated recognised for the asset or CGU.
A reversal of an impairment loss is depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost is the fair value of recognised in the income statement.
consideration required to acquire and develop the asset and includes the purchase price, acquisition of mineral rights, costs directly attributable to In addition, in making assessments for impairment, management necessarily bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable applies its judgement in allocating assets, including goodwill, that do not of operating in the manner intended by management, the initial estimate of generate independent cash flows to appropriate CGUs.
any decommissioning obligation and, for assets that take a substantial period Subsequent changes to the CGU allocation, to the timing of cash flows or to of time to get ready for their intended use, borrowing costs.
the assumptions used to determine the cash flows could impact the carrying Gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined value of the respective assets.
by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount.
The gain Non-mining licences and other intangible assets or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Non-mining licences and other intangible assets are measured at cost less Depreciation of property, plant and equipment accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible Mining properties are depreciated to their residual values using the unit of assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised production method based on Proved and Probable Ore Reserves and, in separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual certain limited circumstances, other Mineral Resources included in the Life or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on initial ofMine Plan.
These other Mineral Resources are included in depreciation recognition.
Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, calculations where, taking into account historical rates of conversion to Ore usually between 3 and 20 years, except goodwill and those intangible assets Reserves, there is a high degree of confidence that they will be extracted that are considered to have indefinite lives.
For intangible assets with a finite inaneconomic manner.
This is the case principally for diamond operations, life, the amortisation period is determined as the period over which the Group where depreciation calculations are based on Diamond Reserves and expects to obtain benefits from the asset, taking account of all relevant facts Diamond Resources included in the Life of Mine Plan.
This reflects the and circumstances including contractual lives and expectations about the unique nature of diamond deposits where, due to the difficulty in estimating renewalof contractual arrangements without significant incremental costs.
grade, Life of Mine Plans frequently include significant amounts of Indicated An intangible asset is deemed to have an indefinite life when, based on an or Inferred Resources.
analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the Buildings and items of plant and equipment for which the consumption of period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group.
economic benefit is linked primarily to utilisation or to throughput rather Amortisation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are thanproduction, are depreciated to their residual values at varying rates reviewed at least annually.
onastraight line basis over their estimated useful lives, or the Reserve Life, whichever is shorter.
Estimated useful lives normally vary from up to 20 years Deferred stripping for items of plant and equipment to a maximum of 50 years for buildings.
The removal of rock or soil overlying a mineral deposit, overburden, and other Under limited circumstances, items of plant and equipment may be waste materials is often necessary during the initial development of an open depreciated over a period that exceeds the Reserve Life by taking into pit mine site, in order to access the orebody.
The process of removing account additional Mineral Resources other than Proved and Probable overburden and other mine waste materials is referred to as stripping.
The Reserves included in theLife of Mine Plan, after making allowance for directly attributable cost of this activity is capitalised in full within Mining expected production losses based on historical rates of Mineral Resource properties and leases, until the point at which the mine is considered to be toOre Reserve conversion.
capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
This is classified as expansionary capital expenditure, within investing cash flows.
Capital works in progress are measured at cost less any recognised impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are capable of The removal of waste material after the point at which depreciation operating in the manner intended by management, at which point they are commences is referred to as production stripping.
When the waste removal transferred to the appropriate asset class.
activity improves access to ore extracted in the current period, the costs of production stripping are charged to the income statement as operating costs Land is not depreciated.
in accordance with the principles of IAS 2 Inventories.
When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful Where production stripping activity both produces inventory and improves lives, they are accounted for as separate items major components.
access to ore in future periods the associated costs of waste removal are Depreciation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are allocated between the two elements.
The portion that benefits future ore reviewed at least annually.
extraction is capitalised within Mining properties and leases.
This is classified as stripping and development capital expenditure, within investing Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the cash flows.
If the amount to be capitalised cannot be specifically identified it is lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
determined based on the volume of waste extracted compared with expected volume for the identified component of the orebody.
This determination is dependent on an individual mines design and Life of Mine Plan and therefore changes to the design or Life of Mine Plan will result in changes to these estimates.
Identification of the components of a mines orebody is made by reference to the Life of Mine Plan.
The assessment depends on a range of factors including each mines specific operational features and materiality.
190 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER ITEMS The amount recognised as a provision represents managements best 38.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued estimate of the consideration required to complete the restoration and Financial assets rehabilitation activity, the application of the relevant regulatory framework Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and timing of expenditure.
These estimates are inherently uncertain and andassociates, are financial asset investments and are initially recognised could materially change over time.
Changes in the measurement of a liability atfair value.
The Groups financial assets are classified into the following relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work that measurement categories: debt instruments at amortised cost, equity result from changes in the estimated timing or amount of the cash flow or a instruments and debt instruments designated at fair value through other change in the discount rate, are added to or deducted from the cost of the comprehensive income OCI, and debt instruments, derivatives and equity related asset in the current period.
If a decrease in the liability exceeds the instruments at fair value through profit and loss.
Financial assets are carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised immediately in the classified as at amortised cost only if the asset is held within a business model income statement.
If the asset value is increased and there is an indication whose objective is to collect the contractual cash flows and the contractual that the revised carrying value is not recoverable, an impairment test is terms of the asset give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal performed in accordance with the accounting policy set out above.
For some South African operations annual contributions are made to At subsequent reporting dates, financial assets at amortised cost are dedicated environmental rehabilitation trusts to fund the estimated cost of measured at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
Other investments rehabilitation during and at the end of the life of the relevant mine.
The Group are classified as either at fair value through profit or loss which includes exercises full control of these trusts and therefore the trusts are consolidated.
investments held for trading or at fair value through OCI.
Both categories are The trusts assets are disclosed separately on the balance sheet as subsequently measured at fair value.
Where investments are held for trading non-current assets.
purposes, unrealised gains and losses for the period are included in the income statement within other gains and losses.
The trusts assets are measured based on the nature of the underlying assets in accordance with accounting policies for similar assets.
The Group has elected to measure equity instruments, which are neither held for trading nor are contingent consideration in a business combination, at fair E. WORKING CAPITAL value through OCI as this better reflects the strategic nature of the Groups Inventories equity investments.
For equity instruments at fair value through OCI, changes Inventory and work in progress are measured at the lower of cost and net in fair value, including those related to foreign exchange, are recognised in realisable value, except for inventory held by commodity broker-traders other comprehensive income and there is no subsequent reclassification of which is measured at fair value less costs to sell.
The production cost of fair value gains and losses to profit or loss.
inventory includes an appropriate proportion of depreciation and production Impairment of financial assets overheads.
Cost is determined onthe following basis: A financial asset not measured at fair value through profit or loss is assessed Raw materials and consumables are measured at cost on a first in, first out at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence FIFO basis or a weighted average cost basis.
The Group assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses, defined as the difference between the contractual Work in progress and finished products are measured at raw material cost, cash flows and the cash flows that are expected to be received, associated labour cost and a proportion of production overhead expenses.
with its assets carried at amortised cost and fair value through OCI.
The Metal and coal stocks are included within finished products and are impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a measured at average cost.
significant increase in credit risk.
For trade receivables only, the simplified At precious metals operations that produce joint products, cost is allocated approach permitted by IFRS 9 is applied, which requires expected lifetime amongst products according to the ratio of contribution of these metals to losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
Losses are recognised in the income statement.
When a subsequent event Inventory is generally recognised as a current asset as it is consumed within causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in the normal business cycle.
Stockpiles are classified as non-current where impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
there is no ability to process the ore or there is no market to sell the product Impairment losses relating to equity instruments at fair value through other inits current state.
comprehensive income are not reported separately from other changes in fair value.
F. NET DEBT AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Cash and debt Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities Cash and cash equivalents Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand deposits, the asset has expired, the right to receive cash flows has been retained but together with short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible anobligation to on-pay them in full without material delay has been assumed to a known amount of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of or the right to receive cash flows has been transferred together with changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are shown within short term borrowings in substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash Financial liabilities are derecognised when the associated obligation has flow statement are shown net of overdrafts.
Cash and cash equivalents are been discharged, cancelled or has expired.
measured at amortised cost except for money market fund investments which are held at fair value as they are redeemed through the sale of units Environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations in the funds and not solely through the recovery of principal and interest.
An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and Financial liabilities and equity instruments decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused by the Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified and accounted for development or ongoing production of a mining asset.
Costs for restoration asdebt or equity according to the substance of the contractual arrangements of site damage, rehabilitation and environmental costs are estimated using entered into.
either the work of external consultants or internal experts.
Such costs arising from the decommissioning of plant and other site preparation work, Borrowings discounted to their net present value, are provided for and capitalised at the Interest bearing borrowings and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
value, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue These costs are recognised in the income statement over the life of the costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest operation, through the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the method.
They are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the discount on the provision.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
which is created on an ongoing basis during production are provided for at their net present values and recognised in the income statement as extractionprogresses.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 191 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER ITEMS 38.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued G. TAXATION Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Tax In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and The tax expense includes the current tax and deferred tax charge recognised commodity price risk, the Group enters into forward, option and swap in the income statement.
Commodity based own use contracts that meet thescope Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit exemption in IFRS 9 are recognised in earnings when they are settled by differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it physicaldelivery.
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other All derivatives are held at fair value in the balance sheet within Derivative years and it further excludes items that are not taxable or deductible.
The financial assets or Derivative financial liabilities except if they are linked Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been tosettlement and delivery of an unquoted equity instrument and the fair enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
valuecannot be measured reliably, in which case they are carried at cost.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the Derivatives are classified as current or non-current depending on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and contractual maturity of the derivative.
Aderivative cannot be measured the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally reliably where the range of reasonable fair value estimates is significant and recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are the probabilities of various estimates cannot be reasonably assessed.
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Probable designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows cash flow hedges taxable profits are based on evidence of historical profitability and taxable are recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective profit forecasts limited by reference to the criteria set out in IAS 12 Income portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is liability in a transaction other than in a business combination that affects recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had neither taxable profit nor accounting profit.
previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of a arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates non-financial asset or liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse profit or loss.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
date and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient The corresponding entry and gains or losses arising from remeasuring the taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
associated derivative are recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship, period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the laws and through periodic prospective effectiveness assessments to ensure that that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when instrument.
The Groups material hedging instruments are interest rate swaps itrelates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the that have similar critical terms to the related debt instruments, such as deferred tax is also taken directly to equity.
payment dates, maturities and notional amount.
As all critical terms matched Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income during the year, there was no material hedge ineffectiveness.
The Group also taxeslevied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle uses cross currency swaps to manage foreign exchange risk associated with itscurrent tax assets and liabilities on a net basis with that taxation authority.
borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
These are not designated in an accounting hedge as there is a natural offset against foreign exchange H. EMPLOYEES movements on associated borrowings.
Retirement benefits Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires The Groups accounting policy involves the use of best estimate orissold, terminated, exercised, revoked, or no longer qualifies for hedge assumptions in calculating the schemes valuations in accordance with the accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging accounting standard.
This valuation methodology differs from that applied in instrument recognised in equity is retained until the forecast transaction calculating the funding valuations, which require the use of prudent occurs.
If a hedge transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net assumptions, such as lower discount rates, higher assumed rates of future cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recycled to the inflation expectations and greater improvements in life expectancy, leading to income statement for the period.
a higher value placed on the liabilities.
The funding valuations are carried out every three years, using the projected unit credit method, by independent Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not qualified actuaries and are used to determine the money that must be put into designated in a hedge relationship are recognised immediately in the the funded schemes.
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined incomestatement.
contribution pension plans for its employees as well as post employment Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-financial medical plans.
For defined contribution plans the amount recognised in the hostcontracts other than financial assets in the scope of IFRS 9 are treated income statement isthe contributions paid or payable during the year.
as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely For defined benefit pension and post employment medical plans, full related to those of their host contracts and thehost contracts themselves are actuarial valuations are carried out at least every three years using the not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income projected unit credit method and updates are performed for each financial statement.
The average discount rate for the plans liabilities is based on AA Derivatives embedded in contracts which are financial assets in the scope of rated corporate bonds of a suitable duration and currency or, where there is IFRS9 are not separated and the whole contract is accounted for at either no deep market for such bonds, is based on government bonds.
Pension plan amortised cost or fair value.
assets are measured using year end market values.
192 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER ITEMS Certain joint arrangements that are structured through separate vehicles 38.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued including Collahuasi, Debswana and Namdeb are accounted for as joint Remeasurements comprising actuarial gains and losses, movements in asset operations.
These arrangements are primarily designed for the provision surplus restrictions and the return on scheme assets excluding interest ofoutput to the parties sharing joint control, indicating that the parties have income are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets.
The liabilities income and are not recycled to the income statement.
Any increase in the ofthe arrangements are in substance satisfied by cash flows received from present value of plan liabilities expected to arise from employee service the parties: this dependence indicates that the parties effectively have during the year is charged to operating profit.
The net interest income or cost obligations for the liabilities.
It is primarily these facts and circumstances that on the net defined benefit asset or liability is included in investment income or give rise to the classification as joint operations.
The Group accounts for joint operations by recognising the assets, liabilities, Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits revenue and expenses for which it has rights or obligations, including its arealready vested and otherwise amortised on a straight line basis over the share of such items held or incurred jointly.
average period until the benefits vest.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the The retirement benefit obligation recognised on the balance sheet equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
The represents the present value of the deficit or surplus of the defined benefit Groups share of associates and joint ventures net income is based on their plans.
Any recognised surplus is limited to the present value of available most recent audited financial statements or unaudited interim statements refunds or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
drawn up to the Groups balance sheet date.
Share-based payments The total carrying values of investments in associates and joint ventures The Group makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees, represent the cost of each investment including the carrying value of which are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a goodwill, the share of post acquisition retained earnings, any other straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of movements in reserves and any long-term debt interests which in substance shares that will eventually vest.
For those share schemes with market related form part of the Groups net investment.
The carrying values of associates vesting conditions, the fair value is determined using the Monte Carlo model and joint ventures are reviewed on a regular basis and if there is objective at the grant date.
The fair value of share options issued with non-market evidence that an impairment in value has occurred as a result of one or more vesting conditions has been calculated using the Black Scholes model.
events during the period, the investment is impaired.
For all other share awards, the fair value is determined by reference to the The Groups share of an associates or joint ventures losses in excess of its market value of the shares at the grant date.
For all share schemes with interest in that associate or joint venture is not recognised unless the Group non-market vesting conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been taken has an obligation to fund such losses.
Unrealised gains arising from intoaccount when determining the relevant charge.
Vesting assumptions transactions with associates and joint ventures are eliminated against the arereviewed during each reporting period to ensure they reflect investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
losses are eliminated in the same way, but only to the extent that there is no I.
GROUP STRUCTURE evidence of impairment.
Associates and joint arrangements Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale Associates are investments over which the Group has significant influence, Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their which is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than decisions of the investee, but without the ability to exercise control or joint through continuing use.
This condition is met only when a sale ishighly control.
Typically the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting equity probable within one year from the date of classification, management is of its associates.
committed to the sale and the asset or disposal group is available for Joint arrangements are arrangements in which the Group shares joint control immediate sale in its present condition.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale from control of an arrangement, and exists only when decisions about the activities the date these conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying that significantly affect the arrangements returns require the unanimous amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any resulting impairment loss is consent of the parties sharing control.
recognised in the income statement.
Judgement is required in determining this classification through an evaluation On classification as held for sale the assets are no longer depreciated.
of the facts and circumstances arising from each individual arrangement.
Comparative amounts are not adjusted.
Joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures based on the rights and obligations of the parties to the arrangement.
In joint Black Economic Empowerment BEE transactions operations, the parties have rights to the assets and obligations for the Where the Group disposes of a portion of a South African based subsidiary liabilities relating to the arrangement, whereas in joint ventures, the parties oroperation to a BEE company at a discount to fair value, the transaction is have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
considered to be a share-based payment in line with the principle contained Joint arrangements that are not structured through a separate vehicle are in South Africa interpretation AC 503 Accounting for Black Economic always joint operations.
Joint arrangements that are structured through a Empowerment BEE Transactions.
separate vehicle may be either joint operations or joint ventures depending The discount provided or value given is calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 onthe substance of the arrangement.
In these cases, consideration is given and the cost, representing the fair value of the BEE credentials obtained by tothe legal form of the separate vehicle, the terms of the contractual the subsidiary, is recorded in the income statement.
arrangement and, when relevant, other facts and circumstances.
When the activities of an arrangement are primarily designed for the provision of output to the parties, and the parties are substantially the only source of cash flows contributing to the continuity of the operations of the arrangement, this indicates that the parties to the arrangements have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 193
