FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ITEMS Special items and remeasurements are a net gain of $0.3 billion and include SPECIAL ITEMS AND REMEASUREMENTS impairment reversals of $1.1 billion relating to Moranbah-Grosvenor and Capcoal Coal, partially offset by thewrite-off of assets in fide Beers South African operations fide Beers of $0.1billion and losses arising on bond $0.3 bn buybacks completed in the year Corporate and other of $0.1 billion.
2017: $ 0.1 bn During 2018, the significant accounting matters addressed bymanagement included: the assessment of impairment and impairment reversal indicators: and the estimation of cash flow projections for impairment testing.
Cash flow projections are based on financial budgets and Life of Mine Plans 7.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING MATTERS or, for non-mine assets, an equivalent appropriate long-term forecast, In the course of preparing financial statements, management necessarily incorporating key assumptions as detailed below: makes judgements and estimates that can have a significant impact on the financial statements.
The critical judgements and sources of estimation Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources uncertainty that affect the results for the year ended 31 December 2018 are Ore Reserves and, where considered appropriate, Mineral Resources are set out below.
In addition to these items, further detail on other significant incorporated in projected cash flows, based on Ore Reserves and Mineral judgements and estimates determined by management is provided, where Resources statements and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by applicable, in the relevant note to the financial statements.
Mineral Resources are included where management has a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction, Impairment and impairment reversals of assets despite additional evaluation still being required prior to meeting the i Critical accounting judgements required confidence to convert to Ore Reserves.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there are any indicators Commodity and product prices that its assets and cash generating units CGUs may be impaired.
Operating Commodity and product prices are based on latest internal forecasts, and economic assumptions which could affect the valuation of assets using benchmarked with external sources of information, to ensure they are within discounted cash flows, including those that could be impacted by the Groups the range of available analyst forecasts.
In estimating the forecast cash principal risks, are updated regularly as part of the Groups planning and flows, management also takes into account the expected realised price from forecasting processes.
Judgement is therefore required to determine existing contractual arrangements.
whether the updates represent significant changes in the service potential of an asset or CGU, and are therefore indicators of impairment or impairment Foreign exchange rates reversal.
The judgement also takes into account the Groups long-term Foreign exchange rates are based on latest internal forecasts, benchmarked economic forecasts, market consensus and sensitivity analysis of the with external sources of information for relevant countries of operation.
discounted cash flow models used to value the Groups assets.
Long-term foreign exchange rates are kept constant on a real basis.
Assets other than goodwill that have been previously impaired must be Discount rates assessed for indicators of both impairment and impairment reversal.
Such Cash flow projections used in fair value less costs of disposal impairment assets are, by definition, carried on the balance sheet at a value close to their models are discounted based on a real post-tax discount rate, assessed recoverable amount at the last assessment.
Therefore in principle any change annually, of 7.0% 2017: 7.0%.
Adjustments to the rate are made for any to operational plans or assumptions, economic parameters, or the passage of risks that are not reflected in the underlying cash flows, including the risk time, could result in further impairment or impairment reversal if an indicator profile of the individual asset and country risk.
Significant operating assets that the Group has previously Operating costs, capital expenditure and other operating factors impaired include Minas-Rio Iron Ore : Moranbah-Grosvenor, Capcoal, Operating costs and capital expenditure are based on financial budgets Dawson and Isibonelo Coal : Barro Alto and Samancor Nickel and covering a five year period.
Cash flow projections beyond five years are Manganese and ElSoldado Copper.
These assets have a combined based on Life of Mine Plans or non-mine production plans, as applicable, carrying value of $9.1billion within property, plant and equipment as at and internal management forecasts.
Cost assumptions incorporate 31December 2018. management experience and expectations, as well as the nature and ii Cash flow projections for impairment testing location of the operation and the risks associated therewith for example, Expected future cash flows used in discounted cash flow models are the grade of Ore Reserves varying significantly over time and unforeseen inherently uncertain and could materially change over time.
Underlying input cost assumptions are consistent with significantly affected by a number of factors including Ore Reserves and related output price assumptions.
Other operating factors, such as the Mineral Resources, together with economic factors such as commodity timelines of granting licences and permits are based on managements prices, exchange rates, discount rates and estimates of production costs and bestestimate of the outcome of uncertain future events at the balance future capital expenditure.
Where discounted cash flow models based on sheet date.
For further information refer to the unaudited Ore Reserves and managements assumptions are used, the resulting fair value measurements Mineral Resources Report 2018. are considered to be at level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, as defined in IFRS 13 Where an asset has potential for future development through capital Fair Value Measurement, as they depend to a significant extent on investment, to which a market participant would attribute value, and the unobservable valuation inputs.
costs and economic benefits can be estimated reliably, this development is included in the cash flows with appropriate risk adjustments.
144 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ITEMS Capcoal 7.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING MATTERS continued The Capcoal complex located in Queensland, Australia, consists of an open iii Key sources of estimation uncertainty cut operation and the Grasstree underground operation.
During 2015, the For assets where indicators of impairment or impairment reversal are Group recorded an impairment of $639 million $537 million after tax at identified, the Group performs impairment reviews to assess the recoverable Capcoal, driven by the impact of weak coal prices on margins, particularly amount of its operating assets principally with reference to fair value less forthe open cut operations.
This was based on a recoverable amount of costs of disposal, assessed using discounted cash flow models.
The valuation was based on the fair value operations are large, complex assets requiring significant technical and less costs of disposal of the CGU, measured using discounted cash flow financial resources to operate.
Their value may be sensitive to a range of projections.
characteristics unique to each asset.
Management applies judgement in determining the assumptions that are considered to be reasonable and During 2018, a decision was taken to extend the life of the Grasstree consistent with those that would be applied by market participants as outlined underground operation by three years to the end of 2021.
Groups forecast real long-term metallurgical coal price has increased.
Consequently, the valuation of the Capcoal operation has been assessed and Minas-Rio the previous impairment has been reversed by $266million $259 million Following pipeline leaks identified on 12 March 2018 and 29 March 2018, the after tax to the carrying value of $0.6billion that would have been determined Group announced the suspension of operations at Minas-Rio, with effect from had no impairment loss previously been recorded.
29 March, in order to conduct a full inspection of the pipeline.
Operations have since resumed in December 2018.
The recoverable amount, based on a The valuation, based on discounted cash flows, is sensitive to changes in input discounted cash flow model, supports the carrying value of $4.1 billion.
assumptions particularly in relation to future metallurgical coal prices and Australian dollar foreign exchange rates.
For example, a $5 tonne increase in The valuation is inherently sensitive to changes in economic and operational the long-term price forecast for metallurgical coal equates to a $0.1 billion assumptions which could materially increase or reduce the valuation.
Key increase in the valuation.
The recoverable amount has been assessed under assumptions include the long-term realised iron ore price, and the timing of arange of valuation scenarios, all of which indicated full or significant receipt of required permits and licences.
For example, a $5 tonne change in impairment reversals.
the long-term price forecast for iron ore, with all other valuation assumptions remaining the same, would change the valuation by $0.6 billion.
Moranbah-Grosvenor Moranbah North and Grosvenor are adjacent longwall metallurgical coal operations in Queensland, Australia, sharing infrastructure and processing facilities.
The two operations are assessed for impairment as a single CGU.
In the first half of 2016 the Groups expectations for long-term metallurgical coal prices were revised downward.
Consequently, an impairment of $1,248million $1,248 million after tax against the value of the operations was reported in the Groups 2016 interim results, based on a recoverable amount of $1.6 billion at 30 June 2016.
The valuation was based on the fair value less costs of disposal of the CGU, measured using discounted cash flow projections.
During 2018, Grosvenor has achieved improved levels of production and operating efficiencies.
Additionally, the long-term outlook for metallurgical coal has improved, reflected in an increase in price forecasts by analysts and an increase in the Groups forecast real long-term metallurgical coal price.
This follows a forecast tightening of supply, sustained demand for high grade coal and an increased industry cost base.
Consequently, the valuation of the Moranbah-Grosvenor operation has been assessed and the previous impairment has been reversed to the carrying value of $2.6 billion that would have been determined had no impairment loss previously been recorded, resulting in a gain of $876 million $652 million after tax.
Of the impairment reversal, $528 million has been recorded against plant and equipment, $278 million against mining properties and leases, $50million against capital work in progress and $20 million against land and buildings, with an associated tax charge of $224million.
The valuation, based on discounted cash flows, is sensitive to changes in input assumptions particularly in relation to future metallurgical coal prices and Australian dollar foreign exchange rates.
For example, a $5 tonne increase in the long-term price forecast for metallurgical coal equates to a $0.2 billion increase in the valuation.
The recoverable amount has been assessed under arange of valuation scenarios, all of which indicated full or significant impairment reversals.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 145
