Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates predicated by the level of understanding of the geology, the likely presented in this report are prepared in accordance with the precision of the estimated grades and understanding of grade AngloAmerican plc AA plc Group Ore Reserves and Mineral variability, as well as various other factors in particular density that may Resources Reporting Policy.
This policy requires that the influence the confidence that can be placed on the Mineral Resource.
Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Most business units have developed commodity-specific scorecardResources and Ore Reserves 2012 edition theJORC Code based approaches to the classification of their Mineral Resources.
Some AngloAmerican plc The estimates of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are stated as subsidiaries have a primary listing in South Africa where public at 31December 2018.
The figures in the tables have been rounded, reporting is carried out in accordance with the South African and if used to derive totals and averages, minor differences with stated Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources results could occur.
and Mineral Reserves the SAMREC Code.
The SAMREC Code is similar to the JORC Code and the Ore Reserve and Mineral The Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 2018 should be Resource terminology appearing in this section follows the considered the only valid source of Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource definitions inboth the JORC 2012 and SAMREC 2016 Codes.
information for the AngloAmerican Group exclusive of Kumba Iron Ore Ore Reserves in the context of this report have the same meaning and AngloAmerican Platinum Limited which publish their own as Mineral Reserves as defined by the SAMREC Code and the independent annual reports.
CIM Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Definition It is accepted that mine design and planning may include some Inferred Standards on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves.
Inferred Mineral Resources in the Life of Mine Plan The information on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources was LOM Plan are described as Inferred in LOM Plan separately from prepared byor under the supervision of Competent Persons as the remaining Inferred Mineral Resources described as Inferred defined in the JORC or SAMREC Codes.
All Competent Persons have ex.
These resources are declared without sufficient experience relevant to the style of mineralisation and type application of any Modifying Factors.
Reserve Life reflects the of deposit under consideration and to the activity which they are scheduled extraction period in years for the total Ore Reserves in the undertaking.
All the Competent Persons consent to the inclusion in approved Life of Mine Plan.
this report of the information in the form and context in which it The Ownership Attributable Percentage that AngloAmerican holds appears.
The names of the Competent Persons CPs along with their in each operation and project is presented beside the name of each Recognised Professional Organisation RPO affiliation and years of entity and is the Groups effective ownership interest.
Operations and relevant experience are listed in the Ore Reserve and Mineral projects which fall below the internal threshold for reporting 25% Resource Report 2018. attributable interest are excluded from the Ore Reserves and Mineral AngloAmerican Group companies are subject to a comprehensive Resources estimates.
Operations or projects which were disposed programme of reviews aimed at providing assurance in respect of ofduring 2018 and hence not reported are: Union Platinum, Kriel, OreReserve and Mineral Resource estimates.
The reviews are New Denmark, New Vaal Collieries and the Drayton South, Elders UG conducted by suitably qualified Competent Persons from within the Extension, Kriel East, New Largo, Nooitgedacht and Vaal Basin AngloAmerican Group or by independent consultants.
and depth of the reviews is a function of the perceived risks and or In South Africa, the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development uncertainties associated with a particular Ore Reserve and Mineral Act, Number 28 of 2002 MPRDA was implemented on 1 May 2004 Resource.
The overall value of the entity and time that has elapsed subsequently amended by the Minerals and Petroleum Resources sincean independent third-party review are also considered.
Those Development Amendment Act 49 of 2008 effectively transferred operations projects that were subjected to independent third-party custodianship of the previously privately held mineral rights to the State.
reviews during the year are indicated in footnotes to the tables.
A Prospecting Right is a right issued in terms of the MPRDA that is The JORC and SAMREC Codes require due consideration of reasonable valid for up to five years, with the possibility of a further extension of prospects for eventual economic extraction for Mineral Resource three years.
These include long-range commodity price forecasts which are prepared by in-house specialists largely using estimates of future A Mining Right is a right issued in terms of the MPRDA and is valid for supply and demand and long-term economic outlooks.
The calculation up to 30 years, with the possibility of a further extension of 30 years.
of Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve estimates are based on long-term The Minister of Mineral Resources will grant a renewal of the Mining prices determined at the beginning ofthe second quarter of each year.
Right if the terms and conditions of the Mining Right have been Ore Reserves are dynamic and are more likely to be affected by complied with and the applicant is not in contravention of any relevant fluctuations in the prices of commodities, uncertainties in production provisions of the MPRDA.
costs, processing costs and other mining, infrastructure, legal, In preparing the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource statement environmental, social and governmental factors which may impact for South African assets, AngloAmerican plc has adopted the thefinancial condition and prospects of the Group.
Mineral Resource following reporting principles in respect of Prospecting Rights estimates also change and tend to be influenced mostly by new andMining Rights: information pertaining to the understanding of the deposit and secondly bythe conversion to Ore Reserves.
Unless otherwise stated, Mineral Where applications for Mining Rights and Prospecting Rights have Resources are additional to exclusive of those resources converted been submitted and these are still being processed by the relevant toOre Reserves and are reported on a dry tonnes basis.
regulatory authorities, the relevant Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources have been included in the statement.
The appropriate Mineral Resource classification is determined by theappointed Competent or Qualified Persons.
The choice of Where applications for Mining Rights and Prospecting Rights have appropriate category of Mineral Resource depends upon the quantity, been initially refused by the regulatory authorities, but are the subject distribution and quality of geoscientific information available and the of ongoing legal process and discussions with the relevant authorities level of confidence in these data.
and where AngloAmerican plc has reasonable expectations that the Prospecting Rights will be granted in due course, therelevant Mineral To accommodate the various factors that are important in the Resources have been included in the statement any associated development of a classified Mineral Resource estimate, a scorecard comments appear in the footnotes.
Mineral Resource classification defines the confidence associated with different parts of the Mineral Resource.
The detailed Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates, The confidence that is assigned refers collectively to the reliability Reserve and Resource Reconciliation Overview, Definitions and Glossary are contained in the separate Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 2018 of the Grade and Tonnage estimates.
This reliability includes which is available in the Annual Reporting Centre on the Anglo American website.
consideration for the fidelity of the base data, the geological continuity Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 201
