OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which Ore Reserves quantity and grade or quality are estimated on the basis of limited geological An Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or evidence and sampling.
Geological evidence is sufficient to imply but not Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances verify geological and grade or quality continuity.
It is based on exploration, forlosses, which may occur when the material is mined or extracted and is sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques defined by studies at Pre-Feasibility or Feasibility level as appropriate that from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
include application of Modifying Factors.
Such studies demonstrate that, atthe time of reporting, extraction could reasonably be justified.
Modifying An Inferred Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence than that Factors are realistically assumed considerations used to convert Mineral applying to an Indicated Mineral Resource and must not be converted to Resources to Ore Reserves.
These include, but are not restricted to, mining, anOre Reserve.
It is reasonably expected that the majority of Inferred processing, metallurgical, infrastructure, economic, marketing, legal, MineralResources could be upgraded to Indicated Mineral Resources with environmental, social and governmental factors.
divided in order of increasing confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
Life of Mine Plan LOM Plan A design and costing study of an existing operation in which appropriate A Proved Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured assessments have been made of realistically assumed geological, mining, Mineral Resource.
A Proved Ore Reserve implies a high degree of confidence processing, metallurgical, infrastructure, economic, marketing, legal, in the Modifying Factors.
environmental, social, governmental, engineering, operational and all other A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of an Indicated, Modifying Factors, which are considered in sufficient detail to demonstrate and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
The confidence in atthe time of reporting that extraction is reasonably justified.
the Modifying Factors applying to a Probable Ore Reserve is lower than that applying to a Proved Ore Reserve.
A Probable Ore Reserve has a lower level Reserve Life of confidence than a Proved Ore Reserve but is of sufficient quality to serve The scheduled extraction period in years for the total Ore Reserves in the asthe basis for a decision on the development of the deposit.
Mineral Resources Inferred in LOM Plan A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of solid material of Inferred Resources within the scheduled LOM Plan.
economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, grade or quality, Inferred ex.
LOM Plan and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic The portion of Inferred Resources with reasonable prospects for eventual extraction.
The location, quantity, grade or quality, continuity and other economic extraction not considered in the LOM Plan.
geological characteristics of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge, including 1 Fatal-injury frequency rate FIFR sampling.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing FIFR is the number of employee or contractor fatal injuries due to all causes geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
A Measured Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which 1 Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape, and physical characteristics are LTIFR is the number of lost time injuries LTIs for both employees and estimated with confidence sufficient to allow the application of Modifying contractors per 1,000,000 hours worked.
An LTI is a work related injury Factors to support detailed mine planning and final evaluation of the resulting in the person being unable to attend work or perform the routine economic viability of the deposit.
Geological evidence is derived from detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing gathered through functions of his her job, on the next calendar day after the day of the injury, appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, whether a scheduled workday or not.
Restricted work cases are therefore workings and drill holes, and is sufficient to confirm geological and grade counted as LTIs.
orquality continuity between points of observation where data and samples 1 Total recordable case frequency rate TRCFR are gathered.
TRCFR is the number of fatal injuries, lost time injuries and medical treatment A Measured Mineral Resource has a higher level of confidence than that cases for both employees and contractors per 1,000,000 hours worked.
applying to either an Indicated Mineral Resource or an Inferred Mineral 1 Resource.
It may be converted to a Proved Ore Reserve or under certain New cases of occupational disease NCOD circumstances to a Probable Ore Reserve.
NCOD is the sum of occupational diseases due to asbestosis, noise-induced hearing loss, silicosis, coal-workers pneumoconiosis, chronic obstructive An Indicated Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which airways disease, occupational tuberculosis, occupational asthma, hand arm quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics are vibration syndrome, musculoskeletal disorders, dermatitis, occupational estimated with sufficient confidence to allow the application of Modifying cancers and other occupational diseases.
Factors in sufficient detail to support mine planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit.
Geological evidence is derived from 1 Total energy consumed adequately detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing gathered Total amount of energy consumed is the sum of total energy from electricity through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, purchased, total energy from fossil fuels and total energy from renewable pits, workings and drill holes, and is sufficient to assume geological and grade fuels and is measured in million gigajoules GJ.
orquality continuity between points of observation where data and samples 1 are gathered.
Total water withdrawals Total water withdrawals by source, reported in line with International Council An Indicated Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence than that on Metals and Mining ICMM guidance, includes: surface water: applying to a Measured Mineral Resource and may only be converted to groundwater: seawater: third-party potable water: and third-party nonaProbable Ore Reserve.
3 potable water, and is measured in million m. 206 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018
