OTHER INFORMATION OTHER ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS Sustainability Report INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 5 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report 4 Tax and Economic Contribution Report 1 3 Transformation Report 2 Our Code of Conduct UNLOCKING OUR FULL POTENTIAL The Safety, Health and Environment SHE Way DISCIPLINED 6 GROWTH FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE The Social Way The Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT Notice of 2019 AGM www.
com angloamerican Cover Images www.
A laser device being used underground for www.
com company anglo-american precision markup of centre lines and panel www.
com angloamerican marking at Unki mine, Zimbabwe.
Copper is a core component in the construction of wind turbines.
A dual loading system is being used at Financial and other reports may be found at: Kolomela mine, South Africa where two haul trucks are lined up on either side of www.
A printed copy of the Anglo American Annual Report can be ordered online at: 4.
Schoolchildren at the Ivory Park Secondary School near Midrand during the launch of www.
com site-services contact the Anglo American South African Education Programme.
Head of financial trading, Iron Ore, AndrewGlass, left and senior trader, Strategic partners Copper, Gavin Li, consulting data screens Anglo American works in partnership with a wide range of organisations: these important atthe Singapore marketing office.
relationships form part of the Groups commitments to a wide range of key sustainability 6.
Families in Cuchumbaya and San Cristbal have benefited from the Quellaveco Fund, and other societal objectives.
A selection of the organisations we work with can be found which has helped improve their living on our website: www.
Forward-looking statements This document includes forward-looking statements.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this document, including, without limitation, those regarding Anglo Americans financial position, business, acquisition and divestment strategy, dividend policy, plans and objectives of management for future operations including development plans and objectives relating to Anglo Americans products, production forecasts and Ore Reserve and mineral resource estimates, are forward-looking statements.
By their nature, such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and otherfactors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of AngloAmerican, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding AngloAmericans present and future business strategies and the environment in whichAnglo American will operate in the future.
Important factors that could cause AngloAmericans actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, among others, levels of actual production during any period, levels of global demand and commodity market prices, mineral resource exploration and development capabilities, recovery rates and other operational capabilities, Designed and produced by the availability of mining and processing equipment, the ability to produce and transport SALTERBAXTER MSL products profitably, the availability of transportation infrastructure, the impact of foreign This document is printed on currency exchange rates on market prices and operating costs, the availability of sufficient Vision Superior which has been credit, the effects of inflation, political uncertainty and economic conditions in relevant independently certified according to areas of the world, the actions of competitors, activities by governmental authorities such the rules of the Forest Stewardship aspermitting and changes in taxation or safety, health, environmental or other types of Council FSC.
regulation in the countries where Anglo American operates, conflicts over land and resource ownership rights and such other risk factors identified in the section of this Printed in the UK by Pureprint document titled Managing Risk Effectively.
Forward-looking statements should, therefore, using its alcofree and pureprint be construed in light of such risk factors and undue reliance should not be placed on environmental printing technology, forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of and vegetable inks were used this document.
Anglo American expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking except throughout.
Pureprint is a as required by applicable law, the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers the Takeover CarbonNeutral company.
Code, the UK Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Both manufacturing paper mill Conduct Authority, the Listings Requirements of the securities exchange of the JSE Limited and the printer are registered to in South Africa, the SIX Swiss Exchange, the Botswana Stock Exchange and the Namibian the Environmental Management Stock Exchange and any other applicable regulations to release publicly any updates or System ISO 14001 and are Forest revisions to any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in Stewardship Council FSC AngloAmericans expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions chain-of-custody certified.
orcircumstances on which any such statement is based.
Certain statistical and other information about Anglo American included in this document is sourced from publicly available third-party sources.
As such, it has not been independently verified and presents the views of those third parties, though these may not necessarily correspond to the views held by Anglo American and Anglo American expressly disclaims any responsibility for, or liability in respect of, such third party information.
ANGLO AMERICAN PLC INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 AngloAmerican plc 20 Carlton House Terrace London SW1Y 5AN England Tel 44 0 20 7968 8888 Fax 44 0 20 7968 8500 Registered number 03564138 www.
com Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter
