FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY 3.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES: ANGLO AMERICAN PLC THE COMPANY The Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements FRS 100 and Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in compliance with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in applying the Companys accounting policies.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the statement of comprehensive income of the Company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
Significant accounting policies Investments Investments represent equity holdings in subsidiaries and are measured at cost less accumulated impairment.
Financial instruments The Company recognises financial instruments when it becomes a party to the contractual arrangements of the instrument.
Financial instruments are derecognised when they are discharged or when the contractual terms expire.
Dividends Interim equity dividends are recognised when declared.
Final equity dividends are recognised when approved by the shareholders at an annual general meeting.
Share-based payments The Company has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payment.
The Company makes equity settled share-based payments to the directors, which are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
For those share schemes with market related vesting conditions, the fair value is determined using the Monte Carlo model at the grant date.
The fair value of share options issued with non-market vesting conditions has been calculated using the Black Scholes model.
For all other share awards, the fair value is determined by reference to the market value of the shares at the grant date.
For all share schemes with non-market vesting conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been taken into account when determining therelevant charge.
Vesting assumptions are reviewed during each reporting period to ensure they reflect current expectations.
The Company also makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees of certain subsidiary undertakings.
Equity settled share-based payments that are made to employees of the Companys subsidiaries are treated as increases in equity over the vesting period of the award, with a corresponding increase in the Companys investments in subsidiaries, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Any payments received from subsidiaries are applied to reduce the related increases in Investments in subsidiaries.
196 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018
