FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group has also been impacted by IFRS 9s requirements in respect of 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION commodity price hedging.
Previously under IAS 39 the time value element The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with of changes in the fair value of derivative options was excluded from the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and with those designated hedging relationship, and recognised in the income statement parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting within other finance items.
Under IFRS 9 the time value element is now under IFRS.
For these purposes, IFRS comprise the standards issued recognised within other comprehensive income rather than the by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRS income statement.
Interpretations Committee IFRS IC that have been endorsed by the The Groups copper and molybdenum sale contracts generally provide for European Union EU.
provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing based The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
on the monthly average London Metal Exchange LME copper price or Details of the factors which have been taken into account in assessing the the monthly average market molybdenum price for specified future periods.
Groups going concern status are set out within the Risk Management Under IAS 39 the final pricing adjustment mechanism represented an Framework section of the Strategic Report.
embedded derivative which was separated from the host contract the Antofagasta plc is a company limited by shares, incorporated and copper or molybdenum sales contract which was recognised at amortised domiciled in the United Kingdom at Cleveland House, 33 King Street, cost and recognised at fair value through profit or loss.
total receivable balance is measured at fair value through profit or loss.
However, this does not result in any significant change to the overall The immediate parent of the Group is Metalinvest Establishment, which is combined value to be recognised on the balance sheet and in the controlled by E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family income statement.
IFRS 9 requires a forward-looking expected credit loss ECL review is The nature of the Group entities operations is mainly related to mining and required for the Groups financial assets, other than those measured at fair exploration activities and rail and road cargo.
value through profit or loss.
As required by IFRS 9, the Group applies the SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING 2018 simplified approach to its trade receivable balances and the general approach to all other financial assets.
The general approach incorporates On 11 September 2018 the Group completed the disposal of Centinela a review for any significant increase in counterparty credit risk since Transmission, which holds the electricity transmission line supplying inception.
The ECL reviews include assumptions about the risk of default Centinela and other external parties, for cash consideration of $117 million.
For trade receivables, the assessment takes into The profit on disposal, along with the net results of Centinela Transmission account the use of credit enhancements, for example, letters of credit.
prior to the disposal date, are shown in the income statement on the line for Profit for the period from discontinued operations.
The Group has applied the optional transitional provisions of IFRS 9 in respect of the classification, measurement and impairment requirements A ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS of the standard.
Other effects of the transition to IFRS 9 are not material.
The Group has applied IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Accordingly the cumulative impact of applying IFRS 9 has been recognised and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments in the current period.
The impact of as an adjustment to equity as at 1 January 2018, with no restatement of the implementation of these standards, and the changes to the Groups prior periods, with the effects as shown on the following page.
accounting policies resulting from these new standards is set out below: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The Group has been impacted by IFRS 9s rules in respect of the modification of financial liabilities for example, the refinancing of a loan agreement.
Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments for modifications which did not have substantially different terms the Group did not recognise any immediate change to the carrying value of the liability, or any immediate profit or loss impact.
Instead, the difference between the original and modified cash flows was amortised over the remaining term of the modified liability by calculating a new effective interest rate.
Under IFRS 9 it is necessary to adjust the carrying value of the financial liability, based on the present value of the modified cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Any adjustment to the carrying value of the financial liability will result in an immediate profit or loss being recognised in the income statement.
IFRS 9 introduces new classification categories for financial assets and liabilities: however, this has not resulted in any significant changes in the valuation or recognition methodology for the Groups financial assets and liabilities.
The most relevant point is in respect of equity investments.
Previously under IAS 39 these balances were classified as Available-forSale assets measured at fair value, with movements in the fair value being recorded in other comprehensive income.
Under IFRS 9 the Group generally applies an irrevocable election for each equity investment to designate them as Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income FVOCI, resulting in a similar accounting treatment.
co. uk 151 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED Noncontrolling Share capital Share premium Other reserves Retained earnings Net equity interests Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance at 31 December 2017 89.8 199.2 12.5 7,041.9 7,318.4 1,823.2 9,141.6 Modification of financial liabilities 2.2 2.2 0.8 3.0 Hedging time value reclassification 6.8 6.8 Expected credit loss model 0.9 0.9 0.2 1.1 Tax impact 1.0 2.6 1.6 1.0 2.6 Total impact 5.8 1.1 4.7 2.0 6.7 Balance at 1 January 2018 89.8 199.2 18.3 7,043.0 7,313.7 1,821.2 9,134.9 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Transfers of Investment Property Amendments to IAS 40 Annual Improvements to three IFRS Standards 20142016 Cycle The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity recognises revenue to depict IFRIC 22, Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount Clarifications to IFRS 15 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers' that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The standard introduces a five-step The application of these standards and interpretations effective for the process for applying this principle, which includes guidance in respect first time in the current year has had no significant impact on the amounts of identifying the performance obligations under the contract with the reported in these financial statements.
customer, allocating the transaction price between the performance B ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET obligations, and recognising revenue as the entity satisfies the EFFECTIVE performance obligations.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following The only relevant impact for the Group relates to the shipping of material standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these sold to customers.
The Group sells a significant proportion of its products financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: on Cost, Insurance & Freight CIF Incoterms, which means that the Group is responsible for shipping the product to a destination port specified by the IFRS 16 Leases customer.
Under IAS 18 Revenue the Group recognised the total contract IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts revenue when the material had been loaded at the port of loading, at which IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments point the legal title and risks and rewards relating to the material passed to Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate the customer, as well as accruing the related shipping costs at that point.
or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Under IFRS 15 the shipping service represents a separate performance Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation Amendments obligation, and is now recognised separately from the sale of the to IFRS 9 material when the shipping service has been provided, along with the Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendments associated costs.
to IAS 28 Annual Improvements to three IFRS Standards 20152017 Cycle As explained above, the Groups copper and molybdenum sale contracts Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement Amendments to IAS 19 generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in with final pricing based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange IFRS Standards LME copper price or the monthly average market molybdenum price for Definition of a Business Amendments to IFRS 3 specified future periods.
The provisional pricing adjustments to revenue are dealt with under IFRS 9 rather than IFRS 15, and therefore the IFRS 15 The Group is continuing to evaluate in detail the potential impact of these rules on variable consideration do not apply to the provisional pricing new interpretations, excluding IFRS 16. mechanism of the Groups sales contracts.
IFRS 16 Leases For the Transport division, revenue in respect of its transportation and Adoption of this standard is mandatory in 2019.
The standard has been ancillary services continue to be recognised in-line with the performance of endorsed by the EU.
those services, as was the case under IAS 18, and accordingly the adoption of IFRS 15 has not resulted in any adjustments to its revenue recognition.
IFRS 16 Leases will result in most of the Groups existing operating leases being accounted for similarly to finance leases under the current IAS 17, The Group has applied the optional transitional provisions of IFRS 15, and resulting in the recognition of additional assets within property, plant and accordingly there has been no restatement of prior periods.
This has not equipment in respect of the right of use of the lease assets, and additional resulted in any overall impact to net assets or retained earnings as at lease liabilities.
The operating lease charges currently reflected within 1 January 2018.
The impact on individual asset and liability lines at operating expenses and EBITDA will be eliminated, and instead 1 January 2018 was immaterial.
depreciation and finance charges will be recognised in respect of the lease The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations assets and liabilities.
The Group expects to apply the optional transitional became effective in the current reporting period: provisions of IFRS 16 which will result in the initial impact of the new Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions standard being recognised as an adjustment to the balance sheet as Amendments to IFRS 2 at 1 January 2019, with no restatement of the comparative period.
Applying IFRS 9 'Financial Instruments' with IFRS 4 'Insurance Contracts' Amendments to IFRS 4 152 152 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group also expects to apply the transition option to recognise the right the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and of use assets as at 1 January 2019 at amounts equal to the corresponding attributed to owners of the Company.
lease liabilities, and consequently it is expected that there will be no overall When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognised impact on net assets or retained earnings as at 1 January 2019. in profit or loss and is calculated as the difference between i the The Group has completed a detailed contract review process to identify all aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value relevant leases, including those effectively embedded within wider service of any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets contracts, and has calculated the impact of the implementation of IFRS 16 in including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling respect of these leases.
The Group has also completed the implementation interests.
When assets of the subsidiary are carried at revalued amounts of the necessary changes to its accounting systems and processes to apply or fair values and the related cumulative gain or loss has been recognised the requirements of IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 onwards.
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity, the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated It is expected that the implementation of IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019 will in equity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the result in the recognition of additional lease assets within property, plant relevant assets ie reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to and equipment and additional lease liabilities as at 1 January 2019 of retained earnings as specified by applicable IFRSs.
The fair value of any approximately $130 million in each case.
Additionally, it is expected that investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is during 2019 relevant contracts will be renewed or replaced, and it is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent estimated that this could result in additional lease assets and liabilities of accounting under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Recognition and approximately $60 million being recognised during 2019, resulting in total Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition lease assets and liabilities at the end of 2019 of approximately $190 million.
of an investment in an associate or a joint venture.
Based on the operating leases in place at 31 December 2018, and anticipated renewals and replacements of those leases, it is currently Acquisitions and disposals are treated as explained in Note 2 G relating estimated that the new standard will result in a decrease in annual to business combinations and goodwill.
operating expenses before depreciation and therefore an increase in C INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES EBITDA of approximately $66 million, an increase in annual depreciation An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise of approximately $61 million, an increase in finance costs of approximately significant influence, but not control or joint control, through the power $7 million, and a net impact on profit before tax of less than $5 million.
to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of that entity.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of A ACCOUNTING CONVENTION accounting.
This requires recording the investment initially at cost to the These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost Group and then, in subsequent periods, adjusting the carrying amount of convention as modified by the use of fair values to measure certain the investment to reflect the Groups share of the associates results less financial instruments, principally provisionally priced sales as explained in any impairment and any other changes to the associates net assets such Note 2 F and financial derivative contracts as explained in Note 2 W. as dividends.
When the Group loses control of a former subsidiary but retains an investment in associate in that entity the initial carrying value of B BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION the investment in associate is recorded at its fair value at that point.
When The financial statements comprise the consolidated financial statements the Groups share of losses of an associate exceeds the Groups interest in of Antofagasta plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively that associate the Group discontinues recognising its share of further the Group.
Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has control, has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf which is the case when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable of the associate.
returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect D JOINT ARRANGEMENTS those returns through its power over the entity.
The consolidated financial A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have statements include all the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash joint control.
Joint arrangements are accounted depending on the nature flows of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating inter-company of the arrangement.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and profit attributable to non-controlling shareholders are presented as i Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in Non-controlling interests in the consolidated balance sheet and accordance with IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures consolidated income statement.
Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle ii Joint operations are accounted for recognising directly the assets, their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the obligations, revenues and expenses of the joint operator in the joint event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the arrangement.
The assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRS.
of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement When a Group entity transacts with its joint arrangements, profits and basis is made on an  basis.
Other types of losses resulting from the transactions with the joint arrangements are non-controlling interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, recognised in the Groups consolidated financial statements only to the on the basis specified in another IFRS.
Subsequent to acquisition, the extent of interests in the joint arrangements that are not related to carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those the Group.
interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Changes in the Groups ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amounts of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of 153 antofagasta.
co. uk 153 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED receivables in the balance sheet.
The fair value calculations are based on 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES forward prices at the period end for copper concentrate and cathode sales, CONTINUED and period-end average prices for molybdenum concentrate sales due to the absence of a futures market.
E CURRENCY TRANSLATION For the Transport division, revenue in respect of its transportation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as and ancillary services are recognised in-line with the performance of the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that functional currency are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
Gains exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life and losses on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from equity investments, associates and joint ventures is recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment has been The presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of established.
For associates and joint ventures, it is recorded as a decrease the Company is the US dollar.
On consolidation, income statement items of the investment.
for entities with a functional currency other than the US dollar are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange.
Balance sheet G BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL items are translated at period-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
on translation of the net assets of such entities are taken to equity and The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair recorded in a separate currency translation reserve.
Cumulative translation value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of differences arising after the transition date to IFRS are recognised as the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the income or as expenses in the income statement in the period in which former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group an operation is disposed of.
in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The results of businesses acquired On consolidation, exchange gains and losses which arise on balances during the year are brought into the consolidated financial statements between Group entities are taken to reserves where that balance is, in from the effective date of acquisition.
The identifiable assets, liabilities substance, part of the net investment in a foreign operation, ie where and contingent liabilities of a business which can be measured reliably settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
are recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
All other exchange gains and losses on Group balances are dealt with in Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition the income statement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Fair value adjustments and any goodwill arising on the acquisition of When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination a foreign entity are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration at the period-end rate.
arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisitiondate fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred F REVENUE RECOGNITION in a business combination.
Changes in the fair value of the contingent Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to third consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are parties during the year.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against consideration received or receivable, and excludes any applicable sales tax.
Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise Revenue is recognised when the Group satisfies a performance obligation from additional information obtained during the measurement period by transferring a promised good or service ie an asset to a customer.
An which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date about facts asset is transferred when or as the customer obtains control of that asset.
and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
For the Groups mining products the customer generally gains control over The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent the material when it has been loaded at the port of loading, and so this is consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments the point of revenue recognition.
The Group sells a significant proportion depends on how the contingent consideration is classified.
Contingent of its products on Cost, Insurance & Freight CIF Incoterms, which means consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent that the Group is responsible for shipping the product to a destination port reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within specified by the customer.
The shipping service represents a separate equity.
Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability performance obligation, and is recognised separately from the sale of the is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IFRS 9. material when the shipping service has been provided, along with the When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously associated costs.
Shipment revenue is recognised at the contracted price held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the as this reflects the stand-alone selling price.
acquisition date ie the date when the Group obtains control and the Revenue from mining activities is recorded at the invoiced amounts with an resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts adjustment for provisional pricing at each reporting date, as explained below.
arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that For copper and molybdenum concentrates, which are sold to smelters and have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are roasting plants for further processing, the invoiced amount is the market reclassified to profit or loss where such treatment would be appropriate value of the metal payable by the customer, net of deductions for tolling if that interest were disposed of.
Revenue includes amounts from the sale of by-products.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports sale agreements generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
time of shipment, with final pricing based on the monthly average London Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period Metal Exchange LME copper price or the monthly average market see above, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new molybdenum price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from information obtained about facts and circumstances which existed at the one to four months after delivery to the customer.
For sales contracts acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised which contain provisional pricing mechanisms the total receivable balance at that date.
is measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Gains and losses from the Goodwill arising in a business combination is measured as the excess of marking-to market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling other incomer as part of revenues in the income statement and to trade 154 154 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously J INTANGIBLE ASSETS held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net identifiable assets Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are acquired and liabilities assumed.
Any goodwill on the acquisition of carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment subsidiaries is separately disclosed, while any goodwill on the acquisition losses.
Exploration and mining licences are classified as intangible of associates and joint ventures is included within investments in equity assets when construction of the related mining operation has not yet accounted entities.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
When construction commences the licences are transferred the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired exceed the sum of the from intangible assets to the mining properties category within property, consideration transferred, the surplus is credited to the profit or loss in the plant and equipment.
Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis period of acquisition as a bargain purchase gain.
over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets.
The estimated The Group often enters into earn-in arrangements whereby the Group useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate being acquires an interest in a project company in exchange for funding accounted for on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets with indefinite exploration and evaluation expenditure up to a specified level of expenditure or a specified stage in the life of the project.
Funding is usually conditional useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
on the achievement of key milestones by the partner.
Typically there is no consideration transferred or funding liability on the effective date of Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised acquisition of the interest in the project company and no goodwill is separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at recognised on this type of transaction.
the acquisition date which is regarded as their cost.
The results of businesses sold during the year are included in the Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business consolidated financial statements for the period up to the effective date combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and of disposal.
Gains or losses on disposal are calculated as the difference accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets between the sales proceeds net of expenses and the net assets that are acquired separately.
attributable to the interest which has been sold.
Where a disposal An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of economic benefits are expected from use.
Gains or losses arising from operations, the net results attributable to the disposed entity are shown derecognition of an intangible asset, measured as the difference between separately in the income statement as a discontinued operation.
the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, are H EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION EXPENDITURE recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
Exploration and evaluation costs, other than those incurred in acquiring K PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT exploration licences, are expensed in the year in which they are incurred.
The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the costs When a mining project is considered to be commercially viable normally of acquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are when the project has completed a pre-feasibility study, and the start capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the year in which they are of a feasibility study has been approved all further directly attributable incurred, when a mining project is considered to be commercially viable pre-production expenditure is capitalised.
Capitalisation of pre-production normally when the project has completed a pre-feasibility study, and the expenditure ceases when commercial levels of production are achieved.
start of a feasibility study has been approved.
The cost of property, plant Costs incurred in acquiring exploration and mining licences are classified and equipment comprises the purchase price and any costs directly for as intangible assets when construction of the related mining operation attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary has not yet commenced.
When construction commences the licences are for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended.
Once a project has transferred from intangible assets to the mining properties category within been established as commercially viable, related development expenditure property, plant and equipment.
This includes costs incurred in preparing the site for mining operations, including pre-stripping costs.
Capitalisation ceases when the I STRIPPING COSTS mine is capable of commercial production, with the exception of Pre-stripping and operating stripping costs are incurred in the course of development costs which give rise to a future benefit.
the development and operation of open-pit mining operations.
Interest on borrowings related to construction or development of projects Pre-stripping costs relate to the removal of waste material as part of the is capitalised, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their initial development of an open-pit, in order to allow access to the ore body.
intended use or sale which, in the case of mining properties, is when they The capitalised costs are depreciated once production commences on a are capable of commercial production.
unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore extracted in the year compared with total proven and probable reserves for that pit at the L DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND beginning of the year.
EQUIPMENT Operating stripping costs relate to the costs of extracting waste material Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use, ie when it is in as part of the ongoing mining process.
The ongoing mining and the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the development of the Groups open-pit mines is generally performed via manner intended.
The costs of extracting material from Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over an open-pit mine are generally allocated between ore and waste stripping the remaining life of the operation if shorter, to residual value.
The major in proportion to the tonnes of material extracted.
The waste stripping costs categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as follows: are generally absorbed into inventory and expensed as that inventory is i Land freehold land is not depreciated unless the value of the land is processed and sold.
Where the stripping costs relate to a significant considered to relate directly to a particular mining operation, in which stripping campaign which is expected to provide improved access to an case the land is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected identifiable component of the ore body typically an individual phase within mine life.
the overall mine plan, the costs of removing waste in order to improve access to that part of the ore body will be capitalised within property, plant ii Mining properties mining properties, including capitalised financing and equipment.
The capitalised costs will then be amortised on a unit of costs, are depreciated on a unit of production basis, in proportion to production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore extracted compared the volume of ore extracted in the year compared with total proven with the total ore contained in the component of the pit to which the and probable reserves at the beginning of the year.
co. uk 155 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED For sulphide ores, processing includes milling and concentrating and 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES results in the production of copper concentrate.
For oxide ores, processing CONTINUED includes leaching of stockpiles, solvent extraction and electrowinning and results in the production of copper cathodes.
Finished goods consist of iii Buildings and infrastructure straight-line basis over 10 to copper concentrate containing gold and silver at Los Pelambres and 25 years.
Centinela and copper cathodes at Centinela and Antucoya.
Los Pelambres also produces molybdenum as a by-product.
iv Railway track including trackside equipment straight-line basis over 20 to 25 years.
Inventory is valued at the lower of cost, on a weighted average basis, and net realisable value.
Net realisable value represents estimated selling price v Wagons and rolling stock straight-line basis over 10 to 20 years.
less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, vi Machinery, equipment and other assets are depreciated on a selling and distribution.
Cost of finished goods and work-in-progress is unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore material production cost and for raw materials and consumables it is purchase processed or on a straight-line basis over 5 to 20 years.
Production cost includes: vii Assets under construction no depreciation until asset is available labour costs, raw material costs and other costs directly attributable for use.
to the extraction and processing of ore: viii Assets held under finance lease are depreciated over the shorter depreciation of plant, equipment and mining properties directly involved of the lease term and their useful life.
in the production process: and an appropriate portion of production overheads.
ix Stripping cost The capitalised costs will then be amortised on a Stockpiles represent ore that is extracted and is available for further unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore extracted processing.
Costs directly attributable to the extraction of ore are compared with the total ore contained in the component of the pit to generally allocated as part of production costs in proportion to the tonnes which the stripping campaign relates Note 2I.
Operating stripping costs are generally absorbed Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, into inventory, and therefore expensed as that inventory is processed at least annually, and changes to residual values and useful lives are and sold.
If ore is not expected to be processed within 12 months of the accounted for prospectively.
statement of financial position date it is included within non-current assets.
If there is significant uncertainty as to when any stockpiled ore M IMPAIRMENT OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT will be processed it is expensed as incurred.
AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS EXCLUDING GOODWILL Property, plant and equipment and finite life intangible assets are reviewed O TAXATION for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying amount may not Tax expense comprises the charges or credits for the year relating to both be recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the current and deferred tax.
asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment if Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit may differ any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the items of income or expense that are taxable and deductible in different cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Any intangible asset with years and also excludes items that are not taxable or deductible.
The an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates for each entity in the there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
consolidated financial statements which have been enacted or substantively Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and enacted at the balance sheet date.
Fair value less costs of disposal reflects the net amount the Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary Group would receive from the sale of the asset in an orderly transaction differences ie differences between the carrying amount of assets and between market participants.
For mining assets this would generally be liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used determined based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax is accounted for using arising from the continued use, further development or eventual disposal the balance sheet liability method and is provided on all temporary of the asset.
The estimates used in determining the present value of differences with certain limited exceptions as follows: those cash flows are those that an independent market participant would consider appropriate.
Value in use reflects the expected present value i tax payable on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates and of the future cash flows which the Group would generate through the joint ventures is provided except where the Group is able to control operation of the asset in its current condition, without taking into account the remittance of profits and it is probable that there will be no potential enhancements or further development of the asset.
The fair value remittance of past profits earned in the foreseeable future: less costs of disposal valuation will normally be higher than the value in use ii deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of an asset or valuation, and accordingly the Group typically applies this valuation liability in a transaction that does not affect accounting profit or taxable estimate in its impairment assessments.
profit and is not a business combination: nor is deferred tax provided If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated on subsequent changes in the carrying value of such assets and to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the liabilities, for example where they are depreciated: and recoverable amount.
An impairment charge is recognised in the income iii the initial recognition of any goodwill.
Where an impairment subsequently reverses, the carrying amount is increased to the revised estimate of recoverable Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the they will be recovered through sufficient future taxable profit.
The carrying carrying value that would have been determined if no impairment had amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
A reversal is recognised in the income Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the statement immediately.
period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is N INVENTORY charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax Inventory consists of raw materials and consumables, work-in-progress is also taken directly to equity.
Work-in-progress represents material that is in the process of being converted into finished goods.
The conversion process for mining operations depends on the nature of the copper ore. 156 156 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS P PROVISIONS T CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will with banks, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in the amount of the obligation.
value, net of bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand.
Cash and cash equivalents normally have a maturity period of 90 days or less.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of U LIQUID INVESTMENTS the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties Liquid investments represent highly liquid current asset investments such surrounding the obligation.
When a provision is measured using the as term deposits and managed funds invested in high quality fixed income cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount instruments.
They do not meet the IAS 7 definition of cash and cash is the present value of those cash flows when the effect of the time value equivalents, normally because even if readily accessible, the underlying of money is material.
investments have an average maturity profile greater than 90 days from When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision the date first entered into.
These assets are designated as fair value are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised through profit or loss.
as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and V LEASES the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement Q PROVISIONS FOR DECOMMISSIONING AND account in equal annual amounts over the term of the lease.
RESTORATION COSTS Assets under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at An obligation to incur decommissioning and restoration costs occurs inception of the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing minimum lease payments derived by discounting at the interest rate implicit production of a mining property.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a in the lease.
The interest element is charged within financing costs so as formal closure plan and are subject to regular formal review.
to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Such costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are provided and capitalised W OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups arises.
These decommissioning costs are charged against profits over balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual the life of the mine, through depreciation of the asset and unwinding or provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the amortisation of the discount on the provision.
Depreciation is included contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or the in operating costs while the unwinding of the discount is included as Group has transferred the asset to another party.
Financial liabilities are financing costs.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the removed from the Groups balance sheet when they are extinguished decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work are added to, or ie when the obligation specified in the contract has been discharged, deducted from, the cost of the related asset in the current year.
The costs for restoration of site damage, which is created on an ongoing i Investments Equity investments which are not subsidiaries, basis during production, are provided for at their net present values and associates or joint ventures are recognised at fair value.
The Group charged against operating profits as extraction progresses.
Changes in the generally applies an irrevocable election for each equity investment to measurement of a liability relating to site damage created during production designate them as Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income are charged against operating profit.
Dividends from equity investments are recognised in the R SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS income statement when the right to receive payment is established.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised for ii Trade and other receivables As explained above, for sales the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the contracts which contain provisional pricing mechanism the total liability.
At the end of each reporting period until the liability is settled, and receivable balance is measured at fair value through profit or loss.
at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with Other receivable balances are recognised at amortised cost.
any changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the year.
The iii Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are generally Group currently does not have any equity settled share-based payments not interest-bearing and are normally stated at their nominal value.
to employees or third parties.
iv Borrowings loans and preference shares Interest-bearing S POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS loans and bank overdrafts are initially recorded at the proceeds The Group operates defined contribution schemes for a limited number received, net of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently measured of employees.
For such schemes, the amount charged to the income at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest statement is the contributions paid or payable in the year.
expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial Employment terms may also provide for payment of a severance indemnity liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
when an employment contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated of one month for each year of service subject in most cases to a cap as to future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, the number of qualifying years of service and based on final salary level.
or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Finance charges, including The severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded defined premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue benefit plan, and the calculation is based on valuations performed by an costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective independent actuary using the projected unit credit method, which are interest rate method.
Amounts are either recorded as financing regularly updated.
costs in profit or loss or capitalised in accordance with the accounting The obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present policy set out in Note 2 K. Finance charges are added to the carrying value of the severance indemnity obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the are immediately recognised in other comprehensive income.
period in which they arise.
co. uk 157 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS CONTINUED AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION The Sterling-denominated preference shares issued by the Company UNCERTAINTY carry a fixed rate of return without the right to participate in any Determining many of the amounts included in the financial statements surplus.
They are accordingly classified within borrowings and involves the use of judgement and or estimation.
These judgements and translated into US dollars at period-end rates of exchange.
estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant Preference share dividends are included within finance costs.
facts and circumstances having regard to prior experience, but actual v Equity instruments Equity instruments issued are recorded at results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments Information about such judgements and estimates is included in the of the Company comprise its Sterling-denominated issued ordinary principal accounting policies in Note 2 or the other notes to the financial share capital and related share premium.
As explained in Note 2 E, statements, and the key areas are set out below.
the presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency A JUDGEMENTS of the Company is US dollars, and ordinary share capital and share premium are translated into US dollars at historical rates of exchange The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving based on dates of issue.
estimations which are dealt with separately, that the directors have made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and vi Derivative financial instruments As explained in Note 24 D, the that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Group periodically uses derivative financial instruments to reduce financial statements.
exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments i Capitalisation of property, plant and equipment of project costs for trading purposes.
The Group has applied the hedge accounting As explained in Note 2 K the costs of developing mining properties provisions of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
The effective portion of are capitalised as property, plant and equipment when the mining changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are project is considered to be commercially viable.
Commercial viability designated and qualify as hedges of future cash flows have been is normally considered to be demonstrable when the project has recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently completed a pre-feasibility study, and the start of a feasibility study recognised in profit or loss in the period when the hedged item has been approved.
Management reviews amounts capitalised to affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately ensure that the treatment of that expenditure as capital rather than in profit or loss.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives operating expenditure is reasonable, in particular in respect of the recognised in profit or loss are recorded within revenue.
The time commercial viability of the project.
value element of changes in the fair value of derivative options is recognised within other comprehensive income.
As at 31 December 2018 $226.2 million of feasibility study costs relating to projects which are still under evaluation and have not Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in yet received final Board approval were capitalised within property, their entirety when determining the appropriate classification and plant and equipment.
Should the Group ultimately take the decision measurement.
The treatment of embedded derivatives arising from to abandon any of these projects, and not continue with their provisionally priced commodity sales contracts is set out in further development, then it is likely that the corresponding element of detail in Note 2 F relating to revenue.
Derivatives embedded in the capitalised feasibility study costs would need to be impaired.
financial liabilities are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host The capitalisation of the construction and commissioning costs for a contract and the host contract is not measured at fair value.
Changes new mining operation ceases, and depreciation commences, when in fair value are reported in profit or loss for the year.
the operation is in the condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended which is termed as achieving vii Impairment of financial assets The Group applies the forwardcommercial production.
looking expected credit loss model to its financial assets, other than those measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group applies The determination of the commercial production date requires judgement which involves the consideration of a number of relevant the IFRS 9 simplified approach to its trade receivables, measuring factors, including the successful completion of commissioning tests the loss allowance at the lifetime expected credit loss.
For other and the processing and production levels achieved compared with financial assets, where the credit risk has not increased significantly expected design capacity.
since initial recognition, the loss allowance is measured at the 12 month expected credit loss.
If there has been a significant increase ii Deferred taxation in credit risk, the loss allowance is measured at the lifetime expected As explained in Note 2 O, deferred tax assets are recognised only credit loss.
Increases or decrease to the credit loss allowance are to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered through recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Generally under Chilean tax law most X EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely, and so the expiry of tax Exceptional items are material items of income and expense which are losses is not generally an issue.
The key assumptions to which the non-regular or non-operating and typically non-cash movements.
Profit forecasts of the probable level of future taxable profits are most excluding exceptional items is considered to be a useful performance sensitive are future commodity prices, production levels and measure as it provides an indication of the underlying earnings of the operating costs.
Groups operations, excluding these one-off items.
As set out in Note 27, the Group has recognised $37.2 million of Y ROUNDING deferred tax assets as at 31 December 2018, with the majority of these deferred tax assets relating to short-term timing differences All amounts disclosed in the financial statements and notes have been and provisions.
The Group had unused tax losses of $207.1 million rounded off to the nearest million dollars unless otherwise stated.
available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, $0.3 million has been recognised in respect of $1.1 million of unless otherwise stated.
these losses, 158 158 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS with no deferred tax asset recognised in respect of the remaining There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore $206.0 million of tax losses.
If the Groups assessment as to the reserves, and assumptions that were valid at the time of estimation recoverability of those tax losses were to change, then potentially may change when new information becomes available.
These include additional deferred tax assets of up to $55.0 million could assumptions as to grade estimates and cut-off grades, recovery rates, be recognised.
commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs, capital costs, processing and reclamation costs and discount rates.
The actual No deferred tax liability is recognised in respect of the undistributed volume of ore extracted and any changes in these assumptions could earnings of subsidiaries where it is not likely that those profits will be affect prospective depreciation rates and carrying values.
distributed in the foreseeable future.
When determining whether it is likely that distributions will be made in the foreseeable future, and The majority of other items of property, plant and equipment are what is the appropriate foreseeable future period for this purpose, the depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
Group considers factors such as the predictability of the likely future Management reviews the appropriateness of useful economic lives Group dividends, taking into account the Groups dividend policy and at least annually and, again, any changes could affect prospective the level of potential volatility of the Groups future earnings, as well depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
as the current level of distributable reserves at the Antofagasta plc The total depreciation and amortisation charge for 2018 was entity level.
As set out in Note 27, at 31 December 2018 deferred $760.5 million, and so as a very simplistic sensitivity, a 10% withholding tax liabilities of $11.3 million have been recognised, which adjustment and the useful economic lives of all of the Groups relate to undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where it is considered property, plant equipment would result in an impact of approximately likely that the corresponding profits will be distributed in the $75 million on the annual depreciation charge.
The value of the remaining undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been iv Provisions for decommissioning and site restoration costs recognised was $5,080.0 million.
As explained in Note 2 Q, provision is made, based on net present values, for decommissioning and site rehabilitation costs as soon as B ESTIMATES the obligation arises following the development or ongoing production The group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The provision is based on a closure plan resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related prepared with the assistance of external consultants.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below.
in the case of capitalised decommissioning costs amortise these estimated costs over the life of the mine.
The ultimate cost of i Non-financial assets impairment decommissioning and site rehabilitation is uncertain and cost As explained in Note 2 M, the Group reviews the carrying value of estimates can vary in response to many factors including changes its intangible assets and property, plant and equipment to determine to relevant legal requirements, the emergence of new restoration whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
In techniques or experience at other mine sites.
making assessments for impairment, assets that do not generate The expected timing and extent of expenditure can also change, for independent cash flows are allocated to an appropriate cash example in response to changes in ore reserves or processing levels.
The recoverable amount of those assets, As a result, there could be significant adjustments to the provisions or CGU, is measured at the higher of their fair value less costs to sell established which would affect future financial results.
Details of the decommissioning and restoration provisions are set out in Details of the valuations and sensitivities of the Groups mining Note 28.
The total value of these provisions as at 31 December 2018 was operations are included in Note 4, including quantitative $409.8 million.
4 ASSET SENSITIVITIES Management necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets to CGUs, in estimating the probability, timing and value of underlying Other asset sensitivities cash flows and in selecting appropriate discount rates to be applied There were no indicators of potential impairment, or reversal of previous within the fair value less cost to dispose calculation.
The key impairments, for the Groups operations at the 2018 year-end, and assumptions are set out in Note 2 M and Note 4.
Subsequent accordingly no impairment reviews have been performed.
However, in changes to CGU allocation, licensing status, reserves and resources, order to provide an indication of the sensitivities of the recoverable amount price assumptions or other estimates and assumptions in the fair of the Groups mining operations, a valuation and sensitivity analysis has value less cost to dispose calculation could impact the carrying value been performed.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
Fair value less costs of disposal reflects the net ii Inventory valuation amount the Group would receive from the sale of the asset in an orderly The valuation of work in progress inventories involves a number of transaction between market participants.
For mining assets this would estimates, including the average ore grade, volume and density of ore generally be determined based on the present value of the estimated future stockpiles, and the total recoveries and the speed of recovery in cash flows arising from the continued use, further development or eventual respect of material on the leach piles.
Evaluating the net realisable disposal of the asset.
Value in use reflects the expected present value of the value of the inventories also requires an estimate of the likely future future cash flows which the Group would generate through the operation copper price for the periods when it is expected that the inventories of the asset in its current condition, without taking into account potential will be completed and sold.
As set out in Note 19, the value of work enhancements or further development of the asset.
The fair value less in progress inventory at 31 December 2018 was $435.5 million.
costs of disposal valuation will normally be higher than the value in use valuation, and accordingly the Group typically applies this valuation estimate iii Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment and ore in its impairment or valuation assessments.
reserves estimates As explained in Note 2 L, mining properties, including capitalised financing costs, are depreciated in proportion to the volume of ore extracted in the year compared with total proven and probable reserves at the beginning of the year.
co. uk 159 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4 ASSET SENSITIVITIES CONTINUED 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION The key assumptions to which the value of the assets are most sensitive The Groups reportable segments are as follows: are future commodity prices, the discount rate used to determine the Los Pelambres present value of the future cash flows, future operating costs, sustaining Centinela and development capital expenditure, and the US dollar Chilean peso Antucoya exchange rate.
The commodity price forecasts representing the Groups Zaldvar estimates of the assumptions that would be used by independent market Exploration and evaluation participants in valuing the assets are based on the forward curve for the Corporate and other items short term and consensus analyst forecasts including both investment Transport division banks and commodity consultants for the longer term.
A long-term copper price of $3.10 lb has been used in the base valuations.
A real post-tax For management purposes, the Group is organised into two business discount rate of 8% has been used in determining the present value of divisions based on their products Mining and Transport.
The mining the forecast future cash flow from the assets.
In the case of Centinela, division is split further for management reporting purposes to show results a significant element of the valuation relates to the planned construction by mine and exploration activity.
of the second concentrator, and a substantial change in the plans for that Los Pelambres produces primarily copper concentrate and molybdenum development could have a considerable impact on the valuation.
Centinela produces copper concentrate containing gold as This valuation exercise demonstrated positive headroom for all of the a by-product, molybdenum concentrates and copper cathodes.
Antucoya Groups mining operations, with the recoverable amount of the assets in and Zaldvar produce copper cathodes.
The transport division provides excess of their carrying value.
As an additional down-side sensitivity, a rail cargo and road cargo transport together with a number of ancillary valuation was performed with a 5% reduction in the long-term copper services.
All the operations are based in Chile.
Los Pelambres still showed positive headroom in this alternative evaluation segment incurs exploration and evaluation expenses.
Corporate down-side scenario, and Zaldvar indicated a break-even position.
and other items comprises costs incurred by the Company, Antofagasta However the Antucoya valuation indicated a potential deficit of $110 million Minerals SA, the Groups mining corporate centre and other entities, that and the Centinela valuation indicated a potential deficit of $770 million.
This are not allocated to any individual business segment.
Consistent with its was a simple sensitivity exercise, looking at an illustrative change in the internal management reporting, the Groups corporate and other items are forecast long-term copper price in isolation.
In reality, a deterioration in included within the mining division.
the long-term copper price environment is likely to result in corresponding The chief operating decision-maker monitors the operating results of improvements in a range of input cost factors.
In particular, given that the business segments separately for the purpose of making decisions copper exports account for over 50% of Chiles exports, movements in the about resources to be allocated and assessing performance.
Segment US dollar Chilean peso exchange rate are highly correlated to the copper performance is evaluated based on the operating profit of each of price, and a decrease in the copper price is likely to result in a weakening the segments.
of the Chilean peso, with a resulting reduction in the Groups operating costs and capital expenditure.
These likely cost reductions, as well as potential operational changes which could be made in a weaker copper price environment, could partly mitigate the impact of the lower copper price modelled in these estimated potential sensitivities.
EBITDA refers to Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation.
EBITDA is calculated by adding back depreciation, amortisation, profit or loss on disposals and impairment charges to operating profit.
This comprises 100% of the EBITDA from the Groups subsidiaries, and the Groups proportional share of the EBITDA of its associates and joint ventures Note 37B.
Operating cash outflow in the exploration and evaluation segment was $81.0 million.
Operating cash outflow in the exploration and evaluation segment was $45.6 million.
NOTES TO SEGMENT REVENUES AND RESULTS i Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue from the Transport division segment is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the mining division of nil year ended 31 December 2017 $0.3 million.
ii Revenue includes provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates and copper cathodes.
Further details of such adjustments are given in Note 6. iii The copper and molybdenum concentrate sales are stated net of deductions for tolling charges.
Tolling charges for copper and molybdenum concentrates are detailed in Note 6. iv The effects of tax and non-controlling interests on the expenses within the Exploration and evaluation segment are allocated to the mine that the exploration work relates to.
v The assets of the Transport division segment include $54.6 million 31 December 2017 $60.1 million relating to the Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos SA Inversiones Hornitos, which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones in Chiles Antofagasta Region and $5.1million 31 December 2017 $5.3 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Antofagasta Terminal International SA ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
Further details of these investments are set out in Note 17.
162 162 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS B ENTITY-WIDE DISCLOSURES 1 REVENUE BY PRODUCT 2018 2017 $m $m Copper Los Pelambres 2,040.3 2,149.0 Centinela concentrate 827.9 1,037.0 Centinela cathodes 589.4 378.6 Antucoya 457.6 508.6 Gold Los Pelambres 78.6 68.7 Centinela 169.4 209.7 Molybdenum Los Pelambres 340.2 168.5 Centinela 7.8 Silver Los Pelambres 34.4 37.7 Centinela 14.7 20.5 Total 4,560.3 4,578.3 Transport division 172.8 171.1 4,733.1 4,749.4 1 REVENUE BY LOCATION OF CUSTOMER 2018 2017 $m $m Europe United Kingdom 125.3 46.6 Switzerland 587.0 835.1 Spain 152.9 163.5 Germany 117.3 139.4 Rest of Europe 131.7 114.2 Latin America Chile 248.1 206.9 Rest of Latin America 73.9 125.2 North America United States 199.4 207.4 Asia Japan 1,413.0 1,698.2 China 481.2 484.8 Singapore 633.9 124.8 South Korea 322.0 372.1 Rest of Asia 247.4 231.2 4,733.1 4,749.4 INFORMATION ABOUT MAJOR CUSTOMERS In the year ended 31 December 2018 the Groups mining revenue included $678.1 million related to one large customer that individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups revenue year ended 31 December 2017 one large customer representing $823.4 million.
Figures include both revenue from the sale of products and the associated income from the provision of shipping services.
co. uk 163 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED NON-CURRENT ASSETS BY LOCATION OF ASSETS 2018 2017 $m $m Chile 10,449.0 10,250.2 USA 172.6 215.4 Other 0.1 0.1 10,621.7 10,465.7 The above non-current assets disclosed by location of assets exclude financial instruments, equity investments and deferred tax assets.
6 REVENUE Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale contracts and copper cathode sale contracts generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing being based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange copper price or monthly average molybdenum price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from one to four months after shipment to the customer.
For sales contracts which contain provisional pricing mechanisms the total receivable balance is measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Gains and losses from the mark-to-market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to revenue in the income statement and to trade receivables in the balance sheet.
The Group determines mark-tomarket prices using forward prices at each period-end for copper concentrate and cathode sales, and period-end month average prices for molybdenum concentrate sales due to the absence of a futures market in the market price references for that commodity in the majority of the Groups contracts.
An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Revenue from contracts with customers Sale of products 4,660.5 4,221.9 Rendering of transport services 172.8 141.8 Shipping services 74.4 66.4 Provisional pricing adjustments in respect of concentrate and cathode sales 174.6 319.3 Total revenue 4,733.1 4,749.4 The categories of revenue which are principally affected by different economic factors are the individual product types.
A summary of revenue by product is set out in Note 5.
In addition to mark-to-market and final pricing adjustments, revenue also includes realised gains and losses relating to derivative commodity instruments.
Details of these realised gains or losses are shown in the tables that follow.
Copper and molybdenum concentrate sales are stated net of deductions for tolling charges, as shown in the tables that follow.
164 164 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 Los Pelambres Centinela Centinela Antucoya Los Pelambres Centinela Los Pelambres Copper Copper Copper Copper Gold in Gold in Molybdenum concentrate concentrate cathodes cathodes concentrate concentrate concentrate $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 2,325.7 957.3 599.1 465.0 79.6 171.1 358.6 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the 54.1 20.0 1.7 2.7 0.2 4.6 end of the previous year Settlement of sales invoiced in the 14.2 8.8 0.6 1.6 0.4 0.2 18.9 previous year Total effect of adjustments to previous 39.9 11.2 1.1 1.1 0.4 0.4 14.3 year invoices in the current year Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of sales invoiced in the current year 59.8 26.3 7.9 6.2 1.2 1.3 0.2 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of 23.6 9.5 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 the current year 83.4 35.8 8.6 6.9 1.2 0.6 0.9 Total effect of adjustments to current year invoices Total pricing adjustments 123.3 47.0 9.7 8.0 0.8 1.0 15.2 Realised losses on commodity derivatives 0.6 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 2,202.4 910.3 589.4 457.6 78.8 170.1 373.8 Tolling charges 162.1 82.4 0.3 0.6 33.6 Revenue net of tolling charges 2,040.3 827.9 589.4 457.6 78.5 169.5 340.2 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 Centinela Antucoya Los Pelambres Los Pelambres Centinela Copper Copper Los Pelambres Centinela Molybdenum Copper concentrate Copper concentrate cathodes cathodes Gold in concentrate Gold in concentrate concentrate $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 2,138.9 1,031.1 385.9 502.7 70.4 209.6 173.6 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 28.0 15.3 0.4 0.6 1.3 0.7 Settlement of sales invoiced in the previous year 53.3 37.6 0.7 0.9 2.2 2.0 Total effect of adjustments to previous year invoices in the current year 25.3 22.3 0.4 1.3 0.9 0.9 2.7 Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of sales invoiced in the current year 110.2 61.7 3.9 5.7 0.6 1.5 3.2 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 54.1 20.1 1.7 2.7 0.2 4.7 Total effect of adjustments to current year invoices 164.3 81.8 5.6 8.4 0.6 1.7 7.9 Total pricing adjustments 189.6 104.1 6.0 9.7 1.5 0.8 10.6 Realised losses on commodity derivatives 13.3 3.8 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 2,328.5 1,135.2 378.6 508.6 68.9 210.4 184.2 Tolling charges 179.5 98.2 0.2 0.8 15.7 Revenue net of tolling charges 2,149.0 1,037.0 378.6 508.6 68.7 209.6 168.5 1.
co. uk 165 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6 REVENUE CONTINUED I COPPER CONCENTRATE The typical period for which sales of copper concentrate remain open until settlement occurs is a range of approximately three to four months from shipment date.
2018 2017 Sales Tonnes 177,400 160,900 Average mark-to-market price $ lb 2.71 3.28 Average provisional invoice price $ lb 2.79 3.07 II COPPER CATHODES The typical period for which sales of copper cathodes remain open until settlement occurs is approximately one month from shipment date.
2018 2017 Sales Tonnes 14,300 14,700 Average mark-to-market price $ lb 2.70 3.27 Average provisional invoice price $ lb 2.75 3.14 III GOLD CONCENTRATES The typical period for which sales of gold in concentrate remain open is approximately one month from shipment date.
2018 2017 Sales Ounces 22,100 7,100 Average mark-to-market price $ oz 1.284 1,300 Average provisional invoice price $ oz 1.253 1,268 IV MOLYBDENUM CONCENTRATE The typical period for which sales of molybdenum remain open is approximately two months from shipment date.
2018 2017 Sales Tonnes 3,600 2,400 Average mark-to-market price $ lb 12.1 9.4 Average provisional invoice price $ lb 12.1 8.5 As detailed above, the effects of gains and losses from the marking-to-market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to revenue in the income statement and to trade debtors in the balance sheet.
The effect of mark-to-market adjustments on the balance sheet at the end of each period are as follows: Effect on debtors of year end mark-tomarket adjustments 2018 2017 $m $m Los Pelambres copper concentrate 23.6 54.1 Los Pelambres molybdenum concentrate 0.7 4.7 Centinela copper concentrate 9.5 20.1 Centinela gold concentrate 0.7 0.2 Centinela copper cathodes 0.7 1.7 Antucoya copper cathodes 0.7 2.7 33.1 83.5 166 166 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7 PROFIT BEFORE TAX Operating profit from subsidiaries and total profit from operations and associates and joint ventures is derived from Group revenue by deducting operating costs as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Group revenue 4,733.1 4,749.4 Cost of sales 2,826.4 2,356.4 Gross profit 1,906.7 2,393.0 Administrative and distribution expenses 417.6 414.1 Other operating income 21.8 26.0 Other operating expenses 165.9 163.8 Operating profit from subsidiaries 1,345.0 1,841.1 Equity accounting results 22.2 59.7 Net share of results from associates and joint venture 22.2 59.7 Total profit from operations, associates and joint venture 1,367.2 1,900.8 Other operating expenses comprise $14.8 million of costs relating to the decommissioning and restoration provisions 2017 $39.8 million, $97.6 million of Exploration and evaluation expenditure 2017 $68.8 million and $53.5 million of Other expenses 2017 $55.2 million.
Profit before tax is stated after charging crediting: 2018 2017 $m $m Foreign exchange losses gains included in net finance costs 18.2 17.1 included in income tax expense 0.7 0.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets 731.5 553.5 assets held under finance leases 29.0 27.6 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13.3 8.3 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 1,955.2 1,697.0 Employee benefit expense 447.8 433.2 Closure provision 14.8 39.8 Severance charges 18.7 31.9 Exploration and evaluation cost 97.6 68.8 Auditors remuneration 1.7 1.8 A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: 2018 2017 Group $000 $000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 1,020 1,003 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 374 315 Audit-related assurance services 252 268 Tax advisory services 76 45 Other assurance services 46 Corporate finance services not covered above 65 Other non-audit services 12 118 1,734 1,860 Details of the Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reason why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 110.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
co. uk 167 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 8 EMPLOYEES A AVERAGE MONTHLY NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2018 2017 Number Number Los Pelambres 907 900 Centinela 2,047 2,044 Michilla 4 5 Antucoya 786 737 Exploration and evaluation 56 49 Corporate and other employees Chile 433 447 United Kingdom 4 5 Other 3 4 Mining and Corporate 4,240 4,191 Transport division 1,371 1,219 5,611 5,410 i The average number of employees for the year includes all the employees of subsidiaries.
The average number of employees does not include contractors who are not directly employed by the Group.
ii The average number of employees does not include employees from associates and joint ventures.
iii The average number of employees includes Non-Executive Directors.
B AGGREGATED REMUNERATION The aggregated remuneration of the employees included in the table above was as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Wages and salaries 423.0 411.9 Social security costs 24.8 21.3 447.8 433.2 The comparative 2017 total employee costs have been restated to $433.2 million from $417.8 million to correctly reflect the full impact of the employee severance provision expense.
C KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL In accordance with IAS 24, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any Directors Executive and Non-Executive of the Company.
Key management personnel who are not Directors have been treated as responsible senior management at the Corporate Centre and those responsible for the running of the key business divisions of the Group.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 18.4 18.7 18.4 18.7 Disclosures on Directors remuneration required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Financial Statement Regulations 2008 including those specified for audit by that Schedule are included in the Remuneration report on page 118.
168 168 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 NET FINANCE EXPENSE 2018 2017 $m $m Investment income Interest income 9.9 9.2 Fair value through profit or loss 20.2 14.6 30.1 23.8 Interest expense Interest expense 113.6 91.5 113.6 91.5 Other finance items Time value effect of options 7.8 Unwinding of discount on provisions 12.7 11.6 Preference dividends 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange 18.2 17.2 31.0 2.3 Net finance expense 114.5 70.0 During 2018, amounts capitalised and consequently not included within the above table were as follows: $4.5 million at Centinela year ended 31 December 2017 $8.8 million and $0.9 million at Los Pelambres year ended 31 December 2017 $1.3 million.
The fair value through profit or loss line represents the fair value gains relating to liquid investments.
10 INCOME TAX EXPENSE The tax charge for the year comprised the following: 2018 2017 $m $m Current tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 321.2 376.6 Mining tax royalty 78.1 69.1 Withholding tax 4.5 64.8 Exchange losses on corporate tax balances 0.7 0.7 404.5 509.8 Deferred tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 14.6 114.6 Mining tax royalty 4.6 9.2 19.2 123.8 Total tax charge 423.7 633.6 The rate of first category ie corporate tax in Chile is 27.0% 2017 25.5%.
In addition to first category tax and the mining tax, the Group incurs withholding taxes on any remittance of profits from Chile.
Withholding tax is levied on remittances of profits from Chile at 35% less first category ie corporation tax already paid in respect of the profits to which the remittances relate.
co. uk 169 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED The Groups mining operations are also subject to a mining tax royalty.
Production from Los Pelambres, Antucoya, Encuentro oxides, the Tesoro North East pit and the Run-of-Mine processing at Centinela Cathodes is subject to a rate of between 514%, depending on the level of operating profit margin, and production from Centinela Concentrates and the Tesoro Central and Mirador pits is subject to a rate of 5% of taxable operating profit.
In 2018 production from Los Pelambres and the Tesoro Central and Mirador pits had been subject to a rate of 4%.
2018 2017 $m % $m % Profit before tax 1,252.7 1,830.8 Tax at the Chilean corporate tax rate of 27% 2017 25.5% 338.2 27.0 466.9 25.5 Items not deductible from first category tax 10.8 0.9 26.7 1.5 Effect of increase in future first category tax rates on deferred tax balances 0.6 Adjustment in respect of prior years 2.6 0.2 35.4 1.9 Deduction of mining tax royalty as an allowable expense in determination of first 21.1 1.7 17.4 1.0 category tax Credit of tax losses absorbed from dividends of the year 4.3 0.2 Mining tax royalty 82.5 6.5 78.3 4.3 Withholding tax 4.5 0.4 64.8 3.5 Tax effect of share of profit of associates and joint ventures 3.0 0.2 15.2 0.8 Unrecognised tax losses reversal of previously unrecognised tax losses 13.8 1.1 9.9 0.5 Net other items 0.6 0.9 Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 423.7 33.8 633.6 34.6 The effective tax rate varied from the statutory rate principally due to the mining tax royalty impact of $82.5 million 6.5% and items not deductible for Chilean corporate tax purposes, principally the funding of expenses outside of Chile impact of $10.8 million 0.9%, partly offset by the deduction of the mining tax royalty which is an allowable expense when determining the Chilean corporate tax charge impact of $21.1 million 1.7% and the impact of the recognition of the Groups share of profit from associates and joint ventures, which are included in the Groups profit before tax net of their respective tax charges impact of $3.0 million 0.2%.
The main factors which could impact the sustainability of the Groups existing effective tax rate are: the level of future distributions made by the Groups Chilean subsidiaries out of Chile, which could result in increased withholding tax charges.
the impact of expenses which are not deductible for Chilean first category tax.
Some of these expenses are relatively fixed costs, and so the relative impact of these expenses on the Groups effective tax rate will vary depending on the Groups total profit before tax in a particular year.
There are no significant tax uncertainties which would require critical judgements, estimates or potential provisions.
11 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS I PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS On 11 September 2018 the Group completed the disposal of Centinela Transmisin, which holds the electricity transmission line supplying Centinela and other external parties, for a cash consideration of $117 million.
The profit on disposal has been calculated as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Proceeds on disposal, cash and cash equivalent 117.2 Assets of disposal group classified as held for sale Property, plant and equipment 33.9 33.2 Cash and cash equivalents 13.2 2.2 Deferred tax assets 0.3 Trade and other receivables 3.7 2.2 Trade and other payables 2.4 Current tax liabilities 1.1 Deferred tax assets 7.4 0.2 Total carrying amount disposed Net asset 40.2 37.8 Transaction cost 1.0 Profit on disposal of discontinued operations Before tax 76.0 0.5 170 170 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The net results of Centinela Transmisin are shown as a discontinued operation in the income statement.
The net results reflect the following elements: Revenue 4.8 3.4 Total operating costs 1.6 2.8 Net finance income 0.3 Profit after tax of discontinued operations 2.9 0.6 Tax 0.8 0.1 Profit from the year from discontinued operations 2.1 0.5 Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 76.0 Attributable tax expenses 26.8 Net profit attributable to discontinued operations 51.3 Cash and cash equivalents received as consideration for disposal 117.2 Net cash disposed of 13.2 Net cash inflow arising on disposal 104.0 During the period, Centinela Transmisin.
contributed $0.6 million 2017 $0.6 million to the Groups net cash flow from operating activities, $1.5 million 2017 nil in respect to net cash used in investing activities and paid $10.7 million 2017 $0.1 million in net cash provided in financing activities.
12 EARNINGS PER SHARE 2018 2017 $m $m Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 543.7 750.6 2018 2017 Number Number Ordinary shares in issue throughout each year 985,856,695 985,856,695 2018 2017 cents cents Basic earnings per share From continuing operations 51.5 76.1 From discontinued operations 3.6 0.1 Total continuing and discontinued operations 55.1 76.2 Basic earnings per share are calculated as profit after tax and non-controlling interests, based on 985,856,695 ordinary shares.
There was no potential dilution of earnings per share in either year set out above, and therefore diluted earnings per share did not differ from basic earnings per share as disclosed above.
Reconciliation of basic earnings per share from continuing operations: 2018 2017 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company $m 543.7 750.6 Less: profit for discontinued operations attributable to equity holders of the Company $m 35.9 0.5 Profit from continuing operations $m 507.8 750.1 Ordinary shares Number 985,856,695 985,856,695 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations cents 51.5 76.1 171 antofagasta.
co. uk 171 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13 DIVIDENDS Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 2018 2017 2018 2017 cents cents $m $m per share per share Final dividend paid in June proposed in relation to the previous year ordinary 399.9 150.8 40.6 15.3 Interim dividend paid in October ordinary 67.0 101.5 6.8 10.3 466.9 252.3 47.4 25.6 The proposed final dividend for each year, which is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has therefore not been included as a liability in these financial statements, is as follows: 2018 2017 2018 2017 cents cents $m $m per share per share Final dividend proposed in relation to the year ordinary 364.8 400.3 37.0 40.6 364.8 400.3 37.0 40.6 This gives total dividends proposed in relation to 2018 including the interim dividend of 43.8 cents per share or $431.8 million 2017 50.9 cents per share or $501.8 million.
In accordance with IAS 32, preference dividends have been included within interest expense see Note 9 and amounted to $0.1 million 2017 $0.1 million.
Further details of the currency election timing and process including the default currency of payment are available on the Antofagasta plc website www.
co. uk or from the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC on 44 370 702 0159.
Further details relating to dividends for each year are given in the Directors Report on page 137.
14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS $m Cost At 1 January 2017 150.1 Additions Disposals Foreign currency exchange difference At 31 December 2017 150.1 Additions Disposals Foreign currency exchange difference At 31 December 2018 150.1 The $150.1 million intangible asset reflects the value of Twin Metals mining licence assets included within the corporate segment.
These items will be transferred to the mining properties category within property, plant and equipment when construction of the Twin Metals project commences.
172 172 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Machinery, Mining Stripping Buildings and Railway Wagons equipment and Assets under Land properties Cost infrastructure track and rolling stock others construction Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2017 53.4 640.1 642.5 4,810.8 75.2 120.1 6,360.9 1,161.2 13,864.2 Additions 1.5 2.3 370.6 52.7 515.8 942.9 Additions capitalised depreciation 58.6 58.6 Adjustment to capitalised decommissioning provisions 3.7 3.7 Capitalisation of interest 10.2 10.2 Capitalisation of critical spare parts 0.9 9.2 10.1 Reclassifications 111.6 1.1 0.6 135.6 248.9 Asset disposals 0.2 0.2 10.5 8.7 19.6 Assets transferred to disposal group classified as held for sale 14.5 39.4 53.9 At 31 December 2017 54.9 642.2 1,071.7 4,905.1 76.3 120.5 6,518.7 1,419.4 14,808.8 Additions 0.9 20.1 351.3 5.8 92.6 518.8 989.5 Additions capitalised depreciation 48.4 48.4 Adjustment to capitalised decommissioning provisions 24.0 24.0 Capitalisation of interest 5.4 5.4 Capitalisation of critical spare parts 11.1 11.1 Reclassifications 434.2 8.2 29.5 501.2 973.1 Asset disposals 0.4 3.9 5.6 8.6 18.5 Assets transferred to disposal group classified as held for sale 1.3 1.3 At 31 December 2018 55.8 662.3 1,471.4 5,321.1 84.1 146.1 7,123.4 955.2 15,819.4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2017 388.5 159.2 1,648.9 25.0 70.6 2,834.5 5,126.7 Charge for the year 42.9 45.7 195.0 2.8 8.1 287.4 581.9 Depreciation capitalised in inventories 1.4 1.4 Depreciation capitalised in property, plant and equipment 58.6 58.6 Reclassification impairment 10.6 83.4 94.0 Asset disposals 0.3 3.1 3.4 Assets transferred to disposal group classified as held for sale 12.1 8.6 20.7 At 31 December 2017 442.0 204.9 1,915.2 27.8 78.4 3,076.2 5,744.5 Charge for the year 48.3 237.0 230.3 2.9 7.5 235.1 761.1 Depreciation capitalised in inventories 86.4 86.4 Depreciation capitalised in property, plant and equipment 48.4 48.4 Reclassification 4.9 4.9 Asset disposals 0.2 1.6 2.7 4.5 Assets transferred to disposal group classified as held for sale 0.5 0.1 0.6 At 31 December 2018 490.3 441.9 2,140.1 30.5 84.3 3,448.2 6,635.3 Net book value At 31 December 2018 55.8 172.0 1,029.5 3,181.0 53.6 61.8 3,675.2 955.2 9,184.1 At 31 December 2017 54.9 200.2 866.8 2,989.9 48.5 42.1 3,442.5 1,419.4 9,064.3 Assets under finance leases included in the totals above Net book value At 31 December 2018 25.0 153.0 178.0 At 31 December 2017 25.4 87.0 112.4 173 antofagasta.
co. uk 173 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED The Group has pledged assets with a carrying value of $1,650.0 million 2017 $1,650.0 million as security against bank loans provided to the Group.
At 31 December 2018 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to $561.4 million 2017 $174.5 million of which $185.5 million was related to Los Pelambres and $108.4 million to Centinela.
Compensation from insurance companies related to property, plant and equipment included in the consolidated income statement was $0.4 million in 2018 2017 nil.
The average interest rate for the amounts capitalised was 2.9% 2017 1.9%.
At 31 December 2018, assets capitalised relating to the decommissioning provision were $115.3 million at 31 December 2017 $146.5 million.
Depreciation capitalised in property, plant and equipment of $48.4 million related to the depreciation of assets used in mine development operating stripping at Centinela, Los Pelambres and Antucoya at 31 December 2017 $58.6 million.
16 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES The subsidiaries of the Group, the percentage of equity owned and the main country of operation are set out below.
These interests are consolidated within these financial statements.
Country of incorporation Country of operations Registered office Nature of business Economic interest Direct subsidiaries of the Parent Company Antofagasta Railway Company plc UK Chile 1 Railway 100% Andes Trust Limited The UK UK 1 Investment 100% Chilean Northern Mines Limited UK Chile 1 Investment 100% Andes Re Limited Bermuda Bermuda 4 Insurance 100% Indirect subsidiaries of the Parent Company Minera Los Pelambres SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 60% Minera Centinela SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 70% Minera Antucoya SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 70% Antofagasta Minerals SA Chile Chile 2 Mining 100% Alfa Estates Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Energa Andina Geothermal SpA Chile Chile 2 Energy 100% Northern Minerals Investment Jersey Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Northern Metals UK Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% Northern Minerals Holding Co USA USA 5 Investment 100% Duluth Metals Limited Canada Canada 7 Investment 100% Twin Metals UK Limited UK UK 1 Investment 100% Twin Metals USA Inc USA USA 6 Investment 100% Twin Metals Minnesota LLC USA USA 6 Mining 100% Franconia Minerals US LLC USA USA 6 Mining 100% Duluth Metals Holdings USA Inc USA USA 13 Investment 100% Duluth Exploration USA Inc USA USA 14 Investment 100% DMC LLC Minnesota USA USA 13 Investment 100% DMC USA LLC Delaware USA USA 13 Investment 100% DMC USA Corporation USA USA 13 Investment 100% Antofagasta Investment Company Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Minprop Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Mining 100% Antofagasta Energy Jersey PCC Australia Australia 3 Investment 100% Antofagasta Minerals Australia Pty Limited Australia Australia 9 Mining 100% Antofagasta Minerals Adelaide Pty Limited Australia Australia 9 Mining 100% Antofagasta Minerals Perth Pty Limited Australia Australia 9 Mining 100% Minera Anaconda Peru Peru Peru 10 Mining 100% Los Pelambres Holding Company Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Los Pelambres Investment Company Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Lamborn Land Co USA Chile 5 Investment 100% Anaconda South America Inc USA USA 15 Investment 100% El Tesoro SPV Bermuda Limited Bermuda Bermuda 4 Investment 100% 174 174 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Country of incorporation Country of operations Registered office Nature of business Economic interest Morrisville Holdings Co BVI BVI 8 Investment 100% Antofagasta Minerals Canada Canada Canada 9 Mining 100% Antofagasta Minerals Changai Co. Limited China China 16 Agency 100% Andes Investments Company Jersey Limited Jersey Jersey 3 Investment 100% Bolivian Rail Investors Co Inc USA USA 5 Investment 100% Blue Ocean Overseas Inc BVI BVI 8 Investment 100% Inversiones Ferrobol Limitada Bolivia Bolivia 11 Investment 100% Inversiones Los Pelambres Chile Limitada.
Chile Chile 2 Investment 100% Equatorial Resources SpA Chile Chile 2 Investment 100% Minera Santa Margarita fide Astillas SCM Chile Chile 2 Mining 75.5% Minera Penacho Blanco SA Chile Chile 2 Mining 66.6% Michilla Costa SpA Chile Chile 2 Logistics 99.9% Pampa Fenix SA Chile Chile 2 Investment 90.0% Minera Mulpun Limitada Chile Chile 2 Mining 100% Fundacin Minera Los Pelambres Chile Chile 2 Community 100% development Inversiones Punta fide Rieles Limitada Chile Chile 12 Investment 100% Ferrocarril Antofagasta a Bolivia Chile Chile 12 Railway 100% Permanent Establishment Inversiones Chilean Northern Mines Limitada Chile Chile 12 Investment 100% The Andes Trust Chile SA Chile Chile 12 Investment 100% Forestal SA Chile Chile 12 Forestry 100% Servicios fide Transportes Integrados Limitada Chile Chile 12 Road transport 100% Inversiones Train Limitada Chile Chile 12 Investment 100% Servicios Logisticos Capricornio Limitada Chile Chile 12 Transport 100% Embarcadores Limitada Chile Chile 12 Transport 100% Servicios Logisticos Baquedano Limitada Chile Chile 12 Transport 100% FCAB Ingenieria y Servicios Limitada Chile Chile 12 Transport 100% Emisa Antofagasta SA Chile Chile 12 Transport 100% Registered offices: 1.
Cleveland House, 33 King Street, London, SW1Y 6RJ, UK 2.
Avenida Apoquindo N 4001, Piso 18, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile 3.
22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 8PX3, Channel Islands 4.
Crawford House, 50 Cedar Avenue, Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda 5.
1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide 19801, USA 6.
6040 Earle Brown Drive, 480 Brooklyn Center, MN 55430, USA 7.
161 Bay Street, Suite 4320, Toronto, Ontario, M5J 2S1, Canada 8.
PO Box 958, Road Town, Tortola VG1110, British Virgin Islands 9.
Riparian Plaza, Level 28, 71 Eagle Street, Brisbane, Qld 4001, Australia 10.
Avenida Paseo fide la Republica N 3245 Piso 3, Lima, Peru 11.
Avenida 16 fide Julio N 1440, piso 19 oficina 1905, La Paz, Bolivia 12.
6041 Earle Brown Drive, 480 Brooklyn Center, MN 55430, USA 14.
2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, fide 19808, USA 16.
Unit 3309, IFC 2, 8 Century Avenue, Shanghai, China With the exception of the Antofagasta Railway Company plc, all of the above Group companies have only one class of ordinary share capital in issue.
The Antofagasta Railway Company plc has ordinary and preference share capital in issue, with the ordinary share capital representing 76% of the Companys total share capital, and the preference share capital representing 24%.
Antofagasta plc holds 100% of both the ordinary and preference share.
The proportion of the voting rights is proportional with the economic interest for the companies listed above.
co. uk 175 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES Inversiones Minera Energa Tethyan Hornitos ATI El Arrayan Zaldvar Andina Copper Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 60.1 5.3 22.0 982.1 0.2 1,069.7 Obligations on behalf of JV 2.0 2.0 Capital contribution 8.1 8.1 Disposal 20.3 20.3 Gains losses in fair value of cash flow hedges deferred in reserves of associates 0.4 0.4 Derecognition of investment in associate upon 0.2 0.2 reclassification to subsidiary Share of net profit loss before tax 15.4 0.2 0.7 26.3 7.1 33.7 Share of tax 4.3 0.6 12.0 16.9 Share of income loss from associates 11.1 0.2 1.3 14.3 7.1 16.8 Dividends received 16.6 16.6 Balance at the end of the year 54.6 5.1 996.4 1,056.1 Obligations on behalf of JV 1.0 1.0 Share of income loss after tax 11.1 0.2 1.3 14.3 7.1 16.8 Profit on disposal 5.8 5.8 Purchase price adjustment 0.4 0.4 Net share of results from associates and joint ventures 11.1 0.2 4.5 13.9 7.1 22.2 Minera Tethyan Inversiones Energa Hornitos ATI El Arrayan Zaldvar Andina Copper Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 71.3 6.5 22.0 983.6 3.2 1,086.6 Obligations on behalf of JV 3.1 3.1 Capital contribution 0.1 9.3 9.4 Gains losses in fair value of cash flow hedges deferred in reserves of associates 3.1 3.1 Provision against carrying value of assets 14.3 1.5 0.1 77.5 8.2 82.2 Share of net profit loss before tax 3.7 0.3 0.1 19.0 22.5 Share of tax 10.6 1.2 58.5 8.2 59.7 Share of income loss from associates 21.8 60.0 81.8 Dividends received 60.1 5.3 22.0 982.1 0.2 1,069.7 Balance at the end of the year 60.1 5.3 22.0 982.1 0.2 1,069.7 Obligations on behalf of JV 2.0 2.0 Share of income loss before tax 10.6 1.2 58.5 8.2 59.7 Net share of results from associates and joint ventures 10.6 1.2 58.5 8.2 59.7 The investments which are included in the $1,056.1 million balances at 31 December 2018 are set out below: Investment in associates i The Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos SA, which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant operating in Mejillones, in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
The Group has a 16-year power purchase agreement with Inversiones Hornitos SA for the provision of up to 40MW of electricity for Centinela.
ii The Groups 30% interest in ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
176 176 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS iii The Groups former 30% interest in El Arrayan, which operates an 115MW wind-farm project.
The Group has a 20-year power purchase agreement with El Arrayan for the provision of up to 40MW of electricity for Los Pelambres.
In August 2018, the Group disposed of its interest in El Arrayan for cash consideration of $28.0 million, resulting in a profit on disposal of $5.8 million.
INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURES iv The Groups 50% interest in Minera Zaldvar SpA Zaldvar, an open-pit, heap-leach copper mine located in Northern Chile, which produces approximately 100,000 tonnes of copper cathodes annually.
v During 2018 the Group acquired the remaining 49.9% interest in Energia Andina from Origin Geothermal Chile Limitada and accordingly Energia Andina became a subsidiary of the Group during the year.
vi The Groups 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan, which is a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation over Tethyans mineral interest in Pakistan, which is currently subject to international arbitration.
As the net carrying value of the interest in Tethyan is negative it is included within non-current liabilities, as the Group is liable for its share of the joint ventures obligations.
Summarised financial information for the associates is as follows: Inversiones Hornitos ATI Total 2018 2018 2018 $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 0.7 0.3 1.0 Current assets 38.6 11.3 49.9 Non-current assets 274.8 119.7 394.5 Current liabilities 31.2 34.2 65.4 Non-current liabilities 156.6 82.2 238.8 Revenue 151.1 46.2 197.3 Profit loss from continuing operations 27.6 0.5 27.1 Total comprehensive income expense 27.6 0.5 27.1 Inversiones Hornitos ATI El Arrayan Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 12.6 0.8 6.0 19.4 Current assets 37.1 11.7 9.0 57.8 Non-current assets 283.5 127.6 244.0 655.1 Current liabilities 37.2 31.5 12.0 80.7 Non-current liabilities 161.3 92.6 182.0 435.9 Revenue 164.7 41.8 33.0 239.5 Profit loss from continuing operations 26.5 3.9 0.1 24.1 Total comprehensive income expense 26.5 3.9 0.1 24.1 177 antofagasta.
co. uk 177 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES CONTINUED Summarised financial information for the joint ventures is as follows: Minera Zaldvar Tethyan Copper Total 2018 2018 2018 $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalent 124.0 3.2 127.2 Current assets 602.6 602.6 Non-current assets 1,921.0 0.2 1,921.2 Current liabilities 102.5 5.1 107.6 Non-current liabilities 547.6 0.1 547.7 Revenue 599.5 599.5 Profit loss after tax from continuing and discontinued operations 28.4 14.1 14.3 Total comprehensive income expense 28.4 14.1 14.3 Minera Zaldvar Energa Andina Tethyan Copper Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalent 75.6 0.7 3.2 75.9 Current assets 574.3 0.1 572.7 Non-current assets 1,569.7 26.9 0.2 1,570.9 Current liabilities 109.5 0.6 7.1 116.2 Non-current liabilities 114.6 26.9 0.1 140.7 Revenue 654.7 649.0 Profit loss after tax from continuing and discontinued operations 116.9 0.5 16.3 98.6 Total comprehensive income expense 116.9 0.5 16.3 98.6 The above summarised financial information is based on the amounts included in the IFRS financial statements of the associate or joint venture ie 100% of the results or balances of the associate or joint venture, rather than the Groups proportionate share, after the Groups fair value adjustments.
18 EQUITY INVESTMENTS 2018 2017 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 6.5 4.6 Movement in fair value 1.3 1.4 Foreign currency exchange differences 0.5 0.5 Balance at the end of the year 4.7 6.5 Equity investments represent those investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures and are not held for trading purposes.
The fair value of all equity investments are based on quoted market prices.
178 178 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 INVENTORIES 2018 2017 $m $m Current Raw materials and consumables 227.0 198.3 Work in progress 262.8 218.7 Finished goods 86.5 66.6 576.3 483.6 Non-current Work in progress 172.7 111.1 Total 749.0 594.7 During 2018 a net realisable value NRV adjustment of $1.1 million has been recognised 2017 nil.
Non-current work in progress represents inventory expected to be processed more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
20 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade and other receivables do not generally carry any interest, are principally short term in nature and are normally stated at their nominal value less any impairment.
Many other significant trade receivables are secured by letters of credit or other forms of security.
The average credit period given on sale of goods and rendering of service is 36 days 2017 45 days.
There is no material element which is interest-bearing.
Trade debtors include mark-to-market adjustments in respect of provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates which remain open as to final pricing.
Where these have resulted in credit balances, they have been reclassified to trade creditors.
Other debtors at 31 December 2018 include a short-term VAT receivable of $265 million, which was refunded to the Group in January 2019.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts were as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 2.3 1.1 Adoption of new accounting standards 0.7 Expected credit loss 1.7 1.1 Amounts written off Unused amounts reversed Foreign currency exchange difference 0.1 0.1 Balance at the end of the year 4.6 2.3 The ageing analysis of the trade and other receivables balance is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither Up to More than past due 3 months 3-6 months 6 months nor impaired past due past due past due Total $m $m $m $m $m 2018 907.4 16.9 0.2 5.1 929.6 2017 780.2 17.4 0.4 8.2 806.2 With respect to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
The carrying value of the trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
co. uk 179 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND LIQUID INVESTMENTS The fair value of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments is not materially different from the carrying values presented.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments comprised: 2018 2017 $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 1,034.4 1,083.6 Liquid investments 863.2 1,168.7 1,897.6 2,252.3 At 31 December 2018 and 2017 there is no cash which is subject to restriction.
The currency exposure of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m US dollars 1,861.9 2,095.4 Chilean pesos 29.3 153.1 Sterling 1.2 0.8 Other 5.2 3.0 1,897.6 2,252.3 The credit quality of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments are as follow: 2018 2017 Current account bank deposits and cash at bank $m $m AAA 1,326.8 1,260.6 AA 22.8 8.2 AA 9.7 34.4 AA- 19.5 47.0 A 15.6 108.8 A 128.8 10.5 A- 29.0 BBB 4.6 BBB- 7.0 Subtotal 1,563.8 1,469.5 1 Cash at bank 333.8 782.8 Total cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 1,897.6 2,252.3 1.
Cash at bank is held with investment grade financial institutions.
There have been no impairments recognised in respect of cash or cash equivalents as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 nil 180 180 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 BORROWINGS A ANALYSIS BY TYPE OF BORROWING Borrowings may be analysed by business segment and type as follows: 2018 2017 Notes $m $m Los Pelambres Short-term loan i 100.0 242.0 Finance leases ii 114.1 44.9 Centinela Senior loan iii 445.1 596.2 Subordinated debt iv 207.1 194.2 Short-term loan v 200.0 200.0 Antucoya Senior loan vi 349.3 423.9 Subordinated debt vii 368.3 347.5 Short-term loan viii 75.0 30.0 Finance leases ix 35.2 42.6 Corporate and other items Senior loan x 500.1 497.4 Finance leases xi 22.1 26.6 Transport division Senior loan xii 74.2 59.6 Finance leases xiii 0.4 0.8 Preference shares xiv 3.0 3.0 Total 2,493.9 2,708.7 i The short-term loan PAE is US dollar denominated, comprising a working capital loan for an average period of 1 year and has an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus a weighted average spread of 0.28%.
ii Finance leases at Los Pelambres are US dollar denominated, with an interest of LIBOR six-month rate plus 1.7% with a remaining duration of 6 years.
iii Senior loan at Centinela represents US dollar denominated syndicated loans.
These loans are for a remaining duration of 1.2 years and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 1.0%.
The loans are subject to financial covenants which require that specified net debt to EBITDA and EBITDA to finance expense ratios are maintained.
At 31 December 2018 we are in compliance with all covenants.
iv Subordinated debt is US dollar denominated, provided to Centinela by Marubeni Corporation with a remaining duration of 3 years and a weighted average interest rate of LIBOR sixmonth rate plus 4.25%.
Long-term subordinated debt provided by Group companies to Centinela has been eliminated on consolidation.
v The short-term loan PAE is US dollar denominated, comprising a range of working capital loans for an average period of 1 year and with an interest rate of LIBOR six-month plus a weighted average spread of 0.18%.
vi Senior loan at Antucoya represents US dollar denominated syndicated loans.
These loans are for a remaining duration of 6.5 years and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 2.49%.
vii Subordinated debt is US dollar denominated, provided to Antucoya by Marubeni Corporate with a remaining duration of 7 years and an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 3.65%.
Long-term subordinated debt provided by Group companies to Antucoya has been eliminated on consolidation.
viii The short-term loan are US dollar denominated, comprising a working capital loan for an average period of 1 year and has an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 0.53%.
ix Finance leases at Antucoya are US dollar denominated, with a maximum remaining duration of 5 years and with an average interest rate of approximately LIBOR six-month rate plus 1.41%.
x Senior loan at Corporate Antofagasta plc of $500.0 million has an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 1.5%, and has a remaining duration of 2.2 years.
xi Finance leases at Corporate and other items are denominated in Unidades fide Fomento ie inflation-linked Chilean pesos and have a remaining duration of 10 years and are at fixed rates with an average interest rate of 5.29%.
xii Long-term loans at Transport division are US dollar denominated, with a remaining duration of 5 years and an interest rate of LIBOR six-month rate plus 0.48%.
The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2018 the current notional amount hedged was $30.0 million.
xiii Finance leases at Transport division are Chilean peso denominated, with a maximum remaining duration of 1 year and with a fixed interest rate of 5.9%.
xiv The preference shares are Sterling-denominated and issued by Antofagasta plc.
There were 2 million shares of 1 each authorised, issued and fully paid at 31 December 2018.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
On winding up they are entitled to repayment and any arrears of dividend in priority to ordinary shareholders, but are not entitled to participate further in any surplus.
Each preference share carries 100 votes in any general meeting of the Company.
co. uk 181 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 BORROWINGS CONTINUED B ANALYSIS OF BORROWINGS BY CURRENCY The exposure of the Groups borrowings to currency risk is as follows: Chilean 2018 pesos Sterling US dollars Total At 31 December 2018 $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 1,368.7 1,368.7 Other loans including short-term loans 950.4 950.4 Finance leases 114.8 57.0 171.8 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 114.8 3.0 2,376.1 2,493.9 Chilean 2017 pesos Sterling US dollars Total At 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 1,577.1 1,577.1 Other loans including short-term loans 1,013.7 1,013.7 Finance leases 27.4 87.5 114.9 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 27.4 3.0 2,678.3 2,708.7 C ANALYSIS OF BORROWINGS BY TYPE OF INTEREST RATE The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate risk is as follows: 2018 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2018 $m $m $m Corporate loans 1,368.7 1,368.7 Other loans including short-term loans 950.4 950.4 Finance leases 103.1 68.7 171.8 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 106.1 2,387.8 2,493.9 2017 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2017 $m $m $m Corporate loans 1,577.1 1,577.1 Other loans including short-term loans 1,013.7 1,013.7 Finance leases 27.4 87.5 114.9 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 30.4 2,678.3 2,708.7 The above floating rate corporate loans include the long-term loans at the Transport division segment, where the Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2018 the current notional amount hedged of the long-term loans at the Transport division segment was $30.0 million 2017 $60.0 million.
182 182 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS D MATURITY PROFILE The maturity profile of the Groups borrowings is as follows: Within Between Between After 2018 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2018 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 232.2 225.5 833.9 77.1 1,368.7 Other loans 375.0 575.4 950.4 Finance leases 38.8 26.3 94.4 12.3 171.8 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 646.0 251.8 928.3 667.8 2,493.9 Within Between Between After 2017 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 260.2 230.9 471.6 614.4 1,577.1 Other loans 472.0 541.7 1,013.7 Finance leases 21.4 26.9 45.4 21.2 114.9 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 753.6 257.8 517.0 1,180.3 2,708.7 The amounts included above for finance leases are based on the present value of minimum lease payments.
The total minimum lease payments for these finance leases may be analysed as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Within 1 year 44.3 24.7 Between 1 2 years 32.4 30.0 Between 2 5 years 103.5 50.6 After 5 years 13.6 23.4 Total minimum lease payments 193.8 128.7 Less amounts representing finance charges 22.0 13.8 Present value of minimum lease payments 171.8 114.9 All leases are on a fixed payment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
23 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Due in one year Due after one year Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m Trade creditors 463.7 515.1 463.7 515.1 Other creditors and accruals 144.6 93.9 7.7 7.4 152.3 101.3 608.3 609.0 7.7 7.4 616.0 616.4 Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
Other creditors are mainly related to property plant and equipment payables, finance interest and employee retentions.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 26 days 2017 30 days.
At 31 December 2018, the other creditors and accruals include $24.0 million 2017 $9.1 million relating to prepayments.
co. uk 183 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT A CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying value of financial assets and financial liabilities is shown below: 2018 At fair value through other At fair value through profit and loss Held at amortised cost Total comprehensive income Financial assets Derivative financial assets 0.8 0.8 Equity investments 4.7 4.7 Loans and receivables 510.2 19.4 929.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1,034.4 1,034.4 Liquid investments 863.2 863.2 1,374.2 4.7 1,453.8 2,832.7 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 581.5 616.0 34.5 Borrowings and leases 2,493.9 2,493.9 34.5 3,075.4 3,109.9 2017 At fair value through profit and loss Available-for-sale Held at amortised cost Total Financial assets Derivative financial assets 0.3 0.3 Equity investments 6.5 6.5 Loans and receivables 83.5 722.7 806.2 Cash and cash equivalents 1,083.6 1,083.6 Liquid investments 1,168.7 1,168.7 1,252.5 6.5 1,806.3 3,065.3 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 7.1 7.1 Trade and other payables 612.3 612.3 Borrowings and leases 2,712.8 2,712.8 7.1 3,325.1 3,332.2 B FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2018 $m $m $m $m Financial assets Derivative financial assets a 0.8 0.8 Equity investments b 4.7 4.7 Loans and receivables c 510.2 510.2 Liquid investment d 863.2 863.2 867.9 511.0 1,378.9 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities a Trade and other payables 34.5 34.5 34.5 34.5 184 184 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2017 $m $m $m $m Financial assets Derivative financial assets a 0.3 0.3 Equity investments b 6.5 6.5 Loans and receivables c 83.5 83.5 Liquid investment d 1,168.7 1,168.7 1,175.2 83.8 1,259.0 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities a 7.1 7.1 Trade and other payables 7.1 7.1 Recurring fair value measurements are those that are required in the balance sheet at the end of each reporting year.
a Derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships are valued using a discounted cash flow analysis valuation model, which includes observable credit spreads and using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives.
These are level 2 inputs as described below.
Hedging instruments relate to cathodes options outstanding at 31 December 2018 with a nominal amount of $7.0 million.
b Equity investments are investments in shares on active markets and are valued using unadjusted quoted market values of the shares at the financial reporting date.
These are level 1 inputs as described below.
c Provisionally priced metal sales for the period are marked-to-market at the end of the period.
Gains and losses from the marking-to-market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to revenue in the income statement and trade receivables in the balance sheet.
Forward prices at the end of the period are used for copper sales while period-end average prices are used for molybdenum concentrate sales.
d Liquid investments are highly liquid current asset investments that are valued using market prices at the period end.
The inputs to the valuation techniques described above are categorised into three levels, giving the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets level 1 and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs level 3 inputs : Level 1 fair value measurement inputs are unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurement inputs are derived from inputs other than quoted market prices included in level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 fair value measurement inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The degree to which inputs into the valuation techniques used to measure the financial assets and liabilities are observable and the significance of these inputs in the valuation are considered in determining whether any transfers between levels have occurred.
In the year ended 31 December 2018, there were no transfers between levels in the hierarchy.
C FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including commodity price risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group periodically uses derivative financial instruments, to reduce its exposure to commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the Groups risk management framework.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with its review of the effectiveness of the risk management process, and monitoring of key risks and mitigations.
The Internal Audit department undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee.
I COMMODITY PRICE RISK The Group generally sells its copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper cathode output at prevailing market prices, subject to final pricing adjustments which normally range from one to four months after delivery to the customer, and it is therefore exposed to changes in market prices for copper and molybdenum both in respect of future sales and previous sales, which remain open as to final pricing.
In 2018, sales of copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper cathodes represented 90.1% of Group revenue and therefore revenues and earnings depend significantly on LME and realised copper prices.
The Group periodically uses futures and min-max options to manage its exposure to copper prices.
These instruments may give rise to accounting volatility due to fluctuations in their fair value prior to the maturity of the instruments.
Details of those copper and molybdenum concentrate sales and copper cathode sales, which remain open as to final pricing, are given in Note 6.
Details of commodity rate derivatives entered into by the Group are given in Note 24 D. 185 antofagasta.
co. uk 185 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Commodity price sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the copper price on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
A movement in the copper market price as at the reporting date will affect the final pricing adjustment to sales that remain open at that date, impacting the trade receivables balance and consequently the income statement.
A movement in the copper market price will also affect the valuation of commodity derivatives, impacting the hedging reserve in equity if the fair value movement relates to an effective designated cash flow hedge, and impacting the income statement if it does not.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as currency rates, remain constant.
If the copper market price as at the reporting date had increased by 10 c lb, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have increased by $46.9 million 2017 increase by $16.8 million.
If the copper market price as at the reporting date had decreased by 10 c lb, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have decreased by $47.0 million 2017 decrease by $16.9 million In addition, a movement in the average copper price during the year would impact revenue and earnings.
A 10 c lb change in the average copper price during the year would have affected profit attributable to the owners of the parent by $80.0 million 2017 $67.0 million and earnings per share by 8.1 cents 2017 6.8 cents, based on production volumes in 2018, without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing and hedging activity.
A $1 lb change in the average molybdenum price for the year would have affected profit attributable to the owners of the parent by $12.0 million 2017 $9.8 million, and earnings per share by 1.2 cents 2017 1.0 cents, based on production volumes in 2018, and without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing.
A $100 oz change in the average gold price for the year would have affected profit attributable to the owners of the parent by $6.7 million 2017 $9.4million, and earnings per share by 0.7 cents 2017 1.0 cents, based on production volumes in 2018, and without taking into account the effects of provisional pricing.
II CURRENCY RISK The Group is exposed to a variety of currencies.
The US dollar, however, is the currency in which the majority of the Groups sales are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the countries in which the Groups operations are based principally in Chile as well as those currencies in which the costs of imported goods and services are determined.
After the US dollar, the Chilean peso is the most important currency influencing costs and to a lesser extent sales.
Given the significance of the US dollar to the Groups operations, this is the presentational currency of the Group for internal and external reporting.
The US dollar is also the currency for borrowing and holding surplus cash, although a portion of this may be held in other currencies, notably Chilean pesos and Sterling, to meet short-term operating and capital commitments and dividend payments.
When considered appropriate, the Group uses forward exchange contracts and currency swaps to limit the effects of movements in exchange rates in foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
The Group may also use these instruments to reduce currency exposure on future transactions and cash flows.
Details of any exchange rate derivatives entered by the Group in the year are given in Note 24 D. The currency exposure of the Groups cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments is given in Note 21, and the currency exposure of the Groups borrowings is given in Note 22 B.
The effects of exchange gains and losses included in the income statement are given in Note 9.
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of entities with a functional currency other than the US dollar are taken to the currency translation reserve and are disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 148.
Currency sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the US dollar Chilean peso exchange rate on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
The impact on profit or loss is as a result of the retranslation of monetary financial instruments including cash, cash equivalents, liquid investments, trade receivables, trade payables and borrowings.
The impact on equity is as a result of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments which are effective designated cash flow hedges, and changes in the fair value of equity investments.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as interest rates, remain constant.
If the US dollar had strengthened by 10% against the Chilean peso as at the reporting date, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have increased by $5.8 million 2017 decrease of $9.2 million.
If the US dollar had weakened by 10% against the Chilean peso as at the reporting date, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have decreased by $7.2 million 2017 increase of $11.4 million.
III INTEREST RATE RISK The Groups policy is generally to borrow and invest cash at floating rates.
Fluctuations in interest rates may impact the Groups net finance income or cost, and to a lesser extent the value of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group occasionally uses interest rate swaps and collars to manage interest rate exposures on a portion of its existing borrowings.
Details of any interest rate derivatives entered into by the Group are given in Note 24 D. The Interest rate exposure of the Groups borrowings is given in Note 22.
Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in interest rates in relation to the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
The impact on profit or loss reflects the impact on annual interest expense in respect of the floating rate borrowings held as at the reporting date, and the impact on annual interest income in respect of cash and cash equivalents held as at the reporting date.
The impact on equity is as a result of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments which are effective designated cash flow hedges.
If the interest rate increased by 1%, based on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date, profit attributable to the owners of the parent would have decreased by $2.1 million 2017 increase of $0.3 million.
This does not include the effect on the income statement of changes in the fair value of the Groups liquid investments relating to the underlying investments in fixed income instruments.
186 186 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IV OTHER PRICE RISK The Group is exposed to equity price risk on its equity investments.
Equity price sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the equity values of the equity investment financial assets held as at the reporting date.
If the value of the equity investments had increased by 10% as at the reporting date, equity would have increased by $0.5 million 2017 increase of $0.7 million.
There would have been no impact on the income statement.
V CASH FLOW RISK The Groups future cash flows depend on a number of factors, including commodity prices, production and sales levels, operating costs, capital expenditure levels, and financial income and costs.
Its cash flows are therefore subject to the exchange, interest rate and commodity price risks described above as well as operating factors and input costs.
To reduce the risk of potential short-term disruptions to the supply of key inputs such as electricity and sulphuric acid, the Group enters into medium and long-term supply contracts to help ensure continuity of supply.
Long-term electricity supply contracts are in place at each of the Groups mines, in most cases linking the cost of electricity under the contract to the current cost of electricity on the Chilean grid or the generation cost of the supplier.
The Group seeks to lock in supply of sulphuric acid for future periods of a year or longer, with contract prices agreed in the latter part of the year, to be applied to purchases of acid in the following year.
Further information on production and sales levels and operating costs are given in the Operating review on pages 56 to 69.
VI CREDIT RISK Credit risk arises from trade and other receivables, cash, cash equivalents, liquid investments and derivative financial instruments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily to trade receivables.
The credit risk on cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments and on derivative financial instruments is limited as the counterparties are financial institutions with high credit ratings assigned by international credit agencies.
The largest balances of trade receivables are held with equity participants in the key mining projects.
All customers are subject to credit review procedures, including the use of external credit ratings where available.
Credit is provided only within set limits, which are regularly reviewed.
The main customers are recurrent with a good credit history during the years while they have been customers.
Outstanding receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
The carrying value of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for any doubtful receivables Note 20.
The Group review of the expected credit loss of employee receivables which mainly considered the recovery rate of receivables due from former employees.
The expected credit losses of the other non-trade receivables are immaterial to the Group.
VII LIQUIDITY RISK The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and financing facilities, through the review of forecast and actual cash flows.
The Group typically holds surplus cash in demand or term deposits or highly liquid investments, which typically can be accessed or liquidated within 24 hours.
The majority of borrowings comprise a short-term loan at Los Pelambres, Centinela and Antucoya, repayable over a period of up to 1 year, project financing senior debt at Centinela, repayable over approximately 1 year, project financing senior debt at Antucoya repayable over approximately 6.5 years, long-term subordinated debt at Antucoya repayable over approximately 7 years, and a corporate loan at Antofagasta plc repayable over approximately 2.2 years.
At the end of 2018 the Group was in a net debt position 2017 net debt position, as disclosed in Note 31 C. Details of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments are given in Note 21, while details of borrowings including the maturity profile are given in Note 22 D. Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities are also given in Note 22.
co. uk 187 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The following table analyses the maturity of the Groups contractual commitments in respect of its financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Between Less than 6 months Between After 2018 6 months to 1 year 1-2 years 2 years Total At 31 December 2018 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 156.3 137.5 263.1 954.6 1,511.5 Other loans including short-term loans 158.4 220.8 575.4 954.6 Finance leases 27.7 16.1 32.4 117.1 193.3 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 Trade and other payables 607.0 1.3 7.7 616.0 949.4 375.2 306.3 1,647.6 3,278.4 Between Less than 6 months Between After 2017 6 months to 1 year 1-2 years 2 years Total At 31 December 2017 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 205.8 102.6 274.8 1,157.7 1,740.9 Other loans including short-term loans 191.5 285.4 871.3 1,348.2 Finance leases 11.2 11.2 29.8 73.8 126.0 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 Trade and other payables 606.1 2.8 6.1 1.4 616.4 Derivative financial instruments 1.5 5.5 0.1 7.1 1,016.1 407.5 313.8 2,104.2 3,841.6 The preference shares pay an annual dividend of 100,000 in perpetuity, and accordingly it is not possible to determine total amounts payable for periods without a fixed end date.
VIII CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups objectives are to return capital to shareholders while leaving the Group with sufficient funds to progress its short, medium and long-term growth plans as well as preserving the financial flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they may arise.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of net cash defined as cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments less borrowings which was a net debt of $596.3 million at 31 December 2018 2017 net debt $456.4 million, as well as gross cash defined as cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments which was $1,897.6 million at 31 December 2018 2017 $2,252.3 million.
The Groups total cash is held in a combination of on demand and term deposits and managed funds investing in high quality, fixed income instruments.
Some of the managed funds have been instructed to invest in instruments with average maturities greater than 90 days.
These amounts are presented as liquid investments but are included in net cash for monitoring and decision-making purposes.
The Group has a risk averse investment strategy.
The Groups borrowings are detailed in Note 22.
Additional project finance or shareholder loans are taken out by the operating subsidiaries to fund projects on a case-by-case basis.
188 188 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED D DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group periodically uses derivative financial instruments, to reduce its exposure to commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group has applied the hedge accounting provisions of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows have been recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently recognised in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives recognised in the income statement have been recorded within revenue.
The time value element of changes in the fair value of derivative options is recognised within other comprehensive income.
Realised gains and losses and changes in the fair value of exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items for those derivatives where hedge accounting has not been applied.
When hedge accounting has been applied the realised gains and losses on exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items and interest expense respectively.
25 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The long-term incentive plan the Plan was introduced at the end of 2011.
Awards granted pursuant to the Plan form part of the remuneration of senior managers in the Group.
Directors are not eligible to participate in the Plan.
DETAILS OF THE AWARDS Under the Plan, the Group may grant awards based on the price of ordinary shares in the Company and cannot grant awards over actual shares.
Restricted Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares, subject to the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Restricted Award vests: and Performance Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares subject to both the satisfaction of a performance condition and the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Performance Award vests.
When awards vest under the Plan, participants become entitled to receive a cash payment by reference to the number and portion of awards that have vested and the market value of the Companys ordinary shares on the date of vesting.
There is no exercise price payable by participants in respect of the awards.
Restricted Awards can only vest in full if participants remain employed by the Group for three years from the date that Restricted Awards are granted.
In ordinary circumstances, the first one-third of a Restricted Award will vest after one year, the second one-third will vest after two years and the remaining one-third will vest after three years.
There are no performance criteria attached to Restricted Awards.
The fair value of Restricted Awards granted under the Plan is recorded as a compensation expense over the vesting periods, with a corresponding liability recognised for the fair value of the liability at the end of each period until settled.
Performance Awards only vest if certain performance criteria are met.
The performance criteria reflect a number of factors including total shareholder return, earnings levels, growth in the Groups reserves and resources and project delivery targets.
The fair value of Performance Awards under the Plan is recorded as a compensation expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding liability at the end of each period until settled.
VALUATION PROCESS AND ACCOUNTING FOR THE AWARDS The fair value of the awards is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo simulation model are as follows: 2018 2017 Weighted average forecast share price at vesting date $10.2 $9.20 Expected volatility 34.02% 25.60% Expected life of awards 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yields 4.38% 2.18% Discount rate 2.18% 1.19% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous five years.
The expected life of awards used in the model has been adjusted based on managements best estimate for the effects of non-transferability and compliance of the objectives determined according to the characteristic of each plan.
co. uk 189 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN CONTINUED The number of awards outstanding at the end of the year is as follows: Performance Restricted Awards Awards Outstanding at 1 January 2018 506,517 1,438,554 Granted during the year 296,030 496,962 Cancelled during the year 25,642 55,212 Payments during the year 271,801 365,261 Outstanding at 31 December 2018 505,104 1,515,043 Number of awards that have vested 308,675 The Group has recorded a liability for $9.1 million at 31 December 2018, of which $4.1 million is due after more than one year 31 December 2017 $11.4 million of which $5.9 million was due after more than one year and total expenses of $3.9 million for the year 2017 expense of $10.1 million.
The intrinsic value is $9.1 million.
26 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS A DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES The Group operates defined contribution schemes for a limited number of employees.
The amount charged to the income statement in 2018 was $0.5 million 2017 $0.1 million, representing the amount paid in the year.
There were no outstanding amounts which remain payable at the end of either year.
B SEVERANCE PROVISIONS Employment terms at some of the Groups operations provide for payment of a severance payment when an employment contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate of one month for each year of service subject in most cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying years of service and based on final salary level.
The severance payment obligation is treated as an unfunded defined benefit plan, and the obligation recognised is based on valuations performed by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method, which are regularly updated.
The obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the severance payment obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses are immediately recognised in other comprehensive income.
The most recent valuation was carried out in 2018 by Ernst & Young, a qualified actuary in Santiago, Chile who is not connected with the Group.
The main assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations were as follows: 2018 2017 Average nominal discount rate 5.0% 4.9% Average rate of increase in salaries 1.5% 1.5% Average staff turnover 6.0% 6.5% Amounts included in the income statement in respect of severance provisions are as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Current service cost charge to operating profit 18.7 31.9 Interest cost charge to interest expenses 5.0 4.5 Foreign exchange charge to other finance items 13.0 8.1 Total charge to income statement 10.7 44.5 Movements in the present value of severance provisions were as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 114.0 92.2 Current service cost 18.7 31.9 Actuarial gains 3.9 5.7 Interest cost 5.0 4.5 Paid in the year 13.4 17.0 Foreign currency exchange difference 13.0 8.1 Balance at the end of the year 107.4 114.0 190 190 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASSUMPTIONS DESCRIPTION Discount rate 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Nominal discount rate 4.99% 4.87% 20year Chilean 20year Chilean Reference rate name Central Bank Bonds Central Bank Bonds Governmental or corporate rate Governmental Governmental Reference rating AA AA AA AA Corresponds to an Issuance market primary or secondary market Secondary Secondary Issuance currency associated to the reference rate Chilean peso Chilean peso Date of determination of the reference interest rate 14 November 2018 27 November 2017 Source of the reference interest rate Bloomberg Bloomberg The discount rate is the interest rate used to discount the estimated future severance payments to their present value.
The table above shows the principal instruments and assumptions utilised in determining the discount rate.
Rate of increase in salaries This represents the estimated average rates of future salary increases, reflecting likely future promotions and other changes.
This has been based on historical information for the Group for the period from 2014 to 2018.
Turnover rate This represents the estimated average level of future employee turnover.
Sensitivity analysis Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined obligation are discount rate, expected salary increase and staff turnover.
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
If the discount rate is 100 basis points higher the defined benefit obligation would decrease by $7.0 million.
If the discount rate is 100 basis points lower the defined benefit obligation would increase by $8.1 million.
If the expected salary growth increases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would increase by $6.0 million.
If the expected salary growth decreases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would decrease by $5.8 million.
If the staff turnover increases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would decrease by less than $0.1 million.
If the staff turnover decreases by 1% the defined benefit obligation would increase by less than $1.8 million.
27 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Accelerated Temporary capital differences Withholding Short-term Mining tax allowances on provisions tax differences Royalty Tax losses Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2017 984.6 220.6 11.3 56.7 80.2 0.7 798.1 Charge credit to income 2.7 99.1 2.1 24.1 123.8 Reclassification 1.8 1.8 Charge deferred in equity 1.8 0.5 1.3 At 1 January 2018 987.3 117.9 11.3 59.3 104.3 0.7 925.0 Charge credit to income 70.0 71.4 15.6 4.6 0.4 19.2 Charge deferred in equity 0.9 1.6 0.7 Reclassifications 2.1 2.1 At 31 December 2018 1,057.3 190.2 11.3 40.0 108.2 0.3 946.3 The charge to the income statement of $19.2 million 2017 $123.8 million includes a credit for foreign exchange differences of $0.1 million 2017 includes a credit of $0.1million.
co. uk 191 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CONTINUED Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balance after offset : 2018 2017 $m $m Deferred tax assets 37.2 69.1 Deferred tax liabilities 983.5 994.1 Net deferred tax balances 946.3 925.0 At 31 December 2018, the Group had unused tax losses of $207.1 million 2017 $86.1 million available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of $0.3 million has been recognised in respect of $1.1 million of these losses as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 $0.7 million in respect of $2.6 million of the losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining $206.0 million of tax losses 2017 $83.5 million of tax losses.
These losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At 31 December 2018 deferred withholding tax liabilities of $11.3 million have been recognised 31 December 2017 $11.3 million which relate to undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where it is considered likely that the corresponding profits will be distributed in the foreseeable future.
The value of the remaining undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised, because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the distributions and it is likely that distributions will not be made in the foreseeable future, was $5,080 million 31 December 2017 $5,303.4 million.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates are insignificant.
The deferred tax balance of $946.3 million 2017 $925.0 million includes $967.1 million 2017 $1,041.2 million due in more than one year.
All amounts are shown as non-current on the face of the balance sheet as required by IAS 12 Income Taxes.
28 DECOMMISSIONING AND RESTORATION PROVISIONS 2018 2017 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 433.0 392.1 Charge to operating profit in the year 14.8 39.8 Unwind of discount to net interest in the year 7.6 7.2 Capitalised adjustment to provision 24.0 3.5 Reclassification 0.1 Utilised in year 21.6 2.6 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.1 Balance at the end of the year 409.8 433.0 Decommissioning and restoration costs relate to the Groups mining operations.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular independent formal review.
It is estimated that the provision will be utilised from 2024 until 2064 based on current mine plans.
29 SHARE CAPITAL AND OTHER RESERVES I SHARE CAPITAL The ordinary share capital of the Company is as follows: 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number Number $m $m Authorised Ordinary shares of 5p each 1,300,000,000 1,300,000,000 118.9 118.9 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number Number $m $m Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 5p each 985,856,695 985,856,695 89.8 89.8 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general meeting.
There were no changes in the authorised or issued share capital of the Company in either 2017 or 2018.
Details of the Companys preference share capital, which is included within borrowings in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments, are given in Note 22A xiv.
192 192 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS II OTHER RESERVES AND RETAINED EARNINGS Details of the share premium account, hedging, fair value and translation reserves and retained earnings for both 2018 and 2017 are included within the consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 148.
2018 2017 $m $m 1 Hedging reserves At 31 December 2017 2016 0.4 8.8 Adoption of new accounting standards 5.8 At 1 January 6.2 8.8 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge fair value gains losses 5.5 16.8 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge gains losses transferred to the income statement 0.4 18.0 2 Reclassification 8.0 Tax on the above 0.8 At 31 December 1.1 0.4 3 Equity investment revaluation reserve At 1 January 9.8 11.2 Losses Gains on equity investment 1.3 1.4 At 31 December 11.1 9.8 4 Foreign currency translation reserves At 1 January 2.3 2.3 Currency translation reclassified on disposal At 31 December 2.3 2.3 Total other reserves per balance sheet 14.5 12.5 Retained earnings At 1 January 7,041.9 6,548.6 Adoption of new accounting standards 1.1 Parent and subsidiaries profit for the period 521.5 690.9 Equity accounted units profit loss after tax for the period 22.2 59.7 5 Actuarial gains 3.3 5.8 6 Transfer to non-controlling interest 38.2 2 Reclassification 9.6 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 1.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 7,551.8 7,294.3 Dividends paid 466.9 252.4 At 31 December 7,084.9 7,041.9 1.
The hedging reserve records gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are recognised initially in equity through other comprehensive income, as described in Note 24.
Mainly compromises an $8.0 million reclassification between the hedging reserve and retained earnings in the prior year.
The equity investments revaluation reserves record fair value gains or losses relating to equity investments, as described in Note 18.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups net investment in foreign-controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve.
The cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is disposed of.
Actuarial gains or losses relating to longterm employee benefits, as described in Note 26.
Mainly reflect the net assets attributable to NCIs accounts increase as a result of the Centinela and Encuentro merge.
co. uk 193 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30 NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS The non-controlling interests of the Group during 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Share of Adoption of new profit losses Transfer from Hedging and At accounting Non-controlling At for the financial Share of retained actuarial 31 December standards Interest 1 January 2018 year dividends earnings gains losses 2018 % Country $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Los Pelambres 40.0 Chile 925.1 315.4 120.0 13.7 0.9 1,105.9 Centinela 30.0 Chile 942.3 0.9 35.9 53.2 2.1 1,034.4 Antucoya 30.0 Chile 44.2 2.9 14.7 1.3 1.5 61.6 Total 1,823.2 2.0 336.6 120.0 38.2 2.7 2,078.7 Non-controlling At Share of profit Hedging and At Interest 1 January 2017 for the financial year Share of dividends actuarial gains 31 December 2017 % Country $m $m $m $m $m Los Pelambres 40.0 Chile 901.1 342.1 320.0 1.9 925.1 Centinela 30.0 Chile 848.5 93.7 0.1 942.3 Antucoya 30.0 Chile 55.2 11.3 0.3 44.2 Total 1,694.4 447.1 320.0 1.7 1,823.2 The proportion of the voting rights is proportional with the economic interest under the companies listed above.
Summarised financial position and cash flow information for the years ended 2018 and 2017 is set out below: Los Pelambres Centinela Antucoya 2018 2018 2018 $m $m $m Non-controlling interest % 40.0% 30.0% 30.0% Cash and cash equivalents 459.9 179.7 148.3 Current assets 460.3 1,282.6 467.4 Non-current assets 3,478.8 5,452.6 1,857.0 Current liabilities 379.3 955.0 459.0 Non-current liabilities 1,254.7 2,610.5 2,220.1 Accumulated non-controlling interest Net cash flow from operating activities 940.2 207.5 80.8 Net cash flow from investing activities 345.4 399.8 42.1 Net cash flow from financing activities 368.7 150.0 45.2 Los Pelambres Centinela Antucoya 2017 2017 2017 $m $m $m Non-controlling interest % 40.0% 30.0% 30.0% Cash and cash equivalents 241.8 353.0 158.9 Current assets 457.4 809.2 207.5 Non-current assets 2,981.7 4,770.1 1,366.5 Current liabilities 584.6 862.4 198.5 Non-current liabilities 827.4 1,773.1 1,686.8 Accumulated non-controlling interest Net cash flow from operating activities 1,277.0 68.1 240.7 Net cash flow from investing activities 272.8 573.6 75.7 Net cash flow from financing activities 908.7 150.0 160.5 NOTES TO THE SUMMARISED FINANCIAL POSITION AND CASH FLOW i The amounts disclosed for each subsidiary are based on the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements 100% of the results and balances of the subsidiary rather than the non-controlling interest proportionate share before inter-company eliminations.
ii Summarised income statement information is shown in the segment information in Note 5. iii There are some subsidiaries with a non controlling interest portion not included in this note, portions are not material to the Group.
194 194 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT A RECONCILIATION OF PROFIT BEFORE TAX TO NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 2018 2017 $m $m Profit before tax from continuing operations 1,252.7 1,830.8 Depreciation and amortisation 760.5 581.1 Net loss on disposals 13.3 8.3 Net share of results from associates and joint ventures 22.2 59.7 Net finance expense 114.5 70.0 Increase decrease in inventories 81.7 55.0 Decrease increase in debtors 151.5 5.9 Increase in creditors 7.0 61.6 Increase in provisions 1.6 52.0 Cash flow from continuing operations 1,877.0 2,495.0 The working capital increase was mainly due to a one-off short-term VAT payment of $265 million made in December 2018, which was reclaimed and refunded to the Group in January 2019.
This resulted in a temporary increase in receivables as at 31 December 2018, resulting in a negative cash flow impact for 2018.
There will be a corresponding decrease in receivables and a positive cash flow impact in 2019.
Accordingly, there is nil net cumulative impact in respect of this transaction over the period from Q4 2018 to Q1 2019.
B ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET DEBT Adoption of Movement At new At Reclassification Fair between 31 accounting 1 January to disposal value maturity December Cash New Amortisation of Capitalisation standards 2018 flow group gains leases finance costs of interest categories 2018 Other Exchange $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 1,083.6 9.9 13.2 26.1 1,034.4 Liquid investments 1,168.7 306.3 0.8 863.2 Total cash and cash equivalents 2,252.3 316.2 13.2 0.8 26.1 1,897.6 and liquid investments Borrowings due within one year 732.2 247.0 122.0 607.2 Borrowings due after one year 2.5 1,858.6 66.8 33.7 122.0 1,711.9 Finance leases due within one year 21.5 17.3 38.8 Finance leases due after one year 93.4 33.3 94.6 17.3 5.3 9.7 133.0 Preference shares 3.0 3.0 Total borrowings 2.5 2,708.7 347.1 94.6 5.9 33.7 5.3 9.7 2,493.9 Net debt cash 2.5 456.4 30.9 13.2 0.8 94.6 5.9 33.7 5.3 16.4 596.3 At Reclassification At 1 January Cash to disposal Fair value New Amortisation Capitalisation Movement between 31 December 2017 flows group gains leases of finance costs of interest maturity categories Other Exchange 2017 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 716.3 361.0 2.2 8.5 1,083.6 Liquid investments 1,332.2 166.1 2.6 1,168.7 Total cash and cash equivalents and liquid investments 2,048.5 194.9 2.2 2.6 8.5 2,252.3 Borrowings due within one year 814.2 267.5 185.5 732.2 Borrowings due after one year 2,198.4 186.0 3.9 27.8 185.5 1,858.6 Finance leases due within one year 22.5 1.3 0.2 0.1 21.5 Finance leases due after one year 82.6 32.2 34.1 6.6 2.3 93.4 Preference shares 2.5 0.1 0.6 3.0 Total borrowings 3,120.2 487.1 34.1 3.9 27.8 6.8 3.0 2,708.7 Net debt cash 1,071.7 682.0 2.2 2.6 34.1 3.9 27.8 6.8 5.5 456.4 195 antofagasta.
co. uk 195 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT CONTINUED C NET DEBT 2018 2017 $m $m Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 1,897.6 2,252.3 Total borrowings 2,493.9 2,708.7 596.3 456.4 32 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 2018 2017 $m $m Minimum lease payments expense under operating leases recognised for the year 172.4 140.6 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2018 2017 $m $m Within one year 47.6 94.1 In their second to fifth years inclusive 95.0 78.3 After five years 142.6 172.4 Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of plant and equipment by operating subsidiaries of the Group.
33 EXCHANGE RATES IN US DOLLARS Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into US dollars and sterling at the period-end rates of exchange.
Results denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into US dollars at the average rate for each period.
2018 2017 Year-end rates $1.2700 1: $1.3535 1: $1 Ch$694.77 $1 Ch$614.75 Average rates $1.2667 1: $1.2878 1: $1 Ch$640.62 $1 Ch$649.19 34 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are disclosed below.
The transactions which Group companies entered into with related parties who are not members of the Group are set out below.
There are no guarantees given or received and no provisions for doubtful debts related to the amount of outstanding balances.
A QUIENCO SA Quienco SA Quienco is a Chilean financial and industrial conglomerate, the shares of which are traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange.
The Group and Quienco are both under the control of the Luksic family, and three Directors of the Company, Jean-Paul Luksic, Andronico Luksic and Gonzalo Menndez, who are also directors of Quienco.
The following transactions took place between the Group and the Quienco group of companies, all of which were on normal commercial terms: the Group earned interest income of $2.8 million 2017 $0.6 million during the year on deposits with Banco fide Chile SA, a subsidiary of Quienco.
Deposit balances at the end of the year were $47.0 million 2017 $18.0 million : the Group earned interest income of $1.4 million 2017 $04 million during the year on investments with BanChile Corredores fide Bolsa SA, a subsidiary of Quienco.
Investment balances at the end of the year were $6.5 million 2017 $16.5 million : the Group made purchases of fuel from ENEX SA, a subsidiary of Quienco, of $221.6 million 2017 $185.3 million.
The balance due to ENEX SA at the end of the year was nil 2017 nil.
B COMPAA fide INVERSIONES ADRITICO SA In 2017, the Group leased office space on normal commercial terms from Compaa fide Inversiones Adritico SA, a company controlled by the Luksic family, at a cost of $1.2 million 2017 $0.6 million.
196 196 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C ANTOMIN LIMITED, ANTOMIN 2 LIMITED AND ANTOMIN INVESTORS LIMITED The Group holds a 51% interest in Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited Antomin Investors, which own a number of copper exploration properties.
The Group originally acquired its 51% interest in these properties for a nominal consideration from Mineralinvest Establishment, which continues to hold the remaining 49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors.
Mineralinvest is owned by a E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
During the year ended 31 December 2018 the Group incurred $0.2 million year ended 31 December 2017 $0.6 million of exploration work at these properties.
D TETHYAN COPPER COMPANY LIMITED As explained in Note 17 the Group has a 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan, which is a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation over Tethyans mineral interests in Pakistan.
During 2018 the Group contributed $8.1 million 2017 $9.3 million to Tethyan.
E COMPAIA MINERA ZALDVAR SPA The Group has a 50% interest in Zaldvar which was acquired on 1 December 2015 see Note 16, which is a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation.
Antofagasta is the operator of Zaldvar from 1 December 2015 onwards.
The balance due from Zaldvar to Group companies at the end of the year was $3.6 million 2017 $5.2 million.
During 2018 the Group has not received dividends from Minera Zaldvar 2017 $60.0 million.
F INVERSIONES HORNITOS SA As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos SA, which is accounted for as an associate.
The Group paid $162.2 million year ended 31 December 2017 $175.2 million to Inversiones Hornitos in relation to the energy supply contract at Centinela.
During 2018 the Group received dividends from Inversiones Hornitos SA of $16.6 million 2017 $21.8 million.
G DIRECTORS AND OTHER KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL Information relating to Directors remuneration and interests is given in the Remuneration Report on page 118.
Information relating to the remuneration of key management personnel including the Directors is given in Note 8.
35 ULTIMATE PARENT COMPANY The immediate parent of the Group is Metalinvest Establishment, which is controlled by E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
Both Metalinvest Establishment and the E. Abaroa Foundation are domiciled in Liechtenstein.
Information relating to the interest of Metalinvest Establishment and the E. Abaroa Foundation is given in the Directors Report.
