GLOSSARY AND DEFINITIONS Centinela Mining Copper district located in the Antofagasta BUSINESS, FINANCIAL District Region of Chile, where Centinela is located.
AND ACCOUNTING Chilean peso Chilean currency.
AIFR All Injury Frequency Rate.
Comex A commodity exchange that trades metals AMSA Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a wholly-owned such as gold, silver, copper and aluminium.
subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile, which acts as the corporate centre Companies Act 2006 Principal legislation for United Kingdom for the mining division.
Annual Report The Annual Report and Financial Company Antofagasta plc.
Continental water Water that comes from the interior of land Antucoya Minera Antucoya S. A. a 70%-owned masses including rain, snow, streams, subsidiary of the Group incorporated rivers, lakes and groundwater.
Corporate Governance The UK Corporate Governance Code isaset ATI Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A.
Code of principles of good corporate governance, a30%-owned associate of the Group most of which have their own more detailed incorporated in Chile that operates the provisions published by the Financial portin the city of Antofagasta.
Reporting Council, most recently updated in2016.
A later update was published in Australian dollars Australian currency.
2018 and applies to accounting periods Banco fide Chile A commercial bank that is a subsidiary beginning on or after 1 January 2019. ofQuienco.
Directors The Directors of the Company.
Barrick Gold Barrick Gold Corporation, incorporated in Duluth Duluth Metals Limited, a wholly-owned Canada.
Joint venture partner of the Group subsidiary of Antofagasta plc acquired on in both Zaldvar and Tethyan.
28 January 2015 through which the Group Capex Capital expenditure.
holds the Twin Metals Project.
Cash costs A measure of the cost of operating EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation production expressed in terms of US dollars and Amortisation.
per pound of payable copper produced.
Cash costs are stated net of by-product credits and include tolling charges for El Arrayn Parque Elico el Arrayn SpA, a concentrates for Los Pelambres and 30%-owned associate of the Group that Centinela.
Cash costs exclude depreciation, operates a wind-power plant providing up financial income and expenses, hedging to 40MW of electricity to Los Pelambres.
gains and losses, exchange gains and Encuentro Copper oxide and sulphide prospect in the losses, and corporation tax.
Energa Andina Energa Andina S. A. a 50%-owned joint Centinela Minera Centinela S. A. a 70%-owned venture entity of the Group incorporated subsidiary of the Group incorporated in inChile.
Chile that holds the Centinela Concentrates EPS Earnings per share.
formerly Esperanza and Centinela Cathodes formerly El Tesoro operations.
218 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Esperanza Sur Copper deposit in the Centinela Mining IVA Impuesto al Valor Agregado, or Chilean District.
Value Added Tax Chilean VAT.
Key Management Persons with authority and responsibility Personnel for planning, directing and controlling the FCA Financial Conduct Authority.
UK regulatory activities of the Group.
FCAB Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, the corporate name of the Groups transport LBMA London Bullion Market Association.
LIBOR London Inter Bank Offered Rate.
FTSE All-Share Index A  weighted index LME London Metal Exchange.
representing the performance of all eligible Los Pelambres Minera Los Pelambres S. A. a 60%-owned companies listed on the London Stock subsidiary of the Group incorporated Exchanges main market.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or LSE London Stock Exchange.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, a LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
collection of commonly-followed accounting rules and standards for financial reporting.
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan in which the Groups CEO, Executive Committee GHG Greenhouse Gas.
members and the other senior Government The Government of the Republic of Chile.
Group Antofagasta plc and its subsidiary Marubeni Marubeni Corporation, the Groups 30% companies and joint ventures.
minority partner in Centinela and Antucoya.
Hedge accounting Accounting treatment for derivative Michilla Minera Michilla S. A. a 99.9%-owned financial instruments permitted under IAS subsidiary of the Group incorporated in 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Chile which was closed at the end of 2015 Measurement, which recognises the and sold in November 2016. offsetting effects on profit or loss of PEP Politically Exposed Person, an individual changes in the fair values of a hedging who holds or has held a prominent public instrument and the hedged item.
position in a national or international IAS International Accounting Standards.
organisation within the last year.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
Platts A provider of energy and metals ICMM International Council on Metals and Mining.
information and source of benchmark IFRIC International Financial Reporting priceassessments.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Inversiones Hornitos Inversiones Hornitos S. A. a 40%-owned associate of the Group incorporated in Chile, which owns the 150MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones inChiles Antofagasta Region.
co. uk 219 GLOSSARY AND DEFINITIONS CONTINUED Provisional pricing A sales term in several copper and SERNAGEOMIN Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera, a molybdenum concentrate sale agreements government agency that provides geological and cathodes sale agreements that provides and technical advice and regulates the for provisional pricing of sales at the time of mining industry in Chile.
shipment, with final pricing being based on SHFE Shanghai Futures Exchange.
the monthly average LME copper price or SONAMI Sociedad Nacional fide Minera.
Institution monthly average molybdenum price for that represents the mining activity in Chile, specific future periods, normally ranging for large, medium and small scale, metallic from 30 to 180 days after delivery to the and non-metallic companies.
For the purposes of IAS 39, Sterling Pounds sterling, UK currency.
theprovisional sale is considered to contain SVS Superintendencia fide Valores y Seguros fide an embedded derivative ie the forward Chile, the Chilean securities regulator.
contract for which the provisional sale is subsequently adjusted that is separated Tesoro Central and Copper oxide open pits forming part of the from the host contract ie the sale of metals Tesoro Noreste Centinela operation.
contained in the concentrate or cathode at Tethyan Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50-50 the provisional invoice price less tolling joint venture with Barrick Gold incorporated charges deducted.
Quienco Quienco S. A. a Chilean financial and TSR Total Shareholder Return, being the industrial group listed on the Santiago movement in the Companys share price StockExchange and controlled by a plus reinvested dividends.
foundation in which the Luksic family Twin Metals Minnesota A copper, nickel and platinum group metals areinterested.
Project underground-mining project located in Ramsar Convention International treaty for the conservation Minnesota, US.
RCA Resolucion fide Calificacin Ambiental, UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority, part of Environmental Approval Resolution.
Realised prices Effective sale price achieved comparing US United States.
revenues grossed up for tolling charges US dollar United States currency.
Zaldvar Compaa Minera Zaldvar SpA, a 50-50 Run-of-river A type of hydroelectric plant using the flow joint venture with Barrick Gold, which of a river as it occurs and having little or no operates the Zaldvar copper mine in Chile.
220 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Heap-leaching or A process for the recovery of copper from MINING INDUSTRY leaching ore, generally oxides.
The crushed material is Brownfield project A development or exploration project in the laid on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad vicinity of an existing operation.
and leached by uniformly trickling gravity By-products credits in Products obtained as a result of copper fed chemical solution through the beds to copper concentrates processing.
Los Pelambres and Centinela ponds.
The metal is then recovered from the Concentrates receive credit for the gold solution through the SX-EW process.
andsilver content in the copper concentrate JORC The Australasian Joint Ore Reserves sold.
Los Pelambres also produces Committee.
ktpd Thousand tonnes per day.
Concentrate The product of a physical concentration Life-of-Mine LOM The remaining life of a mine expressed in process, such as flotation or gravity years, calculated by reference to scheduled concentration, which involves separating production rates ie comparing the rate at oreminerals from unwanted waste rock.
which ore is expected to be extracted from Concentrates require subsequent processing the mine to current defined reserves.
such as smelting or leaching to break down Mineral resources Material of intrinsic economic interest or dissolve the ore minerals and obtain the occurring in such form and quantity that desired elements, usually metals.
there are reasonable prospects for eventual Contained copper The proportion or quantity of copper economic extraction.
Mineral resources are contained in a given quantity of ore stated inclusive of ore reserves, as defined orconcentrate.
Copper cathode Refined copper produced by electrolytic MW Megawatts one million watts.
refining of impure copper by electrowinning.
Net cash cost Gross cash costs less by-product credits.
Cut-off grade The lowest grade of mineralised material Open pit Mine working or excavation that is open to considered economic to process and used the surface.
inthe calculation of ore reserves and Ore Rock from which metal s or mineral s can mineral resources.
be economically and legally extracted.
Flotation A process of separation by which chemicals Ore grade The relative quantity, or percentage, of metal in solution are added to materials, some of content in an ore body or quantity of which are attracted to bubbles and float, processed ore. while others sink.
This results in the production of concentrate.
Ore reserves Part of Mineral Resources for which appropriate assessments have been carried Grade A copper Highest-quality copper cathode LME out to demonstrate that at a given date cathode registered and certified in the case of extraction could be reasonably justified.
include consideration of and modification by Greenfield project The development or exploration of a new realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, project at a previously undeveloped site.
economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
co. uk 221 GLOSSARY AND DEFINITIONS CONTINUED Oxide and sulphide ores Different kinds of ore containing copper.
SX-EW Solvent extraction and electrowinning.
A Oxide ore occurs on the weathered surface process for extracting metal from an ore of ore-rich lodes and normally results in the and producing pure metal.
First the metal production of cathode copper through a is leached into solution, the resulting solution heap-leaching process.
Sulphide ore comes is then purified in the solvent-extraction from an unweathered parent ores process process before being treated in an and normally results in the production of electrochemical process electrowinning concentrate through a flotation process torecover cathode copper.
which then requires smelting and refining Tailings dam Construction used to deposit the rock toproduce cathode copper.
wastewhich remains as a result of the Payable copper The proportion or quantity of contained concentrating process after the recoverable copper for which payment is received after minerals have been extracted in metallurgical deduction.
Porphyry A large body of rock which contains TC RCs Treatment and refining charges, being terms disseminated chalcopyrite and other sulphide used to set the smelting and refining charge minerals.
Such a deposit is mined in bulk or margin for processing copper concentrate ona large scale, generally in open pits, for and normally set either on an annual or copper and its by-product molybdenum.
Run-of-Mine ROM A process for the recovery of copper from Tolling charges Charges or margins for converting ore, typically used for low-grade ores.
These Themined, uncrushed ore is leached with include TC RCs, price participation and price achemical solution.
The metal is then sharing for copper concentrate and roasting recovered from the solution through the charges for molybdenum concentrate.
Stockpile Material extracted and piled for future use.
tpd Tonnes per day, normally with reference to the quantity of ore processed over a given period of time expressed as a daily average.
Underground mine Natural or man-made excavation under the surface of the ground.
