Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Company cash flow statement Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 2018 2017 1 General information The new impairment model under IFRS 9 requires the recognition m m of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses ECL Ashmore Group plc the Company is a public limited company listed Operating activities rather than only incurred credit losses as is the case under IAS 39 on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in Operating profit 113.7 145.0 that requires the Group to recognise impairment losses when the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the there is objective evidence that an asset is impaired.
The new Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended Adjustments for: impairment model is not applicable for financial assets held at fair 30 June 2018 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on Depreciation and amortisation 0.5 0.5 value through profit or loss or investments in associates.
The principal activity of the Group is described in Accrual for variable compensation 14.5 15.4 the expected loss model only applies to the Groups receivables the Directors report on page 71.
Unrealised foreign exchange losses gains 6.8 5.9 from funds managed, primarily management fee and performance Dividends received from subsidiaries 118.4 99.2 2 Basis of preparation fee receivables note 17, which do not have a history of credit The Group and Company financial statements have been prepared default or expected future credit default.
Accordingly, the Group Cash generated from operations before working capital changes 17.1 55.8 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS does not expect a change in the carrying value of its assets as a Changes in working capital: as adopted by the European Union EU effective for the Groups result of adopting the new standard.
Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 30.5 36.0 reporting for the year ended 30 June 2018 and applied in accordance The new hedge accounting rules will align the accounting for Increase decrease in trade and other payables 7.4 18.5 with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. hedging instruments more closely with the Groups risk Cash generated from operations 55.0 38.3 management practices.
The Group has confirmed that its current The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern Taxes paid 10.4 8.8 cash-flow hedge relationships note 21 qualify as continuing basis under the historical cost convention, except for the hedges upon the adoption of IFRS 9 without measurement or Net cash from operating activities 44.6 29.5 measurement at fair value of certain financial assets that are classification adjustments.
available-for-sale or classified as at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group will apply IFRS 9 from 1 July 2018, with the practical Investing activities The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section expedients permitted under the standard.
Comparative financial Interest received 1.2 1.7 408 of the Companies Act 2006 that allows it not to present its information will not be restated except for changes in presentation.
individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes.
Loans advanced to subsidiaries 180.7 278.7 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Loans repaid by subsidiaries 80.3 202.1 The preparation of financial statements requires management The Group will adopt the standard from 1 July 2018 using the Dividends received from subsidiaries 118.4 92.3 to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the modified retrospective approach which means that the cumulative application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, Purchase of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.1 impact of the adoption will be recognised in retained earnings as at income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions Net cash from investing activities 19.0 17.3 1 July 2018 and that comparatives will not be restated.
are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results The new standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Financing activities of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying Construction Contracts and related interpretations, and is based on Dividends paid 117.4 116.6 values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from the principle that revenue is recognised when control of a good or other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Purchase of own shares 18.0 11.8 service transfers to a customer.
The standard provides more Further information about key assumptions and other key sources prescriptive guidance on revenue recognition criteria, with certain Net cash used in financing activities 135.4 128.4 of estimation and areas of judgement are set out in note 32. specific requirements including topics such as the point at which revenue is recognised, accounting for variable consideration such Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 71.8 81.6 3 New standards and interpretations not as performance-based incentive fees that will only be recognised if yet adopted the amount of revenue would not be subject to significant future At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 229.7 301.4 reversals, and costs related to obtaining and fulfilling investment statements, the following standards and interpretations relevant to management contracts.
The standard also introduces new Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1.3 9.9 the Groups operations were issued by the International Accounting disclosure requirements.
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 159.2 229.7 Standards Board IASB but are not yet mandatory and have not been The Group has assessed the impact of applying the new standard early adopted by the Group.
on its existing investment management agreements with respect Cash and cash equivalents at end of year comprise: Overall, the Group does not expect the implementation of these to the timing and measurement of management and performance Cash at bank and in hand 38.4 19.3 standards to have a material impact on its reported results, net assets or fee recognition, and has concluded that IFRS 15 will not result in Daily dealing liquidity funds 70.8 80.4 regulatory capital requirements.
However, the Group expects to update a material change to the measurement and recognition of fee the relevant accounting policies when these standards are adopted.
Management fee revenue is accrued on a monthly basis Deposits 50.0 130.0 as the underlying fund management services are being provided.
159.2 229.7 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The management contracts do not include other performance The Group has reviewed its financial assets and liabilities and is The notes on pages 89 to 125 form an integral part of these financial statements.
obligations that would require the allocation of fee revenue to expecting the following impact from the adoption of the new match performance obligations.
Performance fee revenue is standard on 1 July 2018: recognised when it can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the fee will crystallise.
This is usually at the end of the The Groups seed capital investments that are currently classified performance period or upon early redemption by a client, at which as available-for-sale financial AFS assets valued at 5.6 million will time the performance fee is due and payable and cannot be have to be reclassified to financial assets at fair value through clawed-back.
The related accumulated fair value gains of 0.4 million are therefore expected to be transferred from the available-for-sale fair value reserve to retained earnings on 1 July 2018.
There will be no other changes in the classification and measurement of any of the Groups financial assets or liabilities.
88 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 New standards and interpretations not Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated on yet adopted continued consolidation.
Consistent accounting policies have been applied across the Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial IFRS 16 Leases statements as at 30 June 2018.
IFRS 16 is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with earlier adoption permitted.
The Group will adopt the standard A change in the ownership interest of a consolidated entity that from 1 July 2019 and intends to apply the simplified transition does not result in a loss of control by the Group is accounted for as approach that will be applied without restating comparative amounts.
If the Group loses control over a consolidated entity, it derecognises the related assets, goodwill, liabilities, The standard will affect primarily the accounting for the Groups non-controlling interest and other components of equity, and any operating leases that have a term in excess of one year at the time gain or loss is recognised in consolidated comprehensive income.
of adoption, that will need to be capitalised and recognised on the Any investment retained is recognised at its fair value at the date of consolidated statement of financial position as a right-of-use ROU loss of control.
asset and a related lease liability representing the obligation to make lease payments.
Interests in associates and joint arrangements Based on a review of operating leases likely to be in place as of 1 Associates are partly owned entities over which the Group has July 2019, the Group has estimated that approximately 16.6 significant influence but no control.
Joint ventures are entities through million will be recognised as ROU assets with corresponding lease which the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity liabilities of 16.9 million under the new standard on 1 July 2019. which is subject to joint control.
This figure represents less than 2% of the consolidated total assets and approximately 11% of consolidated total liabilities.
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are measured using the equity method of accounting.
Under this The Group will complete a detailed calculation including assessing method, the investments are initially recognised at cost, the impact on consolidated profit or loss and classification of cash including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for flows closer to the adoption of IFRS 16, after taking account of the post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets.
other adjustments, if any, for example lease term extension, The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in termination options and discount rates.
the statement of comprehensive income.
No other standards or interpretations issued and not yet effective Where the Groups financial year is not coterminous with those are expected to have an impact on the Groups consolidated of its associates or joint ventures, unaudited interim financial financial statements.
information is used after appropriate adjustments have been made.
4 Significant accounting policies Interests in consolidated structured entities The following principal accounting policies have been applied The Group acts as fund manager to investment funds that are consistently where applicable to all years presented in dealing considered to be structured entities.
Structured entities are entities with items considered material in relation to the Group and that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the Company financial statements, unless otherwise stated.
dominant factor in deciding which party has control: for example, Basis of consolidation when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the The consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise the relevant activities of the entity are directed by means of contractual financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, associates arrangements.
The Groups assets under management are managed and joint ventures.
This includes an Employee Benefit Trust EBT within structured entities.
These structured entities typically consist of established for the employee share-based awards and consolidated unitised vehicles such as Socits dInvestissement Capital Variable investment funds.
SICAVs, limited partnerships, unit trusts and open-ended and closedended vehicles which entitle third-party investors to a percentage of Interests in subsidiaries the vehicles net asset value.
Subsidiaries are entities, including investment funds, over which the Group has control as defined by IFRS 10.
The Group has control if it The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over holds a direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted consolidated financial statements from the date on which control for either as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset, commences until the date when control ceases.
The Group reassesses depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
whether or not it controls an entity if facts and circumstances indicate that Control is determined in accordance with IFRS 10, based on an there are changes to one or more of the elements of control.
assessment of the level of power and aggregate economic interest The profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive that the Group has over the fund, relative to third-party investors.
income are attributed to the equity holders of the Company and to Power is normally conveyed to the Group through the existence any non-controlling interests.
Based on their nature, the interests of of an investment management agreement and or other contractual third parties in consolidated funds are classified as liabilities and arrangements.
Aggregate economic interest is a measure of the appear as Third-party interests in consolidated funds on the Groups Groups exposure to variable returns in the fund through a balance sheet.
Associates and joint ventures are presented as singlecombination of direct interest, carried interest, expected management line items in the statement of comprehensive income and balance fees, fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from sheet refer to note 27. the fund.
90 90 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 3 New standards and interpretations not Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated on The Group concludes that it acts as a principal when the power it Foreign operations yet adopted continued consolidation.
Consistent accounting policies have been applied has over the fund is deemed to be exercised for self-benefit, The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill across the Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial considering the level of aggregate economic exposure in the fund and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated IFRS 16 Leases statements as at 30 June 2018. and the assessed strength of third-party investors kick-out rights.
into Sterling at the spot exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
IFRS 16 is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, The Group concludes that it acts as an agent when the power it The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into with earlier adoption permitted.
The Group will adopt the standard A change in the ownership interest of a consolidated entity that has over the fund is deemed to be exercised for the benefit of Sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling from 1 July 2019 and intends to apply the simplified transition does not result in a loss of control by the Group is accounted for as third-party investors.
at the dates of the transactions.
approach that will be applied without restating comparative amounts.
If the Group loses control over a consolidated entity, it derecognises the related assets, goodwill, liabilities, The Group concludes that it has control and, therefore, will Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive The standard will affect primarily the accounting for the Groups non-controlling interest and other components of equity, and any consolidate a fund as if it were a subsidiary where the Group acts income, and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve, operating leases that have a term in excess of one year at the time gain or loss is recognised in consolidated comprehensive income.
If the Group concludes that it does not have control except to the extent that the translation difference is allocated to of adoption, that will need to be capitalised and recognised on the Any investment retained is recognised at its fair value at the date of over the fund, the Group accounts for its interest in the fund as a non-controlling interests.
consolidated statement of financial position as a right-of-use ROU loss of control.
asset and a related lease liability representing the obligation to When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control is lost, make lease payments.
the cumulative amount in the foreign currency translation reserve Interests in associates and joint arrangements Interests in unconsolidated structured entities Based on a review of operating leases likely to be in place as of 1 related to that foreign operation is reclassified to comprehensive Associates are partly owned entities over which the Group has The Group classifies the following investment funds as July 2019, the Group has estimated that approximately 16.6 income as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
If the Group disposes significant influence but no control.
Joint ventures are entities through unconsolidated structured entities: million will be recognised as ROU assets with corresponding lease of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign which the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity liabilities of 16.9 million under the new standard on 1 July 2019.
Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the operation while retaining control, the relevant proportion of which is subject to joint control.
This figure represents less than 2% of the consolidated total Group does not hold any direct interest.
In this case, the Group the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests.
assets and approximately 11% of consolidated total liabilities.
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are considers that its aggregate economic exposure is insignificant If the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to measured using the equity method of accounting.
Under this and, in relation to segregated mandates, the third-party investor The Group will complete a detailed calculation including assessing a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable method, the investments are initially recognised at cost, has the practical ability to remove the Group from acting as fund the impact on consolidated profit or loss and classification of cash future, foreign currency differences arising on the item form part including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for manager, without cause.
As a result, the Group concludes that flows closer to the adoption of IFRS 16, after taking account of of the net investment in the foreign operation and are recognised the post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets.
it acts as an agent for third-party investors.
other adjustments, if any, for example lease term extension, in other comprehensive income, and accumulated in the foreign The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in termination options and discount rates.
Pooled funds managed by the Group where the Group holds currency translation reserve within equity.
a direct interest, for example seed capital investments, and the No other standards or interpretations issued and not yet effective Groups aggregate economic exposure in the fund relative to thirdWhere the Groups financial year is not coterminous with those Business combinations are expected to have an impact on the Groups consolidated party investors is less than 20% i. e. the threshold established by of its associates or joint ventures, unaudited interim financial Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition financial statements.
the Group for determining agent versus principal classification.
As information is used after appropriate adjustments have been made.
method as at the acquisition date.
The acquisition date is the date a result, the Group concludes that it is an agent for third-party 4 Significant accounting policies on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
investors and, therefore, will account for its beneficial interest in Interests in consolidated structured entities The following principal accounting policies have been applied The consideration transferred for the acquisition is generally the fund as a financial asset.
The Group acts as fund manager to investment funds that are consistently where applicable to all years presented in dealing measured at the acquisition date fair value, as are the identifiable considered to be structured entities.
Structured entities are entities with items considered material in relation to the Group and The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and net assets acquired, liabilities incurred including any asset or liability that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the Company financial statements, unless otherwise stated.
unconsolidated structured entities is provided in note 28. resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement and dominant factor in deciding which party has control: for example, Basis of consolidation equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the Foreign currency of the acquiree.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise the relevant activities of the entity are directed by means of contractual The Groups financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, associates arrangements.
The Groups assets under management are managed Sterling, which is also the Companys functional and presentation Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred, except if they and joint ventures.
These structured entities typically consist of currency.
Items included in the financial statements of each of are related to the issue of debt or equity securities.
established for the employee share-based awards and consolidated unitised vehicles such as Socits dInvestissement Capital Variable the Groups entities are measured using the functional currency, Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will investment funds.
SICAVs, limited partnerships, unit trusts and open-ended and closedwhich is the currency that prevails in the primary economic be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequently, ended vehicles which entitle third-party investors to a percentage of environment in which the entity operates.
Interests in subsidiaries changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is the vehicles net asset value.
Subsidiaries are entities, including investment funds, over which the Foreign currency transactions deemed to be a liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 Group has control as defined by IFRS 10.
The Group has control if it The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the in comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group as equity, it will not be remeasured and settlement is accounted for functional currencies of the Group entities at the spot exchange rates the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over holds a direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or within equity.
at the date of the transactions.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted If share-based payment awards replacement awards are required Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies consolidated financial statements from the date on which control for either as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset, to be exchanged for awards held by the acquirees employees at the balance sheet date are translated into the functional currency commences until the date when control ceases.
acquirees awards and relate to past services, all or a portion at the spot exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary assets and whether or not it controls an entity if facts and circumstances indicate that Control is determined in accordance with IFRS 10, based on an of the amount of the acquirers replacement awards is included liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign there are changes to one or more of the elements of control.
assessment of the level of power and aggregate economic interest in measuring the consideration transferred in the business currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of The profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive that the Group has over the fund, relative to third-party investors.
This determination is based on market-based value the transaction.
income are attributed to the equity holders of the Company and to Power is normally conveyed to the Group through the existence of the replacement awards compared with the market-based value Foreign currency differences arising on translation are generally any non-controlling interests.
Based on their nature, the interests of of an investment management agreement and or other contractual of the acquirees awards and the extent to which the replacement recognised in comprehensive income.
However, foreign currency third parties in consolidated funds are classified as liabilities and arrangements.
Aggregate economic interest is a measure of the awards relate to pre-combination service.
differences arising from the translation of the following items are appear as Third-party interests in consolidated funds on the Groups Groups exposure to variable returns in the fund through a recognised in other comprehensive income: balance sheet.
Associates and joint ventures are presented as singlecombination of direct interest, carried interest, expected management line items in the statement of comprehensive income and balance fees, fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from available-for-sale equity instruments: and sheet refer to note 27. the fund.
qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent that the hedge is effective.
90 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Subsequent measurement The subsequent measurement of financial instruments depends on Goodwill their classification in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: The cost of a business combination in excess of the fair value of Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held net identifiable assets or liabilities acquired, including intangible for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
assets identified, is recognised as goodwill and stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill has an indefinite useful life, Financial assets is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: or when there is an indication of impairment.
financial assets held for sale, investment securities designated as FVTPL, fair value through profit or loss investments, available-for-sale Intangible assets financial assets and non-current financial assets held for sale.
The cost of intangible assets, such as management contracts and brand names, acquired as part of a business combination is their The Group may, from time to time, invest seed capital in funds fair value as at the date of acquisition.
The fair value at the date of where a subsidiary is the investment manager or an adviser.
Where acquisition is calculated using the discounted cash flow methodology the holding in such investments is deemed to represent a controlling and represents the valuation of the profits expected to be earned stake and is acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent disposal from the management contracts and brand name in place at the through sale or dilution, these seed capital investments are date of acquisition.
recognised as non-current financial assets held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5.
The Group recognises 100% of the investment in the Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less fund as a held for sale asset and the interest held by other parties as any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible a liability held for sale.
Where control is not deemed to exist, and the assets are amortised, if appropriate, over their useful lives, which assets are readily realisable, they are recognised as financial assets at have been assessed as being eight years.
fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39.
Where the Non-controlling interests NCI assets are not readily realisable, they are recognised as non-current asset investments.
If a seed capital investment remains under the NCI are measured at their proportionate share of the acquirees control of the Group for more than one year from the original identifiable net assets at the acquisition date.
Changes to the Groups investment date, the underlying fund is consolidated line by line.
interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
Investment securities designated as FVTPL Property, plant and equipment Investment securities represent securities, other than derivatives, held by consolidated funds.
These securities are designated as FVTPL Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated and are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost is determined on the basis through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
of the direct and indirect costs that are directly attributable.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method Non-current financial assets held for sale HFS over the estimated useful lives, assessed to be five years for office Non-current financial assets held for sale are measured at the lower equipment and four years for IT equipment.
The residual values and of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except where useful lives of assets are reviewed at least annually.
measurement and remeasurement is outside the scope of IFRS 5.
Deferred acquisition costs Where investments that have initially been recognised as non-current financial assets held for sale, because the Group has been deemed Costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment to hold a controlling stake, are subsequently disposed of or diluted management contract are deferred if they can be identified separately such that the Groups holding is no longer deemed a controlling stake, and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered.
the investment will subsequently be classified as fair value through Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to benefit profit or loss investments in accordance with IAS 39.
Subsequent from providing investment management services and are charged movements will be recognised in accordance with the Groups as the related revenue is recognised.
accounting policy for the newly adopted classification.
Financial instruments Available-for-sale financial assets Recognition and initial measurement Available-for-sale financial assets AFS include readily realisable Financial instruments are recognised when the Group becomes party interests in seeded funds that are either allocated specifically to to the contractual provisions of an instrument, initially at fair value this category or cannot be assigned to any other category.
They are plus transaction costs except for financial assets classified at fair carried at fair value and changes in fair value are recognised in other value through profit or loss.
Purchases or sales of financial assets are comprehensive income, until the asset is disposed of or impaired, at recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets are derecognised when comprehensive income is included in profit for the year as part of the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or comprehensive income.
Dividend income and impairment losses are been transferred or when the Group has transferred substantially all recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation under the liability has been discharged, cancelled or expires.
92 92 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Subsequent measurement Financial assets designated as FVTPL Non-current financial liabilities held for sale The subsequent measurement of financial instruments depends on Financial assets designated as FVTPL include certain readily realisable Non-current financial liabilities represent interests held by other Goodwill their classification in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: interests in seeded funds, non-current asset investments and parties in funds in which the Group recognises 100% of the The cost of a business combination in excess of the fair value of Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held derivatives.
The Group designates financial assets as FVTPL when: investment in the fund as a held for sale financial asset.
These net identifiable assets or liabilities acquired, including intangible for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
liabilities are carried at fair value with gains or losses recognised assets identified, is recognised as goodwill and stated at cost less any the financial assets are managed, evaluated and reported internally in the statement of comprehensive income within finance income accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill has an indefinite useful life, on a fair value basis: and Financial assets or expense.
is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment the classification at fair value eliminates or significantly reduces The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: or when there is an indication of impairment.
an accounting mismatch which would otherwise arise.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL financial assets held for sale, investment securities designated as FVTPL, fair value through profit or loss investments, available-for-sale Financial liabilities at FVTPL include derivative financial instruments Intangible assets From the date the financial asset is designated as FVTPL, all financial assets and non-current financial assets held for sale.
and third-party interests in consolidated funds.
They are carried at fair The cost of intangible assets, such as management contracts and subsequent changes in fair value, foreign exchange differences, value with gains or losses recognised in the consolidated statement brand names, acquired as part of a business combination is their interest and dividends are reflected in the consolidated statement of The Group may, from time to time, invest seed capital in funds of comprehensive income within finance income or expense.
fair value as at the date of acquisition.
The fair value at the date of comprehensive income and presented in finance income or expense.
where a subsidiary is the investment manager or an adviser.
Where acquisition is calculated using the discounted cash flow methodology the holding in such investments is deemed to represent a controlling Other financial liabilities i FVTPL investments and represents the valuation of the profits expected to be earned stake and is acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent disposal Other financial liabilities including trade and other payables from the management contracts and brand name in place at the The Group classifies new readily realisable interests in seeded through sale or dilution, these seed capital investments are are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective date of acquisition.
funds as FVTPL investments with fair value changes being directly recognised as non-current financial assets held for sale in accordance interest rate method.
recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive with IFRS 5.
The Group recognises 100% of the investment in the Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less income.
Fair value is measured based on the proportionate net asset fund as a held for sale asset and the interest held by other parties as any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible Fair value of financial instruments value in the fund.
Where control is not deemed to exist, and the assets are amortised, if appropriate, over their useful lives, which Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to assets are readily realisable, they are recognised as financial assets at have been assessed as being eight years.
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability i. e. the exit price ii Non-current asset investments fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39.
Where the in an orderly transaction between market participants at the Non-current asset investments include closed-end funds that are Non-controlling interests NCI assets are not readily realisable, they are recognised as non-current measurement date.
In determining fair value, the Group uses various designated as FVTPL.
They are held at fair value with changes in asset investments.
If a seed capital investment remains under the NCI are measured at their proportionate share of the acquirees valuation approaches and establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in fair value being recognised through the consolidated statement of control of the Group for more than one year from the original identifiable net assets at the acquisition date.
Changes to the Groups measuring fair value that maximises the use of relevant observable comprehensive income.
investment date, the underlying fund is consolidated line by line.
interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are inputs and minimises the use of unobservable inputs by requiring accounted for as equity transactions.
that the most observable inputs be used when available.
Observable iii Derivatives Investment securities designated as FVTPL inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the Derivatives include foreign exchange forward contracts and options Property, plant and equipment Investment securities represent securities, other than derivatives, asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from used by the Group to manage its foreign currency exposures and held by consolidated funds.
These securities are designated as FVTPL Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated sources independent of the Group.
those held in consolidated funds.
Derivatives are initially recognised and are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost is determined on the basis at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the Groups assumptions through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Property, and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Transaction costs are about the assumptions other market participants would use in pricing plant and equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Non-current financial assets held for sale HFS the asset or liability, developed based on the best information over the estimated useful lives, assessed to be five years for office All derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is Non-current financial assets held for sale are measured at the lower available in the circumstances.
equipment and four years for IT equipment.
The residual values and positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except where useful lives of assets are reviewed at least annually.
Securities listed on a recognised stock exchange or dealt on any measurement and remeasurement is outside the scope of IFRS 5.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of other regulated market that operates regularly, is recognised and Deferred acquisition costs Where investments that have initially been recognised as non-current derivatives are taken directly in comprehensive income, except for open to the public are valued at the last known available closing bid financial assets held for sale, because the Group has been deemed Costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment the effective portion of cash flow hedges, which is recognised in price.
If a security is traded on several actively traded and organised to hold a controlling stake, are subsequently disposed of or diluted management contract are deferred if they can be identified separately other comprehensive income.
financial markets, the valuation is made on the basis of the last known such that the Groups holding is no longer deemed a controlling stake, and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered.
bid price on the main market on which the securities are traded.
Trade and other receivables the investment will subsequently be classified as fair value through Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to benefit In the case of securities for which trading on an actively traded and Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value plus profit or loss investments in accordance with IAS 39.
Subsequent from providing investment management services and are charged organised financial market is not significant, but which are bought and transaction costs.
The fair value on acquisition is normally the cost.
movements will be recognised in accordance with the Groups as the related revenue is recognised.
sold on a secondary market with regulated trading among security Impairment losses with respect to the estimated irrecoverable accounting policy for the newly adopted classification.
dealers with the effect that the price is set on a market basis, the Financial instruments amount are recognised through the statement of comprehensive Available-for-sale financial assets valuation may be based on this secondary market.
Recognition and initial measurement income when there is appropriate evidence that trade and other Available-for-sale financial assets AFS include readily realisable Financial instruments are recognised when the Group becomes party receivables are impaired.
The resulting adjustment is recognised as Where instruments are not listed on any stock exchange or not interests in seeded funds that are either allocated specifically to to the contractual provisions of an instrument, initially at fair value interest expense or interest income.
Subsequent to initial recognition traded on any regulated markets, valuation techniques are used this category or cannot be assigned to any other category.
They are plus transaction costs except for financial assets classified at fair these assets are measured at amortised cost less any impairment.
These techniques include the market carried at fair value and changes in fair value are recognised in other value through profit or loss.
Purchases or sales of financial assets are approach, the income approach or the cost approach for which comprehensive income, until the asset is disposed of or impaired, at Cash and cash equivalents recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits sufficient and reliable data is available.
The use of the market which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other Cash represents cash at bank and in hand, and cash equivalents to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets are derecognised when approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions comprehensive income is included in profit for the year as part of comprise short-term deposits and investments in money market the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or or using techniques based on market observable inputs, while the comprehensive income.
Dividend income and impairment losses are instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
been transferred or when the Group has transferred substantially all use of the income approach generally consists of the net present recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Financial liabilities are derecognised value of estimated future cash flows, adjusted as deemed appropriate Financial liabilities when the obligation under the liability has been discharged, cancelled for liquidity, credit, market and or other risk factors.
The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following or expires.
Investments in open-ended funds are valued on the basis of the categories: non-current financial liabilities held for sale, financial last available net asset value of the units or shares of such funds.
liabilities designated as FVTPL and financial liabilities at amortised cost.
The fair value of the derivatives is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
92 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Assets classified as available-for-sale If there is objective evidence of impairment for available-for-sale Hedge accounting financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured as the difference The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting when the transactions between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any meet the specified hedge accounting criteria.
To qualify, the following impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit conditions must be met: or loss, is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
formal documentation of the relationship between the hedging Impairment losses on equity instruments that were recognised instrument s and hedged item s must exist at inception in profit or loss are not reversed through profit or loss in a the hedged cash flows must be highly probable and must present subsequent period.
an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect comprehensive income If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured increases in a subsequent period and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was the hedge must be highly effective, with effectiveness assessed recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through on an ongoing basis.
For qualifying cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of Impairment of other assets the effective hedging instrument is initially recognised in other For all other assets other than goodwill, an impairment test is comprehensive income and is released to comprehensive income performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate in the same period during which the relevant financial asset or that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss liability affects the Groups results.
is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount Where the hedge is highly effective overall, any ineffective portion exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the of the hedge is immediately recognised in comprehensive income.
higher of an assets fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
Where the instrument ceases to be highly effective as a hedge, or For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the is sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued.
lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities or groups of assets cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets other The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers reversal of the impairment at the end of each reporting period.
the financial asset and substantially all the risk and rewards of ownership of the asset.
The Group derecognises a financial Goodwill liability when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an or they expire.
indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable based on managements judgements regarding the future prospects of the Impairment of financial assets business, estimates of future cash flows and discount rates.
When At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is objective assessing the appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill at evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
year end, the recoverable amount is considered to be the greater of A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
The pre-tax discount rate impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of applied is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the after making allowances for any specific risks.
initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or The business of the Group is managed as a single unit, with asset group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
In the case of allocations, research and other such operational practices reflecting equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or the commonality of approach across all fund themes.
Therefore, prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, the Group is considered an indicator that the assets are impaired.
considered to have one cash-generating unit to which all goodwill is allocated and, as a result, no further split of goodwill into smaller Assets carried at amortised cost cash-generating units is possible and the impairment review is For loans and receivables, the amount of the loss is measured as the conducted for the Group as a whole.
difference between the assets carrying amount and the present An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets Revenue original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
If, receivable for the provision of investment management services, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and includes management fees, performance fees and other and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring revenue.
Revenue is recognised in the statement of comprehensive after the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the income as and when the related services are provided.
Revenue is debtors credit rating, the reversal of the previously recognised recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Net revenue is total revenue less distribution costs and including foreign exchange.
Specific revenue recognition policies are: 94 94 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Assets classified as available-for-sale Management fees For cash-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable to employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding liability If there is objective evidence of impairment for available-for-sale Management fees are presented net of rebates, and are calculated Hedge accounting on the Groups balance sheet.
The fair value is measured using an financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured as the difference as a percentage of net fund assets managed in accordance with The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting when the transactions appropriate valuation model, taking into account the estimated between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any individual management agreements.
Management fees are meet the specified hedge accounting criteria.
To qualify, the following number of awards that are expected to vest and the terms and impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit accrued over the period for which the service is provided.
Where conditions must be met: conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
During the or loss, is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
management fees are received in advance, they are recognised formal documentation of the relationship between the hedging vesting period, the liability recognised represents the portion of the over the period of the provision of the asset management service.
Impairment losses on equity instruments that were recognised instrument s and hedged item s must exist at inception vesting period that has expired at the balance sheet date multiplied in profit or loss are not reversed through profit or loss in a the hedged cash flows must be highly probable and must present Performance fees by the fair value of the awards at that date.
Movements in the liability subsequent period.
an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect Performance fees are presented net of rebates, and are calculated are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
comprehensive income as a percentage of the appreciation in the net asset value of a fund If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale Operating leases above a defined hurdle.
Performance fees are recognised when the the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured increases in a subsequent period and the increase can be objectively Payments due under operating leases are recognised in the quantum of the fee can be estimated reliably and it is probable that related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was the hedge must be highly effective, with effectiveness assessed statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the fee will crystallise.
This is usually at the end of the performance recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through on an ongoing basis.
Lease incentives received are recognised period or upon early redemption by a client.
on a straight-line basis over the lease term and are recorded as For qualifying cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of Impairment of other assets a reduction in premises costs.
the effective hedging instrument is initially recognised in other Rebates For all other assets other than goodwill, an impairment test is comprehensive income and is released to comprehensive income Rebates relate to repayments of management and performance fees Finance income and expense performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate in the same period during which the relevant financial asset or charged subject to a rebate agreement, typically with institutional Finance income includes interest receivable on the Groups cash and that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
investors, and are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Where such cash equivalents, realised gains on available-for-sale financial assets is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount agreements exist, management and performance fees are Where the hedge is highly effective overall, any ineffective portion and both realised and unrealised gains on held for sale assets and exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the presented on a net basis in the consolidated statement of of the hedge is immediately recognised in comprehensive income.
Where the instrument ceases to be highly effective as a hedge, or For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the Finance expense includes realised losses on available-for-sale financial is sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued.
lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows Other revenue assets and both realised and unrealised losses on held for sale assets which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets Other revenue includes transaction, structuring and administration and investments measured at FVTPL.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities or groups of assets cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets other fees, and reimbursement by funds of costs incurred by the Group.
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible This revenue is recognised when the related services are provided.
Taxation rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers reversal of the impairment at the end of each reporting period.
Tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
the financial asset and substantially all the risk and rewards of Distribution costs Tax is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive ownership of the asset.
The Group derecognises a financial Goodwill Distribution costs are cost of sales payable to external intermediaries income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised liability when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an for marketing and investor servicing.
Distribution costs are variable directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable based with fund assets managed and the associated management fee on managements judgements regarding the future prospects of the revenue, and are expensed over the period in which the service is Current tax Impairment of financial assets business, estimates of future cash flows and discount rates.
Current tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is objective assessing the appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill at the taxable income or loss for the year, and any adjustment to the evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
year end, the recoverable amount is considered to be the greater of Employee benefits tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years.
It is measured A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
The pre-tax discount rate Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of applied is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital are recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive sheet date in the countries where the Group operates.
Current impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the after making allowances for any specific risks.
income when payable in accordance with the scheme particulars.
tax also includes withholding tax arising from dividends.
initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or The business of the Group is managed as a single unit, with asset Share-based payments Deferred tax group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
In the case of allocations, research and other such operational practices reflecting The Group issues share awards to its employees under share-based Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or the commonality of approach across all fund themes.
in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, the Group is assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts For equity-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable considered an indicator that the assets are impaired.
considered to have one cash-generating unit to which all goodwill used for taxation purposes.
The following differences are not to employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding is allocated and, as a result, no further split of goodwill into smaller provided for: Assets carried at amortised cost increase in equity over the vesting period after adjusting for the cash-generating units is possible and the impairment review is For loans and receivables, the amount of the loss is measured as the estimated number of shares that are expected to vest.
The fair value conducted for the Group as a whole.
goodwill not deductible for tax purposes and difference between the assets carrying amount and the present is measured at the grant date using an appropriate valuation model, differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets instruments were granted.
At each balance sheet date prior to Revenue The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
If, the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate receivable for the provision of investment management services, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is calculated.
The and includes management fees, performance fees and other and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the statement of Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is revenue.
Revenue is recognised in the statement of comprehensive after the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the comprehensive income with a corresponding entry within equity.
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which income as and when the related services are provided.
Revenue is debtors credit rating, the reversal of the previously recognised the assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Specific revenue recognition policies are: Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
94 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Dividends Dividends are recognised when shareholders rights to receive payments have been established.
Equity shares The Companys ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each are classified as equity instruments.
Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of the consideration received or the market price at the day of issue.
Direct issue costs, net of tax, are deducted from equity through share premium.
When share capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Own shares Own shares are held by the Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
The holding of the EBT comprises own shares that have not vested unconditionally to employees of the Group.
In both the Group and Company, own shares are recorded at cost and are deducted from retained earnings.
Treasury shares Treasury shares are recognised in equity and are measured at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and original cost being taken to retained earnings.
Segmental information Key management information, including revenues, margins, investment performance, distribution costs and AuM flows, which is relevant to the operation of the Group, is reported to and reviewed by the Board on the basis of the investment management business as a whole.
Hence the Groups management considers that the Groups services and its operations are not run on a discrete geographic basis and comprise one business segment being provision of investment management services.
Company-only accounting policies In addition to the above accounting policies, the following specifically relates to the Company: Investment in subsidiaries Investments by the Company in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
96 96 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued 5 Segmental information The Groups operations are reported to and reviewed by the Board on the basis of the investment management business as a whole, Dividends hence the Group is treated as a single segment.
The key management information considered is adjusted EBITDA which is 183.6 million Dividends are recognised when shareholders rights to receive for the year as reconciled on page 22 FY2016 17: adjusted EBITDA of 161.1 million was derived by adjusting operating profit by 5.5 million payments have been established.
of depreciation and amortisation expense, 5.0 million of income related to seed capital and 6.2 million of foreign exchange gains.
Equity shares The disclosures below are supplementary, and provide the location of the Groups non-current assets at year end other than financial The Companys ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each are classified instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets.
Disclosures relating to revenue by location are in note 6. as equity instruments.
Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of the consideration received or the Analysis of non-current assets by geography market price at the day of issue.
Direct issue costs, net of tax, 2018 2017 m m are deducted from equity through share premium.
When share capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including United Kingdom 7.3 7.8 directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
United States 70.1 76.1 Other 0.5 0.5 Own shares Total non-current assets 77.9 84.4 Own shares are held by the Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
The holding of the EBT comprises own shares that have not vested 6 Revenue unconditionally to employees of the Group.
In both the Group and Management fees are accrued throughout the year in line with prevailing levels of assets under management and performance fees are Company, own shares are recorded at cost and are deducted from recognised when they can be estimated reliably and it is probable that they will crystallise.
The Group is not considered to be reliant on any retained earnings.
During the year, none of the Groups funds FY2016 17: none provided more than 10% of total revenue in the year Treasury shares respectively when considering management fees and performance fees on a combined basis.
Treasury shares are recognised in equity and are measured at cost.
Analysis of revenue by geography Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised 2018 2017 in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale m m and original cost being taken to retained earnings.
United Kingdom 256.5 232.8 Segmental information United States 5.4 8.7 Key management information, including revenues, margins, Other 23.8 15.7 investment performance, distribution costs and AuM flows, Total revenue 285.7 257.2 which is relevant to the operation of the Group, is reported to and reviewed by the Board on the basis of the investment management 7 Foreign exchange business as a whole.
Hence the Groups management considers The foreign exchange rates which had a material impact on the Groups results are the US dollar, the Euro, the Indonesian rupiah and the that the Groups services and its operations are not run on a discrete Colombian peso.
geographic basis and comprise one business segment being Average rate Average rate provision of investment management services.
Closing rate Closing rate year ended year ended as at 30 June as at 30 June 30 June 30 June Company-only accounting policies 1 2018 2017 2018 2017 In addition to the above accounting policies, the following specifically US dollar 1.3200 1.2946 1.3464 1.2766 relates to the Company: Euro 1.1303 1.1426 1.1306 1.1671 Indonesian rupiah 18,843 17,340 18,329 16,918 Investment in subsidiaries Investments by the Company in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, Colombian peso 3,872 3,965 3,943 3,788 where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are shown below.
2018 2017 m m Net realised and unrealised hedging gains losses 1.8 2.8 Translation gains losses on non-Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 2.0 7.8 Total foreign exchange gains losses 0.2 5.0 96 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Finance income 2018 2017 m m Finance income Interest income 9.7 10.4 Net realised gains on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 3.3 Net realised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 1.7 20.8 Net unrealised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 0.5 7.4 Total finance income 15.2 38.6 Interest income above includes 5.1 million of interest and dividend income on consolidated funds note 20d.
Included within net realised and unrealised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value are 0.4 million gains in relation to held for sale investments note 20a, 1.3 million gains on FVTPL investments note 20c and 2.8 million gains on non-current asset investments note 20e, offset by 2.3 million of fair value movements on investment securities within consolidated funds note 20e.
9 Personnel expenses Personnel expenses during the year comprised the following: 2018 2017 m m Wages and salaries 18.5 19.6 Performance-related cash bonuses 20.6 18.5 Share-based payments 28.0 24.4 Social security costs 1.6 1.8 Pension costs 1.6 1.6 Other costs 2.5 1.9 Total personnel expenses 72.8 67.8 Number of employees The number of employees of the Group including Executive Directors during the reporting year was as follows: Average for Average for the year the year ended ended At At 30 June 2018 30 June 2017 30 June 2018 30 June 2017 Number Number Number Number Total employees 257 256 253 252 Directors remuneration Disclosures of Directors remuneration during the year as required by the Companies Act 2006 are included in the Remuneration report on pages 53 to 69.
There are retirement benefits accruing to two Executive Directors under a defined contribution scheme FY2016 17: two.
10 Share-based payments The cost related to share-based payments recognised by the Group in the statement of comprehensive income is shown below: 2018 2017 Group m m Omnibus Plan 27.4 24.2 Phantom Bonus Plan 0.6 0.2 Total share-based payments expense 28.0 24.4 The total expense recognised for the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment awards was 25.8 million FY2016 17: 21.3 million.
98 98 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Finance income The Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan 2018 2017 The Omnibus Plan was introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and provides for the grant of share awards, market value m m options, premium cost options, discounted options, linked options, phantoms and or nil-cost options to employees.
The Omnibus Plan will Finance income also allow bonuses to be deferred in the form of share awards with or without matching shares.
Awards granted under the Omnibus Plan Interest income 9.7 10.4 typically vest after five years from date of grant, with the exception of bonus awards which vest after the shorter of five years from date of grant or on the date of termination of employment.
Awards under the Omnibus Plan are accounted for as equity-settled, with the exception Net realised gains on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 3.3 of phantoms which are classified as cash-settled.
Net realised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 1.7 20.8 The share-based payments relating to the Omnibus Plan represent the combined cash and equity-settled payments.
Net unrealised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 0.5 7.4 Total finance income 15.2 38.6 Total expense by year awards were granted excluding national insurance Group and Company 2018 2017 Interest income above includes 5.1 million of interest and dividend income on consolidated funds note 20d.
Year of grant m m Included within net realised and unrealised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value are 0.4 million gains in relation to held 2012 2.6 for sale investments note 20a, 1.3 million gains on FVTPL investments note 20c and 2.8 million gains on non-current asset investments 2013 3.6 3.7 note 20e, offset by 2.3 million of fair value movements on investment securities within consolidated funds note 20e.
2014 2.2 2.3 9 Personnel expenses 2015 3.5 3.5 Personnel expenses during the year comprised the following: 2016 2.9 3.4 2018 2017 2017 4.5 6.0 m m 2018 9.7 Wages and salaries 18.5 19.6 Total Omnibus share-based payments expense reported in comprehensive income 26.4 21.5 Performance-related cash bonuses 20.6 18.5 Awards outstanding under the Omnibus Plan were as follows: Share-based payments 28.0 24.4 Social security costs 1.6 1.8 i Equity-settled awards 2018 Pension costs 1.6 1.6 Number of 2018 2017 2017 Other costs 2.5 1.9 shares Weighted Number of Weighted subject to average shares subject average Total personnel expenses 72.8 67.8 Group and Company awards share price to awards share price Restricted share awards Number of employees At the beginning of the year 22,038,100 3.14 22,929,174 3.18 The number of employees of the Group including Executive Directors during the reporting year was as follows: Granted 5,448,753 3.26 4,378,988 3.40 Average for Average for Vested 4,450,091 3.29 3,426,172 3.87 the year the year ended ended At At Forfeited 880,873 3.14 1,843,890 3.32 30 June 2018 30 June 2017 30 June 2018 30 June 2017 Number Number Number Number Awards outstanding at year end 22,155,889 3.14 22,038,100 3.14 Total employees 257 256 253 252 Bonus share awards Directors remuneration At the beginning of the year 8,268,336 3.10 8,438,295 3.15 Disclosures of Directors remuneration during the year as required by the Companies Act 2006 are included in the Remuneration report Granted 2,392,022 3.24 1,569,761 3.39 on pages 53 to 69.
Vested 1,473,233 3.28 1,739,720 3.86 There are retirement benefits accruing to two Executive Directors under a defined contribution scheme FY2016 17: two.
Forfeited 35,133 3.20 Awards outstanding at year end 9,151,992 3.12 8,268,336 3.10 10 Share-based payments The cost related to share-based payments recognised by the Group in the statement of comprehensive income is shown below: Matching share awards 2018 2017 Group m m At the beginning of the year 8,273,435 3.14 8,438,295 3.18 Omnibus Plan 27.4 24.2 Granted 2,397,050 3.24 1,574,860 3.39 Phantom Bonus Plan 0.6 0.2 Vested 1,113,239 3.29 1,116,079 3.92 Total share-based payments expense 28.0 24.4 Forfeited 395,127 3.23 623,641 3.75 Awards outstanding at year end 9,162,119 3.15 8,273,435 3.14 The total expense recognised for the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment awards was 25.8 million FY2016 17: 21.3 million.
Total 40,470,000 3.14 38,579,871 3.18 98 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued ii Cash-settled awards 2018 Number of 2018 2017 2017 shares Weighted Number of Weighted subject to average shares subject average Group and Company awards share price to awards share price Restricted share awards At the beginning of the year 134,984 3.72 269,754 3.72 Granted 45,003 3.24 27,700 3.40 Vested Forfeited 36,445 3.29 162,470 3.94 Awards outstanding at year end 143,542 3.37 134,984 3.72 Bonus share awards At the beginning of the year 80,254 3.78 190,576 3.78 Granted 33,753 3.24 11,530 3.40 Vested 27,334 3.29 121,852 3.94 Forfeited Awards outstanding at year end 86,673 3.44 80,254 3.78 Matching share awards At the beginning of the year 80,254 3.78 190,576 3.78 Granted 33,753 3.24 11,530 3.40 Vested Forfeited 27,334 3.29 121,852 3.94 Awards outstanding at year end 86,673 3.44 80,254 3.78 Total 316,888 3.41 295,492 3.75 10 100 0 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued iii Total awards 2018 ii Cash-settled awards Number of 2018 2017 2017 2018 shares Weighted Number of Weighted Number of 2018 2017 2017 subject to average shares subject average shares Weighted Number of Weighted Group and Company awards share price to awards share price subject to average shares subject average Group and Company awards share price to awards share price Restricted share awards Restricted share awards At the beginning of the year 22,173,084 3.14 23,198,928 3.19 At the beginning of the year 134,984 3.72 269,754 3.72 Granted 5,493,756 3.26 4,406,688 3.40 Granted 45,003 3.24 27,700 3.40 Vested 4,450,091 3.29 3,426,172 3.87 Vested Forfeited 917,318 3.15 2,006,360 3.37 Forfeited 36,445 3.29 162,470 3.94 Awards outstanding at year end 22,299,431 3.14 22,173,084 3.14 Awards outstanding at year end 143,542 3.37 134,984 3.72 Bonus share awards Bonus share awards At the beginning of the year 8,348,590 3.11 8,628,871 3.17 At the beginning of the year 80,254 3.78 190,576 3.78 Granted 2,425,775 3.24 1,581,291 3.39 Granted 33,753 3.24 11,530 3.40 Vested 1,500,567 3.28 1,861,572 3.87 Vested 27,334 3.29 121,852 3.94 Forfeited 35,133 3.20 Forfeited Awards outstanding at year end 9,238,665 3.12 8,348,590 3.11 Awards outstanding at year end 86,673 3.44 80,254 3.78 Matching share awards Matching share awards At the beginning of the year 8,353,689 3.14 8,628,871 3.20 At the beginning of the year 80,254 3.78 190,576 3.78 Granted 2,430,803 3.24 1,586,390 3.39 Granted 33,753 3.24 11,530 3.40 Vested 1,113,239 3.29 1,116,079 3.92 Vested Forfeited 422,461 3.23 745,493 3.78 Forfeited 27,334 3.29 121,852 3.94 Awards outstanding at year end 9,248,792 3.15 8,353,689 3.14 Awards outstanding at year end 86,673 3.44 80,254 3.78 Total 40,786,888 3.14 38,875,363 3.13 Total 316,888 3.41 295,492 3.75 The weighted average share price of awards granted to employees under the Omnibus Plan during the year was 3.25 FY2016 17: 3.40, as determined by the average Ashmore Group plc closing share price for the five business days prior to grant.
For Executive Directors, the fair value of awards also takes into account the performance conditions set out in the Remuneration report.
Where the grant of restricted and matching share awards is linked to the annual bonus process, the fair value of the awards is spread over a period including the current financial year and the subsequent five years to their vesting date when the grantee becomes unconditionally entitled to the underlying shares.
The fair value of the remaining awards is spread over the period from the date of grant to the vesting date.
The liability arising from cash-settled awards under the Omnibus Plan at the end of the year and reported within trade and other payables on the consolidated balance sheet is 0.6 million 30 June 2017: 0.4 million of which nil 30 June 2017: nil relates to vested awards.
The Approved Company Share Option Plan CSOP The CSOP was also introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and is an option scheme providing for the grant of market value options to employees with the aggregate value of outstanding options not exceeding 30,000 per employee.
The CSOP qualifies as a UK tax approved company share option plan and approval thereto has been obtained from HMRC.
To date, there have been no awards made under the CSOP.
100 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 101 Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Other expenses Other expenses consist of the following: 2018 2017 m m Travel 1.9 2.2 Professional fees 4.2 4.9 Information technology and communications 5.9 5.2 Amortisation of intangible assets note 15 4.3 4.5 Operating leases 2.6 3.5 Premises-related costs 1.2 1.2 Insurance 0.9 1.0 Auditors remuneration see below 0.5 0.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 16 0.7 1.0 Consolidated funds note 20 1.1 4.9 Other expenses 4.3 3.9 27.6 32.9 Auditors remuneration 2018 2017 m m Fees for statutory audit services: Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Groups accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 Fees for non-audit services: Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services 0.1 0.2 0.5 0.6 10 102 2 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Other expenses 12 Taxation Other expenses consist of the following: Analysis of tax charge for the year: 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Travel 1.9 2.2 Current tax Professional fees 4.2 4.9 UK corporation tax on profits for the year 30.3 31.3 Information technology and communications 5.9 5.2 Overseas corporation tax charge 8.5 7.9 Amortisation of intangible assets note 15 4.3 4.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.6 1.5 Operating leases 2.6 3.5 38.2 40.7 Premises-related costs 1.2 1.2 Deferred tax Insurance 0.9 1.0 Origination and reversal of temporary differences see note 18 1.7 3.2 Auditors remuneration see below 0.5 0.6 Effect on deferred tax balance of changes in corporation tax rates 1.3 0.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 16 0.7 1.0 Tax expense 37.8 36.7 Consolidated funds note 20 1.1 4.9 Factors affecting tax charge for the year Other expenses 4.3 3.9 2018 2017 27.6 32.9 m m Profit before tax 191.3 206.2 Auditors remuneration 2018 2017 m m Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the blended UK tax rate of 19.00% FY2016 17: 19.75% 36.3 40.7 Fees for statutory audit services: Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Groups accounts 0.2 0.2 Effects of: Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant Non-deductible expenses 0.1 0.2 to legislation 0.2 0.2 Deduction in respect of vested shares exercised options Part 12, Corporation Tax Act 2009 0.3 2.8 Different rate of taxes on overseas profits 1.2 1.4 Fees for non-audit services: Non-taxable income 1.0 4.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services 0.1 0.2 Effect on deferred tax balance of changes in corporation tax rates 2.0 0.8 0.5 0.6 Other items 0.1 0.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.6 1.6 Tax expense 37.8 36.7 Non-taxable income relates to the impact of local tax exemptions on realised investment income in certain jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The tax charge recognised in equity other comprehensive income is as follows: 2018 2017 m m Current tax credit expense on foreign exchange gains 0.3 0.1 Deferred tax on seed capital investments Tax credit expense recognised in equity other comprehensive income 0.3 0.1 Finance No.
2 Act 2015 introduced legislation to reduce the UK corporation tax rate to 19% from 1 April 2017.
Finance Act 2016 further reduces the tax rate to 17% from 1 April 2020.
These tax rate reductions have been taken into account in the calculation of the Groups UK deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 30 June 2018.
102 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 103 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share at 30 June 2018 of 22.59 pence 30 June 2017: 25.07 pence is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent of 151.4 million FY2016 17: 167.6 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding own shares.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated based on basic earnings per share adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
There is no difference between the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations.
Reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is shown below.
2018 Number of 2017 ordinary Number of shares ordinary shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 671,063,954 668,488,046 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share awards 40,645,005 38,451,642 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share 711,708,959 706,939,688 14 Dividends Dividends paid in the year 2018 2017 Company m m Final dividend for FY2016 17 12.10p FY2015 16: 12.10p 85.4 84.9 Interim dividend for FY2017 18 4.55p FY2016 17: 4.55p 32.0 31.7 117.4 116.6 In addition, the Group paid 2.5 million FY2016 17: 2.3 million of dividends to non-controlling interests.
Dividends declared proposed in respect of the year 2018 2017 Company pence pence Interim dividend per share paid 4.55 4.55 Final dividend per share proposed 12.10 12.10 16.65 16.65 On 6 September 2018, the Board proposed a final dividend of 12.10 pence per share for the year ended 30 June 2018.
This has not been recognised as a liability of the Group at the year end as it has not yet been approved by shareholders.
Based on the number of shares in issue at the year end that qualify to receive a dividend, the total amount payable would be 85.7 million.
10 104 4 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Earnings per share 15 Goodwill and intangible assets Fund Basic earnings per share at 30 June 2018 of 22.59 pence 30 June 2017: 25.07 pence is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the management financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent of 151.4 million FY2016 17: 167.6 million by the weighted average number Goodwill relationships Total of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding own shares.
Group m m m Cost at original exchange rate Diluted earnings per share is calculated based on basic earnings per share adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
There is no difference between the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per At 30 June 2016, 30 June 2017 and 30 June 2018 57.5 39.5 97.0 share calculations.
Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 30 June 2016 31.1 31.1 2018 Number of 2017 Amortisation charge for the year 4.5 4.5 ordinary Number of shares ordinary shares At 30 June 2017 35.6 35.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 671,063,954 668,488,046 Amortisation charge for the year 4.3 4.3 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share awards 40,645,005 38,451,642 At 30 June 2018 39.9 39.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share 711,708,959 706,939,688 Net book value 14 Dividends At 30 June 2016 70.1 12.4 82.5 Dividends paid in the year Accumulated amortisation for the year 4.5 4.5 2018 2017 Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves 1.5 0.4 1.9 Company m m At 30 June 2017 71.6 8.3 79.9 Final dividend for FY2016 17 12.10p FY2015 16: 12.10p 85.4 84.9 Accumulated amortisation for the year 4.3 4.3 Interim dividend for FY2017 18 4.55p FY2016 17: 4.55p 32.0 31.7 Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves 1.3 0.1 1.4 117.4 116.6 At 30 June 2018 70.3 3.9 74.2 In addition, the Group paid 2.5 million FY2016 17: 2.3 million of dividends to non-controlling interests.
Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves is a result of the retranslation of US dollar-denominated intangibles and goodwill.
Dividends declared proposed in respect of the year Goodwill Company m 2018 2017 Company pence pence Cost Interim dividend per share paid 4.55 4.55 At the beginning and end of the year 4.1 Final dividend per share proposed 12.10 12.10 Net carrying amount at 30 June 2017 and 2018 4.1 16.65 16.65 Goodwill On 6 September 2018, the Board proposed a final dividend of 12.10 pence per share for the year ended 30 June 2018.
This has not been The Groups goodwill balance relates principally to the acquisition of the equities business in May 2011. recognised as a liability of the Group at the year end as it has not yet been approved by shareholders.
The Companys goodwill balance relates to the acquisition of the business from ANZ in 1999.
The annual impairment review of goodwill was undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2018.
The Group consists of a single cash-generating unit for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
In performing the impairment review, management prepares a calculation of the recoverable amount of goodwill and compares this with the carrying value.
The recoverable amount was based on a fair value less costs to sell calculation using the Companys year end share price.
Based on managements assessment as at 30 June 2018, the recoverable amount was in excess of the carrying value of goodwill and no impairment was implied.
No impairment losses have been recognised in the current or preceding years.
Fund management relationships Intangible assets comprise fund management relationships related to profit expected to be earned from clients of Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC.
An annual impairment review of the fund management relationships was undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2018.
The recoverable amount was derived from the cumulative pre-tax net earnings anticipated to be generated over the remaining useful economic life, discounted to present value using the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 13.0% per annum.
Cumulative net earnings associated with the fund management relationships intangible asset were derived from the annual operating profit contribution that would arise as a result of the remaining fund management relationships, adjusted for investment performance and investor attrition.
The recoverable amount of the fund management relationships intangible asset was determined to be higher than its carrying value as at 30 June 2018.
Accordingly, no impairment charge was recognised during the year FY2016 17: no impairment charge recognised.
The remaining amortisation period for fund management relationships is one year 30 June 2017: two years.
104 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 105 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Property, plant and equipment 2018 2017 Fixtures, Fixtures, fittings and fittings and equipment equipment Group m m Cost At the beginning of the year 6.4 7.8 Additions 0.2 0.4 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.1 0.1 Disposals 1.9 At the end of the year 6.5 6.4 Accumulated depreciation At the beginning of the year 4.8 5.6 Depreciation charge for the year 0.7 1.0 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.1 Disposals 1.8 At the end of the year 5.4 4.8 Net book value at 30 June 1.1 1.6 2018 2017 Fixtures, Fixtures, fittings and fittings and equipment equipment Company m m Cost At the beginning of the year 3.7 3.6 Additions 0.2 0.1 Disposals At the end of the year 3.9 3.7 Accumulated depreciation At the beginning of the year 3.0 2.5 Depreciation charge for year 0.4 0.5 Disposals At the end of the year 3.4 3.0 Net book value at 30 June 0.5 0.7 10 106 6 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Property, plant and equipment 17 Trade and other receivables 2018 2017 Group Company Fixtures, Fixtures, 2018 2017 2018 2017 fittings and fittings and m m m m equipment equipment Group m m Current Cost Trade debtors 67.5 67.2 5.0 3.6 At the beginning of the year 6.4 7.8 Prepayments 2.8 2.9 1.2 1.6 Additions 0.2 0.4 Loans due from subsidiaries 454.5 354.1 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.1 0.1 Amounts due from subsidiaries 7.1 38.1 Disposals 1.9 Other receivables 0.9 0.8 0.1 0.6 At the end of the year 6.5 6.4 Total trade and other receivables 71.2 70.9 467.9 398.0 Group trade debtors include all billed and unbilled management fees due to the Group at 30 June 2018 in respect of investment management Accumulated depreciation services provided up to that date.
Loans and amounts due from subsidiaries for the Company include intercompany loans related to seed capital At the beginning of the year 4.8 5.6 investments held by subsidiaries and trading balances.
Intercompany loans are issued on commercial terms and repayable on demand.
Depreciation charge for the year 0.7 1.0 18 Deferred taxation Foreign exchange revaluation 0.1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and Company at year end are attributable to the following: Disposals 1.8 2018 2017 At the end of the year 5.4 4.8 Other Other Net book value at 30 June 1.1 1.6 temporary Share-based temporary Share-based differences payments Total differences payments Total Group m m m m m m 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets 11.4 14.8 26.2 13.4 14.0 27.4 Fixtures, Fixtures, fittings and fittings and Deferred tax liabilities 7.7 7.7 9.2 9.2 equipment equipment 3.7 14.8 18.5 4.2 14.0 18.2 Company m m Cost At the beginning of the year 3.7 3.6 2018 2017 Other Other Additions 0.2 0.1 temporary Share-based temporary Share-based Disposals differences payments Total differences payments Total Company m m m m m m At the end of the year 3.9 3.7 Deferred tax assets 0.2 12.8 13.0 0.2 11.3 11.5 Accumulated depreciation Movement of deferred tax balances At the beginning of the year 3.0 2.5 The movement in the deferred tax balances between the balance sheet dates has been reflected in equity or the statement of comprehensive Depreciation charge for year 0.4 0.5 income as follows: Disposals Other temporary Share-based At the end of the year 3.4 3.0 differences payments Total Net book value at 30 June 0.5 0.7 Group m m m At 30 June 2016 3.7 10.6 14.3 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 0.5 3.4 3.9 At 30 June 2017 4.2 14.0 18.2 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 0.5 0.8 0.3 At 30 June 2018 3.7 14.8 18.5 Other temporary Share-based differences payments Total Company m m m At 30 June 2016 0.1 8.1 8.2 Credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income 0.1 3.2 3.3 At 30 June 2017 0.2 11.3 11.5 Credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income 1.5 1.5 At 30 June 2018 0.2 12.8 13.0 Refer to the details in note 12 in relation to future changes to the UK corporation tax rate which have been reflected in the Groups deferred tax position.
106 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 107 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Fair value of financial instruments The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values.
This framework includes committees that have overall responsibility for all significant fair value measurements.
Each committee regularly reviews significant inputs and valuation adjustments.
If third-party information is used to measure fair value, the team assesses and documents the evidence obtained from the third parties to support such valuations.
There are no material differences between the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Fair value hierarchy The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of inputs used in making the measurements: Level 1: Valuation is based upon a quoted market price in an active market for an identical instrument.
This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted and exchange traded equity and debt securities.
Level 2: Valuation techniques are based upon observable inputs, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted equity securities in inactive markets or in interests in unlisted funds whose net asset values are referenced to the fair values of the listed or exchange traded securities held by those funds.
Level 3: Valuation techniques use significant unobservable inputs.
Fair value measurements are derived by applying appropriate valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data and principally comprise investments in private equity funds.
For financial instruments that are recognised at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
The fair value hierarchy of financial instruments which are carried at fair value at year end is summarised below: 2018 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Financial assets Investment securities 110.6 38.8 69.7 219.1 60.8 85.5 84.9 231.2 Non-current financial assets held for sale 7.6 7.6 7.1 7.1 Available-for-sale financial assets 5.6 5.6 0.1 11.2 11.3 Fair value through profit or loss investments 23.5 23.5 36.0 36.0 Non-current asset investments 20.0 23.9 43.9 4.5 18.0 22.5 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 110.6 89.9 99.2 299.7 60.8 133.5 114.1 308.4 Financial liabilities Third-party interests in consolidated funds 25.8 17.6 32.7 76.1 30.9 42.4 35.6 108.9 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Non-current financial liabilities held for sale 0.8 0.8 25.8 18.5 32.7 77.0 30.9 42.4 35.6 108.9 There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the year FY2016 17: no transfers.
Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs Level 3 The following table presents the changes in Level 3 items for the periods ended 30 June 2018 and 2017: Non-current AvailableThird-party financial for-sale Non-current interests in Investment assets held financial asset consolidated securities for sale assets investments funds m m m m m At 30 June 2016 46.9 28.1 8.0 11.7 28.4 Additions 4.5 Reclassification from consolidated funds to HFS investments 28.1 28.1 Unrealised gains recognised in finance income 9.9 1.8 7.2 Unrealised gains recognised in other comprehensive income 3.2 At 30 June 2017 84.9 11.2 18.0 35.6 Additions disposals 13.0 4.9 4.1 0.6 Unrealised gains losses recognised in finance income 1.3 1.8 2.3 Unrealised gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income 0.9 0.7 At 30 June 2018 69.7 5.6 23.9 32.7 10 108 8 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Fair value of financial instruments Valuation of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value on a recurring basis using valuation techniques The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values.
This framework includes committees that Investments valued using valuation techniques include financial investments which, by their nature, do not have an externally quoted price have overall responsibility for all significant fair value measurements.
Each committee regularly reviews significant inputs and valuation based on regular trades, and financial investments for which markets are no longer active as a result of market conditions e. g. market illiquidity.
If third-party information is used to measure fair value, the team assesses and documents the evidence obtained from the third The valuation techniques used include comparison to recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the parties to support such valuations.
There are no material differences between the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities and their fair same, discounted cash flow analysis, and, if applicable, enterprise valuation.
values at the balance sheet date.
These techniques may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as interest rate and price earnings multiples.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these instruments.
When determining the Fair value hierarchy inputs into the valuation techniques used priority is given to publicly available prices from independent sources when available, but overall the The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of inputs used in making the measurements: source of pricing is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement that reflects the price at which an orderly transaction would Level 1: Valuation is based upon a quoted market price in an active market for an identical instrument.
This fair value measure relates take place between market participants on the measurement date.
to the valuation of quoted and exchange traded equity and debt securities.
The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based upon available market information and judgements about the financial Level 2: Valuation techniques are based upon observable inputs, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
instruments, including estimates of the timing and amount of expected future cash flows.
Such estimates do not typically reflect any premium This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted equity securities in inactive markets or in interests in unlisted funds whose or discount that could result from offering for sale at one time the Groups entire holdings of a particular financial instrument, nor do they net asset values are referenced to the fair values of the listed or exchange traded securities held by those funds.
typically consider the tax impact of the realisation of unrealised gains or losses from selling the financial instrument being fair valued.
In some Level 3: Valuation techniques use significant unobservable inputs.
Fair value measurements are derived by applying appropriate valuation cases the disclosed value cannot be realised in immediate settlement of the financial instrument.
techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data and principally comprise investments in The total value of Level 3 financial assets valued using valuation techniques is 69.4 million as at 30 June 2018 30 June 2017: 84.8 million.
The remaining Level 3 investments are valued using third-party pricing information without adjustment.
For financial instruments that are recognised at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between The following table shows the valuation techniques and the key unobservable inputs used in the determination of fair value for the levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a Level 3 investments: whole at the end of each reporting period.
Range of The fair value hierarchy of financial instruments which are carried at fair value at year end is summarised below: Fair value at Significant estimates for 30 June 2018 Valuation unobservable unobservable The estimated fair value 2018 2017 Assets m technique inputs inputs would increase if: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Listed securities 15.4 Adjusted market value Marketability adjustment 10%-30% Marketability adjustment is lower Financial assets Unlisted securities 54.0 Market approach EBITDA multiple 5x-10x EBITDA multiple is higher Investment securities 110.6 38.8 69.7 219.1 60.8 85.5 84.9 231.2 using comparable Marketability adjustment 10%-30% Marketability adjustment Non-current financial assets held for sale 7.6 7.6 7.1 7.1 traded multiples is lower Available-for-sale financial assets 5.6 5.6 0.1 11.2 11.3 Recent transactions, Market multiple 5x-10x Market multiple is higher Fair value through profit or loss investments 23.5 23.5 36.0 36.0 Market multiples Non-current asset investments 20.0 23.9 43.9 4.5 18.0 22.5 Discounted cash flows Weighted average cost of 10%-20% WACC is lower Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 capital WACC 110.6 89.9 99.2 299.7 60.8 133.5 114.1 308.4 Marketability adjustment 10%-30% Marketability adjustment Financial liabilities is lower Third-party interests in consolidated funds 25.8 17.6 32.7 76.1 30.9 42.4 35.6 108.9 Adjusted value Marketability adjustment 10%-35% Marketability adjustment Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 is lower Non-current financial liabilities held for sale 0.8 0.8 Discount to indicative bid Marketability adjustment 10%-30% Marketability adjustment is lower 25.8 18.5 32.7 77.0 30.9 42.4 35.6 108.9 Broker quote Inputs to broker model There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the year FY2016 17: no transfers.
Total 69.4 Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs Level 3 The following table presents the changes in Level 3 items for the periods ended 30 June 2018 and 2017: Non-current AvailableThird-party financial for-sale Non-current interests in Investment assets held financial asset consolidated securities for sale assets investments funds m m m m m At 30 June 2016 46.9 28.1 8.0 11.7 28.4 Additions 4.5 Reclassification from consolidated funds to HFS investments 28.1 28.1 Unrealised gains recognised in finance income 9.9 1.8 7.2 Unrealised gains recognised in other comprehensive income 3.2 At 30 June 2017 84.9 11.2 18.0 35.6 Additions disposals 13.0 4.9 4.1 0.6 Unrealised gains losses recognised in finance income 1.3 1.8 2.3 Unrealised gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income 0.9 0.7 At 30 June 2018 69.7 5.6 23.9 32.7 108 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 109 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments Financial instruments not measured at fair value Financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables.
The carrying value of financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value is considered a reasonable approximation of fair value as at 30 June 2018 and 2017.
The Group considers itself a sponsor of an investment fund when it facilitates the establishment of a fund in which the Group is the investment manager.
The Group ordinarily provides seed capital in order to provide initial scale and facilitate marketing of the funds to third-party investors.
The fund is then financed through the issue of units to investors.
Aggregate interests held by the Group include seed capital, management fees and performance fees.
The Group generates management and performance fee income from managing the assets on behalf of third-party investors.
The movements of seed capital investments and related items during the year are as follows: Investment securities Other Third-party relating to relating to interests in Non-current HFS AFS FVTPL consolidated consolidated consolidated asset investments investments investments funds funds funds investments Total Group m m m m m m m m Carrying amount at 30 June 2016 76.9 8.8 68.2 143.7 4.8 75.6 11.7 238.5 Reclassification: HFS to consolidated funds 49.3 52.8 3.5 FVTPL to HFS investments 8.8 8.8 Consolidated funds to HFS investments 23.2 60.3 37.1 Consolidated funds to FVTPL investments 1.8 6.0 4.2 Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 11.7 2.5 19.6 19.6 6.2 3.1 10.8 28.3 Carrying amount at 30 June 2017 7.1 11.3 36.0 231.2 11.0 108.9 22.5 210.2 Reclassification: HFS investments to consolidated funds 15.1 24.9 9.8 Consolidated funds to FVTPL investments 8.2 16.6 8.4 Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 14.8 5.7 20.7 20.4 5.5 34.2 21.4 18.1 Carrying amount at 30 June 2018 6.8 5.6 23.5 219.1 5.5 76.1 43.9 228.3 Investment securities in consolidated funds are designated as FVTPL.
Relates to cash and other assets in consolidated funds that are not investment securities.
Included in net purchases, disposals and fair value changes are third party subscriptions of 19.4 million, redemptions of 47.4 million and fair value movements of 6.2 million in relation to consolidated funds.
11 110 0 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments a Non-current assets and non-current liabilities held for sale Where Group companies invest seed capital into funds operated and controlled by the Group and the Group is actively seeking to reduce its Financial instruments not measured at fair value investment and it is considered highly probable that it will relinquish control within a year, the interests in the funds are treated as held for sale Financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, and trade and and are recognised as financial assets and liabilities held for sale.
During the year, two funds FY2016 17: three were seeded in this manner, other payables.
The carrying value of financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value is considered a reasonable approximation met the above criteria, and consequently the assets and liabilities of these funds were initially classified as held for sale.
of fair value as at 30 June 2018 and 2017.
The non-current assets and liabilities held for sale at 30 June 2018 were as follows: The Group considers itself a sponsor of an investment fund when it facilitates the establishment of a fund in which the Group is the 2018 2017 investment manager.
The Group ordinarily provides seed capital in order to provide initial scale and facilitate marketing of the funds to m m third-party investors.
Aggregate interests held by the Group include seed Non-current financial assets held for sale 7.6 7.1 capital, management fees and performance fees.
The Group generates management and performance fee income from managing the Non-current financial liabilities held for sale 0.8 assets on behalf of third-party investors.
Seed capital investments classified as held for sale 6.8 7.1 The movements of seed capital investments and related items during the year are as follows: Investments cease to be classified as held for sale when they are no longer controlled by the Group.
A loss of control may happen through Investment securities Other Third-party sale of the investment and or dilution of the Groups holding.
When investments cease to be classified as held for sale, they are classified relating to relating to interests in Non-current as financial assets designated as FVTPL.
No such fund was transferred to the FVTPL category during the year FY2016 17: one fund was HFS AFS FVTPL consolidated consolidated consolidated asset transferred to the FVTPL category after the Group reduced its interests following investment inflows from third parties.
investments investments investments funds funds funds investments Total Group m m m m m m m m If the fund remains under the control of the Group for more than one year from the original investment date, it will cease to be classified Carrying amount at 30 June 2016 76.9 8.8 68.2 143.7 4.8 75.6 11.7 238.5 as held for sale, and will be consolidated line by line after it is assessed that the Group controls the investment fund in accordance with Reclassification: the requirements of IFRS 10.
During the year, two such funds FY2016 17: two with an aggregate carrying amount of 15.1 million HFS to consolidated funds 49.3 52.8 3.5 FY2016 17: 12.5 million were transferred from held for sale to consolidated funds category.
There was no impact on net assets or comprehensive income as a result of the transfer.
FVTPL to HFS investments 8.8 8.8 Consolidated funds to HFS investments 23.2 60.3 37.1 Included within finance income are gains of 0.4 million FY2016 17: gains of 9.3 million in relation to held for sale investments.
Consolidated funds to FVTPL investments 1.8 6.0 4.2 As the Group considers itself to have one segment refer to note 4, no additional segmental disclosure of held for sale assets or liabilities Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 11.7 2.5 19.6 19.6 6.2 3.1 10.8 28.3 is applicable.
Carrying amount at 30 June 2017 7.1 11.3 36.0 231.2 11.0 108.9 22.5 210.2 b Available-for-sale financial assets Reclassification: Available-for-sale financial assets at 30 June 2018 comprise shares held in equity funds as follows: HFS investments to consolidated funds 15.1 24.9 9.8 2018 2017 Consolidated funds to FVTPL investments 8.2 16.6 8.4 m m Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 14.8 5.7 20.7 20.4 5.5 34.2 21.4 18.1 Equity funds 5.6 11.3 Carrying amount at 30 June 2018 6.8 5.6 23.5 219.1 5.5 76.1 43.9 228.3 Seed capital classified as available-for-sale 5.6 11.3 Investment securities in consolidated funds are designated as FVTPL.
Included within other comprehensive income are gains of 2.6 million FY2016 17: gains of 2.5 million in relation to available-for-sale Relates to cash and other assets in consolidated funds that are not investment securities.
During the year, gains of 3.3 million FY2016 17: nil were reclassified from the available-for-sale reserve to comprehensive Included in net purchases, disposals and fair value changes are third party subscriptions of 19.4 million, redemptions of 47.4 million and fair value movements of 6.2 million in relation to consolidated funds.
income following the disposal of available-for-sale financial assets.
From 1 July 2019, the AFS category will no longer exist and the Group will reclassify all available-for-sale financial assets and measure them as FVTPL investments following the adoption of IFRS 9.
The related accumulated fair value gains of 0.4 million will be reclassified from the available-for-sale fair value reserve to retained earnings on transition, and any future fair value movement will be recognised directly in profit or loss.
c Fair value through profit or loss investments FVTPL investments at 30 June 2018 comprise shares held in debt and equity funds as follows: 2018 2017 m m Equity funds 14.5 30.2 Debt funds 9.0 5.8 Seed capital classified as FVTPL investments 23.5 36.0 Included within finance income are gains of 1.3 million FY2016 17: gains of 9.6 million on the Groups FVTPL investments.
110 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 111 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments continued d Consolidated funds The Group has consolidated 11 investment funds as at 30 June 2018 30 June 2017: 13 investment funds, over which the Group is deemed to have control refer to note 26.
Consolidated funds represent seed capital investments where the Group has held its position for a period greater than one year and its interest represents a controlling stake in the fund in accordance with IFRS 10.
Consolidated fund assets and liabilities are presented line by line after intercompany eliminations.
The table below sets out an analysis of the carrying amounts of interests held by the Group in consolidated investment funds.
2018 2017 m m Investment securities 219.1 231.2 Cash and cash equivalents 6.2 12.4 Other 0.7 1.4 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 76.1 108.9 Consolidated seed capital investments 148.5 133.3 Investment securities represent trading securities held by consolidated investment funds and are designated as at FVTPL.
Note 26 provides a list of the consolidated funds by asset class, and further detailed information at the security level is available in the individual fund financial statements.
Other includes trade receivables, trade payables and accruals.
The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying amount of the assets held.
The Group has not provided financial support or otherwise agreed to be responsible for supporting any consolidated or unconsolidated funds financially.
Included within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are net gains of 4.6 million FY2016 17: 12.8 million gains relating to the Groups share of the results of the individual statements of comprehensive income for each of the consolidated funds, as follows: 2018 2017 m m Interest and dividend income 5.1 7.8 Gains losses on investment securities 3.0 22.4 Change in third-party interests in consolidated funds 2.4 12.5 Other expenses 1.1 4.9 Net gains losses on consolidated funds 4.6 12.8 Included in the Groups cash generated from operations is 3.5 million cash utilised in operations FY2016 17: 3.5 million cash utilised in operations relating to consolidated funds.
As of 30 June 2018, the Groups consolidated funds were domiciled in Guernsey, Indonesia, Luxembourg, Saudi Arabia, and the United States.
e Non-current asset investments Non-current asset investments relate to the Groups holding in closed-end funds and are designated as FVTPL.
Fair value is assessed by taking account of the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise as a result of additional investors subscribing to the fund where the final close of a fund has not occurred.
2018 2017 m m Non-current asset investments 43.9 22.5 Included within finance income are gains of 2.8 million FY2016 17: gains of 2.5 million on the Groups non-current asset investments.
11 112 2 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments continued 21 Financial instrument risk management d Consolidated funds Group The Group has consolidated 11 investment funds as at 30 June 2018 30 June 2017: 13 investment funds, over which the Group is deemed The Group is subject to strategic and business, client, investment, treasury and operational risks throughout its business as discussed in the to have control refer to note 26.
Consolidated funds represent seed capital investments where the Group has held its position for a period Risk management section.
This note discusses the Groups exposure to and management of the following principal risks which arise from the greater than one year and its interest represents a controlling stake in the fund in accordance with IFRS 10.
Consolidated fund assets and financial instruments it uses: credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk.
Where the Group holds units liabilities are presented line by line after intercompany eliminations.
The table below sets out an analysis of the carrying amounts of interests in investment funds, classified either as held for sale, available-for-sale, FVTPL or non-current asset investment financial assets, the related held by the Group in consolidated investment funds.
financial instrument risk disclosures in the note below categorise exposures based on the Groups direct interest in those funds without looking through to the nature of underlying securities.
2018 2017 m m Risk management is the ultimate responsibility of the Board, as noted in the Risk management section on pages 28 to 33.
Investment securities 219.1 231.2 Capital management Cash and cash equivalents 6.2 12.4 It is the Groups policy that all entities within the Group have sufficient capital to meet regulatory and working capital requirements and Other 0.7 1.4 it conducts regular reviews of its capital requirements relative to its capital resources.
Third-party interests in consolidated funds 76.1 108.9 As the Group is regulated by the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority FCA, it is required to maintain appropriate capital and perform Consolidated seed capital investments 148.5 133.3 regular calculations of capital requirements.
This includes development of an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, based Investment securities represent trading securities held by consolidated investment funds and are designated as at FVTPL.
Note 26 provides a list of the consolidated funds upon the FCAs methodologies under the Capital Requirements Directive.
The Groups Pillar III disclosures can be found on the Groups by asset class, and further detailed information at the security level is available in the individual fund financial statements.
These disclosures indicate that the Group had excess capital of 479.7 million as at 30 June 2018 Other includes trade receivables, trade payables and accruals.
30 June 2017: excess capital of 448.3 million over the level of capital required under a Pillar II assessment.
The objective of the assessment is The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying amount of the assets held.
The Group has not provided financial support or otherwise agreed to check that the Group has adequate capital to manage identified risks and the process includes conducting stress tests to identify capital and to be responsible for supporting any consolidated or unconsolidated funds financially.
liquidity requirements under different future scenarios including a potential downturn.
Included within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are net gains of 4.6 million FY2016 17: 12.8 million gains relating to Credit risk the Groups share of the results of the individual statements of comprehensive income for each of the consolidated funds, as follows: The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts 2018 2017 when due.
m m Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis by senior management and the Groups Risk Management and Control function.
Interest and dividend income 5.1 7.8 The Group has a counterparty and cash management policy in place which, in addition to other controls, restricts exposure to any single Gains losses on investment securities 3.0 22.4 counterparty by setting exposure limits and requiring approval and diversification of counterparty banks and other financial institutions.
Change in third-party interests in consolidated funds 2.4 12.5 The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial Other expenses 1.1 4.9 assets subject to credit risk.
Net gains losses on consolidated funds 4.6 12.8 2018 2017 Notes m m Included in the Groups cash generated from operations is 3.5 million cash utilised in operations FY2016 17: 3.5 million cash utilised in Investment securities 19 219.1 231.2 operations relating to consolidated funds.
Non-current financial assets held for sale 19 7.6 7.1 As of 30 June 2018, the Groups consolidated funds were domiciled in Guernsey, Indonesia, Luxembourg, Saudi Arabia, and the United States.
Available-for-sale financial assets 19 5.6 11.3 e Non-current asset investments Fair value through profit or loss investments 19 23.5 36.0 Non-current asset investments relate to the Groups holding in closed-end funds and are designated as FVTPL.
Fair value is assessed by Derivative financial instruments 19 0.3 taking account of the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise as a result of additional investors subscribing to the Trade and other receivables 17 71.2 70.9 fund where the final close of a fund has not occurred.
Cash and cash equivalents 433.0 432.5 2018 2017 Total 760.0 789.3 m m Non-current asset investments 43.9 22.5 Ashmore recognises investment securities by virtue of including consolidated funds on its balance sheet on a line-by-line basis.
The risk management policies and procedures for the consolidated funds is the responsibility of the governing bodies of the funds.
The associated Included within finance income are gains of 2.8 million FY2016 17: gains of 2.5 million on the Groups non-current asset investments.
exposures on credit risk, market risk and foreign exchange risk on the investment securities are monitored by the Groups Risk Management and Control function.
In addition, derivative financial instruments, non-current financial assets held for sale, available-for-sale financial assets and FVTPL investments expose the Group to credit risk from various counterparties, which is monitored and reviewed by the Group.
The Groups cash and cash equivalents, comprising short-term deposits with banks and liquidity funds, are predominantly held with counterparties with credit ratings ranging from A to AAas at 30 June 2018 30 June 2017: A to AAA.
All trade and other receivables are considered to be fully recoverable and none were overdue at year end 30 June 2017: none.
They include fee debtors that arise principally within the Groups investment management business.
They are monitored regularly and, historically, default levels have been insignificant, and, unless a client has withdrawn funds, there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and the client.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk in respect of fees owing from clients.
112 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 113 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or other financial assets.
In order to manage liquidity risk, there is a Group Liquidity Policy to ensure that there is sufficient access to funds to cover all forecast committed requirements for the next 12 months.
The maturity profile of the Groups contractual undiscounted financial liabilities is as follows: At 30 June 2018 More than Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 0.8 0.8 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 33.2 42.9 76.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Current trade and other payables 57.3 57.3 91.4 42.9 134.3 At 30 June 2017 More than Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m Third-party interests in consolidated funds 53.8 55.1 108.9 Current trade and other payables 64.2 64.2 118.0 55.1 173.1 Details of leases and other commitments are provided in note 30.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The principal interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain a reduction in interest income through adverse movements in interest rates.
This relates to bank deposits held in the ordinary course of business.
The Group has a cash management policy which monitors cash levels and returns within set parameters on a continuing basis.
Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits 2018 2017 % % Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 1.04 0.67 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
At 30 June 2018, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, profit before tax for the year would have been 2.2 million higher lower FY2016 17: 2.0 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on cash balances.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model to calculate the effect on profit before tax.
In addition, the Group is indirectly exposed to interest rate risk where the Group holds seed capital investments in funds that invest in debt securities.
11 114 4 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued Group Liquidity risk Foreign exchange risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign by delivering cash or other financial assets.
In order to manage liquidity risk, there is a Group Liquidity Policy to ensure that there is sufficient access to funds to cover all forecast The Groups revenue is almost entirely denominated in US dollars, while the majority of the Groups costs are denominated in Sterling.
committed requirements for the next 12 months.
Consequently, the Group has an exposure to movements in the GBP:USD exchange rate.
In addition, the Group operates globally, which means that it may enter into contracts and other arrangements denominated in local currencies in various countries.
The Group also holds The maturity profile of the Groups contractual undiscounted financial liabilities is as follows: a number of seed capital investments denominated mainly in US dollars, Colombian pesos and Indonesian rupiah.
At 30 June 2018 The Groups policy is to hedge a proportion of the Groups revenue by using a combination of forward foreign exchange contracts and options More than for a period of up to two years forward.
The Group also sells US dollars at spot rates when opportunities arise.
Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m The table below shows the Groups sensitivity to a 1.0% exchange movement in the US dollar, Colombian peso and the Euro, net of hedging Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 0.8 0.8 activities.
Third-party interests in consolidated funds 33.2 42.9 76.1 2018 2017 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Impact on Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact on Current trade and other payables 57.3 57.3 before tax equity before tax equity Foreign currency sensitivity test m m m m 91.4 42.9 134.3 US dollar - 1% 1.4 2.6 1.8 2.6 At 30 June 2017 Euro - 1% 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 More than Colombian peso - 1% 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m Price risk Third-party interests in consolidated funds 53.8 55.1 108.9 Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of market changes.
Current trade and other payables 64.2 64.2 118.0 55.1 173.1 Seed capital The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in market prices in respect of seed capital investments.
Such price risk is borne by the Group Details of leases and other commitments are provided in note 30. directly through interests in available-for-sale and non-current asset seed capital investments or indirectly either through line-by-line consolidation of underlying financial performance and positions held in certain funds or potential impairments when fair values less costs to sell of seed Interest rate risk investments held for sale are less than carrying amounts.
Details of seed capital investments held are given in note 20.
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group has well-defined procedures governing the appraisal, approval and monitoring of seed capital investments.
The principal interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain a reduction in interest income through adverse movements in interest At 30 June 2018, a 5% movement in the fair value of these investments would have had a 11.4 million FY2016 17: 10.5 million impact rates.
The Group has a cash management policy which monitors cash on net assets and the impact on profit before tax would have been 2.0 million FY2016 17: 3.3 million.
levels and returns within set parameters on a continuing basis.
Management and performance fees Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest The Group is also indirectly exposed to price risk in connection with the Groups management fees, which are based on a percentage of value earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: of AuM, and fees based on performance.
Movements in market prices, exchange and interest rates could cause the AuM to fluctuate, which in turn could affect fees earned.
Performance fee revenues could also be reduced depending upon market conditions.
Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits 2018 2017 Management and performance fees are diversified across a range of investment themes and are not measurably correlated to any single % % market index in Emerging Markets.
In addition, the policy of having funds with year ends staged throughout the financial year has meant that in Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 1.04 0.67 periods of steep market decline, some performance fees have still been recorded.
The profitability impact is likely to be less than this, as cost mitigation actions would apply, including the reduction of the variable compensation paid to employees.
Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Using the year end AuM level of US$73.9 billion and applying the years average net management fee rate of 49bps, a 5% movement At 30 June 2018, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, profit before tax in AuM would have a US$18.1 million impact, equivalent to 13.7 million using year end exchange rate of 1.3200, on management fee for the year would have been 2.2 million higher lower FY2016 17: 2.0 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on revenues FY2016 17: using the year end AuM level of US$58.7 billion and applying the years average net management fee rate of 52bps, a cash balances.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model 5% movement in AuM would have a US$15.3 million impact, equivalent to 11.8 million using year end exchange rate of 1.2946, on to calculate the effect on profit before tax.
Hedging activities The Group uses forward and option contracts to hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk.
These hedges, which have been assessed as effective cash flow hedges as at 30 June 2018, protect a proportion of the Groups revenue cash flows from foreign exchange movements.
The cumulative fair value of the outstanding foreign exchange hedges liability at 30 June 2018 was 0.1 million 30 June 2017: 0.3 million foreign exchange hedges asset and is included within the Groups derivative financial instrument liabilities.
114 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 115 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued The notional and fair values of foreign exchange hedging instruments were as follows: 2018 2017 Fair value Fair value Notional assets Notional assets amount liabilities amount liabilities m m m m Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange nil-cost option collars 70.0 0.1 60.0 0.3 70.0 0.1 60.0 0.3 The maturity profile of the Groups outstanding hedges is shown below.
2018 2017 m m Notional amount of option collars maturing: Within 6 months 70.0 30.0 6-12 months 30.0 70.0 60.0 When hedges are assessed as effective, intrinsic value gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and later reclassified to comprehensive income as the corresponding hedged cash flows crystallise.
Time value in relation to the Groups hedges is excluded from being part of the hedging item and, as a result, the net unrealised loss related to the time value of the hedges is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year.
A 0.2 million intrinsic gain FY2016 17: 3.8 million intrinsic gain on the Groups hedges has been recognised through other comprehensive income and 1.2 million intrinsic value gain FY2016 17: 3.7 million intrinsic value loss was reclassified from equity to the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
Included within the net realised and unrealised hedging gain of 1.8 million note 7 recognised at 30 June 2018 2.8 million loss at 30 June 2017 are: a 0.6 million gain in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ending 30 June 2018 FY2016 17: 0.9 million gain in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ended 30 June 2017 : and a 1.2 million gain in respect of crystallised foreign exchange contracts FY2016 17: 3.7 million loss.
Company The risk management processes of the Company, including those relating to the specific risk exposures covered below, are aligned with those of the Group as a whole unless stated otherwise.
In addition, the risk definitions that apply to the Group are also relevant for the Company.
Credit risk The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial assets subject to credit risk by credit rating: 2018 2017 m m Cash and cash equivalents 159.2 229.7 Trade and other receivables 467.9 398.0 Total 627.1 627.7 The Companys cash and cash equivalents comprise short-term deposits held with banks and liquidity funds which have credit ratings ranging from A to AAas at 30 June 2018 30 June 2017: A to AAA.
Liquidity risk The contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to the Companys financial liabilities all fall due within one year.
Details on leases and other commitments are provided in note 30.
11 116 6 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued Company The notional and fair values of foreign exchange hedging instruments were as follows: Interest rate risk The principal interest rate risk for the Company is that it could sustain a reduction in interest revenue from bank deposits held in the ordinary 2018 2017 course of business through adverse movements in interest rates.
Fair value Fair value Notional assets Notional assets Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the Companys balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest amount liabilities amount liabilities m m m m earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: Cash flow hedges Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits Foreign exchange nil-cost option collars 70.0 0.1 60.0 0.3 2018 2017 % % 70.0 0.1 60.0 0.3 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 0.67 0.30 The maturity profile of the Groups outstanding hedges is shown below.
2018 2017 m m Notional amount of option collars maturing: At 30 June 2018, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for Within 6 months 70.0 30.0 the year would have been 1.6 million higher lower FY2016 17: 1.1 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on cash 6-12 months 30.0 balances.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model to calculate the effect on post-tax profits.
70.0 60.0 When hedges are assessed as effective, intrinsic value gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and later Foreign exchange risk reclassified to comprehensive income as the corresponding hedged cash flows crystallise.
Time value in relation to the Groups hedges is The Company is exposed primarily to foreign exchange risk in respect of US dollar cash balances and US dollar-denominated intercompany excluded from being part of the hedging item and, as a result, the net unrealised loss related to the time value of the hedges is recognised in balances.
However, such risk is not hedged by the Company.
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year.
At 30 June 2018, if the US dollar had strengthened weakened by 1% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, profit before tax A 0.2 million intrinsic gain FY2016 17: 3.8 million intrinsic gain on the Groups hedges has been recognised through other comprehensive for the year would have increased decreased by 4.8 million FY2016 17: increased decreased by 3.9 million.
income and 1.2 million intrinsic value gain FY2016 17: 3.7 million intrinsic value loss was reclassified from equity to the statement of 22 Share capital comprehensive income in the year.
Authorised share capital Included within the net realised and unrealised hedging gain of 1.8 million note 7 recognised at 30 June 2018 2.8 million loss at 2018 2017 30 June 2017 are: 2018 Nominal 2017 Nominal Number of value Number value a 0.6 million gain in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ending 30 June 2018 Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 FY2016 17: 0.9 million gain in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ended Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 900,000,000 90 900,000,000 90 30 June 2017 : and a 1.2 million gain in respect of crystallised foreign exchange contracts FY2016 17: 3.7 million loss.
Issued share capital allotted and fully paid 2018 2017 Company 2018 Nominal 2017 Nominal Number of value Number value The risk management processes of the Company, including those relating to the specific risk exposures covered below, are aligned with Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 those of the Group as a whole unless stated otherwise.
Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 712,740,804 71 712,740,804 71 In addition, the risk definitions that apply to the Group are also relevant for the Company.
All the above ordinary shares represent equity of the Company and rank pari passu in respect of participation and voting rights.
Credit risk At 30 June 2018, there were equity-settled share awards issued under the Omnibus Plan totalling 40,470,000 30 June 2017: 38,579,871 The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial shares that have release dates ranging from September 2018 to December 2022.
Further details are provided in note 10. assets subject to credit risk by credit rating: 2018 2017 23 Own shares m m The Trustees of The Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust EBT acquire and hold shares in Ashmore Group plc with a view to facilitating the Cash and cash equivalents 159.2 229.7 vesting of share awards.
As at the year end, the EBT owned 36,679,643 30 June 2017: 38,701,321 ordinary shares of 0.01p with a nominal value of 3,668 30 June 2017: 3,870 and shareholders funds are reduced by 112.4 million 30 June 2017: 115.4 million in this respect.
Trade and other receivables 467.9 398.0 The EBT is periodically funded by the Company for these purposes.
Total 627.1 627.7 The Companys cash and cash equivalents comprise short-term deposits held with banks and liquidity funds which have credit ratings ranging from A to AAas at 30 June 2018 30 June 2017: A to AAA.
116 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 117 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Treasury shares Treasury shares held by the Company 2018 2017 Group and Company Number m Number m Ashmore Group plc ordinary shares 5,368,331 6.9 5,368,331 6.9 Reconciliation of treasury shares 2018 2017 Number Number At the beginning and end of the year 5,368,331 5,368,331 The market value of treasury shares was 20.0 million at the year end 30 June 2017: 19.0 million.
25 Trade and other payables Group Group Company Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Current Trade and other payables 23.4 29.5 27.1 26.7 Accruals and deferred income 33.9 34.7 2.1 1.9 Amounts due to subsidiaries 46.8 40.0 Total trade and other payables 57.3 64.2 76.0 68.6 26 Interests in subsidiaries Operating subsidiaries Movements in investments in subsidiaries during the year were as follows: 2018 2017 Company m m Cost At 30 June 2017 19.9 20.0 Disposals 0.1 At 30 June 2018 19.9 19.9 In the opinion of the Directors, the following subsidiary undertakings principally affected the Groups results or financial position at 30 June 2018.
A full list of the Groups subsidiaries and all related undertakings is disclosed in note 33.
Country of incorporation formation and % of equity principal place shares held Name of operation by the Group Ashmore Investments UK Limited England 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management Limited England 100.00 Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited England 100.00 Ashmore Management Company Colombia SAS Colombia 61.38 Ashmore CAF-AM Management Company SAS Colombia 53.66 Ashmore Management Company Limited Guernsey 100.00 PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Indonesia 66.67 Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Japan 100.00 AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Mauritius 55.00 Ashmore Investments Holdings Limited Mauritius 100.00 Ashmore Investments Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia 90.00 Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation USA 100.00 Ashmore Investment Advisors US Corporation USA 100.00 Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC USA 100.00 11 118 8 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Treasury shares Consolidated funds The Group consolidated the following investment funds as at 30 June 2018 over which the Group is deemed to have control: Treasury shares held by the Company 2018 2017 Country of % of net Group and Company Number m Number m incorporation assets value principal place of held by the Ashmore Group plc ordinary shares 5,368,331 6.9 5,368,331 6.9 Name Type of fund operation Group Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP Alternatives Guernsey 50.00 Reconciliation of treasury shares Ashmore Emerging Markets Distressed Debt Fund Corporate debt Guernsey 40.05 2018 2017 Number Number Ashmore Emerging Markets Debt and Currency Fund Limited Blended debt Guernsey 100.00 At the beginning and end of the year 5,368,331 5,368,331 Ashmore Dana USD Nusantara External debt Indonesia 61.72 Ashmore SICAV 2 Global Bond Fund Local currency Luxembourg 100.00 The market value of treasury shares was 20.0 million at the year end 30 June 2017: 19.0 million.
Ashmore SICAV Multi Asset Fund Multi-asset Luxembourg 51.71 25 Trade and other payables Ashmore SICAV Investment Grade Total Return Fund Blended debt Luxembourg 78.92 Group Group Company Company Ashmore SICAV Global Small-Cap Equity Fund Equity Luxembourg 44.74 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Ashmore Saudi Equity Fund Equity Saudi Arabia 65.62 Current Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity Fund Equity USA 98.08 Trade and other payables 23.4 29.5 27.1 26.7 Ashmore Emerging Markets Active Equity Fund Equity USA 99.38 Accruals and deferred income 33.9 34.7 2.1 1.9 27 Interests in associates Amounts due to subsidiaries 46.8 40.0 The Group held interests in the following associates as at 30 June 2018 that are unlisted: Total trade and other payables 57.3 64.2 76.0 68.6 Country of incorporation % of equity formation and principal shares held by 26 Interests in subsidiaries Name Type Nature of business place of operation the Group Operating subsidiaries VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited Associate Investment management Russia 50% Movements in investments in subsidiaries during the year were as follows: Everbright Ashmore Associate Investment management China 30% 2018 2017 Ashmore Investment Management India LLP Associate Investment management India 30% Company m m Taiping Fund Management Company Associate Investment management China 8.5% Cost Everbright Ashmore includes four related entities.
At 30 June 2017 19.9 20.0 Movements in investments in associates during the year were as follows: Disposals 0.1 2018 2017 At 30 June 2018 19.9 19.9 Associates Associates Joint ventures Total In the opinion of the Directors, the following subsidiary undertakings principally affected the Groups results or financial position at m m m m 30 June 2018.
At the beginning of the year 2.3 1.6 4.7 6.3 Country of Additions disposals 0.1 3.0 2.9 incorporation Share of profit loss 0.4 0.8 0.8 formation and % of equity principal place shares held Distributions 0.2 0.4 0.4 Name of operation by the Group Reclassification from joint venture to associate 0.9 0.9 Ashmore Investments UK Limited England 100.00 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.1 0.1 Ashmore Investment Management Limited England 100.00 At the end of the year 1.7 2.3 2.3 Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited England 100.00 Ashmore Management Company Colombia SAS Colombia 61.38 Ashmore CAF-AM Management Company SAS Colombia 53.66 Ashmore Management Company Limited Guernsey 100.00 PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Indonesia 66.67 Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Japan 100.00 AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Mauritius 55.00 Ashmore Investments Holdings Limited Mauritius 100.00 Ashmore Investments Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia 90.00 Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation USA 100.00 Ashmore Investment Advisors US Corporation USA 100.00 Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC USA 100.00 118 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 119 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Interests in associates continued The summarised aggregate financial information on associates is shown below.
2018 2017 Group m m Total assets 25.4 3.3 Total liabilities 5.7 0.3 Net assets 19.7 3.0 Groups share of net assets 2.2 0.9 Revenue for the year 10.9 8.9 Profit loss for the year 3.2 4.5 Groups share of profit loss for the year 0.4 0.8 The carrying value of the investments in associates includes attributable goodwill that arose on acquisition of the associates.
No permanent impairment is believed to exist relating to the associates.
The Group has undrawn capital commitments of 5.0 million 30 June 2017: 4.9 million to investment funds managed by the associates.
Further details are provided in note 28.
28 Interests in structured entities The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group holds a direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted for either as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset, depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
The Groups interest in structured entities is reflected in the Groups AuM.
The Group is exposed to movements in AuM of structured entities through the potential loss of fee income as a result of client withdrawals.
Outflows from funds are dependent on market sentiment, asset performance and investor considerations.
Further information on these risks can be found in the Business review.
Considering the potential for changes in AuM of structured entities, management has determined that the Groups unconsolidated structured entities include segregated mandates and pooled funds vehicles.
Disclosure of the Groups exposure to unconsolidated structured entities has been made on this basis.
The reconciliation of AuM reported by the Group within unconsolidated structured entities is shown below.
Less: AuM within AuM within unconsolidated consolidated structured Total AuM funds entities US$bn US$bn US$bn 30 June 2018 73.9 0.3 73.6 30 June 2017 58.7 0.3 58.4 Included in the Groups consolidated management fees of 259.7 million FY2016 17: 226.2 million are management fees amounting to 258.0 million FY2016 17: 225.4 million earned from unconsolidated structured entities.
The table below shows the carrying values of the Groups interests in unconsolidated structured entities, recognised in the Group balance sheet, which are equal to the Groups maximum exposure to loss from those interests.
2018 2017 m m Management fees receivable 38.3 35.0 Trade and other receivables 24.3 30.0 Seed capital investments 79.8 76.9 Total exposure 142.4 141.9 The main risk the Group faces from its beneficial interests in unconsolidated structured entities arises from a potential decrease in the fair value of seed capital investments.
The Groups beneficial interests in seed capital investments are disclosed in note 20.
Note 21 includes further information on the Groups exposure to market risk arising from seed capital investments.
12 120 0 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Interests in associates continued The Group has undrawn investment commitments relating to structured entities as follows: The summarised aggregate financial information on associates is shown below.
2018 2017 m m 2018 2017 Group m m AA Development Capital India Fund 1 LLC 1.2 1.2 Total assets 25.4 3.3 Ashmore Andean Fund II, LP 1.4 1.8 Total liabilities 5.7 0.3 Ashmore Emerging Markets Corporate Private Debt Fund 0.3 0.3 Net assets 19.7 3.0 Ashmore I CAF Colombian Infrastructure Senior Debt Fund 13.8 15.0 Groups share of net assets 2.2 0.9 Ashmore I FCP Colombia Infrastructure Fund 0.1 Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP 9.0 1.6 Revenue for the year 10.9 8.9 Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund 1.4 1.4 Profit loss for the year 3.2 4.5 KCH Healthcare LLC 1.8 4.5 Groups share of profit loss for the year 0.4 0.8 VTBC-Ashmore Real Estate Partners I, LP 3.6 3.5 The carrying value of the investments in associates includes attributable goodwill that arose on acquisition of the associates.
No permanent Total undrawn investment commitments 32.5 29.4 impairment is believed to exist relating to the associates.
29 Related party transactions Further details are provided in note 28.
Related parties of the Group include key management personnel, close family members of key management personnel, subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, Ashmore funds, the EBT and the Ashmore Foundation.
Where the Group holds a Key management personnel Group and Company direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted for either The compensation paid to or payable to key management personnel is shown below: as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset, depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
2018 2017 m m The Groups interest in structured entities is reflected in the Groups AuM.
Outflows from funds are dependent on market sentiment, Short-term benefits 1.7 1.4 asset performance and investor considerations.
Defined contribution pension costs Share-based payment benefits 1.2 4.8 Considering the potential for changes in AuM of structured entities, management has determined that the Groups unconsolidated structured entities include segregated mandates and pooled funds vehicles.
Disclosure of the Groups exposure to unconsolidated 2.9 6.2 structured entities has been made on this basis.
Short-term benefits include salary and fees, benefits and cash bonus.
Share-based payment benefits represent the fair value charge to the statement of comprehensive income of current year share awards.
Less: AuM within AuM within unconsolidated Details of the remuneration of Directors are given in the Remuneration report on pages 53 to 69. consolidated structured Total AuM funds entities During the year, there were no other transactions entered into with key management personnel FY2016 17: none.
Aggregate key US$bn US$bn US$bn management personnel interests in consolidated funds at 30 June 2018 were 37.8 million 30 June 2017: 42.4 million.
30 June 2018 73.9 0.3 73.6 Transactions with subsidiaries Company 30 June 2017 58.7 0.3 58.4 Details of transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are shown below: Included in the Groups consolidated management fees of 259.7 million FY2016 17: 226.2 million are management fees amounting 2018 2017 to 258.0 million FY2016 17: 225.4 million earned from unconsolidated structured entities.
m m The table below shows the carrying values of the Groups interests in unconsolidated structured entities, recognised in the Group balance Transactions during the year sheet, which are equal to the Groups maximum exposure to loss from those interests.
Management fees 81.9 110.3 2018 2017 Net dividends 118.4 99.2 m m Loans advanced to repaid by subsidiaries 100.4 76.6 Management fees receivable 38.3 35.0 Amounts receivable or payable to subsidiaries are disclosed in notes 17 and 25 respectively.
Trade and other receivables 24.3 30.0 Seed capital investments 79.8 76.9 Transactions with Ashmore Funds Group Total exposure 142.4 141.9 During the year, the Group received 133.0 million of gross management fees and performance fees FY2016 17: 111.6 million from the 91 funds FY2016 17: 86 funds it manages and which are classified as related parties.
As at 30 June 2018, the Group had receivables due The main risk the Group faces from its beneficial interests in unconsolidated structured entities arises from a potential decrease in the fair value from funds of 5.5 million 30 June 2017: 5.1 million that are classified as related parties.
Transactions with the EBT Group and Company The EBT has been provided with a loan facility to allow it to acquire Ashmore shares in order to satisfy outstanding unvested share awards.
The EBT is included within the results of the Group and the Company.
As at 30 June 2018, the loan outstanding was 102.7 million 30 June 2017: 103.5 million.
Transaction with the Ashmore Foundation Group and Company The Ashmore Foundation is a related party to the Group.
The Foundation was set up to provide financial grants to worthwhile causes within the Emerging Markets countries in which Ashmore invests and or operates with a view to giving back to the countries and communities.
The Group donated 0.1 million to the Foundation during the year FY2016 17: 0.1 million.
120 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 121 Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group and Company have entered into certain property leases.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, taking account of escalation clauses and renewal options, fall due as follows: Group 2018 2017 m m Within 1 year 2.5 3.0 Between 1 and 5 years 3.5 7.3 Later than 5 years 2.3 3.3 8.3 13.6 Company 2018 2017 m m Within 1 year 0.9 1.2 Between 1 and 5 years 4.6 Later than 5 years 1.8 0.9 7.6 Operating lease expenses are disclosed in note 11.
Company The Company has undrawn loan commitments to other Group entities totalling 53.2 million 30 June 2017: 77.5 million to support their investment activities but has no investment commitments of its own 30 June 2017: none.
31 Post-balance sheet events On 18 July 2018 the Group acquired a 56% controlling interest in Ashmore Avenida Investments Real Estate LLP, the holding company of a Colombian real estate investment management firm, for a total consideration of US$14.5 million.
The consideration was settled partly in cash and partly in shares of Ashmore Group plc, with US$800,000 as contingent consideration subject to certain performance criteria being met on fund raising.
The acquisition provides the Group with additional AuM of US$300 million and a platform to expand into other Latin American markets, and over time, develop additional real estate businesses in other Emerging Markets.
The transaction is a non-adjusting post-balance sheet event, full details of the accounting impact of the transaction will be reported in the Interim Report at December 2018.
32 Accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial statements are regularly evaluated and are based upon managements assessment of current and future events.
The principal estimates and judgements that have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
Share-based payment transactions The Group measures the cost of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based awards at fair value at the date of grant and expenses them over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will vest.
Market-related performance conditions are incorporated into the grant price of the awards.
The share-based payment expense for executive awards require the estimation of the likelihood of the performance conditions being met including total shareholder return TSR, investment outperformance, growth in assets under management and profitability targets that are made at the time of granting the awards for equity-settled arrangements and also at the time of vesting of awards.
The Group utilises a third-party service provider to estimate the TSR performance conditions.
12 122 2 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Commitments Classification of seed capital investments The Group invests seed capital from time to time to support the initial launch and growth of new products, such as SICAVs, private equity Operating lease commitments funds and alternative investment funds.
The seed capital investments vary in duration depending on the nature of the product and the time The Group and Company have entered into certain property leases.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable expected to grow the funds to a size and track record required for participation by third-party investors.
The Group reviews the size and nature operating leases, taking account of escalation clauses and renewal options, fall due as follows: of these investments to consider the level of control over the fund and to determine the appropriate classification for accounting either as Group full consolidation where the Group concludes that it has control over the fund, using equity-method accounting where the Group exercises 2018 2017 significant influence or joint control, or as a financial asset classified as available-for-sale, held for sale or at fair value through profit or loss.
m m In the case of seed capital investments, where the Group concludes that it does not have control over the fund, the Group is also not deemed Within 1 year 2.5 3.0 to have significant influence over the fund, and therefore does not apply equity-method accounting.
The Group would account for the seed capital investment as a financial asset, classified either as an available-for-sale financial asset, financial asset held for sale, or a financial asset Between 1 and 5 years 3.5 7.3 at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group considers that its seeding activity is intended to help establish a funds track record and to Later than 5 years 2.3 3.3 provide initial scale until the fund has attracted sufficient third-party capital, at which stage the Group will actively seek to redeem and 8.3 13.6 redeploy the seed capital.
Management exercises judgement to determine whether the Group controls an investment fund under IFRS 10, including making an Company 2018 2017 assessment of whether the Group has power over the fund which the Group exercises primarily for self-benefit.
Management also assesses m m the magnitude of the Groups aggregate economic interest in the fund comprising direct interests, carried interests, expected management Within 1 year 0.9 1.2 fees, fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from funds managed relative to third-party investors, and whether third-party investors have substantive rights to remove the Group from acting as a fund manager without cause.
Between 1 and 5 years 4.6 Later than 5 years 1.8 Management also exercises judgement where the Group is actively seeking to reduce its investment and it is considered highly probable that it will relinquish control within a year, the interests in the funds are treated as held for sale and are recognised as financial assets and liabilities 0.9 7.6 held for sale.
Such investments cease to be classified as held for sale when management has considered that they are no longer controlled by Operating lease expenses are disclosed in note 11. the Group.
A loss of control may happen through sale of the investment and or dilution of the Groups holding.
When investments cease to be classified as held for sale, they are classified as financial assets designated as FVTPL.
If the fund remains under the control of the Group for Company more than one year from the original investment date, it will cease to be classified as held for sale, and will be consolidated line by line after it is The Company has undrawn loan commitments to other Group entities totalling 53.2 million 30 June 2017: 77.5 million to support their assessed that the Group controls the investment fund in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 10. investment activities but has no investment commitments of its own 30 June 2017: none.
The Group has assessed and classified the following fund vehicles as unconsolidated structured entities: 31 Post-balance sheet events Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the Group does not hold any direct interest.
In this case, the Group considers On 18 July 2018 the Group acquired a 56% controlling interest in Ashmore Avenida Investments Real Estate LLP, the holding company of a that its aggregate economic exposure is insignificant and, in relation to segregated mandates, the third-party investor has the practical Colombian real estate investment management firm, for a total consideration of US$14.5 million.
The consideration was settled partly in cash ability to remove the Group from acting as fund manager, without cause.
As a result, the Group concludes that it acts as an agent for and partly in shares of Ashmore Group plc, with US$800,000 as contingent consideration subject to certain performance criteria being met on third-party investors.
The acquisition provides the Group with additional AuM of US$300 million and a platform to expand into other Latin American Pooled funds managed by the Group where the Group holds a direct interest, for example seed capital investments, and the Groups markets, and over time, develop additional real estate businesses in other Emerging Markets.
aggregate economic exposure in the fund relative to third-party investors is less than 20% i. e. the threshold established by the Group for The transaction is a non-adjusting post-balance sheet event, full details of the accounting impact of the transaction will be reported in the determining agent versus principal classification.
As a result, the Group concludes that it is an agent for third-party investors and, therefore, Interim Report at December 2018. will account for its beneficial interest in the fund as a financial asset.
Further details on the carrying values of these seed capital financial assets have been disclosed in note 20.
32 Accounting estimates and judgements The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities is provided in note 28.
Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial statements are regularly evaluated and are based upon managements assessment of current and future events.
The principal estimates and judgements that have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and Rebates calculations liabilities are discussed below.
Management fee rebates payable to customers is an area of focus as individual rebate agreements include bespoke, complex rebate calculations.
Although there is no significant estimation or judgement involved, the calculation of rebates is complex and requires correct Share-based payment transactions application of the agreed formula within each rebate agreement.
The Group has an automated system to calculate the majority of management The Group measures the cost of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based awards at fair value at the date of grant and expenses them fee rebates.
The rebate rates are subject to periodic amendments, as a result, transactions in the financial statements require complete and over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will vest.
Market-related performance conditions are incorporated accurate communication of rebate rates between several teams.
In addition, the assets under management used for rebate calculations are into the grant price of the awards.
The share-based payment expense for executive awards require the estimation of the likelihood of the sourced from different parties including outsourced service organisations and internal teams.
The reconciliation of assets under management performance conditions being met including total shareholder return TSR, investment outperformance, growth in assets under management used in calculating rebates are regularly reviewed by management.
and profitability targets that are made at the time of granting the awards for equity-settled arrangements and also at the time of vesting of awards.
122 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 123 Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Subsidiaries and related undertakings The following is a full list of the Ashmore Group plc subsidiaries and related undertakings as at 30 June 2018 pursuant to the requirements of Statutory Instrument 2015 No.
80 The Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2015.
The list includes the Groups subsidiaries and related undertakings, all significant holdings greater than 20% interest, associate undertakings, joint ventures and significant holdings in Ashmore sponsored public funds in which the Group has invested seed capital: Name Classification % interest Registered address Ashmore Investments UK Limited Subsidiary 100.00 61 Aldwych, London WC2B 4AE United Kingdom Ashmore Investment Management Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Aldwych Administration Services Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Asset Management Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation Subsidiary 100.00 475 Fifth Avenue, 15th Floor New York, 10017 Ashmore Investment Advisors US Corporation Subsidiary 100.00 USA Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Subsidiary 100.00 1 George Street #15-04, Singapore 049145 PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Subsidiary 66.67 18 Parc SCBD Tower E, 8th Floor Jl.
52-53 Ashmore Dana USD Nusantara Consolidated fund 61.72 Jakarta 12190, Indonesia Ashmore Dana USD Equity Nusantara Significant holding 22.66 Ashmore Management Company Colombia SAS Subsidiary 61.38 Carrera 7 No.
75 -66, Office 702 Bogot, Colombia Ashmore-CAF-AM Management Company SAS Subsidiary 53.66 Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Subsidiary 100.00 11F, Shin Marunouchi Building 1-5-1 Marunouchi Chiyoda-ku Tokyo Japan 100-6511 Ashmore Investments Colombia SL Subsidiary 100.00 c Hermosilla 11, 4A 28001 Madrid, Spain Ashmore Management DIFC Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Office 105, Gate Village 03, Level 1 Dubai International Financial Centre Dubai, UAE AA Indian Development Capital Advisors Private Limited in liquidation Subsidiary 100.00 507A Kakad Chambers Dr Annie Besant Road Ashmore Investment Advisors India Private Limited Subsidiary 99.82 Worli Ashmore-Centrum India Opportunities Investment Advisers Private Subsidiary 51.00 Mumbai 400 018 Limited in liquidation India Ashmore-Centrum Funds Trustee Company Private Limited Subsidiary 51.00 in liquidation Ashmore Investment Saudi Arabia Subsidiary 90.00 3rd Floor Tower B Olaya Towers Ashmore Saudi Equity Fund Consolidated fund 65.62 Olaya Main Street Riyadh, Saudi Arabia AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Subsidiary 55.00 Les Cascades Building 33 Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis Ashmore Investments Holdings Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Mauritius Ashmore Emerging Markets Special Situation Opportunities Fund Subsidiary 100.00 Trafalgar Court GP Limited Les Banques St Peter Port Ashmore Management Company Limited Subsidiary 100.00 GY1 3QL Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 3 GP Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Guernsey Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 4 GP Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 5 GP Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Special Opportunities GP Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP Consolidated fund 50.00 Ashmore Emerging Markets Distressed Debt Fund Consolidated fund 40.05 Ashmore Emerging Markets Debt and Currency Fund Limited Consolidated fund 100.00 12 124 4 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Subsidiaries and related undertakings Name Classification % interest Registered address The following is a full list of the Ashmore Group plc subsidiaries and related undertakings as at 30 June 2018 pursuant to the requirements of Statutory Instrument 2015 No.
The list includes the Ashmore SICAV Absolute Return Debt Fund Significant holding 27.69 6 rue Lou Hemmer Groups subsidiaries and related undertakings, all significant holdings greater than 20% interest, associate undertakings, joint ventures and L 1748 Senningerberg Ashmore SICAV 2 Global Bond Fund Consolidated fund 100.00 significant holdings in Ashmore sponsored public funds in which the Group has invested seed capital: GrandDuchy of Luxembourg Ashmore SICAV Multi-Asset Fund Consolidated fund 51.71 Name Classification % interest Registered address Ashmore SICAV Active Equity Fund Significant holding 28.41 Ashmore Investments UK Limited Subsidiary 100.00 61 Aldwych, London WC2B 4AE Ashmore SICAV Investment Grade Total Return Fund Consolidated fund 78.92 United Kingdom Ashmore Investment Management Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity Fund Consolidated fund 98.08 475 Fifth Avenue, 15th Floor Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited Subsidiary 100.00 New York, 10017 Ashmore Emerging Markets Active Equity Fund Consolidated fund 99.38 USA Aldwych Administration Services Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Investment Consulting Beijing Co. Limited in liquidation Subsidiary 100.00 Room 3401, Tower 1, China World Ashmore Asset Management Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Trade Center Office, No.
1 Jian Wai Da Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation Subsidiary 100.00 475 Fifth Avenue, 15th Floor Jie, Chaoyang District New York, 10017 Ashmore Investment Advisors US Corporation Subsidiary 100.00 Beijing, China USA Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC Subsidiary 100.00 Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund Significant holding 22.78 89 Nexus Way Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Subsidiary 100.00 1 George Street Camana Bay, Grand Cayman #15-04, Singapore 049145 KY1-9007, Cayman Islands PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Subsidiary 66.67 18 Parc SCBD Tower E, 8th Floor Everbright Ashmore Services and Consulting Limited Associate 30.00 c o Appleby Trust Cayman Ltd. Jl.
52-53 Ashmore Dana USD Nusantara Consolidated fund 61.72 Clifton House, 75 Fort Street EA Team Investment Partners Limited Associate 30.00 Jakarta 12190, Indonesia Ashmore Dana USD Equity Nusantara Significant holding 22.66 PO Box 1350, Grand Cayman KY-1108, Cayman Islands Ashmore Management Company Colombia SAS Subsidiary 61.38 Carrera 7 No.
75 -66, Office 702 Bogot, Colombia Everbright Ashmore Real Estate Partners Limited Associate 30.00 190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, Ashmore-CAF-AM Management Company SAS Subsidiary 53.66 Grand Cayman Everbright Ashmore Investment Management Limited Associate 30.00 Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Subsidiary 100.00 11F, Shin Marunouchi Building 1-5-1 KY1-9007, Cayman Islands Marunouchi Chiyoda-ku Tokyo Japan Ashmore Investment Management India LLP Associate 30.00 507A Kakad Chambers 100-6511 Dr Annie Besant Road Ashmore Investments Colombia SL Subsidiary 100.00 c Hermosilla 11, 4A Worli, Mumbai 400 018 28001 Madrid, Spain India Ashmore Management DIFC Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Office 105, Gate Village 03, Level 1 Taiping Fund Management Company Limited Associate 8.50 Unit 101, Building No.
5, 135 Handan Dubai International Financial Centre Road, Shanghai, China Dubai, UAE VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited Associate 50.00 Trafalgar Court AA Indian Development Capital Advisors Private Limited in liquidation Subsidiary 100.00 507A Kakad Chambers Les Banques Dr Annie Besant Road VTBC-Ashmore Investment Management Limited Associate 50.00 Ashmore Investment Advisors India Private Limited Subsidiary 99.82 St Peter Port Worli VTBC-Ashmore Partnership Management 1 Limited Associate 50.00 Ashmore-Centrum India Opportunities Investment Advisers Private Subsidiary 51.00 GY1 3QL Mumbai 400 018 Limited in liquidation Guernsey India Ashmore-Centrum Funds Trustee Company Private Limited Subsidiary 51.00 in liquidation Ashmore Investment Saudi Arabia Subsidiary 90.00 3rd Floor Tower B Olaya Towers Ashmore Saudi Equity Fund Consolidated fund 65.62 Olaya Main Street Riyadh, Saudi Arabia AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Subsidiary 55.00 Les Cascades Building 33 Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis Ashmore Investments Holdings Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Mauritius Ashmore Emerging Markets Special Situation Opportunities Fund Subsidiary 100.00 Trafalgar Court Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements GP Limited Les Banques It is possible that this document could or may contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well St Peter Port Ashmore Management Company Limited Subsidiary 100.00 as assumptions about future events.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical GY1 3QL Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 3 GP Limited Subsidiary 100.00 or current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, Guernsey Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 4 GP Limited Subsidiary 100.00 should, would, could or other words of similar meaning.
Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 5 GP Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and Ashmore Special Opportunities GP Limited Subsidiary 100.00 uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Groups plans and objectives, to differ materially from Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP Consolidated fund 50.00 those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
There are several factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements.
Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those Ashmore Emerging Markets Distressed Debt Fund Consolidated fund 40.05 described in the forward-looking statements are changes in global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, Ashmore Emerging Markets Debt and Currency Fund Limited Consolidated fund 100.00 future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions.
The Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement contained within this document, regardless of whether those statements are affected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
124 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 125
