Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies Basis of presentation of Basis of accounting Accruals for tax contingencies require financialinformation The Company Financial Statements are management to make judgements of potential These financial statements were prepared prepared under the historical cost convention, exposures in relation to tax audit issues.
Tax in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. benefits are not recognised unless the tax Disclosure Framework.
positions will probably be sustained based upon The following paragraphs describe the managements interpretation of applicable laws In preparing these financial statements, the main accounting policies, which have been and regulations and the likelihood of settlement.
Company applied the recognition, measurement applied consistently.
and disclosure requirements of International Once considered probable of not being Foreign currencies Financial Reporting Standards as adopted sustained, management reviews each material Profit and loss account items in foreign by the EU Adopted IFRSs, but makes tax benefit to assess whether a provision currencies are translated into US dollars at amendments where necessary in order to should be taken against full recognition of the average rates for the relevant accounting comply with the Companies Act 2006 and has benefit on the basis of potential settlement periods.
Monetary assets and liabilities are set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 through negotiation and or litigation.
Accruals translated at exchange rates prevailing at the disclosure exemptions has been taken.
for tax contingencies are measured using the date of the Company Balance Sheet.
Exchange single best estimate of likely outcome approach.
In these financial statements, the Company has gains and losses on loans and on short-term applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 foreign currency borrowings and deposits are Investments in respect of the following disclosures: included within net interest payable.
Exchange Fixed asset investments, including investments differences on all other transactions are taken in subsidiaries, are stated at cost and reviewed Statement of Cash Flows and related notes to operating profit.
for impairment if there are indications that the disclosures in respect of transactions with carrying value may not be recoverable.
wholly owned subsidiaries Taxation disclosures in respect of The current tax payable is based on taxable Share-based payments capital management profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from The issuance by the Company to employees of the effects of new but not yet reported profit because taxable profit excludes its subsidiaries of a grant of awards over the effective IFRSs items that are either never taxable or tax Companys shares, represents additional disclosures in respect of the compensation deductible or items that are taxable or tax capital contributions by the Company to its of Key Management Personnel.
An additional investment in current tax assets and liabilities are calculated subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase As the Group Financial Statements presented using tax rates that have been enacted or in shareholders equity.
The additional capital on pages 135 to 193 include the equivalent substantively enacted by the reporting date.
contribution is based on the fair value of the disclosures, the Company has also taken the grant issued, allocated over the underlying exemptions under FRS 101 available in Deferred tax is provided using the balance grants vesting period, less the market cost of respect of the following disclosures: sheet liability method, providing for temporary shares charged to subsidiaries in settlement differences between the carrying amounts of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in respect of such share awards.
assets and liabilities for financial reporting of Group settled share-based payments purposes and the amounts used for taxation Financial instruments certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised Interest-bearing loans are initially measured at Fair Value Measurement and the to the extent that it is probable that taxable fair value with direct transaction costs being disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial profit will be available against which the asset amortised over the life of the loan and are Instrument Disclosures.
This requires judgements to subsequently measured at amortised cost No individual profit and loss account is be made in respect of the availability of future using the effective rate method at each prepared as provided by section 408 of the taxable income.
Changes in carrying value are Companies Act 2006. recognised in profit.
No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised The accounting policies set out below have, in respect of temporary differences associated Litigation unless otherwise stated, been applied with investments in subsidiaries and branches Through the normal course of business, consistently to all periods presented in these where the Company is able to control the timing the AstraZeneca Group is involved in legal financial statements.
of reversal of the temporary differences and it disputes, the settlement of which may involve is probable that the temporary differences will cost to the Company.
Provision is made where not reverse in the foreseeable future.
an adverse outcome is probable and associated costs can be estimated reliably.
In other cases, The Companys deferred tax assets and appropriate descriptions are included.
liabilities are calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Company Accounting Policies 207
