110 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate information Registered Office: The Brew House Greenalls Avenue Warrington WA4 6HL Company Secretary: Orla Ball Auditor: Deloitte LLP 2 Hardman Street Manchester M3 3HF Legal Advisors: Ernst & Young LLP 100 Barbirolli Square Manchester M2 3EY Stockbrokers: Stifel Nicolaus Europe Limited 150 Cheapside London EC2V 6ET JP Morgan Securities Limited 25 Bank Street Canary Wharf London E14 5JP Bankers: Barclays Bank plc HSBC plc Santander UK plc The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 111 Forward-looking statements This document contains certain statements that are neither reported financial results nor other historical information.
These statements are forward-looking in nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Many of these risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond Assuras ability to control or estimate precisely, such as future market conditions, the behaviour of other market participants, the actions of governmental regulators and other risk factors such as the Companys ability to continue to obtain financing to meet its liquidity needs, changes in the political, social and regulatory framework in which the Company operates or in economic or technological trends or conditions, including inflation and consumer confidence, on a global, regional or national basis.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forwardlooking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document.
Assura does not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Information contained in this document relating to the Company should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
112 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Notes This report is printed on Galerie Satin and Inspirawhich is made from pulp sourced from well-managed forests and other controlled sources.
Both the paper and the print factory areFSC Forest Stewardship Council certified.
Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Assura plc The Brew House Greenalls Avenue Warrington WA4 6HL T: 01925 420660 F: 01925 234503 E: info@assura.
