108 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Glossary AGM is Annual General Meeting.
District Valuer DV is the District GMS is General Medical Services.
Valuer Service being the commercial arm Average Debt Maturity is each tranche of the Valuation Office Agency VOA.
Gross Rental Income is the gross of Group debt multiplied by theremaining Itprovides professional property advice accounting rent receivable.
period to its maturity andthe result across the public sector and in respect divided by total Group debt in issue ofprimary healthcare represents Group is Assura plc and its subsidiaries.
NHSbodies on matters of valuation, rentreviews and initial rents on IFRS is International Financial Average Interest Rate is the Group loan newdevelopments.
ReportingStandards as adopted interest and derivative costs per annum at bytheEuropean Union.
the year end, divided by total Group debt Earnings per Ordinary Share from in issue at the year end.
Continuing Operations EPS is the Interest Cover is the number of times profit attributable to equity holders of the net interest payable is covered by EPRA BMA is the British Medical Association.
parent divided by the weighted average earnings before net interest.
number of shares in issue during British Property Federation is the the period.
Interest Rate Swap is a contract to membership organisation, and the voice, exchange fixed payments for floating of the UK real estate industry.
European Public Real Estate payments linked to an interest rate, and Association EPRA is the industry is generally used to manage exposure Building Research Establishment body for European REITs.
EPRA is a to fluctuations in interest rates.
Environmental Assessment Method registered trade mark of the European BREEAM assesses the sustainability Public Real Estate Association.
IPD is Investment Property Databank of buildings against arange of criteria.
Limited which provides performance EPRA Net Asset Value EPRA NAV analysis for most typesofreal estate and Clinical Commissioning Groups is the balance sheet net assets excluding produces anindependent benchmark of CCGs are the groups of GPs and own shares held, mark to market propertyreturns.
other healthcare professionals that took derivative financial instruments including over commissioning of primary and associates and deferred taxation.
IPD All Healthcare Index is Investment secondary healthcare from PCTs in Property Databanks UK Annual England with effect 1 April 2013.
EPRA NNNAV is the EPRA NAV Healthcare Property Index.
adjusted to reflect the fair value of Code is the UK Corporate Governance debtand derivatives.
IPD Total Return is calculated as the Code 2014, a full copy of which is change in capital value, less any capital available on the website of the Financial Equivalent Yield is a weighted average expenditure incurred, plus net income, Reporting Council.
of the Net Initial Yield and Reversionary expressed as a percentage of capital Yield and represents the return a property employed over the period, as calculated Company is Assura plc.
will produce based upon the timing of the by IPD.
The true equivalent yield Debt Service Cover is the number of assumes rents are received quarterly KPI is a Key Performance Indicator.
times net interest payable plus debt inadvance.
The nominal equivalent amortisation is covered by underlying assumes rents are receivedannually Loan to Value LTV is the ratio ofnet profit before net interest.
debt to the total value of propertyassets.
Direct Property Costs comprise ground Estimated Rental Value ERV isthe rents payable under head leases, void external valuers opinion as to theopen London Interbank Offered Rate costs, other direct irrecoverable property market rent which, on the dateof LIBOR is the interest rate charged by expenses, rentreview fees and valuation, could reasonably beexpected one bank to another for lending money.
to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 109 Mark to Market is the difference Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Total Accounting Return is the overall between the book value of anasset is a listed property company which return generated by the Group including orliability and its market value.
qualifies for and has elected into a tax the impact of debt.
It is calculated as the regime which exempts qualifying UK movement on EPRA NAV for the year plus NAV is Net Asset Value.
profits, arising from property rental the dividends paid, divided bythe income and gains on investment property opening EPRA NAV.
Net Initial Yield NIY is the disposals, from corporation tax, but annualised rents generated by an asset, requires the distribution of aPID.
Total Property Return is the overall after the deduction of an estimate of return generated by properties on a annual recurring irrecoverable property Rent Reviews take place at intervals debtfree basis.
It is calculated as the net outgoings, expressed as a percentage agreed in the lease typically every three rental income generated by the portfolio of the asset valuation after notional years and their purpose is usually to plus the change in market values, purchasers costs.
Development adjust the rent to the current market level divided by opening property assets properties are not included.
Net Rental Income is the rental income Rent Roll is the passing rent being the Total Shareholder Return TSR receivable in the period after payment of total of all the contracted rents reserved isthe combination of dividends paid to direct property costs.
Net rental income under the leases.
shareholders and the net movement inthe is quoted on an accounting basis.
share price during the year.
It iscalculated Retail Price Index RPI is an official as the movement in theshare price for the NHS Property Services Limited NHS measure of the general level of inflation as period plus thedividends paid, divided by PropCo is the company, wholly owned reflected in the retail price of a basket of the opening share price.
and funded by the Department of Health, goods and services such as energy, food, which, as of 1 April 2013, has taken on all petrol, housing, household goods, VCP is Value Creation Plan.
property obligations formerly borne by travelling fares, etc.
RPI is commonly the Primary Care Trusts.
computed on a monthly and annual basis.
Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term WAULT is the average lease Primary Care Property is the property Reversionary Yield is the anticipated term remaining to first break, or expiry, occupied by health services providers yield which the initial yield will rise to once across the portfolio weighted by who act as the principal point of the rent reaches the ERV and when the contracted rental income.
consultation for patients such as GP property is fully let.
It is calculated by practices, dental practices, community dividing the ERV by thevaluation.
Yield on cost is the estimated annual pharmacies and high street optometrists.
rent of a completed development divided RPI Linked Leases are those leases by the total cost of development including Property Income Distribution PID which have rent reviews which are linked site value and finance costs expressed as is the required distribution of income to changes in the RPI.
as dividends under the REIT regime.
It is calculated as 90% of exempted Sustainability and Transformation Yield shift is a movement usually net income.
Plans STPs are 44 regional proposals expressed in basis points in the yield of to improve health and care in that area.
aproperty asset or like-for-like portfolio PSP is Performance Share Plan.
Yield compression isa commonly used term for a reduction in yields.
