Additional Information Glossary Market definitions Region Country US US Europe Albania Czech Republic Hungary Luxembourg Serbia and Montenegro Austria Denmark Iceland Malta Slovakia Belgium Estonia Ireland Netherlands Slovenia Bosnia and Herzegovina Finland Israel Norway Spain Bulgaria France Italy Poland Sweden Croatia Germany Latvia Portugal Switzerland Cyprus Greece Lithuania Romania UK Established ROW Australia Canada Japan New Zealand Emerging Markets Algeria Costa Rica Iraq Pakistan Syria Argentina Cuba Jamaica Palestine Taiwan Aruba Dominican Republic Jordan Panama Thailand Bahamas Ecuador Kazakhstan Peru Trinidad and Tobago Bahrain Egypt Kuwait Philippines Tunisia Barbados El Salvador Lebanon Qatar Turkey Belarus Georgia Libya Russia Ukraine Belize Guatemala Malaysia Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates Bermuda Honduras Mexico Singapore Uruguay Brazil Hong Kong Morocco South Africa Venezuela Chile India Nicaragua South Korea Vietnam China Indonesia Oman Sri Lanka Yemen Colombia Iran Other Africa Sudan IQVIA, IQVIA Midas Quantum Q3 2018 data is not available or AstraZeneca does not subscribe for IQVIA quarterly data for these countries.
The above table is not an exhaustive list of all the countries in which AstraZeneca operates, and excludes countries with revenue in 2018 of less than $1 million.
Established Markets means US, Europe and Established ROW.
North America means US and Canada.
Other Established ROW means Australia and New Zealand.
Other Emerging Markets means all Emerging Markets except China.
Other Africa includes Angola, Botswana, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Asia Area comprises India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
US equivalents Terms used in this Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accruals Accrued expenses Called-up share capital Issued share capital Creditors Liabilities payables Debtors Receivables and prepaid expenses Earnings Net income Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans Fixed asset investments Non-current investments Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Loans Long-term debt Prepayments Prepaid expenses Profit Income Share premium account Additional paid in capital or paid in surplus not distributable Short-term investments Redeemable securities and short-term deposits AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Glossary 239 Glossary continued The following abbreviations and expressions have the following Cilag Cilag GmbH International.
meanings when used in this Annual Report: Circassia Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc.
AbbVie AbbVie Inc. CIS Commonwealth of Independent States.
ACA Affordable Care Act the US Patient Protection and Affordable CKD Chronic kidney disease.
Care Act which was signed into law on 23 March 2010 as amended by CMS China Medical System Holdings Ltd. the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act which was signed Code of Ethics the Groups Code of Ethics.
Company or Parent Company AstraZeneca PLC formerly Zeneca Acerta Pharma Acerta Pharma B. V. Group PLC Zeneca.
COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases.
Covis Covis Pharma B. V. ADR an American Depositary Receipt evidencing title to an ADS.
CREST UK-based securities settlement system.
ADS an American Depositary Share representing half an underlying CRL Complete Response Letter.
Aegerion Aegerion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. CRUK Cancer Research UK.
AGM an Annual General Meeting of the Company.
CVRM Cardiovascular, Renal and Metabolism.
Almirall Almirall, S. A. Daiichi Sankyo Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. Amgen Amgen, Inc. Definiens Definiens AG.
Amplimmune Amplimmune, Inc. Director a director of the Company.
ANDA an abbreviated new drug application, which is a marketing DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
approval application for a generic drug submitted to the FDA.
Annual Report this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2018.
DOJ the United States Department of Justice.
DTR UK Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
Aralez Aralez Pharmaceuticals Trading DAC.
earnings per share EPS profit for the year after tax and non-controlling interests, divided by the weighted average Ardea Ardea Biosciences, Inc. number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
Articles the Articles of Association of the Company.
EBITDA Reported Profit before tax plus net finance expense, share Aspen Aspen Global Incorporated.
of after tax losses of joint ventures and associates and charges for Astellas Astellas Pharma Inc. depreciation, amortisation and impairment.
Astra Astra AB, being the company with whom the Company EC European Commission.
EFPIA European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries AstraZeneca the Company and its subsidiaries.
AstraZeneca HealthCare Foundation a Delaware, US not-forEGFR epidermal growth factor receptor.
profitcorporation and a 501 c 3 entity, separate from AstraZeneca EMA European Medicines Agency.
Pharmaceuticals, organised for charitable purposes including to Entasis Entasis Therapeutics Ltd and Entasis Therapeutics Inc. promote public awareness and education of healthcare issues and EPO European Patent Office.
support eligible nonprofit organisations in alignment with its mission.
The Foundation has received $30 million in contributions to date ERK extracellular signal-regulated kinases.
fromAstraZeneca to support the Connections for Cardiovascular ESMO European Society for Medical Oncology.
ESPC Early Stage Product Committee.
BACE beta secretase cleaving enzyme.
EU 5 European Union Five France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK.
biologic s a class of drugs that are produced in living cells.
FDA the US Food and Drug Administration, which is part of the biosimilars a copy of a biologic that is sufficiently similar to US Department of Health and Human Services Agency, which is meet regulatory requirements.
the regulatory authority for all pharmaceuticals including biologics BMS Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
and vaccines and medical devices in the US.
Board the Board of Directors of the Company.
Bureau Veritas Bureau Veritas UK Limited.
FibroGen FibroGen, Inc. CDP a not-for-profit that runs the global disclosure system for FRC Financial Reporting Council.
investors, companies, cities, states and regions to manage their GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
GDPR General Data Protection Regulation.
Celgene Celgene International Srl Celgene Corporation.
GINA Global Initiative for Asthma.
CEO the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
GQCE Generics Quality Consistency Evaluation.
Gilead Gilead Sciences, Inc. CFO the Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
GPPS Global Product and Portfolio Strategy.
CHMP the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use.
240 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Additional Information Additional Information gross margin the margin, as a percentage, by which sales exceed Nasdaq Stockholm previously the Stockholm Stock Exchange.
the cost of sales, calculated by dividing the difference between the NCD non-communicable disease.
NDA a new drug application to the FDA for approval to market a new Group AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
New Medicines Tagrisso, Imfinzi, Lynparza, Calquence, Lumoxiti, GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Farxiga, Brilinta, Lokelma, Bevespi and Fasenra.
NMPA National Medical Products Administration, formerly the China Food and Drug Administration CFDA.
HHA Healthy Heart Africa programme.
HNSCC head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
Novo Nordisk Novo Nordisk A S. HR human resources.
NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer.
IA the Groups Internal Audit Services function.
NYSE the New York Stock Exchange.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
OECD the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
IFPMA International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations.
Omthera Omthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards or International operating profit sales, less cost of sales, less operating costs, Financial Reporting Standard, as the context requires.
IMED Innovative Medicines and Early Development.
Ordinary Share an ordinary share of $0.25 each in the share capital of the Company.
Innate Pharma Innate Pharma S. A. Orphan Drug a drug which has been approved for use in a relatively IO immuno-oncology.
low-incidence indication an orphan indication and has been rewarded IP intellectual property.
with a period of market exclusivity: the period of exclusivity and the IQVIA IQVIA Solutions HQ Limited.
For more information, see page 244. available orphan indications vary between markets.
Ironwood Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. OTC over-the-counter.
Paediatric Exclusivity in the US, a six-month period of exclusivity ISAs International Standards on Auditing.
to market a drug which is awarded by the FDA in return for certain paediatric clinical studies using that drug.
This six-month period runs IT information technology.
from the date of relevant patent expiry.
Analogous provisions are Johnson & Johnson Johnson & Johnson.
available in certain other territories such as European Supplementary KPI key performance indicator.
Protection Certificate SPC paediatric extensions.
krona or SEK references to the currency of Sweden.
PARP an oral poly ADP-ribose polymerase.
Kyowa Hakko Kirin Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co. Ltd. PD-L1 an anti-programmed death-ligand 1.
Pearl Therapeutics Pearl Therapeutics, Inc. LAMA long-acting muscarinic antagonist.
Pfizer Pfizer, Inc. LCM projects significant life-cycle management projects PFS progression-free survival.
The length of time during and after the as determined by potential revenue generation, or line extensions.
treatment of a disease, such as cancer, that a patient lives with the Lean means enhancing value for customers with fewer resources.
disease but it does not get worse.
LEO Pharma LEO Pharma A S. PhRMA Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America.
Lilly Eli Lilly and Company.
Phase I the phase of clinical research where a new drug or treatment is tested in small groups of people 20 to 80 to check that the drug LSPC Late Stage Product Committee.
can achieve appropriate concentrations in the body, determine a safe LTI long-term incentive, in the context of share plan remuneration dosage range and identify side effects.
This phase includes healthy arrangements.
Luye Pharma Luye Pharma Group.
Phase II the phase of clinical research which includes the controlled MAA a marketing authorisation application, which is an application clinical activities conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug in for authorisation to place medical products on the market.
This is a patients with the disease under study and to begin to determine the safety specific term used in the EU and European Economic Area markets.
Phase II studies are typically conducted in smallmAb monoclonal antibody, a biologic that is specific, that is, it binds or medium-sized groups of patients and can be divided into Phase IIa to and attacks one particular antigen.
studies, which tend to be designed to assess dosing requirements, and Phase IIb studies, which tend to assess safety and efficacy.
major market US, EU, Japan JP and China CN.
Phase III the phase of clinical research which is performed to gather MAT moving annual total.
additional information about effectiveness and safety of the drug, often MedImmune MedImmune, LLC formerly MedImmune, Inc.. in a comparative setting, to evaluate the overall benefit risk profile of MEK part of the mitogen-activated protein kinase MAPK pathway.
Phase III studies usually include between several hundred MI myocardial infarction.
Moderna Moderna Therapeutics, Inc. MSD Merck & Co. Inc. which is known as Merck in the US and Canada and MSD in other territories.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Glossary 241 Glossary continued PHC personalised healthcare.
TSR total shareholder return, being the total return on a share over a period of time, including dividends reinvested.
Pieris Pharmaceuticals Pieris Pharmaceuticals, Inc. UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
PMDA Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency of Japan.
UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Corporate Governance pMDI pressurised metered-dose inhaler.
Code published by the FRC in April 2016 that sets out standards of pound sterling, GBP or pence references to the currency of the UK.
good practice in corporate governance for the UK.
US United States of America.
primary care general healthcare provided by physicians who US dollar, US$, USD or $ references to the currency of the US.
ordinarily have first contact with patients and who may have Valeant Valeant Holdings Ireland Valeant Pharmaceutical continuing care for them.
Proof of Concept data demonstrating that a candidate drug results Viela Bio Viela Bio, Inc. in a clinical change on an acceptable endpoint or surrogate in patients with the disease.
WHO World Health Organization, the United Nations specialised agency for health.
PSP AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
PTE Patent Term Extension, an extension of up to five years in the term of a US patent relating to a drug which compensates for Zambon Zambon S. p. A. delays in marketing resulting from the need to obtain FDA approval.
The analogous right in the EU is an SPC.
Redeemable Preference Share a redeemable preference share of 1 each in the share capital of the Company.
Regulatory Data Protection RDP see Intellectual Property from page 35.
Regulatory Exclusivity any of the IP rights arising from generation of clinical data and includes Regulatory Data Protection, Paediatric Exclusivity and Orphan Drug status.
Roche F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG.
Sanofi SANOFI S. A. Sanofi Pasteur, Inc. Sarbanes-Oxley Act the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
SDRT UK stamp duty reserve tax.
SEC the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the governmental agency that regulates the US securities industry and stock markets.
Seroquel Seroquel IR and Seroquel XR.
SG&A costs selling, general and administrative costs.
SHE Safety, Health and Environment.
Shionogi Shionogi & Co. Ltd. Shire Shire plc.
sNDA supplemental New Drug Application.
Sobi Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB.
specialty care specific healthcare provided by medical specialists who do not generally have first contact with patients.
Treatment that is accepted by medical experts as a proper treatment for a certain type of disease and that is widely used by healthcare professionals.
Takeda Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited.
Teva Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. Total Revenue the sum of Product Sales and Externalisation Revenue.
242 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Additional Information
