Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies Basis of accounting and preparation The adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments i Classification and measurement offinancial information from 1 January 2018 has resulted in changes On the date of initial application, 1 January The Consolidated Financial Statements to the Groups accounting policies.
IFRS 9 2018, the Groups management has assessed have been prepared under the historical cost replaced the provisions of IAS 39 that relate to which business models apply to the financial convention, modified to include revaluation to the recognition, classification and measurement assets and financial liabilities held by the fair value of certain financial instruments of financial assets and financial liabilities, Group and has classified its financial as described below, in accordance with the derecognition of financial instruments, instruments into the appropriate IFRS 9 Companies Act 2006 and International Financial impairment of financial assets and hedge categories.
The main effects resulting from Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by accounting.
In accordance with the transitional this reclassification are as follows: the EU adopted IFRSs in response to the IAS provisions in IFRS 9, comparative figures have regulation EC 1606 2002.
The Consolidated not been restated and the Group has identified Financial Statements also comply fully with that there was no material impact on the IFRSs as issued by the International Groups Retained earnings as at 1 January 2018.
Measurement Carrying category amounts Original New Original New Difference IAS 39 IFRS 9 $m $m $m Non-current financial assets Other investments 1 Equity securities Available for sale FVOCI 933 933 Derivative financial instruments Held for trading FVPL 504 504 Other receivables Amortised cost Amortised cost 489 489 Current financial assets Trade and other receivables Trade receivables not subject to factoring Amortised cost Amortised cost 2,475 2,475 2 Trade receivables subject to factoring Amortised cost FVOCI 327 327 Other receivables Amortised cost Amortised cost 949 949 Other investments 3 Equity securities and bonds Available for sale FVPL 1,150 1,150 Fixed Deposits Amortised cost Amortised cost 80 80 Derivative financial instruments Held for trading FVPL 28 28 Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand Amortised cost Amortised cost 784 784 Short-term deposits excluding money market funds Amortised cost Amortised cost 1,391 1,391 4 Money market funds Amortised cost FVPL 1,149 1,149 Current financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments Held for trading FVPL 24 24 Non-current financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments Held for trading FVPL 4 4 1 Equity securities investments reclassified from available to sale to assets at fair value through Other comprehensive income.
These are strategic investments held directly in other pharmaceutical and biotech companies.
2 Trade receivables that are subject to debt factoring arrangements were held at amortised cost under IAS 39.
Under IFRS 9 these receivables are held under the hold to collect and sell business model at fair value through other comprehensive income, however their carrying value and their fair value are considered to be materially the same.
3 Equity security investments reclassified from available to sale to assets at fair value through profit or loss.
These are primarily short-term assets invested as part of our cash management strategy to maximise gains on our liquid resources.
4 Money market funds the Group is invested in constant net asset value funds where liquidity is offered with same day access for subscription and redemption.
Because they fail the solely payments of principal and interest test criteria under IFRS 9 they are measured at fair value through profit or loss, although the fair value is materially the same as amortised cost.
ii Derivatives and hedging activities From 1 January 2018, the Group assesses on revenue to reflect the transfer of goods and The Groups risk management strategies and a forward looking basis the expected credit services to customers at a value which the hedge documentation are aligned with the losses associated with its debt instruments Group expects to be entitled to receive.
All hedge relationships carried at amortised cost and fair value The standard also updates revenue designated under IAS 39 are treated as through Other comprehensive income.
continuing hedges under IFRS 9 and there was prior year, the impairment of trade receivables The standard has not had a material impact no impact from the adoption of IFRS 9 on was assessed based on the incurred loss on the revenue streams from the supply of prior periods.
The Group established an allowance goods and associated rebates and returns for impairment that represented its estimate of iii Impairment of financial assets provisions.
The timing of the recognition of incurred losses where it was deemed that a The Group has financial assets that are subject product sales and the basis for the estimates of receivable may not have been recoverable.
to the new IFRS 9 expected credit loss model sales deductions under IAS 18 are consistent When the debt was deemed irrecoverable the and the Group was required to revise its with those adopted under IFRS 15. allowance account was written off against the impairment methodology under IFRS 9 for underlying receivable.
The previous accounting for externalisation these assets.
The identified impairment change transactions under IAS 18 includes an analysis at 1 January 2018 was immaterial and the The Group has adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from of the performance obligations under the impact of the change in impairment Contracts with Customers which replaces arrangement and upfront revenue recognition methodology on the Groups Retained existing accounting standards.
It provides requires the transfer of substantive rights, for earnings was assessed as nil.
enhanced detail on the principle of recognising example a licence to use the intellectual AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Group Accounting Policies 153 Group Accounting Policies continued property and an appropriate allocation of The Group has revised the comparative Estimates and judgements revenue to the remaining performance presentation of Trade and other payables in The preparation of the Financial Statements in obligations.
While the basis for such allocation Note 19 for the changes related to: 1 liabilities conformity with generally accepted accounting is different in IFRS 15, the impact of the for product returns, discounts and other principles requires management to make adoption of the new standard on the historical product sales adjustments: and 2 clinical trial estimates and judgements that affect the allocations is not material.
The licences we accruals and the Acerta Pharma put option.
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at grant are typically rights to use the intellectual The Group has assessed the change related to the date of the Financial Statements and the property, which does not change during the 3 other trade-related accruals as not material reported amounts of revenues and expenses period of the licence.
Those licences are for revision under IAS 8 Accounting Policies, during the reporting period.
Actual results generally unique and therefore the basis of Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors could differ from those estimates.
allocation of revenue to performance and therefore the comparative presentation of Judgements include matters such as the obligations makes use of the residual approach Trade and other payables in Note 19 has not determination of operating segments while as permitted by IFRS 15.
The related sales been revised for this presentational change.
estimates focus on areas such as carrying milestones and royalties to these licences During the year, the Group has adopted the values, estimated useful lives of Intangible qualify for the royalty exemption available under amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and assets, potential obligations and Contingent IFRS 15 and will continue to be recognised as Measurement of Share-based Payment consideration.
the underlying sales are made.
Furthermore, Transactions and the interpretation within there is no material change to the assessment The accounting policy descriptions set out the IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and of whether the performance obligations are areas where judgements and estimates need Advance Consideration.
The adoptions have distinct from applying the new standard.
exercising, the most significant of which are not had a significant impact on the Groups revenue recognition, research and development The Group has retrospectively applied the Statement of Comprehensive Income, including impairment reviews of associated standard from 1 January 2018 recognising Statement of Financial Position and Statement Intangible assets, business combinations and the cumulative effect of initially applying the of Cash Flows.
Goodwill and Contingent consideration standard as an increase to contract liabilities, The Consolidated Financial Statements are arising from business combinations, litigation which are a component of Trade and other presented in US dollars, which is the Companys and environmental liabilities, employee payables of $133m to defer Externalisation functional currency.
Financial risk Revenue previously recognised, an increase management policies are detailed in Note 27. to Prepayments and accrued income, which are In preparing their individual financial statements, a component of Trade and other receivables the accounting policies of some overseas AstraZenecas management considers the of $20m to recognise Externalisation Revenue subsidiaries do not conform with IASB following to be the most important accounting previously not recognised, a total related tax issued IFRSs.
Therefore, where appropriate, policies in the context of the Groups operations.
adjustment of $22m and a corresponding net adjustments are made in order to present Revenue adjustment to the opening balance of Retained the Consolidated Financial Statements on Revenues comprise Product Sales and earnings of $91m.
There is no restatement to a consistent basis.
prior periods as permitted in the transition rules Basis for preparation of Financial for IFRS 15.
The impact of initial application in Product Sales are revenues arising from Statements on a going concern basis the year to 31 December 2018 as compared with contracts with customers.
Externalisation The Group has considerable financial resources the year to 31 December 2017 is the recognition Revenue arises from other contracts.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group of additional Externalisation Revenue of $27m the recognition and measurement principles has $7.1bn in financial resources cash balances in the year to 31 December 2018. of IFRS 15 are applied as set out below.
of $4.8bn and undrawn committed bank In addition to the above standard amendments facilities of $4.1bn, of which $3.4bn is available Revenues exclude inter-company revenues and new adoptions, effective from 1 January until April 2022, $0.5bn is available until and value-added taxes.
2018, the Group has changed its presentation December 2020 extendable to December Product Sales of Trade and other payables resulting in 2021 and $0.2bn is available until December Product Sales represent net invoice value less the following: 2019 extendable to December 2020, with only estimated rebates, returns and chargebacks, $1.8bn of debt due within one year.
The Groups 1 Liabilities for product returns, discounts which are considered to be key estimates.
revenues are largely derived from sales of and other product sales adjustments are Sales are recognised when the control of the products which are covered by patents which shown together with liabilities for rebates goods has been transferred to a third party.
provide a relatively high level of resilience and and chargebacks: This is usually when title passes to the predictability to cash inflows, although our 2 Clinical trial accruals and the Acerta Pharma customer, either on shipment or on receipt of revenue is expected to continue to be put option liability are shown separately: goods by the customer, depending on local significantly impacted by the expiry of patents 3 Other trade-related accruals are shown trading terms.
In markets where returns are over the medium term.
In addition, government within Other accruals.
significant, estimates of returns are accounted price interventions in response to budgetary for at the point revenue is recognised.
The revised presentation has no impact on constraints are expected to continue to the total of Trade and other payables, the adversely affect revenues in many of our For the markets where returns are significant, Groups Statement of Financial Position, the mature markets.
However, we anticipate new we estimate the quantity and value of goods Statement of Cash Flows or the Statement of revenue streams from both recently launched which may ultimately be returned at the point Comprehensive Income.
medicines and products in development, and of sale.
Our returns accruals are based on the Group has a wide diversity of customers actual experience over the preceding 12 After applying the requirements of IFRS 15 for and suppliers across different geographic areas.
months for established products together with revenue contract related liabilities, and following Consequently, the Directors believe that, overall, market-related information such as estimated an internal review of the presentation of the Group is well placed to manage its business stock levels at wholesalers and competitor liabilities, the Group considers that further risks successfully.
Accordingly, they continue activity which we receive via third party disaggregation of the balances in Trade and to adopt the going concern basis in preparing information services.
For newly launched other Payables would improve the clarity and the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
products, we use rates based on our understanding of those balances.
experience with similar products or a predetermined percentage.
154 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements When a product faces generic competition, Where the fair market value of the undelivered Payments to in-license products and particular attention is given to the possible component for example, a manufacturing compounds from third parties for new research levels of returns and, in cases where the agreement exceeds the contracted price for and development projects in process research circumstances are such that the level of that component, we defer an appropriate and development generally take the form of returns are considered highly probable to element of the upfront consideration and upfront payments, milestones and royalty reverse, revenues are only recognised when amortise this over the performance period.
Where payments made to third the right of return expires, which is generally on However, where the fair market value of the parties represent future research and ultimate prescription of the product to patients.
undelivered component is equal to or lower development activities, an evaluation is made as than the contracted price for that component, to the nature of the payments.
Such payments Under certain collaboration agreements we treat the whole of the upfront amount as are expensed if they represent compensation which include a profit sharing mechanism, being attributable to the delivered Intangible for sub-contracted research and development our recognition of Product Sales depends on assets and recognise that part of the revenue services not resulting in a transfer of intellectual which party acts as principal in sales to the end upon delivery.
No element of the contracted property.
By contrast, payments are capitalised customer.
In the cases where AstraZeneca revenue related to the undelivered component if they represent compensation for the transfer acts as principal, we record 100% of sales to is ordinarily allocated to the sale of the Intangible of identifiable intellectual property developed the end customer.
This is because the contracted revenue at the risk of the third party.
Development Externalisation Revenue relating to the undelivered component is milestone payments relating to identifiable Externalisation Revenue includes income from contingent on future events such as sales intellectual property are capitalised as the collaborative arrangements on the Groups and cannot be recognised until either receipt milestone is triggered.
Any upfront or milestone products where the Group has sold certain of the amount is highly probable or where the payments for research activities where there rights associated with those products, but consideration is received for a licence of is no associated identifiable intellectual retains a significant ongoing economic intellectual property, on the occurrence of the property are expensed.
Assets capitalised are interest, through for example the ongoing related sales.
amortised, on a straight-line basis, over their supply of finished goods or participation in useful economic lives from product launch.
Where the Group provides ongoing services, profit share arrangements.
The determination of the useful economic life revenue in respect of this element is recognised is considered a key judgement.
These arrangements may include development over the duration of those services.
Where the arrangements, commercialisation arrangement meets the definition of a licence Intangible assets relating to products in arrangements and collaborations.
Income agreement, sales milestones and sales royalties development are subject to impairment testing may take the form of upfront fees, milestones, are recognised when achieved by applying the annually.
All Intangible assets are tested for profit sharing and royalties.
All other impairment when there are indications that milestones and sales royalties are recognised the carrying value may not be recoverable.
The licences we grant are typically rights to use when considered highly probable.
The The determination of the recoverable amounts intellectual property which do not change determination of highly probable represents a include key estimates which are highly sensitive during the period of the licence.
to, and depend upon, key assumptions as are generally unique and therefore, the basis detailed in Note 9. of allocation of the consideration makes use of Where Externalisation Revenue is recorded the residual approach as permitted by IFRS 15. and there is a related Intangible asset, an Any impairment losses are recognised appropriate amount of that intangible asset is immediately in profit.
Intangible assets relating These arrangements typically involve the charged to Cost of sales based on an allocation to products which fail during development receipt of an upfront payment, which the of cost or value to the rights that have been sold.
or for which development ceases for other contract attributes to the sale of the Intangible reasons are also tested for impairment and assets, and ongoing receipts, which the Cost of sales are written down to their recoverable amount contract attributes to the sale of the product we Cost of sales are recognised as the associated which is usually nil.
In cases where the transaction revenue is recognised.
Cost of sales include has two or more components, we account for manufacturing costs, royalties payable on If, subsequent to an impairment loss being the delivered item for example, the transfer of revenues recognised, movements in provisions recognised, development restarts or other facts title to the intangible asset as a separate unit for inventories, inventory write offs and and circumstances change indicating that the of accounting and record revenue on delivery impairment charges in relation to manufacturing impairment is less or no longer exists, the value of that component, provided that we can make assets.
Cost of sales also includes partner of the asset is re-estimated and its carrying a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the profit shares arising from collaborations, and value is increased to the recoverable amount, undelivered component.
foreign exchange gains and losses arising but not exceeding the original value, by from business trading activities.
recognising an impairment reversal in profit.
Where non-contingent amounts are payable over one year from the effective date of a Research and development Business combinations and goodwill contract, an assessment is made as to whether Research expenditure is recognised in profit On the acquisition of a business, fair values are a significant financing component exists, in the year in which it is incurred.
attributed to the identifiable assets and liabilities.
and if so, the fair value of this component is Attributing fair values is a key judgement.
Internal development expenditure is capitalised deferred and recognised over the period to Contingent liabilities are also recorded at fair only if it meets the recognition criteria of the expected date of receipt.
value unless the fair value cannot be measured IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
This is considered reliably, in which case the value is subsumed Where control of a right to use intangible asset a key judgement.
Where regulatory and other into goodwill.
Where the Group fully acquires, passes at the outset of an arrangement, uncertainties are such that the criteria are not through a business combination, assets that revenue is recognised at the point in time met, the expenditure is recognised in profit were previously held in joint operations, the control is transferred.
Where the substance and this is almost invariably the case prior to Group has elected not to uplift the book value of an arrangement is that of a right to access approval of the drug by the relevant regulatory of the existing interest in the asset held in rights attributable to an Intangible asset, authority.
Where, however, recognition criteria the joint operation to fair value at the date full revenue is recognised over time, normally on a are met, Intangible assets are capitalised and control is taken.
Where fair values of acquired straight-line basis over the life of the contract.
amortised on a straight-line basis over their contingent liabilities cannot be measured useful economic lives from product launch.
reliably, the assumed contingent liability is At 31 December 2018, no amounts have met not recognised but is disclosed in the same recognition criteria.
manner as other contingent liabilities.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Group Accounting Policies 155 Group Accounting Policies continued Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary they arise.
Remeasurements of the net defined Share-based payments is acquired, the non-controlling interest is benefit pension liability, including actuarial All plans are assessed and have been classified recognised either at fair value or at the gains and losses, are recognised immediately as equity settled.
The grant date fair value of non-controlling interests proportionate in Other comprehensive income.
employee share plan awards is calculated using share of the net assets of the subsidiary, a Monte Carlo model.
In accordance with Where the calculation results in a surplus to on a case-by-case basis.
Put options over IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, the resulting the Group, the recognised asset is limited non-controlling interests are recognised as cost is recognised in profit over the vesting to the present value of any available future a financial liability, with a corresponding period of the awards, being the period in refunds from the plan or reductions in future entry in either retained earnings or against which the services are received.
The value of contributions to the plan.
Payments to defined non-controlling interest reserves on a the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and contribution plans are recognised in profit as case-by-case basis.
actual levels of awards vesting, except where they fall due.
the failure to vest is as a result of not meeting The timing and amount of future contingent Taxation a market condition.
Cancellations of equity elements of consideration is considered a key The current tax payable is based on taxable instruments are treated as an acceleration of estimate.
Contingent consideration, which may profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from the vesting period and any outstanding charge include development and launch milestones, reported profit because taxable profit is recognised in profit immediately.
revenue threshold milestones and revenueexcludes items that are either never taxable or based royalties, is fair valued at the date of Property, plant and equipment tax deductible or items that are taxable or tax acquisition using decision-tree analysis with The Groups policy is to write off the difference deductible in a different period.
The Groups key inputs including probability of success, between the cost of each item of Property, current tax assets and liabilities are calculated consideration of potential delays and revenue plant and equipment and its residual value over using tax rates that have been enacted or projections based on the Groups internal its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis.
substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Unsettled amounts of consideration Assets under construction are not depreciated.
are held at fair value within payables with Deferred tax is provided using the balance Reviews are made annually of the estimated changes in fair value recognised immediately sheet liability method, providing for temporary remaining lives and residual values of individual in profit.
differences between the carrying amounts of productive assets, taking account of assets and liabilities for financial reporting Goodwill is the difference between the fair commercial and technological obsolescence as purposes and the amounts used for taxation value of the consideration and the fair value of well as normal wear and tear.
It is impractical to purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised net assets acquired.
calculate average asset lives exactly.
However, to the extent that it is probable that taxable the total lives range from approximately 10 to Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised profit will be available against which the asset 50 years for buildings, and three to 15 years and subject to an impairment review, both can be utilised.
This requires judgements to for plant and equipment.
All items of Property, annually and when there is an indication that be made in respect of the availability of future plant and equipment are tested for impairment the carrying value may not be recoverable.
when there are indications that the carrying The Groups policy up to and including No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment 1997 was to eliminate Goodwill arising upon in respect of temporary differences associated losses are recognised immediately in profit.
Under IFRS 1 with investments in subsidiaries and branches Borrowing costs First-time Adoption of International Financial where the Group is able to control the timing The Group has no borrowing costs with respect Reporting Standards and IFRS 3 Business of reversal of the temporary differences and it to the acquisition or construction of qualifying Combinations, such Goodwill will remain is probable that the temporary differences will assets.
All other borrowing costs are recognised eliminated against reserves.
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
in profit as incurred and in accordance with Joint arrangements and associates The Groups Deferred tax assets and liabilities the effective interest rate method.
The Group has arrangements over which it are calculated using tax rates that are Leases has joint control and which qualify as joint expected to apply in the period when the Leases are classified as finance leases if they operations or joint ventures under IFRS 11 liability is settled or the asset realised based transfer substantially all the risks and rewards Joint Arrangements.
For joint operations, the on tax rates that have been enacted or incidental to ownership, otherwise they are Group recognises its share of revenue that it substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Assets and earns from the joint operations and its share of Accruals for tax contingencies require liabilities arising on finance leases are initially expenses incurred.
The Group also recognises management to make judgements of potential recognised at fair value or, if lower, the present the assets associated with the joint operations exposures in relation to tax audit issues.
Tax value of the minimum lease payments.
The that it controls and the liabilities it incurs under benefits are not recognised unless the tax discount rate used in calculating the present the joint arrangement.
For joint ventures and positions will probably be sustained based value of the minimum lease payments is the associates, the Group recognises its interest in upon managements interpretation of interest rate implicit in the lease.
Finance the joint venture or associate as an investment applicable laws and regulations and the charges under finance leases are allocated and uses the equity method of accounting.
to each reporting period so as to produce Employee benefits a constant periodic rate of interest on the Once considered probable of not being The Group accounts for pensions and other remaining balance of the finance liability.
sustained, management reviews each material employee benefits principally healthcare Rentals under operating leases are charged tax benefit to assess whether a provision under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
In respect of to profit on a straight-line basis.
should be taken against full recognition of the defined benefit plans, obligations are measured benefit on the basis of potential settlement Subsidiaries at discounted present value while plan assets through negotiation and or litigation.
Accruals A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly are measured at fair value.
Given the extent of for tax contingencies are measured using the or indirectly, by AstraZeneca PLC.
Control is the assumptions used to determine these single best estimate of likely outcome approach.
regarded as the exposure or rights to the values, these are considered to be key variable returns of the entity when combined estimates.
The operating and financing costs of Further details of the estimates and with the power to affect those returns.
such plans are recognised separately in profit, assumptions made in determining our recorded current service costs are spread systematically liability for transfer pricing contingencies and The financial results of subsidiaries are over the lives of employees and financing costs other tax contingencies are included in Note consolidated from the date control is are recognised in full in the periods in which 29 to the Financial Statements.
obtained until the date that control ceases.
156 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Inventories Financial instruments Reclassification from available for sale to at fair Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and The Groups financial instruments include value through Other comprehensive income net realisable value.
The first in, first out or an finance leases, Trade and other receivables These investments were reclassified from average method of valuation is used.
For and payables, liabilities for contingent available for sale to assets at fair value finished goods and work in progress, cost consideration and put options under business through Other comprehensive income.
The includes directly attributable costs and certain combinations, and rights and obligations investments primarily relate to biotech overhead expenses including depreciation.
under employee benefit plans which are dealt companies and are held to access science Selling expenses and certain other overhead with in specific accounting policies.
rather than to liquidate and realise gains.
expenses principally central administration The Groups other financial instruments include: Reclassification from available for sale to at costs are excluded.
Net realisable value is fair value through profit or loss determined as estimated selling price less all Cash and cash equivalents These investments were reclassified from estimated costs of completion and costs to be Fixed deposits available to sale to assets at fair value through incurred in selling and distribution.
Other investments profit or loss.
The investments primarily relate Bank and other borrowings Write-downs of inventory occur in the general to short-term assets invested as part of our Derivatives course of business and are recognised in cost cash management strategy to maximise gains of sales for launched products and research and Cash and cash equivalents on our liquid resources.
development costs for products in development.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in For the available for sale assets now at fair hand, current balances with banks and similar Assets held for sale value through profit or loss the fair value gain institutions, and highly liquid investments with Non-current assets are classified as assets that has gone through profit and loss that maturities of three months or less when held for sale when their carrying amount is under the old classification would have gone acquired.
They are readily convertible into to be recovered principally through a sale to Other comprehensive income is $nil.
known amounts of cash and are held at transaction and a sale is considered highly amortised cost under the hold to collect Bank and other borrowings probable.
A sale is usually considered highly classification, where they meet the hold to The Group uses derivatives, principally probable only when an appropriate level of collect solely payments of principal and interest rate swaps, to hedge the interest rate management has committed to the sale.
interest test criteria under IFRS 9.
Those not exposure inherent in a portion of its fixed Assets held for sale are stated at the lower of meeting these criteria are held at fair value interest rate debt.
In such cases the Group will carrying amount and fair value less costs to through profit and loss.
either designate the debt as fair value through sell.
Where there is a partial transfer of a profit or loss when certain criteria are met or Fixed deposits non-current asset to held for sale, an allocation as the hedged item under a fair value hedge.
Fixed deposits, principally comprising funds of value is made between the current and held with banks and other financial institutions, If the debt instrument is designated as fair non-current portions of the asset based on are initially measured at fair value, plus direct value through profit or loss, the debt is initially the relative value of the two portions, unless transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at fair value with direct transaction there is a methodology that better reflects the measured at amortised cost using the effective costs being included in profit as an expense asset to be disposed of.
interest rate method at each reporting date.
and is remeasured to fair value at each Assets held for sale are not depreciated Changes in carrying value are recognised reporting date with changes in carrying value or amortised.
being recognised in profit along with changes in the fair value of the related derivative, with Trade and other receivables Other investments the exception of changes in the fair value of Financial assets included in Trade and other Accounting policy applied until the debt instrument relating to own credit risk receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
31December2017 IAS 39 which are recorded in Other comprehensive The Group holds the Trade receivables with the Until 31 December 2017, the investments were income in accordance with IFRS 9.
Such objective to collect the contractual cash flows classified as available for sale, initially measured a designation has been made where this and therefore measures them subsequently at at fair value including direct transaction costs significantly reduces an accounting mismatch amortised cost using the effective interest rate and subsequently remeasured to fair value at which would result from recognising gains method, less any impairment losses.
Changes in carrying and losses on different bases.
value due to changes in exchange rates on Trade receivables that are subject to debt monetary available for sale investments or If the debt is designated as the hedged item factoring arrangements are derecognised if impairments were recognised in profit within under a fair value hedge, the debt is initially they meet the conditions for derecognition Other operating income and expense.
All measured at fair value with direct transaction detailed in IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
other changes in fair value were recognised in costs being amortised over the life of the debt Trade and other payables Other comprehensive income.
and is remeasured for fair value changes in Financial liabilities included in Trade and other respect of the hedged risk at each reporting Accounting policy applied from payables are recognised initially at fair value.
date with changes in carrying value being 1January2018 IFRS 9 Subsequent to initial recognition they are recognised in profit along with changes in the On adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments measured at amortised cost using the fair value of the related derivative.
on 1 January 2018 the available for sale effective interest rate method.
Contingent classification category was eliminated.
If the debt is designated in a cash flow hedge, consideration payables are held at fair value Investments previously classified as available the debt is measured at amortised cost within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as for sale are now classified as fair value through with gains or losses taken to profit and defined in Note 11. profit or loss, unless the Group makes an direct transaction costs being amortised over irrevocable election at initial recognition the life of the debt.
The related derivative is for certain non-current equity investments remeasured for fair value changes at each to present changes in fair value in Other reporting date with the portion of the gain comprehensive income.
If this election is or loss on the derivative that is determined to made, there is no subsequent reclassification be an effective hedge recognised in Other of fair value gains and losses to profit and loss comprehensive income.
The amounts that have following the derecognition of the investment.
been recognised in Other comprehensive AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Group Accounting Policies 157 Group Accounting Policies continued income are reclassified to profit in the same Effective fair value movements are recognised International accounting transition period that the hedged forecast cash flows in Other comprehensive income, with any On transition to using adopted IFRSs in the year affect profit.
The reclassification adjustment is ineffectiveness taken to profit.
Gains and ended 31 December 2005, the Group took included in Finance expense in the Consolidated losses accumulated in the translation reserve advantage of several optional exemptions statement of comprehensive income.
will be recycled to profit when the foreign available in IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of operation is sold.
Other interest-bearing loans are initially The major impacts which are of continuing measured at fair value with direct transaction Litigation and environmental liabilities importance are detailed below: costs being amortised over the life of the loan AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, the and are subsequently measured at amortised settlement of which may involve cost to the Business combinations IFRS 3 Business cost using the effective interest rate method at Group.
Provision is made where an adverse Combinations has been applied from each reporting date.
Changes in carrying outcome is probable and associated costs, 1 January 2003, the date of transition, rather value are recognised in profit.
including related legal costs, can be estimated than being applied fully retrospectively.
In other cases, appropriate a result, the combination of Astra and Derivatives disclosures are included.
Determining the timing Zeneca is still accounted for as a merger, Derivatives are initially measured at fair value of recognition of when an adverse outcome is rather than through purchase accounting.
with direct transaction costs being included probable is considered a key judgement.
If purchase accounting had been adopted, in profit as an expense and are subsequently Zeneca would have been deemed to have remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
Where it is considered that the Group is acquired Astra.
Changes in carrying value are recognised more likely than not to prevail, or in the rare Cumulative exchange differences the in profit.
circumstances where the amount of the legal Group chose to set the cumulative exchange liability cannot be estimated reliably, legal Foreign currencies difference reserve at 1 January 2003 to nil.
costs involved in defending the claim are Foreign currency transactions, being charged to profit as they are incurred.
Applicable accounting standards and transactions denominated in a currency other interpretations issued but not yet adopted than an individual Group entitys functional Where it is considered that the Group has IFRS 16 Leases is effective for accounting currency, are translated into the relevant a valid contract which provides the right to periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 functional currencies of individual Group entities reimbursement from insurance or otherwise and will replace IAS 17 Leases.
It will eliminate at average rates for the relevant monthly of legal costs and or all or part of any loss the classification of leases as either operating accounting periods, which approximate to incurred or for which a provision has been leases or finance leases and, instead, introduce actual rates.
established, the best estimate of the amount a single lessee accounting model.
The standard expected to be received is recognised as an Monetary assets and liabilities arising from was endorsed by the EU on 31 October 2017. asset only when it is virtually certain.
foreign currency transactions are retranslated The adoption of IFRS 16 will result in the Group at exchange rates prevailing at the reporting AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental recognising lease liabilities, and corresponding date.
Exchange gains and losses on loans and liabilities relating to its past operations, right-of-use assets for agreements that are on short-term foreign currency borrowings principally in respect of soil and groundwater currently classified as operating leases.
The and deposits are included within Finance remediation costs.
Provisions for these costs Groups principal lease arrangements are for expense.
Exchange differences on all other are made when there is a present obligation property, most notably a portfolio of office foreign currency transactions are recognised and where it is probable that expenditure on premises, and for a global car fleet, utilised in Operating profit in the individual Group remedial work will be required and a reliable primarily by our sales and marketing teams.
estimate can be made of the cost.
Provisions The Group will adopt IFRS 16 retrospectively are discounted where the effect is material.
Non-monetary items arising from foreign with the cumulative effect of initially applying currency transactions are not retranslated in the Impairment the standard as an adjustment to the opening individual Group entitys accounting records.
The carrying values of non-financial assets, balance of Retained earnings at 1 January other than inventories and Deferred tax assets, 2019.
The Group has a choice, on a lease-byIn the Consolidated Financial Statements, are reviewed at least annually to determine lease basis, to measure the right-of-use asset income and expense items for Group entities whether there is any indication of impairment.
at either its carrying amount as if IFRS 16 had with a functional currency other than US dollars For Goodwill, Intangible assets under been applied since the commencement of the are translated into US dollars at average development and for any other assets where lease, or an amount equal to the lease liability, exchange rates, which approximate to actual such indication exists, the assets recoverable adjusted for accruals or prepayments.
The rates, for the relevant accounting periods.
amount is estimated based on the greater of Group has assessed the difference between Assets and liabilities are translated at the its value in use and its fair value less cost to the two methods as immaterial and will US dollar exchange rates prevailing at the sell.
In assessing the recoverable amount, the measure the right to use asset equal to the reporting date.
Exchange differences arising estimated future cash flows, adjusted for the right to use liability, after adjusting for accruals on consolidation are recognised in Other risks specific to each asset, are discounted to and prepayments, recognising approximately comprehensive income.
their present value using a discount rate that $0.7 billion of right-of-use assets and $0.7 If certain criteria are met, non-US dollar reflects current market assessments of the time billion of lease liabilities upon initial adoption.
denominated loans or derivatives are value of money, the general risks affecting the In applying the Standard retrospectively in this designated as net investment hedges of foreign pharmaceutical industry and other risks specific way the Group will use one or more practical operations.
Exchange differences arising on to each asset.
For the purpose of impairment expedients, on a lease-by-lease basis, to leases retranslation of net investments, and of foreign testing, assets are grouped together into the previously classified as operating leases, currency loans which are designated in an smallest group of assets that generates cash including electing to not apply the retrospective effective net investment hedge relationship, are inflows from continuing use that are largely treatment to leases for which the term ends recognised in Other comprehensive income in independent of the cash flows of other assets.
within 12 months of initial application and the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Foreign Impairment losses are recognised immediately excluding initial direct costs from the initial exchange derivatives hedging net investments in profit.
measurement of the right-of-use asset.
Key in foreign operations are carried at fair value.
judgements and estimates made in calculating 158 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements the initial impact of adoption include assessing In addition, the following amendments and whether arrangements contain a lease, interpretations have been issued: determining the lease term, and calculating Amendments to IFRS 9 Prepayment the discount rate.
Features with Negative Compensation, The Group will apply IFRS 16s low-value and effective for periods beginning on or after short-term exemptions prospectively.
IFRS 16 opening lease liability is calculated Amendments to IAS 28 Long term differently from the current operating lease Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures, commitments, there are no material effective for periods beginning on or after differences between the positions.
Amendments to IAS 19 Plan Amendment, The adoption of IFRS 16 will have no impact on Curtailment or Settlement, effective for the Groups cash flows except to present cash periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. outflows as financing, instead of operating.
Amendments to IFRS 3 Business There will be an immaterial benefit to Operating Combinations, effective for period profit and a corresponding increase in Finance beginning on or after 1 January 2020. expense from the presentation of a portion of Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of lease costs as interest costs.
Profit before tax Financial Statements and IAS 8 Accounting and Earnings per share are not expected to be Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates significantly impacted.
and Errors, effective for periods beginning IFRIC 23 Uncertainty Over Income Tax on or after 1 January 2020.
Treatments is effective for accounting periods The above amendments and interpretations beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and are not expected to have a significant impact provides further clarification on how to on the Groups net results.
The amendments apply the recognition and measurement have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
requirements in IAS 12 Income Taxes.
It is applicable where there is uncertainty over income tax treatments.
The EU endorsed IFRIC 23 on 24 October 2018.
The adoption of IFRIC 23 will principally result in the Group measuring the effect of uncertainty on income tax positions using either the most likely amount or the expected value amount depending on which method the entity expects to better predict the resolution of the uncertainty.
The Group will adopt IFRIC 23 retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the interpretation recognised at 1 January 2019 as an adjustment to the opening balance of Retained earnings.
The initial impact of adopting IFRIC 23 is not material.
Profit before tax and Earnings per share are not anticipated to be significantly impacted.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Group Accounting Policies 159
