Shareholder Information The principal markets for trading in Dividends ShareGift AstraZeneca shares are the London Stock Dividend dates for 2019 are shown in the Shareholders that hold only a small number Exchange, Nasdaq Stockholm and the New financial calendar on page 233.
A first interim of shares, the value of which makes it York Stock Exchange.
Ordinary Shares of dividend is normally announced in July August uneconomical to sell them, may wish to $0.25 each in AstraZeneca PLC are listed and paid in September and a second interim consider donating them to charity through onthe London Stock Exchange and the dividend is normally announced in January ShareGift, an independent charity share shareholder register is maintained by Equiniti February and paid in March.
Dividends are donation scheme registered charity Limited, the Ordinary Share registrar.
Shares paid in GBP, SEK and USD, depending on number1052686.
Further information listed on Nasdaq Stockholm are issued where the eligible shares are listed.
Further aboutShareGift can be found on its underthe Euroclear Services Agreement by information on dividends declared can be websiteat www.
org or by Euroclear Sweden AB, the Swedish Central found in the Shareholder Information calling 44 0 20 7930 3737.
Shares listed on the section of AstraZenecas website at New York Stock Exchange are in the form www.
The Unclaimed Assets Register ofAmerican Depositary Shares ADSs, AstraZeneca provides information to the evidenced by American Depositary Receipts Shareholders holding Ordinary Shares Unclaimed Assets Register UAR relating ADRs issued by the Companys ADR directlymay opt for dividends to be paid tounclaimed dividends paid on Ordinary depositary, Citibank, N. A.
Two ADSs are straight to their bank or building society Shares.
The UAR database provides a equivalent to one Ordinary Share.
Before account, rather than being paid by cheque.
facilityto search for financial assets that 27July 2015 the ratio was one ADS per Toelect for this swift and secure method of mayhave been forgotten and can be oneOrdinary Share.
payment, contact the Ordinary Share registrar, contacted on 44 0 333 000 0182 or visit www.
co. uk or fill in the uarenquiries@uk.
Ordinary Share registrar mandate form that will be sent to you with Equiniti Limited your next dividend cheque.
If you hold shares Shareholder fraud warning Aspect House listed in Stockholm, you should contact your Shareholders of AstraZeneca and many Spencer Road personal broker or, if you hold a VP account, other companies have reported receiving Lancing contact the bank that services your VP unsolicited calls and correspondence relating West Sussex account.
If youhold ADRs directly you should to their shareholdings and investment matters.
BN99 6DA contact Shareholder Services on the number Shareholders are advised to be very cautious UK provided.
If you hold your shares through of any unsolicited approaches and to note that Tel Freephone in UK : 44 0 800 389 1580 anominee, you should direct any queries reputable firms authorised by the Financial Tel outside UK : 44 0 121 415 7033 relating to your shareholding and dividend Conduct Authority FCA are very unlikely payments to the nominee provider.
Such approaches Swedish Central Securities Depositary are likely to be part of a boiler room scam Euroclear Sweden AB Shareholder communications attempting to defraud shareholders.
PO Box 191 Copies of shareholder communications and SE-101 23 Stockholm annual reports are available on AstraZenecas Shareholders are advised to familiarise Sweden website at www.
If you hold themselves with the information on Tel: 46 0 8 402 9000 Ordinary Shares directly, currently receive scams available on the FCA website, hard copies of shareholder communications www.
uk consumers and within the ADR depositary and or the annual report and would rather FAQs in the Investors section of AstraZenecas Citibank Shareholder Services receive these documents electronically, you website, www.
PO Box 43077 can manage your communication preferences Providence at www.
co. uk or by contacting the Any suspected scams or fraudulent RI 02940-3077 Ordinary Share registrar.
If your record on the approaches should be reported to the USA Ordinary Share register has been duplicated FCA via its website and to AstraZenecas Tel toll free in the US : 1 888 697 8018 you may receive multiple copies of Ordinary Share registrar, using the contact Tel outside the US : 1 781 575 4555 shareholder communications: if this is the details on this page.
com case please contact the Ordinary Share registrar so that this can be rectified.
Investor Relations Annual general meeting AGM www.
com investors The 2019 AGM will be held on 26 April 2019.
Holders of shares listed in Stockholm irteam@astrazeneca.
com The meeting place will be in London, UK.
should contact Computershare AB, Tel UK : 44 0 20 3749 5824 Shareholders holding Ordinary Shares directly PO Box 610, SE-182 16 Danderyd, Sweden Tel toll free in the US : 1 866 381 7277 are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting Tel: 46 0 8 588 04 200 and holders of or may submit a proxy voting instruction in ADRs should contact the ADR depositary advance, by following the instructions in the or their personal broker with queries relating notice of AGM.
If you hold shares listed in Stockholm or hold Shareview ADRs, information relating to voting and Holders of Ordinary Shares may create a attendance will be included in the relevant portfolio at www.
co. uk to view notice of AGM.
Shareview is a free and secure online service If you hold your shares through a nominee, provided by the Ordinary Share registrar that your nominee provider will be able to advise allows users to, among other things, update you of their arrangements in relation to voting personal details, manage communication and attendance.
preferences, view dividend information and manage direct dividend payments.
232 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Additional Information Additional Information Financial calendar History and development of the Company This was achieved by a reduction of capital AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in under section 135 of the Companies Act 1985.
Event Provisional date England and Wales on 17 June 1992 under Upon the reduction of capital becoming Second interim theCompanies Act 1985.
It is a public limited effective, all issued and unissued Zeneca dividend for 2018 company domiciled in the UK.
The Companys shares were cancelled and the sum arising as Ex-dividend date 28 February 2019 registered number is 2723534 and its a result of the share cancellation credited to a registered office is at 1 Francis Crick Avenue, special reserve, which was converted into US Record date 1 March 2019 Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing on Payment date 27 March 2019 CB2 0AA, UK Tel: 44 0 20 3749 5000. the record date.
This US dollar reserve was From February 1993 until April 1999, the then applied in paying up, at par, newly Announcement of Company was called Zeneca Group PLC.
first quarter results On 6 April 1999, the Company changed its for 2019 26 April 2019 name to AstraZeneca PLC.
At the same time as the US dollar shares wereissued, the Company issued 50,000 Annual general The Company was formed when the Redeemable Preference Shares for cash, at meeting AGM 26 April 2019 pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty par.
The Redeemable Preference Shares carry chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical limited class voting rights, no dividend rights Announcement of Industries PLC were demerged in 1993. and are capable of redemption, at par, at the second quarter and half-year In1999, the Company sold the specialty option of the Company on the giving of seven results for 2019 25 July 2019 chemical business.
Also in 1999, the days written notice to the registered holder Company merged with Astra of Sweden.
In2000, it demerged the agrochemical First interim business and merged it with the similar A total of 826 million Ordinary Shares were dividend for 2019 business of Novartis to form a new company issued to Astra shareholders who accepted Ex-dividend date 8 August 2019 called Syngenta AG.
In 2007, the Group the merger offer before the final closing Record date 9 August 2019 acquired MedImmune, a biologics and date, 21 May 1999.
The Company received Payment date 9 September 2019 vaccines business based in the US.
acceptances from Astra shareholders representing 99.6% of Astras shares Announcement of In 1999, in connection with the merger andtheremaining 0.4% was acquired third quarter results between Astra and Zeneca, the Companys in 2000, for cash.
for 2019 24 October 2019 share capital was redenominated in US dollars.
On 6 April 1999, Zeneca shares Financial year end 31 December 2019 werecancelled and US dollar shares issued, credited as fully paid on the basis of one dollar share for each Zeneca share then held.
Issued share capital, shareholdings and share prices At 31 December 2018, the Company had 83,588 registered holders of 1,267,039,436 Ordinary Shares.
There were 105,266 holders of Ordinary Shares held under the Euroclear Services Agreement, representing 10.1% of the issued share capital of the Company and 1,818 registered holders of ADSs, representing 20.1% of the issued share capital of the Company.
2 For shares listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, the high and low closing sales prices are as stated in the Official List.
3 For ADRs listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the reported high and low sales prices are as reported by Dow Jones ADR quotations.
US holdings At 31 January 2019, the proportion of Ordinary Shares represented by ADSs was 20.0% of the issued share capital of the Company.
At 31 January 2019, there were 83,479 registered holders of Ordinary Shares, of which 688 were based in the US and there were 1,813 record holders of ADRs, of which 1,785 were based in the US.
Major shareholdings At 31 December 2018, the following persons had disclosed an interest in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company in accordance with the requirements of rules 5.1.
5 of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules: Number of Ordinary Shares disclosed as a Date of percentage of issued Number of disclosure to share capital at 1 Shareholder Ordinary Shares Company 31 December 2018 BlackRock, Inc. 100,885,181 4 December 2009 7.96 Investor AB 51,587,810 2 February 2012 4.07 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 63,802,495 17 July 2018 5.04 1 Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any person listed above in Ordinary Shares may have increased or decreased.
No requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease arises unless the holding passes a notifiable threshold in accordance with rules 5.1.
5 of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
So far as the Company is aware, no other person held a notifiable interest in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company.
No changes to major shareholdings were disclosed to the Company between 31 December 2018 and 31 January 2019.
Changes in the percentage ownerships disclosed by major shareholders during the past three years are set out below.
Major shareholders do not have different voting rights.
31 January 31 January 31 January 31 January Shareholder 2019 2018 2017 2016 BlackRock, Inc. 7.96 7.97 7.97 7.98 Investor AB 4.07 4.07 4.08 4.08 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 5.04 4.98 3.00 3.00 So far as the Company is aware, it is neither directly nor indirectly owned or controlled by one or more corporations or by any government.
The Company does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which might result in a change in the control of the Company.
234 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Additional Information Additional Information Directors and officers shareholdings Directors On a distribution of assets of the Company, At 31 January 2019, the total amount of the The Board has the authority to manage the on a winding-up or other return of capital Companys voting securities owned by business of the Company, for example, subject to certain exceptions, the holders of Directors and officers of the Company was: through powers to allot and repurchase its Redeemable Preference Shares have priority shares, subject where required to shareholder over the holders of Ordinary Shares to Amount Percentage resolutions.
Subject to certain exceptions, receive the capital paid up on those shares.
Title of class owned of class Directors do not have power to vote at Board Subject to the provisions of the Companies Ordinary Shares 564,514 0.04 meetings on matters in which they have a Act 2006, the Company has the right to material interest.
redeem the Redeemable Preference Shares Options to purchase securities from at any time on giving not less than seven registrant or subsidiaries The quorum for meetings of the Board is a days written notice.
a At 31 January 2019, options outstanding majority of the full Board, of whom at least to subscribe for Ordinary Shares were: four must be Non-Executive Directors.
In the There are no specific restrictions on Subscription Normal absence of a quorum, the Directors do not thetransfer of shares in the Company, Number of shares price pence expiry date have power to determine compensation whichisgoverned by the Articles and 1,689,933 2280-4724 2019-2024 arrangements for themselves or any member prevailing legislation.
The weighted average subscription price of The Company is not aware of any agreements options outstanding at 31 January 2019 was The Board may exercise all the powers of the between holders of shares that may result in 3610 pence.
All options were granted under Company to borrow money.
Variation of these restrictions on the transfer of shares or that Company employee share schemes.
borrowing powers would require the passing mayresult in restrictions on voting rights.
The of a special resolution of the Companys Company is also not aware of any arrangements b Included in paragraph a are options shareholders.
under which financial rights are held by a person granted to officers of the Company as follows: other than the holder of the shares.
All Directors must retire from office at the Subscription Normal Companys AGM each year and may present Action necessary to change the rights Number of shares price pence expiry date themselves for election or re-election.
of shareholders 1,407 3307-3597 2021 Directors are not prohibited, upon reaching a In order to vary the rights attached to any particular age, from submitting themselves for class of shares, the consent in writing of the c Details of Directors option holdings are election or re-election.
holders of three quarters in nominal value of shown in the Remuneration Report on page the issued shares of that class or the sanction 138.
No options were held by Directors at Rights, preferences and restrictions of a special resolution passed at a general 31 December 2018. attaching to shares meeting of such holders is required.
As at 31 December 2018, the Company had During the period 1 January 2019 to 1,267,039,436 Ordinary Shares and 50,000 General meetings 31January 2019, no Director was granted Redeemable Preference Shares in issue.
The AGMs require 21 clear days notice to or exercised any options.
Ordinary Shares represent 99.98% and the shareholders.
Subject to the Companies Act Redeemable Preference Shares represent 2006, other general meetings require 14 clear Related party transactions 0.02% of the Companys total share capital days notice.
During the period 1 January 2019 to these percentages have been calculated by 31January 2019, there were no transactions, reference to the closing mid-point USD GBP For all general meetings, a quorum of loans, or proposed transactions between the exchange rate on 31 December 2018 as twoshareholders present in person or by Company and any related parties which were published in the London edition of the proxy, and entitled to vote on the business material to either the Company or the related Financial Times newspaper.
transacted, is required unless each of the party, or which were unusual in their nature or twopersons present is a corporate conditions see also Note 31 to the Financial As agreed by the shareholders at the representative of the same corporation: Statements on page 200.
Companys AGM held on 29 April 2010, the oreach of the two persons present is a Articles were amended with immediate effect proxyof the same shareholder.
Articles of Association to remove the requirement for the Company to AstraZeneca PLCs current Articles were have an authorised share capital, the concept Shareholders and their duly appointed proxies adopted by shareholders at the Companys of which was abolished under the Companies and corporate representatives are entitled to AGM held on 18 May 2018.
Each Ordinary Share carries the be admitted to general meetings.
the Articles requires the approval of right to vote at general meetings of the shareholders by a special resolution at a Company.
The rights and restrictions Limitations on the rights to own shares general meeting of the Company.
attaching to the Redeemable Preference There are no limitations on the rights to Shares differ from those attaching to Ordinary own shares.
Objects Shares as follows: The Companys objects are unrestricted.
The Redeemable Preference Shares carry no rights to receive dividends.
The holders of Redeemable Preference Shares have no rights to receive notices of, attend or vote at general meetings except in certain limited circumstances.
They have one vote for every 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares held.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Shareholder Information 235 Shareholder Information continued Documents on display This summary is based in part on amount received by the depositary for US The Articles and other documents concerning representations of Citibank as depositary for holders of ADRs or, in the case of Ordinary the Company which are referred to in this ADRs and assumes that each obligation in the Shares, the US dollar value of the foreign Annual Report may be inspected at the deposit agreement among the Company and currency payment, determined at the spot rate Companys registered office at 1 Francis the depositary and the holders from time to of the relevant foreign currency on the date Crick Avenue, Cambridge Biomedical time of ADRs and any related agreements will the dividend is received by the US holders, Campus, Cambridge CB2 0AA, UK.
be performed in accordance with its terms.
regardless of whether the dividend is The US Treasury has expressed concerns that converted into US dollars, and it will not be Compliance requirements under Listing parties to whom American depositary shares eligible for the dividends received deduction Rule 9.8.
4 are released before shares are delivered to the generally available to US corporations.
If the Other than as set out below, the Company depositary pre-release, or intermediaries in dividend is converted into US dollars on the has nothing to report under Listing Rule 9.8.
4. the chain of ownership between holders and date of receipt, US holders of Ordinary Shares the issuer of the security underlying the generally should not be required to recognise Location of details in American depositary shares, may be taking foreign currency gains or losses in respect of Item Annual Report actions that are inconsistent with the claiming, the dividend income.
They may have foreign Details of any long-term Note 28 of the Financial by US holders of American depositary shares, currency gain or loss taxable at the rates incentive schemes Statements and Directors of foreign tax credits for US federal income applicable to ordinary income if the amount Remuneration Report tax purposes.
Such actions would also be of such dividend is converted into US dollars Shareholder waiver Page 106 in the Corporate inconsistent with the claiming of the reduced after the date of its receipt.
of dividends Governance Report tax rates, described below, applicable to dividends received by certain non-corporate Subject to applicable limitations and the Property US holders.
Accordingly, the availability of the discussion above regarding concerns Substantially all of our properties are held reduced tax rates for dividends received by expressed by the US Treasury, dividends freehold, free of material encumbrances and certain non-corporate US holders could be received by certain non-corporate US holders are fit for their purpose.
For more information affected by actions that may be taken by of Ordinary Shares or ADRs may be taxable at please refer to Note 7 to the Group Financial parties to whom ADRs are pre-released.
favourable US federal income tax rates.
US Statements on page 167. holders should consult their own tax advisers For the purposes of this summary, the term to determine whether they are subject to any Tax information for shareholders US holder means a beneficial owner of special rules which may limit their ability to be Taxation for US persons Ordinary Shares or ADRs that is, for US taxed at these favourable rates.
The following summary of material UK and US federal income tax purposes, a citizen or federal income tax consequences of resident of the US, a corporation or other Taxation on capital gains ownership of Ordinary Shares or ADRs held entity taxable as a corporation created or Under present English law, individuals who as capital assets by the US holders described organised in or under the laws of the US, any are neither resident nor ordinarily resident below is based on current UK and US federal state in the US or the District of Columbia, or inthe UK, and companies which are not income tax law, including the US UK double an estate or trust, the income of which is resident in the UK, will not be liable for UK taxation convention relating to income and subject to US federal income taxation taxon capital gains made on the disposal capital gains, which entered into force on 31 regardless of its source.
oftheir Ordinary Shares or ADRs, unless March 2003 the Convention.
This summary suchOrdinary Shares or ADRs are held does not describe all of the tax consequences This summary assumes that we are not, and inconnection with a trade, profession or that may be relevant in light of the US holders will not become, a passive foreign investment vocation carried on in the UK through a particular circumstances and tax company, as discussed below.
branch or agency or other permanent consequences applicable to US holders establishment.
subject to special rules such as certain UK and US income taxation of dividends financial institutions, entities treated as The UK does not currently impose a A US holder will generally recognise US partnerships for US federal income tax withholding tax on dividends paid by a UK source capital gains or losses for US federal purposes, persons whose functional currency company, such as the Company.
income tax purposes on the sale or exchange for US federal income tax purposes is not the of Ordinary Shares or ADRs in an amount US dollar, tax-exempt entities, persons that For US federal income tax purposes, equal to the difference between the US dollar own directly, indirectly or constructively ADRs distributions paid by the Company to a US amount realised and such holders US dollar or Ordinary Shares representing 10% or more holder are included in gross income as foreign tax basis in the Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
US of our voting power or value, persons subject source ordinary dividend income to the extent holders should consult their own tax advisers to alternative minimum tax, persons subject to paid out of the Companys current or about the treatment of capital gains, which the Medicare contribution tax on net accumulated earnings and profits, calculated may be taxed at lower rates than ordinary investment income, or persons holding in accordance with US federal income tax income for non-corporate US holders and Ordinary Shares or ADRs in connection with a principles.
The Company does not maintain capital losses, the deductibility of which may trade or business conducted outside of the calculations of its earnings and profits under be subject to limitations.
US holders are urged to consult their tax US federal income tax principles and so it is advisers regarding the UK and US federal expected that distributions generally will be income tax consequences of the ownership reported to US holders as dividends.
The and disposition of Ordinary Shares or ADRs in amount of the dividend will be the US dollar their particular circumstances.
236 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Additional Information Additional Information Passive Foreign Investment Company permanent establishment of the individual in Exchange controls and other limitations PFIC rules the UK or, in the case of a shareholder who affecting security holders We believe that we were not a PFIC for US performs independent personal services, There are no governmental laws, decrees federal income tax purposes for the year pertain to a fixed base situated in the UK.
orregulations in the UK restricting the import ended 31 December 2018.
However, since Where the Ordinary Shares or ADRs have or export of capital or affecting the remittance PFIC status depends on the composition of been placed in trust by a settlor who, at the of dividends, interest or other payments to our income and assets, and the market value time of settlement, was a US domiciled non-resident holders of Ordinary Shares of our assets including, among others, less shareholder, the Ordinary Shares or ADRs will orADRs.
than 25% owned equity investments, from generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax time to time, there can be no assurance that unless the settlor, at the time of settlement, There are no limitations under English law we will not be considered a PFIC for any was a UK national, or the Ordinary Shares or orthe Articles on the right of non-resident taxable year.
If we were treated as a PFIC ADRs are part of the business property of a orforeign owners to be the registered holders forany taxable year during which Ordinary permanent establishment of the individual in of, or to exercise voting rights in relation to, Shares or ADRs were held, certain adverse the UK or, in the case of a shareholder who Ordinary Shares or ADRs or to be registered tax consequences could apply to US holders.
performs independent personal services, holders of notes or debentures of the pertain to a fixed base situated in the UK.
In Company or its wholly-owned subsidiary, Information reporting and backup the exceptional case where the Ordinary Zeneca Wilmington Inc. withholding Shares or ADRs are subject to both UK Payments of dividends and sales proceeds inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate Exchange rates that are made within the US or through certain tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally The following information relating to US-related financial intermediaries may be provides for double taxation to be relieved by average and spot exchange rates used by subject to information reporting and backup means of credit relief.
AstraZeneca is provided for convenience: withholding, unless: i the US holder is a SEK USD USD GBP corporation or other exempt recipient: or ii in UK stamp duty reserve tax and stamp duty Average rates the case of backup withholding, the US holder A charge to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty statement of comprehensive income, provides a correct taxpayer identification reserve tax SDRT may arise on the deposit statement of cash flows number and certifies that it is not subject to of Ordinary Shares in connection with the 2018 8.6419 1.3405 backup withholding.
The amount of any creation of ADRs.
The rate of stamp duty or backup withholding from a payment to a US SDRT will generally be 1.5% of the value of 2017 8.5835 1.2835 holder will be allowed as a credit against the the consideration or, in some circumstances, 2016 8.5286 1.3673 holders US federal income tax liability and the value of the Ordinary Shares.
There is no End of year spot rates may entitle the holder to a refund, provided 1.5% SDRT charge on the issue of Ordinary statement of financial position that the required information is timely supplied Shares or, where it is integral to the raising of 2018 8.9537 1.2743 to the US Internal Revenue Service IRS.
new capital, the transfer of Ordinary Shares 2017 8.2467 1.3468 into the ADR arrangement.
2016 9.1162 1.2272 Certain US holders who are individuals or certain specified entities, may be required to No UK stamp duty will be payable on the report information relating to securities issued acquisition or transfer of existing ADRs by non-US persons or foreign accounts provided that any instrument of transfer or through which the securities are held, written agreement to transfer is executed generally on IRS Form 8938, subject to certain outside the UK and remains at all times outside exceptions including an exception for the UK.
An agreement for the transfer of ADRs securities held in accounts maintained by US will not give rise to a liability for SDRT.
US holders should consult their tax advisers regarding their A transfer of, or an agreement to, transfer reporting obligations with respect to the Ordinary Shares will generally be subject to Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
UK stamp duty or SDRT at 0.5% of the amount or value of any consideration, UK inheritance tax provided, in the case of stamp duty, it is Under the current Double Taxation Estates rounded up to the nearest 5.
Convention the Estate Tax Convention between the US and the UK, Ordinary Shares Transfers of Ordinary Shares into CREST will or ADRs held by an individual shareholder generally not be subject to stamp duty or who is domiciled for the purposes of the SDRT, unless such a transfer is made for a Estate Tax Convention in the US, and is not for consideration in money or moneys worth, in the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention a which case a liability to SDRT will arise, national of the UK, will generally not be usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the subject to UK inheritance tax on the consideration.
Paperless transfers of Ordinary individuals death or on a chargeable gift of Shares within CREST are generally liable to the Ordinary Shares or ADRs during the SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the individuals lifetime, provided that any consideration.
CREST is obliged to collect applicable US federal gift or estate tax liability SDRT from the purchaser on relevant is paid, unless the Ordinary Shares or ADRs transactions settled within the system.
are part of the business property of a AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Shareholder Information 237
