Important information for readers of this Annual Report Cautionary statement regarding forwardInclusion of Reported performance, looking statements Core financial measures and constant The purpose of this Annual Report is to exchange rate growth rates provide information to the members of the AstraZenecas determination of non-GAAP Company.
The Company and its Directors, measures together with our presentation of employees, agents and advisers do not them within our financial information may accept or assume responsibility to any other differ from similarly titled non-GAAP person to whom this Annual Report is shown measures of other companies.
or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly Statements of competitive position, disclaimed.
In order, among other things, growth rates and sales toutilise the safe harbour provisions of the In this Annual Report, except as otherwise USPrivate Securities Litigation Reform Act of stated, market information regarding the 1995 and the UK Companies Act 2006, we are position of our business or products relative providing the following cautionary statement: to its or their competition is based upon This Annual Report contains certain forwardpublished statistical sales data for the 12 looking statements with respect to the months ended 30 September 2018 obtained operations, performance and financial from IQVIA, a leading supplier of statistical condition of the Group, including, among data to the pharmaceutical industry.
Unless other things, statements about expected otherwise noted, for the US, dispensed new or revenues, margins, earnings per share or total prescription data and audited sales data other financial or other measures.
Forwardare taken, respectively, from IQVIA National looking statements are statements relating Prescription Audit and IQVIA National Sales tothe future which are based on information Perspectives for the 12 months ended 31 available at the time such statements are December 2018: such data is not adjusted made, including information relating to risks forMedicaid and similar rebates.
Although we believe that asotherwise stated, these market share and the forward-looking statements in this Annual industry data from IQVIA have been derived Report are based on reasonable assumptions, by comparing our sales revenue with the matters discussed in the forward-looking competitors and total market sales revenues statements may be influenced by factors that for that period, and except as otherwise could cause actual outcomes and results to stated, growth rates are given at CER.
For be materially different from those expressed thepurposes of this Annual Report, unless or implied by these statements.
The forwardotherwise stated, references to the world looking statements reflect knowledge and pharmaceutical market or similar phrases information available at the date of the areto the 52 countries contained in the preparation of this Annual Report and the IQVIAdatabase, which amounted to Company undertakes no obligation to update approximately 88% in value of the these forward-looking statements.
We identify countriesaudited by IQVIA.
the forward-looking statements by using the words anticipates, believes, expects, AstraZeneca websites intends and similar expressions in such Information on or accessible through our statements.
Important factors that could websites, including www.
com, cause actual results to differ materially from www.
com and those contained in forward-looking www.
com, does not form statements, certain of which are beyond our partofand is not incorporated into this control, include, among other things, those AnnualReport.
factors identified in the Risk section from page220 of this Annual Report.
Nothing in External third-party websites thisAnnual Report should be construed Information on or accessible through any asaprofit forecast.
third-party or external website does not formpart of and is not incorporated into thisAnnual Report.
Figures Figures in parentheses in tables and in the Financial Statements are used to represent negative numbers.
244 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Additional Information Additional Information Page Heading Design and production This Annual Report is printed on Heaven Superunion, London.
42 which is FSC certified virgin fibre.
com The pulp is a mix: partly bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free process and Board photography partly bleached using a Totally Chlorine Marcus Lyon Free process.
It is printed in the UK by Pureprint using its alcofree and pureprint SET photography environmental printing technology, and Scott Nibauer vegetable inks were used throughout.
Graham Carlow Pureprint is a CarbonNeutral company.
Hannes Kirchhof Both the manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council chain-ofcustody certified.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 [Section] A Registered office and corporate headquarters AstraZeneca PLC 1 Francis Crick Avenue Cambridge Biomedical Campus Cambridge CB2 0AA UK Tel: 44 0 20 3749 5000 This Annual Report is also available on our website, www.
com annualreport2018 A AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Additional Information
