100 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Independent Auditors Report Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Risk of inappropriate revenue We have reviewed and walked through the process over the approval We conclude that revenue recognition $808.3m and recognition of revenue across the group.
recognised during the 2017: $652.9m year and deferred as at We have walked through and assessed the design effectiveness of 31 December 2018 is In particular, the risks are: key management controls over data input and IT.
Licence revenue: Improper We have performed licence revenue transaction testing to ensure that revenue recognition cutrevenue has been recorded in accordance with the Groups revenue off due to managements recognition policy and IFRS 15 and has been appropriately recorded in incentive to accelerate the current year income statement or deferred on the balance sheet as earnings through appropriate.
This was achieved by testing a sample of transactions by: manipulation of the agreeing licence revenues to signed contracts or software licence term.
licence agreements: Licences, platform, and agreeing the revenue to subsequent payment as evidence other revenue: Improper of collectability: revenue recognition due to managements incentive checking evidence to support that the licence has been delivered to accelerate earnings to customers and prior to revenue recognition: through manipulation of reviewing contract terms for any conditions that would impact the timing of revenues or the timing of revenue recognition and in turn the completeness of due to an error.
deferred revenue: and Misstatements that occur ensuring appropriate allocation of the fair value and recognition of in relation to this risk revenue for other deliverables included within the contract: would impact the revenue recognised in the income We selected a sample of revenue journals and assessed the statement as well as appropriateness of the journals by checking against supporting deferred revenues.
evidence and ensuring compliance with the Groups revenue recognition policy and IFRS 15.
The sample selected was based on Refer to the Audit Committee risk based criteria including but not limited to manual journal entries, Report page 64 : Accounting those close to period end, and postings that are inconsistent with policies pages 118-123 : roles and responsibilities.
and Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial We performed an overall recalculation of deferred income with specific Statements pages 127-129 focus on the split of sales in a 1, 2 and 3 year period for appropriateness based upon contract terms.
We obtained confirmation of a selected sample of accounts receivable and unbilled revenue with external parties platforms and others.
Additionally, terms and conditions were confirmed with the most significant resellers.
We performed disaggregated analytical procedures over revenue on a monthly basis, at an entity and a segment level.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 7 locations, which covered 94% of the risk amount.
We also performed specified procedures over the revenues in 2 locations, which covered 3% of the risk amount.
Avast annual report 2018 101 Independent Auditors Report Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Computation of current We obtained the Groups tax consolidation and focused our detailed We conclude that the current and deferred income tax testing of the current and deferred income tax positions for six and deferred tax amounts current tax expense: $87.3m: components, including verification of completeness and accuracy reported as at 31 December deferred tax income: $146.0m of tax effects of significant one-off transactions, consolidation, 2018 and for the year then 2017: current tax expense: and IFRS adjustments recorded by the Group.
$58.9m: deferred tax In order to assess the tax impact of significant transactions during the income: $54.0m year IP transfers, tax rulings in Netherlands and difference between The Group is operating in the accounting and tax functional currency in the Czech Republic, multiple tax jurisdictions we involved tax specialists from the Czech Republic, Netherlands, and undertook a number United Kingdom and USA in our procedures to support the audit teams of significant transactions, conclusions.
Additionally, we assessed managements position of during 2018.
There is a uncertain tax positions and transfer pricing arrangements with the risk that taxation will not help of tax specialists.
properly reflect all material We evaluated the appropriateness of corporate income tax rates used transactions which arose per individual countries and the reasonableness of the Groups effective during the reporting period tax rate, including verification of significant items impacting the rate.
correctly and income tax accounts including deferred We also evaluated the adequacy and completeness of the disclosures tax in both consolidated provided by the group in relation to tax balances and activity.
statement of financial position and the consolidated statement of profit or loss will contain misstatement.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 64 : Accounting policies pages 118-123 : and Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements pages 133-135 An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and presence of group-wide controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 38 reporting components of the Group, we selected 11 components covering entities within the Czech Republic, Netherlands, United Kingdom and USA, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 11 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of four components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining seven components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 100% of the Groups adjusted PBT measure used to calculate materiality, 94% of the Groups Revenue and 97% of the Groups Total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 97% of the Groups adjusted PBT measure used to calculate materiality, 76% of the Groups Revenue and 37% of the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope component contributed 3% net of the Groups adjusted PBT measure used to calculate materiality, 18% of the Groups Revenue and 60% of the Groups Total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant tested for the Group.
We also performed specified procedures over certain aspects of revenues, payroll expenses and deferred income tax for three components.
102 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Independent Auditors Report Of the remaining 27 components that together represent 0% of the Groups adjusted PBT, none are individually greater than 3% of the Groups adjusted PBT.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals and inter-company eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit team.
Adjusted PBT Revenue Total assets Full scope components 97% Full scope components 76% Full scope components 37% Specic scope components 3% Specic scope components 18% Specic scope components 60% Other procedures 0% Other procedures 6% Other procedures 3% Integrated team structure and involvement with component teams The overall audit strategy is determined by the senior statutory auditor.
The senior statutory auditor is based in the UK however, since Group management and many operations reside in the Czech Republic, the Group audit team includes members from both the UK and Czech Republic, including tax and valuations professionals in both countries, as well as tax professionals in the Netherlands.
The senior statutory auditor visited the Czech Republic eight times during the current years audit and members of the Group audit team in both jurisdictions work together as an integrated team throughout the audit process.
All audit work performed for the purposes of the audit was undertaken by the Group audit team.
Whilst in the Czech Republic, the senior statutory auditor focused his time on the significant risk and judgement areas of the audit, interactions with management and the Group audit team.
He reviewed key working papers and met with key representatives of the Group audit team physically located in the Czech Republic for certain full and specific scope components to discuss the audit approach and issues arising from their work.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $11.2 million, which is 5% of adjusted PBT.
We believe that materiality basis provides us with the most relevant measure of underlying performance of the Group.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be $32 million, which is 1% of total equity, which is greater than the group as a result of the materiality based on its investment in the Avast group.
Profit before tax $182.5m Starting basis Add back $25.6m exceptional items as disclosed in Note 10 of the financial statements anddeferred revenue haircut of $15.5m Adjustments 5% of this adjusted PBT figures of $223.6m, gives materiality basis of $11.2m Materiality Avast annual report 2018 103 Independent Auditors Report Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely $5.6 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage because we have integrated an additional level of audit risk relating to 2018 being an initial audit.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was $1.1m to $4.2m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $0.56m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 1-97, including the Strategic Report and Governance Reports, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 97 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 64-69 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 62 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
104 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Independent Auditors Report Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and those reports have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: the information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and information about the companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in: the strategic report or the directors report: or the information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the FCA Rules We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on pages 96-97, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Avast annual report 2018 105 Independent Auditors Report Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined that the most significant are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 102, Companies Act 2006, the UK Corporate Governance Code, and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which Avast plc operates.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and those laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety and data protection.
We understood how Avast plc is complying with those frameworks by making inquiries of management and legal counsel, and those charged with governance i. e. considering the potential for override of controls or other inappropriate influence over the financial reporting process, such as efforts by management to manage earnings in order to influence the perceptions of analysts as to the entitys performance and profitability.
We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of analysts.
We considered the programmes and controls that the group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those programmes and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and review of accounting estimates and judgements and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved management enquiries, review of legal correspondences, and journal entry testing.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 26 April 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
We were appointed as auditors by the Board of Directors and signed an engagement letter on 1 August 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain independent of the group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Marcus Butler Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 9 April 2019 Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Avast plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
