Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 135 Statement of Group accounting policies Statement of compliance The Consolidated financial statements of AVEVA Group plc and all its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2018.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The parent Company financial statements of AVEVA Group plc have been prepared under the FRS 101 reduced disclosure framework and are included on pages 129 to 139.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of AVEVA Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 March each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared using existing GAAP for each country of operation.
Adjustments are made to translate any differences that may exist between the respective local GAAP and IFRSs.
Inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
On acquisition, assets and liabilities of subsidiaries are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition, with any excess of the cost of acquisition over this value being capitalised as goodwill.
Adoption of new and revised standards The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
New standards and interpretations which came into force during the year did not have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
New standards and interpretations not yet effective The IASB have issued the following standards although in some cases not yet adopted by the EU which are expected to have implications for the reporting of the financial position or performance of the Group or which will require additional disclosures in future financial years: Effective for periods commencing after IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRS 2 Amendments Classification and Measurement of Share-based payment transactions 1 January 2018 IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments Sales or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or 1 January 2019 Joint Venture IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 1 January 2018 IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment 1 January 2019 The Group intends to adopt these standards in the first accounting period after the effective date.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, except as noted below: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 prescribes a principles-based approach to accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers, as well as additional reporting disclosures.
The standard supersedes IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and several revenue-related interpretations.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers outlines a single comprehensive five-step model to account for how revenue is recognised as goods or services are transferred to customers.
Furthermore, it provides new guidance on whether revenue should be recognised at a point in time or over time, and more specifically, includes guidance on revenue from licensing arrangements.
IFRS 15 must be applied for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Company plans to adopt IFRS 15 in its consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2019, using the full retrospective approach.
The Company has completed an initial assessment of the impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 on its consolidated financial statements.
The main aspects of the assessment are outlined below.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 136 Statement of Group accounting policies continued i Rendering of services transfer of control Revenue from sales of initial licences, perpetual licences and the initial software delivery element of rental term licences is currently recognised upon delivery.
Delivery occurs when the customer has access to the intellectual property described in the contract.
In some limited circumstances, under the current policy, AVEVA may recognise revenue from a rental term licence agreement rateably over the contract period.
This assessment is based on whether AVEVA can reliably estimate the maintenance and support element of the contract.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of the services.
All distinct performance obligations relating to licences for software are transferred to the customer at a point in time.
Therefore, under IFRS 15, all revenue from software licences which are distinct performance obligations will be recognised at a point in time and not over time.
This results in an acceleration of the recognition in revenue for certain contracts and revenue streams and therefore the impact on any given financial year will depend upon the customer renewal cycles.
This assessment does not affect AVEVAs Software as a Service SaaS offerings which are recognised in line with the rendering of services rather than as a sale of a software licence.
Revenue for SaaS offerings are predominately recognised on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
ii Providing extended payment terms to customers Under IAS 18, where AVEVA provides a customer with extended payment terms, the revenue is deferred until the consideration is due in accordance with the contract.
Under IFRS 15, all the contractual payments are included in the transaction price and allocated to the performance obligations at the start of the contract.
The Company identified a limited number of contracts which, under IFRS 15, could be recognised in the Income Statement at an earlier point in time rather than deferring recognition until the stage payments are invoiced.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for the year ending 31 March 2019 requires the Group to record expected credit losses on all of its debt securities, loans and trade receivables, either on a 12-month or lifetime basis.
The Group plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date and will not restate comparative information.
During 2017, the Group has performed a detailed impact assessment of all three aspects of IFRS 9.
This assessment is based on currently available information and may be subject to changes arising from further reasonable and supportable information being made available.
Overall, the Group expects no significant impact on its statement of financial position and equity except for the effect of applying the impairment requirements of IFRS 9.
The Group expects an increase in the loss allowance resulting in a negative impact on equity as discussed below The Group will apply the simplified approach and record lifetime expected losses on all trade receivables.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases effective for the year ending 31 March 2020 will require all leases to be recognised on the balance sheet.
Currently, IAS 17 Leases only requires leases categorised as finance leases to be recognised on the balance sheet, with leases categorised as operating leases not recognised on the balance sheet.
Lessees will recognise a right of use asset and a corresponding liability on the balance sheet.
The asset will be amortised over the length of the lease and the liability measured at amortised cost.
It is currently not practicable to quantify the effect at the date of the publication of these financial statements.
Existing operating lease commitments are set out in note 25 of the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currencies The functional and presentational currency of AVEVA Group plc is Pounds Sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the Consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of the initial transaction.
The subsidiaries have a number of different functional currencies.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into Pounds Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, and their income statements are translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Goodwill Goodwill on acquisitions is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 137 If the potential benefit of tax losses or other deferred tax assets does not satisfy the criteria in IFRS 3 for separate recognition when a business combination is initially accounted for but is subsequently realised, the Group recognises the deferred tax income in the Consolidated income statement.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and from a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, the cost model is applied to each class of intangible asset as set out below.
Expenditure on internally developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the Consolidated income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Internal software development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of the asset, which are as follows: Years Developed technology 312 Customer relationships 520 Purchased brand and trademarks 515 Other software 37 Purchased software rights 310 Contract assets Length of contract Capitalised Research & Development 35 Research expenditure Research expenditure is written off in the year of expenditure.
Government grants Grants in respect of specific Research & Development projects are recognised as receivable when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and the conditions to obtain them have been complied with.
They are credited to the income statement in the same period as the related Research & Development costs for which the grant is compensating.
The grant income is presented as a deduction from the related expense.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to write down the assets to their estimated residual value over the useful economic life of the asset as follows: Years Computer equipment 3 Fixtures, fittings and office equipment 68 Motor vehicles 4 Leasehold buildings and improvements are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease 3 to 49 years or useful economic life, if shorter.
Impairment of assets Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies and represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and generates cash flows which are independent of other cash-generating units.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstance indicate that it might be impaired.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash-generating units are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
If the initial allocation of goodwill acquired in a business combination cannot be completed before the end of the first annual period in which the business combination is effected, that initial allocation shall be completed before the end of the first annual period beginning after the acquisition date.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the administrative expenses line item.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 138 Statement of Group accounting policies continued Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the Consolidated balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these approximates their fair value.
For the purpose of the Consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Derivative financial instruments The only derivative financial instruments the Group holds are forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
All forward foreign exchange contracts have been marked-to-market and are held at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheet.
The Group has not applied hedge accounting during the year and therefore movements in fair value are being recorded in the Consolidated income statement.
Fair value is estimated using the settlement rates prevailing at the period end.
Leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Taxation The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions.
The Group recognises provisions for tax based on estimates of taxes that are likely to become due.
Where the final tax outcome is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determinations are made.
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Legislation has been enacted to allow UK companies to elect for the Research & Development Expenditure Credit RDEC on qualifying expenditure incurred since 1 April 2013, instead of the super-deduction rules.
At the balance sheet date, management has concluded that the election will be made and therefore the RDEC is recorded as income included in profit before tax, netted against Research & Development expenses as the RDEC is of the nature of a government grant.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: except where the deferred income tax liability arises from goodwill amortisation or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised: except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The income tax effects of items recorded in either other comprehensive income or equity are recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income or the Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity respectively.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 139 Revenue, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales taxes except: where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales taxes included.
The net amount of sales taxes recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Consolidated balance sheet.
Post retirement benefits For the defined benefit schemes, the defined benefit obligation is calculated annually for each plan by qualified external actuaries using the projected unit credit method which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation.
The retirement benefit liability in the Consolidated balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate derived from a published index of AA rated corporate bonds as reduced by the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
The current service cost is recognised in the Consolidated income statement as an employee benefit expense.
The net interest element of the defined benefit cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments or changes in actuarial assumptions are credited or charged in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The Group also operates defined contribution pension schemes for a number of UK and non-UK employees.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to profit before tax as they become payable.
Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted, further details of which are given in note 29.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share, subject to an estimate of whether performance conditions will be met.
Employee benefit trust The Group has established an employee benefit trust AVEVA Group Employee Benefit Trust 2008, which is a separately administered trust and is funded by loans from Group companies.
The assets of the trust comprise shares in AVEVA Group plc and cash balances.
The Group recognises assets and liabilities of the trust in the Consolidated financial statements and shares held by the trust are recorded at cost as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Consideration received for the sale of shares held by the trust is recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being taken to retained earnings.
