Avast annual report 2018 163 Glossary Glossary Adjusted Billings Adjusted Billings Adjusted Billings is comprised of the Groups Billings including the Billings of Piriform from the date of its acquisition by the Group on 18 July 2017 and adding Piriforms Billings for the period prior to its acquisition, from 1 January 2017 to 17 July 2017 Piriform Pre-Acquisition Billings.
A reconciliation is included in the PRESENTATION OF RESULTS AND DEFINITIONS.
Adjusted Revenue Adjusted Revenue represents the Groups reported revenue including Piriform from the date of its acquisition by the Group on 18 July 2017 and adding Piriforms Revenue for the period prior to its acquisition, from 1 January 2017 to 17 July 2017 Piriform Pre-Acquisition Revenue adjusted for the Deferred Revenue Haircut Reversal, the Gross-Up Adjustment and the Piriform Revenue Adjustments from pre-acquisition billings.
Adjusted Billings Growth rate excluding currency impact calculated by restating 2018 actual to 2017 FX rates.
Deferred Revenue excluding FX revenue is translated to USD at date of invoice and is therefore excluded when calculating the impact of FX on revenue.
For the FX rates applied, see Principal exchange rates applied.
Adjusted Cash EBITDA Adjusted earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation Adjusted EBITDA is fide ned as the Groups operating pro t loss before depreciation, amortisation of non-acquisition acquisition intangible assets, share-based payments, exceptional items, amortisation of acquisition intangible assets, the Deferred Revenue Haircut Reversal, the COGS Deferral Adjustments and Piriform pre-acquisition EBITDA.
A full reconciliation is included in the PRESENTATION OF RESULTS AND DEFINITIONS.
Adjusted Cost of Adjusted Cost of Revenues Operating costs represent the Groups cost of revenues operating costs Revenues Operating costs adjusted for depreciation and amortisation charges, share-based payments charges, exceptional items, COGS deferral adjustment, gross-up adjustment and Piriform pre-acquisition costs.
A full reconciliation is included in the Costs section of the FINANCIAL REVIEW.
Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation Adjusted EBITDA is fide ned as the Groups operating pro t loss before depreciation, amortisation of non-acquisition acquisition intangible assets, share-based payments, exceptional items, amortisation of acquisition intangible assets, the Deferred Revenue Haircut Reversal, the COGS Deferral Adjustments and Piriform pre-acquisition EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA margin Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Adjusted Revenue.
Adjusted eff ective tax rate Adjusted Income tax as a percentage of Adjusted Pro t before tax fide ned as Adjusted Net Income before deduction of Adjusted Income tax.
For Adjusted Income Tax reconciliation see Income Tax section of FINANCIAL REVIEW.
Adjusted EPS Basic Adjusted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the Adjusted net income for the period by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the year.
The diluted Adjusted earnings per share amounts consider the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the year adjusted for the eff ect of dilutive options.
For reconciliation see Earnings per share in the FINANCIAL REVIEW section.
Adjusted Net Income Adjusted Net Income represents statutory net income plus the Deferred Revenue Haircut Reversal, share-based payments, exceptional items, amortisation of acquisition intangible assets, unrealised foreign exchange gain loss on the EUR tranche of the bank loan, the COGS Deferral Adjustments, Piriforms pre-acquisition Net Income, the tax impact from the unrealised exchange diff erences on inter-company loans and the tax impact of the foregoing adjusting items and IP transfers.
For reconciliation see PRESENTATION OF RESULTS AND DEFINITIONS section.
Amortisation of Represents the amortisation of intangible assets acquired through business combinations which does acquisition intangibles not re ect the ongoing normal level of amortisation in the business.
164 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Glossary Average Products Per APPC fide ned as the Consumer Direct Desktop simple average valid licences or subscriptions for the Customer APPC financial period presented divided by the simple average number of Customers during the same period.
See Consumer Direct Desktop Operational KPIs.
Average Revenue Per ARPC fide ned as the Consumer Direct Desktop revenue for the financial period divided by the average Customer ARPC number of Customers during the same period.
Cash conversion Unlevered Free Cash Flow as a percentage of Adjusted Cash EBITDA.
See Cash ow section of FINANCIAL REVIEW.
COGS Deferral There was no deferred cost of goods sold COGS balance consolidated by the Group in the acquisition Adjustments balance sheet of AVG in 2016 and thus no subsequent expense was recorded as the revenue in respect of pre-acquisition date billings was recognised.
The COGS Deferral Adjustments refers to an adjustment to re ect the recognition of deferred cost of goods sold expenses that would have been recorded in 2016 and 2017 in respect of pre-acquisition date AVG billings, had the AVG and the Groups businesses always been combined and had AVG always been deferring cost of goods sold.
See PRESENTATION OF RESULTS AND DEFINITIONS.
Deferred Revenue Under IFRS 3, Business Combinations, an acquirer must recognise assets acquired and liabilities Haircut Reversal assumed at fair value as of the acquisition date.
The process of determining the fair value of deferred revenues acquired often results in a signi cant downward adjustment to the targets book value of deferred revenues.
The reversal of the downward adjustment to the book value of deferred revenues of companies the Group has acquired during the periods under review is referred to as the Deferred Revenue Haircut Reversal.
Discontinued Business As the company is exiting its toolbar-related search distribution business, which had previously been an important contributor to AVGs revenues referred throughout the Full Year Report, with the Groups browser clean-up business, as Discontinued Business, the growth gures for Adjusted Revenues and Adjusted Billings exclude Discontinued Business, which the Group expects to be negligible by 2019.
The Discontinued Business does not represent a discontinued operation as fide ned by IFRS 5 since it has not been disposed of but rather it is being continuously scaled down and is considered to be neither a separate major line of business, nor geographical area of operations.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are material and non-recurring items of income and expense which Group believes should be separately disclosed to show the underlying business performance of the Group more accurately.
For details see Exceptional items of FINANCIAL REVIEW and Note 10.
Gross debt Represents the sum of the total book value of the Groups loan obligations i. e. sum of loan principals.
A reconciliation is included in the Financing section of the FINANCIAL REVIEW.
Gross-Up Adjustment The Gross-Up Adjustment refers to the estimated impact of the additional amount of 2015 and 2016 revenue and expenses and their deferral that would have been recognised by Avast had the contractual arrangements with certain customers quali ed to have been recognised on a gross rather than a net basis prior to 2017 AVG had historically recognised Billings and revenues on a gross basis, whereas Avast recognised them on a net basis.
Levered Free Cash Flow Represents amounts of incremental cash ows the Group has after it has met its financial obligations after interest and lease repayments and is fide ned as Unlevered Free Cash Flow less cash interest and lease repayments.
See Cash ow section of FINANCIAL REVIEW for reconciliation.
Net debt Net debt indicates gross debt netted by the companys cash and cash equivalents.
Number of customers Users who have at least one valid paid Consumer Direct Desktop subscription or licence at the end of the period.
Piriform Pre-Acquisition Piriforms Billings EBITDA for the period prior to its acquisition, from 1 January 2017 to 17 July 2017.
Billings EBITDA See FINANCIAL REVIEW for details.
Unlevered Free Represents Adjusted Cash EBITDA less capex, plus cash ows in relation to changes in working capital Cash Flow excluding change in deferred revenue and change in deferred cost of goods sold as these are already included in Adjusted Cash EBITDA and taxation.
Changes in working capital and taxation are as per the cash ow statement on an unadjusted historical basis and unadjusted for exceptional items.
Unrealised FX on EUR In the reported nancials, the Group retranslates into USD at each balance sheet date the Euro value of tranche of bank loan the Euro tranche of the bank debt, with the unrealised FX movement going to the income statement.
This adjustment reverses this unrealised element of the FX gain loss.
Printed on Galerie Satin, and FSC Mixed Sources paper manufactured using pulp from well managed forests at a mill accredited with EMAS and ISO 14001 environmental standards.
CPI Colour are ISO 14001 certified, CarbonNeutral and FSC chain of Custody certified.
Designed and produced by Friend www.
com Avast annual report 2018 Contact Brokers Registrar Morgan Stanley & Co International plc Equiniti Ben Grindley Aspect House Alex Smart Spencer Road 44 0 207 425 8000 Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA UBS Investment Bank Rahul Luthra UK callers: 0371 384 2030 Thomas Raynsford International callers: 44 121 415 7047 44 0 207 567 800 Investor Relations Independent Auditors IR@avast.
com Ernst & Young 1 More London Place Public Relations London, SE1 2AF Mediarelations@avast.
