Avast annual report 2018 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information Avast plc, together with its subsidiaries Prior to the Initial Public Off ering IPO, The financial information for the year collectively, Avast, the Group or Avast Holding B. V. Avast Holding was ended 31 December 2018 and the Company, is a leading global the parent company of the Group for which comparative information for the year cybersecurity provider.
Avast plc is a consolidated financial statements were ended 31 December 2017 is presented public limited company incorporated and produced.
On 10 May 2018 the date of as a continuation of Avast Holding.
domiciled in the UK, and registered under completion of the IPO, with 15 May 2018 the laws of England & Wales under representing admission to trading on the company number 07118170 with its London Stock Exchange, the shareholders registered address at 110 High Holborn, of Avast Holding transferred all of their London WC1V 6JS.
The ordinary shares shares in Avast Holding to Avast plc in of Avast plc are admitted to the premium exchange for ordinary shares of equal listing segment of the Offi cial List of the value in Avast plc Reorganisation.
UK Financial Conduct Authority and trade This resulted in Avast plc becoming the on the London Stock Exchange plcs main new parent company of the Group.
2. Business combinations in 2018 Acquisition of Inloop s. r. o. Inloop The fair value of the consideration at the Consolidation Earn-out payment acquisition date was determined by the the earn-out of up to EUR 0.4 million On 1 August 2018, Avast Software s. r. o.
Group to be EUR 7.3 million $8.6 million $0.4 million represented a contingent acquired a 100% stake in Inloop s. r. o. and comprised the following components: consideration payable in cash 12 months Inloop on behalf of INLOOPX s. r. o after the acquisition date.
As of the INLOOPX, a mobile engineering Initial payment on the acquisition date acquisition date, the probability weighted services rm based in Slovakia.
EUR 4.0 million $4.7 million was paid in discounted present value of the earn-out The reason for the acquisition was to cash to the owners of Inloop $4.2 million was determined to be EUR 0.3 million obtain the skilled team of engineers to net of cash acquired.
Retention Earn-out payment The fair value of assets acquired and The transaction represented a business the earn-out of up to EUR 3.6 million liabilities incurred on the acquisition date combination with Avast Software s. r. o.
$4.2 million represented a contingent was determined on final basis as follows: being the acquirer.
The acquisition date consideration payable in cash 18 months was determined to be 1 August 2018. after the acquisition date.
As of the The former shareholders of Inloop do acquisition date, the probability weighted not have ongoing involvement in the discounted present value of the earn-out business or with the Avast Group, was determined to be EUR 3.0 million following the acquisition.
114 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2. Business combinations in 2018 continued Fair Value at The business combination results in the The revenues and net pro t of the $ m 1 August 2018 recognition of goodwill of $7.0 million Group for the year ended 31 December which is tested for impairment at least 2018 would not have been signi cantly Cash 0.4 annually.
The large proportion of goodwill diff erent had the acquisition occurred Personal property 0.2 to other identi ed assets is due to Inloop at the beginning of the reporting period Trade and other receivables 1.5 not having any signi cant identi able 1 January 2018. assets other than the skilled workforce Total Assets 2.1 the obtaining of which was the main purpose of the acquisition.
The carrying value of goodwill is not expected to be Total Liabilities 0.5 tax deductible.
Net Assets acquired 1.6 Consideration given 8.6 Goodwill 7.0 3. Business combinations in 2017 Fair value at Acquisition of Piriform and FileHippo The business combination resulted in the $m 18 July 2017 recognition of goodwill of $90.9 million On 18 July 2017, Avast BV acquired a Assets which is tested for impairment at least 100% stake in Piriform Group Ltd. for a annually.
The goodwill of $90.9 million consideration of $121.4 million.
At the Cash and cash equivalents 8.5 comprises of the cross-sale of Avast and same time, Avast Software s. r. o. acquired Trade and other receivables 2.3 Piriform products, improvements of the a download website, FileHippo, for a trial to a premium conversion rate, the consideration of $6.0 million from Well Prepaid expenses 0.2 move from one-off licences to recurring Known Media Ltd. Shareholders of Tax receivables 0.1 licences and future software upgrades.
Well Known Media Ltd. also owned The carrying value of goodwill is not the Piriform Group Ltd. Current assets 11.1 expected to be tax deductible.
Piriform Group Ltd. develops popular The Group incurred acquisition-related cleaning and optimisation software for Property, plant and equipment 0.3 transactions costs of $2.6 million, PCs and mobile devices.
FileHippo is a Intangible assets 32.6 which were recorded as General and download website that off ers computer administrative expenses in the statement software.
The primary reason for the Non-current assets 32.9 of comprehensive income.
acquisition was to obtain access to the Total Assets 44.0 user base of the Piriform Group Ltd. and The revenues of the Group for the year leverage revenue synergies between ended 31 December 2017 were $652.9 the two companies and product lines.
million, to which Piriform Group Ltd. and Shareholders equity FileHippo contributed $6.1 million.
If the Under IFRS 3: Business Combinations and liabilities business combination had occurred at IFRS 3, the transaction represents a Trade and other payables 1.4 the beginning of the reporting period business combination with both Avast Deferred revenues 1 January 2017 the revenues of the Group BV and Avast Software s. r. o. being the would have been $663.6 million and the acquirers.
The acquisition date was Current liabilities 1.4 contribution of Piriform Group Ltd. and determined to be 18 July 2017.
FileHippo would have been $16.8 million.
The fair value of the consideration at Deferred tax liabilities 6.1 The net result of the Group for the year the acquisition date was determined by Non-current liabilities 6.1 ended 31 December 2017 was a net loss of the Group to be $127.4 million for 100% $33.8 million, to which Piriform Group Ltd. ownership.
The consideration given Total Liabilities 7.5 and FileHippo contributed a net pro t of was paid in cash.
If the business combination had occurred at the beginning of the Consideration given 127.4 reporting period 1 January 2017, the net Goodwill 90.9 loss of the Group would have been a net loss of $32.4 million and the contribution of Piriform Group Ltd. and FileHippo would have been a net pro t of $1.8 million.
Application of new and revised IFRS standards Newly adopted standards IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts The Group has revenue arrangements with customers with resellers, payment providers, partners IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and other third parties.
When the Group The objective of IFRS 15 is to establish the The standard introduces new concludes that it has control over the principles that an entity shall apply to requirements for the classi cation and provided product or service before that report useful information to users of measurement of financial instruments, product or service is transferred to the financial statements about the nature, the impairment of financial assets and customer, the Group acts as principal and amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue hedge accounting.
The Group applied revenues for satisfying the performance and cash ows arising from a contract the standard as of 1 January 2018 using obligations are recognised on a gross with a customer.
The Group applied the modi ed retrospective approach.
basis before deduction of resellers the standard as of 1 January 2018.
The adoption has not had a material commissions, payment provider fees and impact on the recognition, classi cation The Group decided to apply the modi ed the third party costs.
Otherwise revenues and measurement of financial assets retrospective method of adoption under are recognised on a net basis.
The term loan has been which IFRS 15 requires restatement of classi ed as a financial liability at Management evaluated that the Group is those contracts which are not completed amortised cost.
principal in the direct sales of software as at the date of adoption.
The Group licences through its e-commerce performed an analysis of these contracts Based on the evaluation of the loan, partners directly to end customers.
and concluded that the impact of adoption the Group applied the judgement that has no material impact on the Groups the repricing of the margin on the loan The Group also sells subscription consolidated financial statements other to market terms, which is allowed for in software licences through an e-shop than that capitalised contract costs are the terms of the loan, was a change in directly to end customers in cooperation now presented separately.
contractual variable payments to be with certain payment gateway providers.
accounted for by altering prospectively Revenue from sales through the e-shop Following the implementation of IFRS 15, the eff ective interest rate consistent are accounted for on a gross basis contract related fees such as commissions with the requirements for IFRS 9.5.
4.5 before the deduction of payment to e-commerce shopping cart and online for oating rate loans.
The Group controls the payment processes service providers promised products before transferring were reclassi ed from prepaid expenses The Group has adopted the expected them to the customer.
and are now presented as current loss model for impairment of receivables.
capitalised contract costs of $31.2 million The adoption of the model had no material Revenue share on sales made by Mobile 2017: $27.1 million and as non-current impact compared to the existing reserve Network Operators MNOs partners capitalised contract costs of $4.6 million methodology employed by the Company of various products of Location Labs, Inc. 2017: $0.1 million as of 31 December 2018. on the carrying value of receivables as of Location Labs are recognised net There is no impact on the consolidated 1 January 2018. of partners commissions as the MNOs statement of pro t and loss.
act as principals in contracts with the The Group applies practical expedients end customers.
The Group also uses a practical expedient when measuring the expected credit loss.
not to adjust the promised amount of The Group applies simpli ed approach Sales of third party solutions are consideration for the eff ects of a signi cant and recognises expected lifetime loss accounted for net of the costs of the nancing component if the Group expects, allowance to trade receivables and third party providing the product or at contract inception, that the period contract assets.
Expected lifetime loss service to the end customer.
The between when the Group transfers a is calculated using the provision matrix, provision of the product or service to promised good or service to a customer which assigns provision rates to classes the end customer is the responsibility and when the customer pays for that good of receivables based on number of days of the third party.
Refer to Note 7, section or service will be one year or less.
they are overdue, based on the Groups Gross versus net revenue accounting for historical credit loss experience adjusted further comments.
The standard required entities to exercise for forward-looking development.
judgement, taking into consideration all The classes of receivables are strati ed of the relevant facts and circumstances per types of customers by operating when applying each step of the model segments between the Consumer and to contracts with their customers.
standard also speci es the accounting for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract and the costs directly related to ful lling a contract.
The Group has assessed principal versus agent consideration to be a key judgement area.
116 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4.
Application of new and revised IFRS standards continued The standard also speci es the accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise the adjustment of the right-of-use asset for the incremental costs of obtaining a assets and liabilities for all leases for any recognised onerous lease contract and the costs directly related to unless the lease term is 12 months or provisions, instead of performing an ful lling a contract.
The Group evaluated less or the underlying asset has low impairment review the commissions, payment and other fees value.
The standard applies to annual the accounting for operating leases and third party licence costs related to reporting periods beginning on or after with a remaining lease term of less than the subscription software licences as 1 January 2019.
12 months as at 1 January 2019 as incremental costs of obtaining a contract.
The Group applies the standard as of short-term leases As a result of IFRS 15, these capitalised 1 January 2019 using the modi ed contract related costs have now been the exclusion of initial direct costs for the retrospective approach and will not restate classi ed separately in the statement of measurement of the right-of-use asset comparative amounts for the year prior financial position, and the comparative at the date of initial application, and to first adoption.
Right-of-use assets will balances have been reclassi ed for be measured at the amount of the lease the use of hindsight in determining the consistency purposes.
Previously liability on adoption adjusted for any lease term where the contract contains these costs were classi ed within prepaid or accrued lease expenses and options to extend or terminate the lease.
assessed for impairment at the date of As at the reporting date, the Group has Standards issued but not yet eff ective initial application.
non-cancellable net operating lease The Group has not applied the following The Group has used the following practical commitments of $87.7 million, see Note 36. new or revised standards and expedients permitted by the standard: Of these commitments, approximately interpretations that have been issued, $0.5 million relate to short-term leases not to apply this Standard to contracts but are not yet eff ective: which will be recognised on a straight-line that were not previously identi ed as basis as an operating expense in the IFRS 16 Leases containing a lease applying IAS 17 consolidated statement of pro t and loss.
On 13 January 2016, IASB issued a new and IFRIC 4 The Group has no low-value leases such standard that sets out the principles for the the use of a single discount rate to a as laptops and printers as these are recognition, measurement, presentation portfolio of leases with reasonably purchased versus leased.
The standard similar characteristics provides a single lessee accounting The impact of the initial recognition on 1 January 2019 is as follows: $m 1 January 2019 Right-of-use assets 69.7 Prepayments 2.0 Accrued leased payments 4.0 Lease liabilities 71.7 The expected impact on the consolidated statement of pro t and loss for the year 2019 tax impact not included : $m IAS 17 Adjustment IFRS 16 Operating costs 8.5 8.5 Depreciation 7.6 7.6 Interest expense 2.3 2.3 Net pro t before tax 8.5 1.4 9.9 Avast annual report 2018 117 5.
Basis of preparation The audited consolidated financial Under section 408 of the Companies Act directors continue to adopt the going statements of the Group have been 2006, the parent company is exempt from concern assumption in preparing the prepared in accordance with International the requirement to present its own pro t consolidated financial statements.
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted and loss account.
Change in accounting policy by the European Union IFRS.
The The Group uses the direct method of eff ect of IFRS 15 adoption consolidated financial statements have consolidation, under which the financial Refer to Note 4 for the description of the been prepared on a historical cost basis statements are translated directly into the impact on the financial statements of the and are presented in US dollars.
All values presentation currency of the Group, the adoption of IFRS 15. are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million $m, US Dollar USD.
The consolidation of a except where otherwise indicated.
Change in accounting policy subsidiary begins when the Group obtains reclassi cation of certain costs As there was no change in control with control over the subsidiary, and continues From 1 January 2018, the Group presents the Reorganisation see Note 1 involving to be consolidated until the date when certain overhead costs related to offi ce Avast plc becoming the new holding such control ceases.
All intra-group leases within general and administrative company of the Group in a share for share balances, transactions, unrealised gains costs instead of allocating them to cost of exchange, the financial information for the and losses resulting from intra-group revenues, sales and marketing, research year ended 31 December 2018 and transactions and dividends are eliminated and development and general and comparative information for the year in full on consolidation.
Comparative ended 31 December 2017 is presented The directors have reviewed the projected balances have been adjusted for as a continuation of Avast Holding.
cash ow and other relevant information consistency purposes.
This change has A movement in share capital, share and have a reasonable expectation that no overall eff ect on pro t for the period premium and other reserves is re ected the Group has adequate resources to or earnings per share EPS.
in the statement of changes in equity at continue in operational existence for the the date of the Reorganisation.
For this reason, the Change in accounting policy 31 December 31 December reclassi cation 2017 $m 2017 of offi ce costs restated Revenues 652.9 652.9 Cost of revenues 232.8 2.5 230.3 Gross Pro t 420.1 2.5 422.6 Sales and marketing 121.4 5.2 116.2 Research and development 75.5 7.3 68.2 General and administrative 98.9 15.0 113.9 Total Operating costs 295.8 2.5 298.3 Operating Pro t 124.3 124.3 The reclassi cation was made to align the consolidated statement of pro t and loss with the internal operating costs classi cation.
118 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6.
Summary of signi cant accounting policies The accounting policies used in preparing The Group mainly sells software licences The Group reduces revenue for estimated the historical financial information are set through direct sales primarily through sales returns.
End users may return the out below.
These accounting policies have e-commerce services providers including Groups products, subject to varying been consistently applied in all material Digital River and the Groups e-shop to limitations, through resellers or to the respects to all periods presented except customers.
However, the Group also Group directly for refund within a for the changes described in Notes 4 sells a small portion through indirect sales reasonably short period from the date of and 5. via the Groups retailers and resellers.
The Group estimates and See Note 7 for the judgements made in records provisions for sales returns based Revenue recognition determining whether the Group acts on historical experience.
The amount of Revenue is measured based on the as a principal or agent.
such provisions is not material.
consideration speci ed in the contract Deferred revenue represents the contract Indirect with a customer and excludes taxes and liability arising from contracts with duty.
The Group recognises the revenue Consumer indirect revenues arise customers.
The portion of deferred when it transfers control over a product from several products and distribution revenues that will be recognised as and service to a customer.
Each contract arrangements that represent the revenue in the 12 months following the is evaluated to determine whether monetisation of the user base.
The most balance sheet date is classi ed as current, the Group is the principal in the signi cant sources of revenues are: and the remaining balance is classi ed revenue arrangements.
Google The Group has two distribution as non-current.
Deferred revenue also Revenues from individual products arrangements with Google Ireland materially represents the transaction and services are aggregated into the Limited Google pursuant to which the price relating to sales of software licences following categories: Group is paid fees in connection with that is allocated to future performance the Groups off ers to users of Google obligations.
Some of the Groups products Consumer Chrome or Google Toolbar.
The Group can be used on a one-time basis VPN and Direct recognises revenue from Google in full Utilities, in which case sales are The principal revenue stream of the Group in the month they are earned as the recognised immediately as revenue.
is derived from the sale of its software and Group has no subsequent performance related services for desktop and mobile Location Labs, Inc.
Location Labs obligations after the date of sale.
which protect users security, online provides mobile security solutions that Secure Browsing The Groups Secure privacy and device performance.
Licence partner with MNOs providing locator, browser earns the Group a share of agreements with customers include a phone controls and drive safe products advertising revenue generated by pre-fide ned subscription period during to their customers.
The revenues end user search activity.
Revenue is which the customer is entitled to the generated by these arrangements are recognised immediately as the Group usage of the products, including updates based on revenue share percentages as has no performance obligation after of the software.
The typical length of a stated in the MNO agreements.
Revenue is the date of sale.
subscription period is 1, 12, 24, or 36 recognised on a net basis, after deduction months.
Antivirus software require of partners commissions, based on the Advertising Other Consumer Indirect frequent updates to keep the software delivery of monthly services to the end derived revenues are comprised of current in order for it to be bene cial to customers of the MNOs.
advertising fees and product fees.
the customer and the customer is Advertising fees are earned through The Group also sells a limited amount of therefore required to use the updated advertising arrangements the Group physical CDs through its distributors which software during the licence period.
has with third parties whereby the third then sell the Groups products Internet This provides evidence that the licence party is obliged to pay the Group a Security and Antivirus Software to retail grants the right to access the software portion of the revenue they earn from stores.
The retail revenue is recognised over time and therefore revenue is advertisements to the Groups end on a gross basis, before the deduction of recognised over the term of the licence.
Amounts earned are re ected as distributors commissions, ratably over the The software licence, together with the revenue in the month the advertisement subscription period.
unspeci ed updates, form a single is delivered to the end user.
The Group distinct performance obligation.
also receives product fees earned through arrangements with third parties, whereby the Group incorporates the content and functionality of the third party into the Groups product off erings.
Fees earned during a period are based on the number of active clients with the installed third-party content or functionality multiplied by the applicable client fee.
Avast annual report 2018 119 Analytics The Group off ers big data Taxes Deferred tax items are recognised in and marketing analytics through its correlation to the underlying transaction Current income tax assets and liabilities entity, Jumpshot Inc. Jumpshot, either in other comprehensive income or recognised are the amount expected to generating mostly recurring subscription directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and be recovered from or paid to the taxation revenue.
Subscriptions are recognised deferred tax liabilities are off set if a legally authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used ratably over the subscription period enforceable right exists to set off current to compute the amount are those that covered by the contract.
tax assets against current income tax are enacted or substantively enacted liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to at the reporting date in the country Small and Medium-sized business SMB the same taxable entity and the same where the Group operates and generates SMB includes subscription revenue taxation authority.
targeted at small and medium-sized Foreign currency translation businesses.
Revenue is generated through Deferred tax is recognised for all the sale of security software and other IT temporary diff erences, except: The Groups historical financial information managed solutions including CloudCare is presented in US dollars USD or $.
where the deferred tax arises from the and AVG Managed Workplace.
CloudCare The functional currencies of all Group initial recognition of goodwill or of an is a cloud-based security suite designed entities are presented in the table below.
asset or liability in a transaction that is for SMBs and third party managed service Each entity in the Group including branch not a business combination and, at the providers who can use this tool to manage offi ces not representing incorporated time of the transaction, aff ects neither security on behalf of their clients.
Managed entities determines its own functional the accounting pro t nor taxable pro t Workplace is a remote monitoring and currency, and items included in the or loss: and management platform.
Licences under financial statements of each entity are these management solutions are provided in respect of taxable temporary measured using that functional currency.
in conjunction with hosting services as the diff erences associated with investments For the purposes of inclusion in the customers have no control over the in subsidiaries, associates and interests historical financial information, the software independently.
The licence is not in joint ventures, where the timing of the statement of financial position of entities distinct and would be combined with the reversal of the temporary diff erences can with non-USD functional currencies are hosting service as a single performance be controlled and it is probable that the translated into USD at the exchange rates obligation.
The performance obligation is temporary diff erences will not reverse in prevailing at the balance sheet date and typically satis ed over the subscription the foreseeable future.
the income statements are translated at term, beginning on the date that service the average exchange rate for each month Deferred tax assets are recognised to is made available to the customer.
The resulting net the extent that it is probable that taxable Revenues from sales of CloudCare and translation diff erence is recorded in other pro ts will be available, whereby the AVG Managed Workplace are recognised comprehensive income.
deductible temporary diff erences and the on a gross basis, before deduction of the carry forward of unused tax credits and payment gateways fees.
unused tax losses, can be utilised.
Cost of revenues The carrying amount of deferred tax assets Expenses directly connected with the sale is reviewed at each reporting date and of products and the provision of services, reduced to the extent that it is no longer e. g. commissions, payments and other probable that suffi cient taxable pro t will fees and third party licence costs related be available to allow all or part of the to the subscription software licences, deferred tax asset to be utilised.
are recognised as cost of revenues.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and Capitalised contract costs are recognised to the extent that it has The Group pays commissions, third party become probable that future taxable licence costs and payment fees to resellers pro ts will allow the deferred tax asset and payment providers for selling the to be recovered.
subscription software licences to end customers.
Capitalised contract costs Deferred tax assets and liabilities are are amortised over the licence period measured at the tax rates that are and recognised in the cost of revenues.
expected to apply in the year when the Capitalised contract costs are subject to asset is realised or the liability is settled, an impairment assessment at the end of based on tax rates and tax laws that each reporting period.
Impairment losses have been enacted or substantively are recognised in pro t or loss.
enacted at the reporting date for the respective tax jurisdiction.
120 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6.
Summary of signi cant accounting policies continued The functional currencies of the Groups Business combinations aggregate consideration transferred, the main entities are as follows: Group re-assesses whether it has correctly Business combinations are accounted identi ed all of the assets acquired and all for using the acquisition method.
The cost Functional of the liabilities assumed and reviews the Company or branch currency of an acquisition is measured as the procedures used to measure the amounts aggregate of the consideration transferred Avast plc USD to be recognised at the acquisition date.
measured at acquisition date fair value and Avast Holding B. V. USD During the measurement period, which the amount of any non-controlling interests may be up to one year from the acquisition in the acquiree.
For each business Avast Operations B. V. USD date, the Group may record adjustments to combination, the Group elects whether Avast Software B. V. USD the assets acquired and liabilities assumed to measure the non-controlling interests with the corresponding off set to goodwill.
in the acquiree at fair value or at the Avast Software s. r. o. USD Upon the conclusion of the measurement proportionate share of the acquirees Avast Software, Inc. USD period or final determination of the values identi able net assets.
Acquisition-related of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, Avast Corporate Services B. V. USD costs are expensed as incurred and whichever comes first, any subsequent included in administrative expenses.
AVG Technologies Canada Inc. CAD adjustments are recorded to the When the Group acquires a business, Avast Deutschland GmbH EUR Consolidated Statement of Pro t and Loss.
it assesses the financial assets and AVG Technologies UK Limited GBP After initial recognition, goodwill is liabilities assumed for appropriate measured at cost less any accumulated classi cation and designation in AVG Technologies USA LLC USD impairment losses.
For the purpose of accordance with the contractual terms, FileHippo s. r. o. CZK impairment testing, goodwill acquired economic circumstances and pertinent in a business combination is, from the InloopX s. r. o. EUR conditions as at the acquisition date.
acquisition date, allocated to each of the If the business combination is achieved Location Labs LLC USD Groups cash-generating units that are in stages, any previously held equity Piriform Group Limited GBP expected to bene t from the combination, interest is re-measured at its acquisition irrespective of whether other assets or date fair value and any resulting gain Piriform Limited GBP liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to or loss is recognised in pro t or loss.
Piriform Software Limited GBP those units.
It is then considered in the determination of goodwill.
Piriform, Inc. USD Intangible Assets Privax Limited USD Any contingent consideration to be Intangible assets acquired separately are transferred by the acquirer will be measured on initial recognition at cost.
TACR Services, Inc. USD recognised at fair value at the acquisition The cost of intangible assets acquired in Jumpshot s. r. o. CZK date.
Contingent consideration classi ed business combination is their fair value as an asset or liability that is a financial as at the date of acquisition.
Jumpshot, Inc. USD instrument and within the scope of IAS 39 Intangible assets are carried at cost less Financial Instruments: Recognition and Transactions in foreign currencies are accumulated amortisation and Measurement.
Contingent consideration initially recorded by the Group entities accumulated impairment losses.
is measured at fair value with changes in at their respective functional currency fair value recognised in pro t or loss.
Intangible assets with nite lives are rates prevailing at the date of the Contingent consideration that is classi ed amortised over their useful economic life transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities as equity is not re-measured and and assessed for impairment whenever denominated in foreign currencies are subsequent settlement is accounted for there is an indication that the intangible recalculated at the functional currency within equity.
The amortisation spot rate of exchange valid at the reporting period for an intangible asset with a nite date.
All diff erences are recorded in the Goodwill is initially measured at cost, useful life is reviewed at least at the end of statement of pro t and loss as finance being the excess of the aggregate of the each reporting period.
consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, The amortisation expense on intangible Non-monetary items that are measured and any previous interest held, over the assets with nite lives is recognised in the in terms of historical cost in a foreign net identi able assets acquired and Consolidated Statement of Pro t and Loss currency are translated using the liabilities assumed.
If the fair value of the in the expense category consistent with exchange rates at the dates of the net assets acquired is in excess of the the function of the intangible assets.
Avast annual report 2018 121 Inde nite lived intangibles are not Property, plant and equipment Where the carrying amount of an asset or amortised but are tested for impairment CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, Property, plant and equipment are carried annually and for impairment indicators on the asset is considered impaired and is at cost less accumulated depreciation a quarterly basis.
The assessment of written down to its recoverable amount.
Cost inde nite life is reviewed annually to In assessing value in use, the estimated comprises the aggregate amount paid and determine whether the inde nite life future cash ows are discounted to their the fair value of any other consideration assumption continues to be appropriate.
present value using a pre-tax discount rate given to acquire the asset and includes that re ects current market assessments costs directly attributable to making the The useful economic lives of intangible of the time value of money and the risks asset capable of operating as intended.
assets are as follows: speci c to the asset.
In determining fair The present value of the expected cost for Years value less costs of disposal, recent market the restoration of rented premises after the transactions are taken into account, if Developed technology 4-5 end of their use is included in the cost of available.
If no such transactions can be construction if the recognition criteria for a Avast & FileHippo Trademark Inde nite identi ed, an appropriate valuation model provision are met.
Piriform Trademark 10 Ordinary repairs and maintenance costs Impairment losses of continuing AVG Trademark 6 are charged to the statement of pro t and operations are recognised in the Customer relationships and loss during the accounting period during Consolidated Statement of Pro t and Loss user base 4 which they are incurred.
in those expense categories consistent Other licensed with the function of the impaired asset.
Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line intangible assets 3-5 For assets excluding goodwill, an basis over the estimated useful life of an assessment is made at each reporting asset, as follows: Research and development costs date as to whether there is any indication Years that previously recognised impairment Research costs are expensed when losses may no longer exist or may have incurred as the criteria for capitalisation over the decreased.
The reversal is limited so that are not met.
Development expenditures Leasehold improvements lease term the carrying amount of the asset does are recognised as an intangible asset Machinery and equipment 2-5 not exceed the lower of its recoverable when the Group can demonstrate: Vehicles 4-5 amount or the carrying amount that the technical feasibility of completing the would have been determined, net of intangible asset so that the asset will be Gains or losses arising from the depreciation, had no impairment loss available for use or sale: fide-recognition of tangible assets are been recognised for the asset in prior measured as the diff erence between the years.
Such reversal is recognised in the its intention to complete and its ability net disposal proceeds and the carrying Consolidated Statement of Pro t and Loss.
and intention to use or sell the asset: amount of the asset and are recognised in Goodwill and intangible assets with how the asset will generate future the Consolidated Statement of Pro t and inde nite useful lives are tested for economic bene ts: Loss when the asset is fide-recognised.
impairment annually as at 31 December at the availability of resources to complete Impairment the operating segment level, which is the the asset: and The Group assesses at each reporting smallest group of CGUs to which the date whether there is an indication that an Goodwill and intangible assets with the ability to measure reliably the asset may be impaired.
inde nite useful life can be allocated.
Goodwill is allocated to the groups of If any indication exists, or when annual Development expenditure incurred CGUs, that corresponds with operating impairment testing for an asset is required, on minor or major upgrades, or other segments Consumer and SMB according the Group estimates the assets changes in software functionalities does to the allocation from past business recoverable amount.
An assets not satisfy the criteria, as the product is not combinations see Note 9.
Intangible recoverable amount is the higher of substantially new in its design or functional assets with inde nite useful lives are an assets or cash-generating units characteristics.
Such expenditure is all allocated to the Group of CGUs CGU fair value less costs of disposal therefore recognised as an expense in that corresponds to the Consumer or its value in use and is determined for the Consolidated Statement of Pro t or operating segment.
an individual asset, unless the asset does Loss as incurred.
not generate cash in ows that are largely Goodwill independent of those from other assets or Goodwill is assessed as having an groups of assets.
inde nite useful life and is tested for impairment annually.
122 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6.
Summary of signi cant accounting policies continued Operating leases When the terms of an equity-settled contributions to a maximum of 4% of the transaction are modi ed, where the participant annual compensation.
Leases where the lessee does not obtain modi cation increases the total fair value substantially all the risks and rewards of Redundancy and termination bene ts of the share-based payment transaction, ownership of the asset are classi ed Redundancy and termination bene ts are or is otherwise bene cial to the employee as operating leases.
Operating lease payable when employment is terminated as measured at the date of modi cation, payments, other than contingent rentals, before the normal retirement or contract additional expense is recognised.
When are recognised as an expense in the expiry date.
The Group recognises an equity-settled award is cancelled other Consolidated Statement of Pro t and Loss redundancy and termination bene ts than by forfeiture, it is treated as if it vested on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
when it is demonstrably committed to have on the date of cancellation, and any Employee stock option plans terminated the employment of current expense not yet recognised for the award employees according to a detailed formal Employees of the Group receive is recognised immediately.
This includes plan without possibility of withdrawal.
remuneration in the form of share-based any award where non-vesting conditions Bene ts falling due more than 12 months payment transactions whereby employees within the control of either the entity or the after the balance sheet date are render services as consideration for equity employee are not met.
However, if a new discounted to present value.
There are instruments equity-settled transactions.
award is substituted for the cancelled no redundancy and termination bene ts award, and designated as a replacement Equity-settled transactions falling due more than 12 months after the award on the date that it is granted, the The cost of equity-settled transactions is balance sheet date.
cancelled and new awards are treated determined based on the fair value of the as if they were a modi cation of the Key management personnel share-based payment award at the date original award.
The dilutive eff ect of The Group discloses the total when the grant is made, taking into outstanding options is re ected in the remuneration of key management account the market and non-vesting computation of diluted earnings per share.
personnel KMP as required by IAS 24 conditions, using an appropriate valuation Related party disclosures.
Non-market vesting conditions, Employee bene ts includes within KMP all individuals and are not taken into account in determining Pension obligations their family members, if applicable who the fair value of the award.
The cost is Contributions are made to the Government have authority and responsibility for recognised, together with a corresponding health, retirement bene t and planning, directing and controlling the increase in other capital reserves in equity, unemployment plans at statutory rates activities of the Group.
KMP include all over the period in which the performance applicable during the period and are members of the Board and the senior or service conditions are ful lled.
The based on gross salary payments.
The executives of the Group.
See Note 35 cumulative expense recognised for arrangements of the Government health, for more details.
equity-settled transactions at each retirement bene t and unemployment reporting date until the vesting date plans qualify as fide ned contribution Financial instruments re ects the extent to which the vesting plans.
The Group has no further payment Financial assets and liabilities are period has expired and the Groups obligations once the contributions recognised on the Groups Consolidated best estimate of the number of equity have been paid.
The expense for the Statement of Financial Position when the instruments that will ultimately vest.
contributions is charged to pro t and loss Group becomes a contractual party to the The Consolidated Statement of Pro t in the same period as the related salary instrument.
When financial instruments are and Loss expense or credit for a period expense.
As a bene t for employees, recognised initially, they are measured at represents the movement in cumulative the Group also makes contributions to fair value, which is the transaction price expense recognised as at the beginning fide ned contribution schemes operated by plus, in the case of financial assets and and end of that period and is recognised external third party pension companies.
financial liabilities not measured at fair in compensation expense.
These contributions are charged to pro t value through pro t and loss, directly and loss in the period to which the No expense is recognised for awards attributable transaction costs.
that do not ultimately vest, except for All assets and liabilities for which fair value equity-settled transactions where fide ned contribution plans is measured or disclosed in the financial vesting is conditional upon a market or The Group maintains a fide ned statements are categorised within the fair non-vesting condition, which are treated contribution 401 k retirement savings plan value hierarchy, described as follows, as vesting irrespective of whether or for its U. S. employees.
Each participant based on the lowest level input that is not the market or non-vesting condition in the 401 k retirement savings plan may signi cant to the fair value measurement is satis ed, provided that all other elect to contribute a percentage of his or as a whole: performance and or service conditions her annual compensation up to a speci ed are satis ed.
Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market maximum amount allowed under U. S. prices in active markets for identical Internal Revenue Service regulations.
assets or liabilities: The Group matches employee Avast annual report 2018 123 Level 2 Valuation techniques for which Loans Restructuring provisions the lowest level input that is signi cant to Loans are initially recognised at their Restructuring provisions are recognised the fair value measurement is directly or fair value net of transaction costs and only when the Group has a constructive indirectly observable: and subsequently measured at amortised obligation, which is when a detailed formal cost using the eff ective interest method.
plan identi es the business or part of the Level 3 Valuation techniques for The eff ective interest rate is the rate that business concerned, the location and which the lowest level input that is exactly discounts the estimated future number of employees aff ected, a detailed signi cant to the fair value measurement cash payments or receipts over the estimate of the associated costs, and an is unobservable.
expected life of the financial instrument appropriate timeline, and the employees Trade and other receivables or a shorter period, where appropriate, aff ected have been noti ed of the plans Trade receivables are at initial recognition to the net carrying amount of the financial main features.
recorded at the original invoice amount, liability.
Interest income is included in Onerous contracts including value-added tax and other sales finance income in the Consolidated If the Group has a contract that is onerous, taxes.
At subsequent reporting dates, Statement of Pro t and Loss.
the present obligation under the contract the carrying amount is decreased by Derivative financial instruments is recognised and measured as a the expected lifetime loss allowance Derivatives are initially recognised at fair provision.
However, before a separate attributable to the receivable or group of value at the date a derivative contract is provision for an onerous contract is receivables based credit assessment of entered into and are subsequently established, the Group recognises any the counterparty or estimate for relevant re-measured at fair value at the end of impairment loss that has occurred on group of receivables respectively.
The resulting assets dedicated to that contract.
Bad debts are written off in the period gain and loss is recognised in pro t and An onerous contract is a contract under in which they are determined to be loss immediately.
which the unavoidable costs i. e. the costs completely unrecoverable.
A derivative embedded within a host that the Group cannot avoid because it has Cash and cash equivalents contract containing a financial asset host is the contract of meeting the obligations For the purpose of the Consolidated not accounted for separately.
The financial under the contract exceed the economic Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash asset host together with the embedded bene ts expected to be received under it.
equivalents consist of cash at bank, cash derivative is required to be classi ed in its The unavoidable costs under a contract in hand and short-term deposits with an entirety as a financial asset at fair value re ect the least net cost of exiting from the original maturity of three months or less.
contract, which is the lower of the cost of ful lling it and any compensation or The Groups consolidated Statement of fide-recognition of financial instruments penalties arising from failure to ful l it.
Cash Flows is prepared based on the A financial asset or liability is generally indirect method from the Consolidated Financial income and expenses fide-recognised when the contract that Statement of Financial Position and gives right to it is settled, sold, cancelled Financial income consist of interest Consolidated Statement of Pro t and Loss.
Financial expenses consist of net foreign exchange gains and losses, Pledged or restricted assets When an existing financial liability is interest expense and net other financial Financial assets transferred to third parties replaced by another from the same expense.
When a non-current liability is as collateral, assets that are pledged lender on substantially diff erent terms, discounted to a net present value the and assets as to which the Group has or the terms of an existing liability unwinding of the discount is presented otherwise restricted dispositions are are substantially modi ed, such an as an interest expense.
classi ed as other long-term receivables, exchange or modi cation is treated as a if the period until which the restriction fide-recognition of the original liability Exceptional items ends or return of the assets in question and the recognition of a new liability, and Exceptional items are material or will take place is more than 12 months the diff erence in the respective carrying non-recurring items of income and from the balance sheet date.
amounts is recognised in the Consolidated expense which the Group believes should Statement of Pro t and Loss.
be separately disclosed to show the Trade payables and other liabilities underlying business performance of the Provisions Trade payables and other liabilities are Group more accurately.
Such items are recognised at their amortised cost which Provisions are recognised when the separately disclosed on the face of the is deemed to be materially the same as Group has a present obligation legal or Consolidated Statement of Pro t and Loss the fair value.
constructive as a result of a past event, and in the notes to the consolidated it is probable that an out ow of resources Change in accounting policy financial statements.
Examples of such embodying economic bene ts will be items include legal and advisory costs The Group combined and reclassi ed required to settle the obligation and a related to acquisition, integration, strategic trade and other payables and other current reliable estimate can be made of the restructuring programme costs and cost liabilities.
Comparative information as of 31 amount of the obligation.
124 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 7.
Signi cant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements in Consumer Indirect monetisations such Interest payments accordance with IFRS requires the use of as the Google Chrome and other similar Fees paid in connection with the judgements, estimates and assumptions distribution arrangements are accounted arrangement of the term loan are being that aff ect the reported amount of assets for on a net basis in an amount amortised to pro t and loss over the term and liabilities and the reported amounts corresponding to the fee the Group of the facility using the eff ective interest of revenues and expenses during receives from the monetisation method.
The Group made estimates about reporting periods.
The contracted partner in voluntary and mandatory repayments of the arrangement is the customer rather the term loan and the future development In the process of applying the Groups than the end customer.
of market interest rates see Note 6 for a accounting policies, management has description of the method.
Due to the made the following judgements, which Sales of third-party solutions are oating rate nature of the loan, changes in have the most signi cant eff ect on the accounted for net of the costs from the the eff ective interest rate are accounted amounts recognised in the historical third party providing the product or for prospectively from the moment the financial information: service to the end customer.
The factors change in estimate takes place.
supporting the net principle of recording Gross versus net revenue accounting revenues include: Impairment testing The Group has revenue arrangements Signi cant management judgement and the third party suggests to the Group a with resellers, payment providers, partners estimates are required to determine the final retail price: however, individual and other third parties.
When the Group individual cash generating units CGUs resellers of the Group have the discretion concludes that it has control over the of the Group, the allocation of assets to to set final prices: provided product or service before that these CGUs and the determination of the product or service is transferred to the provision of the service or product to value in use or fair value less cost to sell of customer, the Group acts as principal and the end customer is primarily the these individual assets.
Management has revenues for satisfying the performance responsibility of the third party, and the concluded that the operating segments obligations are recognised on a gross third party provides the actual service used for segment reporting represents the basis before deduction of resellers or product purchased by the end lowest level within the Group at which commissions, payment provider fees customer: and the Goodwill is monitored.
Therefore, the and the third party costs.
Otherwise operating segments correspond to groups the Group has no material incremental revenues are recognised on a net basis.
of CGUs at which goodwill is tested for costs from the provision of the service The Group accounts for sales of products impairment.
To determine the value in use or product to the end customer after the through E-Commerce partners on a management has used the discounted moment of sale.
gross basis before deduction of the cash ow model which requires estimating The Group partnered with Mobile Network E-Commerce partners commissions and the future financial results and an Operators MNOs providing various fees.
The Groups e-commerce service appropriate discount rate see Note 25 for products of Location Labs.
The revenues providers ful l administrative functions, details of impairment test parameters.
generated by these arrangements are such as collecting payment and remitting Trademarks based on revenue share percentages as any required sales tax.
The Groups Avast trademarks and domains were stated in the MNO agreements.
Once the e-commerce service providers collect the assessed by the Group as having inde nite product is developed by Avast based on fees and transfer cash payments to the useful economic lives, as the trademark the MNOs requirements, the product is Group on a monthly basis within 30 days has no expiration date.
The Group is then sold to the end customer via the after the end of the month with respect to considered a going concern and the MNOs subscription plans.
Revenue is which payment is being made.
The Group trademarks and domains are linked to the recognised on a net basis, after deduction sets the retail list prices and has control agship product of the Group.
The AVG of partners commissions, as Avast has over the licences before transferring them trademark was assessed as having a no control of the product and no discretion to the customer.
fide nite useful economic life.
The Group to set the final prices.
The Group also sells subscription software has the intention and ability to prolong Analytics subscription sales generated licences through an e-shop directly to the registered AVG trademark upon the by Jumpshot are accounted for net of end customers in cooperation with certain expiration.
Management performed an resellers commissions and costs.
Revenue impairment test and no impairment was Jumpshot does not determine the final from sales through the e-shop are recognised as of 31 December 2018 as resale price as it is set by resellers for the accounted for on a gross basis before described in Note 25. end user.
In addition, Jumpshot does not the deduction of payment gateways fees.
have a contractual relationship with the The Group sets the final retail prices and end user, nor any financial contact with fully controls the revenue arrangement the end user.
Avast annual report 2018 125 Deferred tax In order to calculate the deferred tax tax rate for the years 2018-2022 to be impact from the fair value adjustments re-assessed at each balance sheet date Deferred tax assets are recognised for as part of the AVG acquisition, the as new information becomes available.
unused tax losses to the extent that it is management analysed the most likely The expiration of tax losses is considered, probable that taxable pro t will be development of tax regulations, the as is the impact of business combinations.
available against which the losses can distribution of taxable pro ts within the be utilised.
Signi cant management Group assumed to be primarily in the judgement is required to determine the Czech Republic and the Netherlands amount of deferred tax assets that can be and the timing of tax credit utilisation and recognised, based upon the likely timing determined that 20% is the most suitable and the level of future taxable pro ts.
Alternative performance measures APM Underlying operating pro t, Underlying Underlying operating pro t, Underlying Underlying operating pro t is fide ned as EBITDA, Underlying Net Income and EBITDA, Underlying Net Income and the Groups operating loss pro t before: Cash EBITDA Underlying Cash EBITDA provide i amortisation charges of intangible supplemental measures of earnings assets recognised as part of a business To supplement its historical financial that facilitates a review of operating combinations: ii stock-based information, which is prepared and performance on a period-over-period compensation expenses: and iii presented in accordance with IFRS, basis by excluding non-recurring and other exceptional items.
the Group uses the following non-GAAP items that are not indicative of the Groups financial measures that are not fide ned Underlying EBITDA is fide ned as the underlying operating performance.
or recognised under IFRS: Underlying Groups operating pro t loss before: These measures are consistent with the operating pro t, Underlying earnings i depreciation and amortisation charges: presentation within IPO prospectus.
before interest, taxation, depreciation ii deferred revenue haircut reversal: and amortisation Underlying EBITDA, iii share-based payments expenses: and Underlying Net Income and Underlying iv exceptional items.
Yearended Yearended 31 December 31 December $m 2018 2017 Operating pro t 248.3 124.3 Share-based payments 13.9 7.7 Exceptional items 25.6 34.8 Amortisation of acquisition intangible assets 127.5 132.9 Underlying operating pro t 415.3 299.7 Deferred revenue haircut reversal 15.5 98.0 Depreciation 13.4 15.0 Amortisation of non-acquisition intangible assets 2.8 3.7 Underlying EBITDA 447.0 416.4 Underlying Net Income represents pro t unrealised exchange diff erences on for the financial period before the eff ect inter-company loans see Note 17 and the of business combination accounting tax impact of the foregoing adjusting items deferred revenue haircut reversal, and IP sale.
The Group believes that share-based payments, exceptional items, Underlying Net Income is an appropriate amortisation of acquisition intangible supplemental measure that provides assets, the unrealised foreign exchange useful information to the Group and gain loss on the EUR tranche of the bank investors about the Groups underlying loan see Note 29, the tax impact from the business performance.
126 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8.
Alternative performance measures APM continued Yearended Yearended 31 December 31 December $m 2018 2017 Pro t loss for the year 241.2 33.8 Deferred revenue haircut reversal 15.5 98.0 Share-based payments 13.9 7.7 Exceptional items 25.6 34.8 Amortisation of acquisition intangible assets 127.5 132.9 Unrealised FX gain loss on EUR tranche of bank loan 26.4 63.0 Tax impact from foreign exchange diff erence on inter-company Loans 9.8 19.0 Tax impact of IP transfer 99.2 Tax impact on adjusted items 18.5 71.5 Underlying Net Income 269.8 250.1 The tax impact of the adjusted items has been calculated by applying the tax rate that the Group determined to be applicable to the relevant item.
Cash earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation Cash EBITDA is fide ned as Underlying EBITDA plus the increase in deferred revenue net of impact from foreign exchange and business combination accounting less the net increase in prepaid expenses related to cost of goods sold.
Yearended Yearended 31 December 31 December $m 2018 2017 Underlying EBITDA 447.0 416.4 Net change in deferred revenue 38.5 49.5 Change in prepaid expenses cost of revenue 8.7 20.6 Underlying Cash EBITDA 476.8 445.3 Avast annual report 2018 127 9.
Segment information and other disclosures The management monitors revenues in In addition, the Group off ers big data and Billings are not fide ned or recognised two customer segments: consumer marketing analytics through its entity under IFRS and considered as a non-IFRS products which generate direct and Jumpshot.
Jumpshot aggregates financial measure used to evaluate current indirect revenue streams and products anonymised data from users full internet business performance.
For management usage, not just the data of a users usage The Group evaluates the performance of reporting purposes, the operating on a single companys website.
its segments based primarily on Revenue, segments are determined to be Consumer SMB The Groups SMB segment focuses Underlying revenue and Segment and Small and Medium-sized business on delivering high-level security and underlying operating pro t. Total segment SMB.
This is the level on which protection solutions for Small and Medium underlying operating pro t is derived from the Chief Operating Decision Maker sized business customers.
underlying revenues and decreased by decides about the allocation of the the cost of revenues and operating costs Groups resources.
Billings is one of the important metrics directly attributable to the relevant used to evaluate and manage operating The principal products and services segment.
Billings represent the full value off ered by each segment are adjusted for the eff ects of the fair of products and services being delivered summarised below: value revaluation of the acquirees under subscription and other agreements pre-acquisition deferred revenues Consumer The Groups consumer and include sales to new end customers Deferred revenue haircut reversal.
products include direct revenue streams plus renewals and additional sales to through its off erings for desktop security existing end customers.
Under the Certain costs that are not directly and mobile device protection and consist subscription model, end customers pay applicable to the segments are identi ed of free and premium paid products for the the Group for the entire amount of the as Corporate Overhead costs and individual consumer market.
The Group subscription in cash upfront upon initial represent general corporate costs that also has several value-added solutions delivery of the applicable products.
are applicable to the consolidated group.
for performance, privacy and other tools.
Although the cash is paid up front, under In addition, costs relating to share-based The Group also focuses on monetising the IFRS, subscription revenue is deferred payments and exceptional items are not user base indirectly, via dynamic secure and recognised rateably over the life of allocated to the segments since these search solution, including the browser the subscription agreement, whereas costs are not directly applicable to the toolbar, which gives users a convenient non-subscription revenue is typically segments, and therefore not included way to access a search engine at any time.
in the evaluation of performance of the segments.
The following tables present summarised information by segment reconciled from the underlying operating pro t of the segment to the consolidated operating pro t: For the year ended 31 December 2018 $m Consumer SMB Total Billings 801.6 60.5 862.1 Deferral of revenue 50.7 3.1 53.8 Revenues 750.9 57.4 808.3 Deferred revenue haircut reversal 10.0 5.5 15.5 Segment underlying revenue 760.9 62.9 823.8 Segment cost of revenues 74.0 7.2 81.2 Segment sales and marketing costs 70.6 23.5 94.1 Segment research and development costs 44.0 6.6 50.6 Segment general and administrative costs 4.7 4.7 Total Segment underlying operating pro t 567.6 25.6 593.2 Corporate overhead 146.2 Deferred revenue haircut reversal 15.5 Depreciation and amortisation 143.7 Exceptional items 25.6 Share-based payments 13.9 Consolidated operating pro t 248.3 128 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 9.
Segment information and other disclosures continued For the year ended 31 December 2017 $m Consumer SMB Total Billings 736.3 64.1 800.4 Deferral of revenue 131.5 16.0 147.5 Revenues 604.8 48.1 652.9 Deferred revenue haircut reversal 79.3 18.7 98.0 Segment underlying revenue 684.1 66.8 750.9 1 Segment cost of revenues 52.9 8.4 61.3 Segment sales and marketing costs 61.8 24.4 86.2 1 Segment research and development costs 38.6 8.9 47.5 1 Segment general and administrative costs 3.4 3.4 Total Segment underlying operating pro t527.4 25.1 552.5 Corporate overhead 135.7 Deferred revenue haircut reversal 98.0 Depreciation and amortisation 152.0 Exceptional items 34.8 Share-based payments 7.7 Consolidated operating pro t 124.3 1 As described in Note 5, the Group reclassi ed offi ce costs.
Comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2017 was adjusted accordingly.
Corporate overhead costs primarily include the costs of the Groups IT, Technology R&D, HR, Finance and Central Marketing functions and legal, rent and offi ce related costs, which are not allocated to the individual segments.
The following table presents depreciation and amortisation by segment, these costs are excluded in the total Segment underlying operating pro t above: Yearended Yearended 31 December 31 December $m 2018 2017 Consumer 130.5 142.0 SMB 0.4 4.0 Corporate overhead 12.8 6.0 Total depreciation and amortisation 143.7 152.0 The following table presents revenue of sub-segments: Yearended Yearended 31 December 31 December $m 2018 2017 Consumer Direct Desktop 568.4 420.1 Consumer Direct Mobile 81.2 71.0 Consumer Indirect 85.8 75.2 SMB 57.4 48.1 Other 15.5 38.5 Total 808.3 652.9 Avast annual report 2018 129 The following table presents goodwill by segment: 31 December 31 December $m 2018 2017 Consumer 1,969.8 1,962.8 SMB 23.9 23.9 Total goodwill 1,993.7 1,986.7 The following table presents the Groups non-current assets, net of accumulated depreciation and amortisation, by country.
Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property and equipment and intangible assets.
The following table presents revenue attributed to countries based on the location of the end user: Yearended 31 December 2018 Yearended 31 December 2017 $m in % $m in % United States 349.6 43.3% 297.3 45.5% United Kingdom 68.6 8.5% 53.6 8.2% France 61.1 7.6% 48.4 7.4% Germany 50.7 6.3% 36.1 5.5% 2 Other countries 278.3 34.3% 217.5 33.4% Total 808.3 100.0% 652.9 100.0% 2 No individual country represented more than 5% of the respective totals.
Revenues from relationships with certain third parties exceeding 10% of the Groups total revenues were as follows: Yearended Yearended 31 December 31 December $m 2018 2017 Revenues realised through online resellers: Digital River 370.1 212.1 Revenues of Digital River signi cantly increased by $158.0 million due to the move of part of the business from in-house payment processing to the external vendor.
130 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 10.
Exceptional items The following table presents the exceptional items by account: Yearended Yearended 31 December 31 December $m 2018 2017 Cost of revenues 0.6 1.7 Operating costs excl.
depreciation and amortisation 25.0 32.7 Depreciation 0.4 Total 25.6 34.8 The following table presents the exceptional items by activity: Yearended Yearended 31 December 31 December $m 2018 2017 IPO related costs 18.8 4.1 Acquisition, Integration and Restructuring costs 6.8 30.7 Total 25.6 34.8 IPO related costs $4.0 million direct share issue expenses Acquisition, Integration and recorded to equity, which gives total IPO Restructuring costs The costs include one-time advisory, legal costs of $26.8 million.
The full cash impact and other professional service fees related The costs include one-time payments of the IPO costs was recorded in 2018 to the IPO.
The majority of these costs directly related to business combinations showing $ 4.0 million under the cash ows were tax non-deductible.
Total IPO costs of AVG in 2016 and Piriform in 2017. from nancing activities as directly linked comprise of $18.8 million recorded to the Remaining costs relate to AVG integration to the share issue and the remaining Consolidated Statement of Pro t and Loss and other programs implemented in $ 22.8 million is included in the cash in 2018, $4.1 million already accrued in prior years that were completed in ows from operating activities.
trade payables in 2017 and additional 2018.
Tax impact on these exceptional items amounted to $1.5 million 2017: $6.3 million.
Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other non-audit services provided to the Group.
Yearended Yearended 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Audit of the financial statements 1.1 1.6 Audit of the financial statements of subsidiaries 0.2 0.4 Total audit fees 1.3 2.0 Other assurance services 2.5 Corporate finance services 2.2 0.5 Tax services 0.2 0.3 Total non-audit fees 4.9 0.8 Total fees 6.2 2.8 The majority of other services related to the Companys IPO, including work as a reporting accountant, and related tax and other advisory work, which is an exceptional cost.
Cost of revenues Cost of revenues consist of the following: Yearended Yearended 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 restated Amortisation 129.4 135.0 Depreciation 7.4 7.8 Personnel costs of product support and virus updates 17.3 17.2 Digital content distribution costs 15.4 17.0 Third party licence costs 5.2 7.6 Other product support and virus update costs 13.9 19.9 Commissions, payment and other fees 52.8 25.8 Total 241.4 230.3 13.
Operating costs Operating costs are internally monitored by function: their allocation by nature is as follows: Yearended Yearended 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 restated Depreciation 6.0 7.6 Amortisation 0.9 1.6 Personnel expenses 168.3 160.1 Purchases of services from third party vendors legal, advisory and other services 135.8 120.6 Gifts and charities 5.0 3.8 Other operating expenses 2.6 4.6 Total 318.6 298.3 14.
Personnel expenses Personnel expenses consist of the following: Year-ended 31 December 2018 Year-ended 31 December 2017 Non-executive Non-executive $ m Employees directors Employees directors Wages and salaries 135.2 0.8 133.9 0.2 1 Social security and health insurance 23.5 0.1 22.4 Pension costs 0.5 0.5 Social costs 6.7 7.5 Severance payments and termination bene ts 4.9 5.1 Share-based payments 13.7 0.2 7.2 0.5 Total personnel expense 184.5 1.1 176.6 0.7 1 State and Government pension costs of Czech employees are also included in the social security and health insurance costs.
132 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14.
Personnel expenses continued The average number of employees by category during the period was as follows: Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Technical 1,111 1,139 Sales and marketing 266 281 Administration 204 235 Total average number of employees 1,581 1,655 15.
Finance income and expenses Interest income: Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Interest on bank deposits 0.3 Total finance income 0.3 Interest expense: Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Term loan interest expense 85.8 90.4 Total interest expense 85.8 90.4 Other finance income and expense net : Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Changes of fair values of derivatives 1.9 3.2 Revolving loan commitment fee 1.3 0.4 Foreign currency gains losses 7.1 6.2 Unrealised foreign exchange gains losses on borrowings 26.4 63.0 Other financial expense 0.2 2.4 Total other finance income and expense net 19.7 62.8 Avast annual report 2018 133 16.
Depreciation and amortisation Amortisation by function: Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Cost of revenues 127.5 132.9 Total amortisation of acquisition intangible assets 127.5 132.9 Cost of revenues 1.9 2.1 Sales and marketing 0.1 0.8 Research and development 0.1 0.1 General and administration 0.7 0.7 Total amortisation of non-acquisition intangible assets 2.8 3.7 Total amortisation 130.3 136.6 Depreciation by function: Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Cost of revenues 7.4 7.8 Sales and marketing 0.3 0.7 Research and development 1.1 1.5 General and administration 4.6 5.4 Total depreciation 13.4 15.4 Total depreciation of $15.4 million in 2017 includes $0.4 million of exceptional depreciation classi ed under exceptional costs.
Tangible and intangible assets are allocated to each department of the Group.
The depreciation and amortisation of these assets is reported as part of operating costs and cost of revenues.
Income tax In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Corporate Income tax receivable of $5.8 million 2017: $0.5 million is part of the caption Tax receivables.
The major components of the income tax in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are: Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Current income tax Related to current year 86.7 55.8 Related to prior year 0.6 3.1 Current income tax total 87.3 58.9 Deferred tax Related to current year 145.9 54.0 Related to prior year 0.1 0.0 Deferred tax total 146.0 54.0 Total income tax through P&L 58.7 4.9 134 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 17.
Income tax continued On 1 May 2018, AVG E-comm web shop The Group did not recognise a potential From 2018, the Group generates a was transferred to Avast Software B. V. deferred tax asset related to certain tax temporary diff erence relating to an Avast BV and subsequently, the former losses and non-deductible interest intragroup loan denominated in USD Dutch AVG business including the web expenses respectively, for which the received by Avast Software s. r. o. shop from Avast BV was sold to Avast Group considers future recoverability to be a subsidiary with a USD functional Software s. r. o.
As a result, the deferred tax uncertain.
The total impact was $7.5 million currency but with a tax currency of CZK.
asset was increased by $143.8 million.
for tax losses, of which $5.6 million relates This loan is subject to hedging in its local In addition, an exit charge of $49.4 million to prior periods, and $6.3 million for statutory books with the eff ect that has been agreed upon with the Dutch non-deductible interests.
Tax losses current tax relief does not cover the full tax authorities.
The net tax eff ect of the above, for which the deferred tax asset period exchange diff erences.
The tax transaction is a tax bene t of $94.4 million.
was not recognised, were generated impact related to the loan is a deferred tax during the years 2014-2018 and the bene t of $9.8 million.
In 2017, the loan On 1 August 2018, intangible assets of expiration period is 20 years.
was not part of statutory hedging Piriform IP were sold to Piriform UK.
As a relationship thus exchange diff erences result, a deferred tax asset of $5.6 million were taxable and generated current was recognised by the Group.
The current income tax charge of $19.0 million.
tax expense related to the transaction was $0.7 million.
The net tax eff ect of the transaction is a tax bene t of $4.8 million.
The reconciliation of income tax bene t applicable to accounting pro t before income tax at the statutory income tax rate to income tax expenses at the Groups eff ective income tax rate is as follows: Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Pro t loss before tax 182.5 28.9 1 Group eff ective income tax rate 20% in 2017 and 2018 36.5 5.8 Recurring adjustments Non-deductible expenses 3.2 2.9 Share-based payments 2.8 1.5 FX eff ect on Inter-company loans 9.8 19.0 Non recurring adjustments Non-deductible expenses IPO related 3.8 AVG IP transfer net tax bene t 94.4 Piriform IP transfer net tax bene t 4.8 Current year deferred tax assets not recognised 4.9 1.2 Derecognition of previously recognised deferred tax assets 8.9 4.5 Usage of previously not recognised deferred tax assets 1.6 Eff ect of enacted changes in tax rates on deferred taxes 2.5 Remaining impact of tax rate variance and other eff ects 10.7 18.4 Total income tax 58.7 4.9 1 Estimated as a Groups blended rate across the jurisdictions where the Group operates.
Avast annual report 2018 135 The deferred tax relates to following temporary diff erences: 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Temporary diff erences Asset Liability Asset Liability Fixed assets 53.1 76.2 IP transfer tax bene t 142.9 Deferred revenue and unbilled receivables 15.9 31.2 Tax loss carryforward 16.6 6.9 Tax credits carryforward 3.7 3.6 Loans and derivatives 11.0 14.0 Carryforward of unutilised interest 3.4 Provisions 1.8 1.5 Tax impact from FX diff erence on inter-company loans 9.8 Other 0.8 3.6 Net 149.4 12.0 As a result of the IPO option exercise, there was a $70.0 million tax deduction in Avast Software Inc. Jumpshot Inc. and AVG UK that created a deferred tax bene t of $14.8 million, that was recognised directly in equity.
The movement in deferred tax balances: 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Asset Liability Asset Liability Deferred tax as at 1 January 12.0 59.9 Eff ect of business combination Note 3 6.1 Deferred tax recognised in the pro t & loss 146.0 54.0 Deferred tax recognised in the equity 14.8 Translation diff erence 0.6 Deferred tax as at 31 December 149.4 12.0 136 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 18.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the net pro t for the period attributable to equity holders of the Group by the weighted average number of shares of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the net pro t for the period attributable to equity holders of the Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period plus the weighted average number of shares that would be issued if all dilutive potential ordinary shares were converted into ordinary shares.
Underlying EPS is calculated by dividing the underlying net pro t for the period attributable to equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
The following re ects the income and share data used in calculating EPS: Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Net pro t loss attributable to equity holders $ m 241.2 33.8 Basic weighted average number of shares 914,567,949 836,413,568 Eff ects of dilution from share options and restricted share units 62,120,397 83,835,481 1 Total number of antidilutive shares not used in computing diluted earnings per share 83,835,481 Total number of shares used in computing dilutive earnings per share 976,688,346 836,413,568 Basic earnings losses per share $ share 0.26 0.04 Diluted earnings losses per share $ share 0.25 0.04 1 If the result of the Group is a loss for the relevant period such options are considered antidilutive and are not included in calculating diluted earnings per share.
The weighted average number of shares for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 836,413,568 has been determined as a weighted average that adjusts for options to purchase shares in Avast Holding exercised during 2017 multiplied by the ratio at which these shares were exchanged for shares in Avast plc on 10 May 2018.
Supplementary earnings per share measures: Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Net pro t loss attributable to equity holders $ m 241.2 33.8 Deferred revenue haircut reversal 15.5 98.0 Share-based payments 13.9 7.7 Exceptional items 25.6 34.8 Amortisation of acquisition intangible assets 127.5 132.9 Unrealised FX gain loss on EUR tranche of bank loan 26.4 63.0 Tax impact from foreign exchange diff erence on inter-company loans 9.8 19.0 Tax impact of IP transfer 99.2 Tax impact on adjusted items 18.5 71.5 Underlying net pro t attributable to equity holders $ m 269.8 250.1 Basic weighted average number of shares 914,567,949 836,413,568 Underlying basic earnings per share $ share 0.30 0.30 Diluted weighted average number of shares 976,688,346 920,249,049 Underlying diluted earnings per share $ share 0.28 0.27 Management regard the above adjustments necessary to give a fair picture of the underlying results of the Group for the period.
Avast annual report 2018 137 Dividend Proposed The Directors propose to pay a final dividend of 8.6 cents per share, in respect of the period 15 May 2018 to 31 December 2018 13.6 cents per share on an annualised basis.
This represents 40% of the Groups levered free cash ow on a pro-rated basis from 15 May 2018 to 31 December 2018, in accordance with the Companys dividend policy.
Subject to shareholder approval, this will be paid in US dollars on 17 June 2019 to shareholders on the register on 24 May 2019.
There will be an option for shareholders to elect to receive the dividend in pounds sterling and such an election should be made no later than 24 May 2019.
The foreign exchange rate at which dividends declared in US dollars will be converted into pounds sterling will be calculated based on the average exchange rate over the five business days prior to 5 June 2019 and announced immediately thereafter.
Cash and cash equivalents For purposes of the statement of cash ows, cash and cash equivalents comprise of the following: 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Cash on hand and cash equivalents 2.0 Cash in bank 270.3 176.3 Total 272.3 176.3 20.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Trade receivables 35.7 54.1 Unbilled revenues 49.2 40.3 Other receivables 4.0 4.1 Trade receivables, gross 88.9 98.5 Less: Expected loss allowance on trade receivables, unbilled revenues and other receivables 6.0 5.3 Trade receivables, net 82.9 93.2 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally payable on 30-day terms.
The fair value of receivables approximates their carrying value due to their short term maturities.
The expected loss allowance relates to trade receivables with only insigni cant amounts relating to other classes of receivable.
Unbilled revenues represent sold products for which the revenue has been deferred over the term of the product licence but for which an invoice has not yet been issued.
Other receivables represent mainly advances to and receivables from employees.
$ m Amount Allowances at 31 December 2016 2.7 Charged 5.3 Utilised 2.7 Allowances at 31 December 2017 5.3 Charged 6.0 Utilised 5.3 Allowances at 31 December 2018 6.0 Movements in allowances above relate mainly to trade receivables.
As of 31 December 2017 and 2018, the nominal value of receivables overdue for more than 360 days are $2.8 million carrying value: nil and $2.0 million carrying value: $0.1 million, respectively.
138 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20.
Trade and other receivables continued The ageing analysis of trade receivables, unbilled receivables and other receivables was as follows carrying amounts after valuation allowance : Past due 1-90 Past due more Past due more Past due more $ m Not past due days than 90 days than 180 days than 360 days Total 31 December 2017 85.2 8.0 93.2 31 December 2018 74.6 7.2 0.9 0.1 0.1 82.9 21.
Capitalised contract costs 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 restated Capitalised contract costs at 1 January 27.2 5.5 Additions 66.1 54.2 Sales commissions and fees 59.8 45.1 Licence fees 6.3 9.1 Amortisation 57.5 32.5 Sales commissions and fees 52.1 24.9 Licence fees 5.4 7.6 Capitalised contract costs at 31 December 35.8 27.2 Total current 31.2 27.1 Total non-current 4.6 0.1 Capitalised contract costs include commissions and fees and third party licence costs related to the subscription software licences that are amortised on a straight-line basis over the licence period, consistent with the pattern of recognition of the associated revenue.
Capitalised contract costs are reviewed for impairment annually.
All costs are expected to be recovered.
Other financial assets 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Restricted cash acquisition agreements 0.6 offi ce lease agreements 0.2 1.3 other 0.4 0.3 Total 0.6 2.2 Derivatives foreign currency contracts 0.1 Investment in equity securities 0.5 0.6 Total 1.1 2.9 Total current 0.4 1.0 Total non-current 0.7 1.9 Avast annual report 2018 139 23.
Property, plant and equipment Equipment, furniture and Leasehold $ m xtures Vehicles improvements In progress Total Cost at 31 December 2016 28.1 0.2 10.6 2.9 41.8 Additions 5.9 0.1 1.4 2.7 10.1 Transfers 2.4 2.4 Net foreign currency exchange diff erence 0.4 0.4 Disposals 0.3 0.3 Cost at 31 December 2017 36.5 0.3 12.0 3.2 52.0 Additions 11.5 0.1 0.6 1.3 13.5 Transfers 2.0 2.0 Net foreign currency exchange diff erence 0.8 0.1 0.4 0.3 Disposals 3.3 0.1 2.7 6.1 Cost at 31 December 2018 45.9 0.4 10.3 2.5 59.1 Equipment, furniture and Leasehold $ m xtures Vehicles improvements In progress Total Acc.
depreciation at 31 December 2018 28.2 0.2 1.4 29.8 NBV at 31 December 2017 16.6 0.1 9.6 3.2 29.5 NBV at 31 December 2018 17.7 0.2 8.9 2.5 29.3 There has been no impairment to the property, plant and equipment held by the Group during the year.
There has been no individually signi cant addition to the property, plant and equipment during the year.
For the information about items of property, plant and equipment pledged as security refer to Note 29.
140 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 24.
Intangible assets Customer Developed relationship and $ m Technology Trade marks Software user base Other In progress Total Cost at 31 December 2016 250.5 159.3 15.5 243.3 10.5 0.5 679.6 Business combination 4.8 24.5 3.3 32.6 Additions 4.3 1.5 5.8 Net foreign currency exchange diff erence 0.2 0.2 Cost at 31 December 2017 250.5 164.1 40.0 246.6 15.0 2.0 718.2 Additions 2.4 1.0 3.4 Transfers 1.5 1.5 Net foreign currency exchange diff erence 0.1 0.1 Cost at 31 December 2018 250.5 164.1 40.0 246.6 18.8 1.5 721.5 Customer Developed relationship and $ m Technology Trade marks Software user base Other In progress Total Acc.
AVG trademark, with a gross value of $89.3 million, has a remaining useful life of 3.8 years.
Piriform trademark, with a gross value of $3.7 million, has a remaining useful life of 8.6 years.
Avast developed technology, with a gross value of $223.2 million, has a remaining useful life of 0.3 years.
AVG developed technology, with a gross value of $27.3 million, has a remaining useful life of 1.8 years.
Piriform and FileHippo software, with a gross value of $24.5 million, has a remaining useful life of 3.6 years.
AVG customer relationship, with a gross value of $197.1 million, has remaining useful life of 1.8 years.
For the information about intangible assets pledged as securities, refer to Note 29.
The major additions are primarily through business combinations in the year ended 31 December 2017 Note 3.
There have been no individually signi cant additions to the intangible assets during the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Group has not capitalised development costs in the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: nil as the Company believe the criteria set out in IAS 38 has not been met.
Goodwill and impairment 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 1 January 1,986.7 1,911.7 Acquisitions 7.0 90.9 Impairment 15.9 31 December 1,993.7 1,986.7 Goodwill was calculated as the diff erence The recoverable amount of tested assets In determining the value in use as of between the acquisition date fair value of exceeds their carrying value.
As the 31 December 2017, the Group used the consideration transferred less the fair Groups management is not aware of any following parameters: value of acquired net assets.
See Note 2 other indications of impairment and given Projected 2018-2020 free cash ows and 3 for further details and Note 9 for the results of the impairment tests, no FCF based on the most current the details of the allocation to individual impairment was recorded.
financial plan of the Group and a business segments.
Changes to the individual parameters used perpetuity growth rate of 3% p. a. after Goodwill & Intangible assets by the Group would impact the value in 2020 allocated to individual operating impairment tests use to varying degrees: segments: and Goodwill and intangible assets with an An increase in the WACC of 100 basis An after-tax discount interest rate inde nite useful life are tested annually points would decrease the value in use representing the weighted average for impairment.
The impairment test as of by 7%: cost of capital WACC of the Group: 31 December 2018 is performed on the The WACC was calculated from a cost A decrease in the projected free cash basis of two groups of cash generating of equity and cost of debt at a ratio ows by 10% in each of the projected units that correspond to the two operating typical for an industry of 70% equity periods would decrease the value in segments, refer to Note 9. and 30% debt.
use also by 10%: In determining the value in use as of The recoverable amount of tested assets A decrease in the perpetuity growth rate 31 December 2018, the Group used the exceeded their carrying value.
As the from 3% p. a. to 1.5% p. a. would decrease following parameters: Groups management was not aware of the value in use by 7%: any other indications of impairment and Projected 2019-2021 free cash ows Part of the income and expenses of given the results of the impairment tests, based on the most current financial plan the Group are in other currencies.
No of the Group and the perpetuity growth The impairment tests performed by reasonable possible change in the rate of 3% p. a. after 2021 allocated to the Group are carried out in USD and assumptions would lead to an impairment.
individual operating segments: and are not signi cantly sensitive to foreign An after-tax discount interest rate exchange volatilities.
representing the WACC of the Group.
No reasonable possible change in the The WACC was calculated from the assumptions would lead to an impairment.
cost of equity and cost of debt at a ratio typical for an industry of 70% equity and 30% debt.
Trade payables and other liabilities 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Trade payables 8.5 6.8 Accruals 30.5 28.4 Amounts owed to employees 19.3 15.2 Social security and other taxes 1.5 10.2 Other payables and liabilities 4.2 13.5 Total trade payables and other liabilities 64.0 74.1 As described in Note 6, the Group combined and reclassi ed trade and other payables and other current liabilities.
Comparative information as of 31 December 2017 was adjusted accordingly.
On 3 August 2018, the Company paid the remaining portion of the consideration for the acquisition of AVG Technologies B. V. of $8.0 million.
142 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 27.
Provisions The movements in the provision accounts were as follows: Accrued vacation Provision for $ m provision restructuring Legal provision Other Total As at 31 December 2016 3.7 15.6 7.7 2.5 29.5 Additions 2.0 2.0 Utilisation 3.7 11.4 7.7 1.3 24.1 As at 31 December 2017 2.0 4.2 1.2 7.4 Additions 1.4 5.6 2.8 9.8 Utilisation 2.0 4.2 1.0 7.2 As at 31 December 2018 1.4 5.6 3.0 10.0 Total current 1.4 4.9 2.8 9.1 Total non-current 0.7 0.2 0.9 28.
Deferred revenue The Group sells consumer and corporate antivirus products for periods of 12, 24 or 36 months with payment received at the beginning of the licence term.
Revenues are recognised ratably over the subscription period covered by the agreement.
The movements in the deferred revenue were as follows: 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 1 January 378.8 231.1 Additions billings 862.2 800.4 Deductions revenue 808.3 652.9 Translation and other adjustments 2.8 0.2 31 December 435.5 378.8 Current 384.3 324.3 Non-current 51.2 54.5 Total 435.5 378.8 29.
Term loan Term loan balance is as follows: 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Current term loan 73.4 92.5 Long-term term loan 1,318.1 1,688.8 Total term loans 1,391.5 1,781.3 The carrying amount of the term loan is net of the total costs incurred on the arrangement of the term loan including repricings which are being amortised to pro t and loss over the term of the term facility using the eff ective interest rate method.
31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 USD tranche principal 864.7 1,213.8 EUR tranche principal 545.8 601.7 Total principal 1,410.5 1,815.5 Avast annual report 2018 143 The Group renanced its bank loan from the primary proceeds arising from the IPO on 16 May 2018, reducing the USD tranche by $300 million and reducing the margin on both the USD and EUR tranche by 0.25% p. a.
The fees for the reduction and repricing were $3.1 million.
The Group allocated the drawing fees as of the repricing date between the $300 million repaid amount and the balance of the loan.
The portion of unamortised issue costs allocated to the repaid loan of $6.9 million was released into the Consolidated Statement of Pro t and Loss as a non-cash interest expenses.
Avast Software B. V. may voluntarily prepay term loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty.
The bank loans are repayable as follows: 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Due within one year 73.3 91.9 Due within two years 73.3 91.9 Due between three and five years 1,263.9 275.8 Due over five years 1,355.9 Total term loans 1,410.5 1,815.5 Under the Repricing agreement, the following terms apply to the bank loans outstanding at 31 December 2018: Facility Interest Margin Floor Principal $ m USD Tranche 3-month USD LIBOR 2.50% p. a.
545.8 The repricing details in 2017 were as follows: Until 31 March 2017 From 1 April 2017 From 21 November 2017 USD tranche EUR tranche USD tranche EUR tranche USD tranche EUR tranche Indexed-based rate 3m USD LIBOR 3m EURIBOR 3m USD LIBOR 3m EURIBOR 3m USDLIBOR 3m EURIBOR Applicable interest rate spread 4.00% p. a.
Both facilities are repayable in full at the elimination based upon the achievement Avast Software B. V. pledged its 100% end of the 84-month term on 30 of Total Net First Lien Leverage Ratios share in Avast Software s. r. o. and 100% September 2023.
The margin payable on Net debt ratio not exceeding 3.5:1 and share in Avast Operations B. V. both facilities is dependent upon the ratio 3.0:1, respectively.
The net debt ratio is Avast Software B. V. pledged of the Groups net debt to adjusted EBITDA fide ned as the nominal value of debt less its receivables as fide ned in the facility agreement.
cash on hand as of the relevant date divided by adjusted operating pro t for Avast Software B. V. pledged its securities The Credit Agreement CA requires the preceding four calendar quarters.
the following mandatory repayments in Avast Holding B. V. pledged its 100% The operating pro t is adjusted for addition to the quarterly amortisation share in Avast Software B. V. amortisation and depreciation, non-cash payments: Excess Cash Flow Payment expenses such as Share-based payments, Avast Operations B. V. pledged Amount ECF Payment Amount, fide ned the eff ects of business combination its receivables from intragroup in the CA as the consolidated net increase accounting and other non-cash items.
loan agreements in cash and cash equivalents of Avast plc The Net debt ratio was 2.5:1 as of for the period adjusted for potential future Avast Software s. r. o. pledged its 31 December 2018 so no mandatory business combinations and the results of receivables from bank accounts, trade repayment required.
Jumpshot, Inc. Jumpshot s. r. o. and Avast receivables, receivables from insurance plc and other adjustments 50% of The following pledge agreements existed policies, trademarks, receivables from Excess Cash Flow as fide ned, and subject as of the date of issuance of these intragroup loan agreements, its movable to certain reductions and to the extent consolidated financial statements.
assets, domain names, source codes and where ECF Payment Amount exceeds All of these pledge agreements were virus databases.
$40 million, with a reduction to 25% and executed as of 31 December 2018.
144 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29.
Term loan continued Term loan balance reconciliation The table below reconciles the movements of the balance of the Term loan with the information on above and the statement of cash ows.
31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Term loan balance at beginning of period 1,781.3 1,558.0 Additional loan drawn gross of fees 217.5 Drawing fees 3.1 3.5 Interest expense 85.8 90.4 Interest paid 67.6 77.6 Loan repayment 378.5 67.8 Unrealised foreign exchange loss gain 26.4 63.0 Other 1.3 Total 1,391.5 1,781.3 Revolving facility Avast Software B. V. also obtained a revolving credit facility of $85.0 million for operational purposes which has not been drawn as of the date of these consolidated financial statements.
It is valid up to 30 September 2022.
The Credit Agreement includes a financial covenant that is triggered if at any time $35.0 million or more is outstanding under the revolving credit agreement as of 31 December 2018.
If the revolving credit facility exceeds this threshold, then the Group must maintain, on a consolidated basis, a leverage ratio of less than 6.50:1.00.
This covenant is tested quarterly at such time as it is in eff ect.
Derivatives The carrying amount of derivative financial instruments held by the Group was as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 $ m Type Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Type of derivative Interest rate Cap Level 3 1.0 3.2 Total 1.0 3.2 Classi ed as Non-current financial liability 1.0 3.2 Total 1.0 3.2 The Group has not designated the derivatives as hedging instruments, and therefore changes in the fair value during the period are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Pro t and Loss.
Interest rate cap On 20 February 2017, Avast Software B. V. entered into an interest rate cap with an eff ective date from 31 March 2017 until 31 March 2021 Cap.
As of 31 December 2018, the 3-month USD LIBOR is capped at 2.75% p. a. for a notional amount of $798.8 million.
The capped notional amount will gradually decrease to $709.0 million by 31 March 2021.
The fee for the cap is $1.6 million annually paid in quarterly installments.
During the reporting period ended 31 December 2018 there were no transfers between the Level 2 and Level 3 fair value measurements.
Avast annual report 2018 145 The movement in fair value of the derivatives was as follows: $ m Interest rate Cap 31 December 2016 0.2 Change in fair value through pro t and loss 3.0 31 December 2017 3.2 Change in fair value through pro t and loss 2.2 31 December 2018 1.0 31.
Financial risk management The Groups classes of financial receivables is regularly monitored by when revenue or expense is denominated instruments correspond with the line items Group management.
The Group does not in foreign currency.
presented in the Consolidated Statement consider the credit risk related to cash At the parent company level, the functional of Financial Position.
balances held with banks to be material.
and presentation currency is the US dollar The management of the Group identi es A signi cant portion of sales is realised and the Groups revenue and costs are the financial risks that may have an through the Groups online resellers, reported in US dollars.
The Group is adverse impact on the business mainly Digital River.
From 2018, the Group exposed to translation risk resulting objectives and through active risk manages its credit exposure by receiving from the international sales and costs management mitigates these risks advance payments from Digital River.
denominated in currencies other than to an acceptable level.
US dollars and the resulting foreign The Group evaluates the concentration currency balances held on the balance The speci c risks related to the Groups of risk with respect to accounts receivable sheet.
The Group is exposed to material financial assets and liabilities and sales as medium, due to the relatively low transaction and translation currency risk and expenses are interest rate risk, credit balance of trade receivables that is past from uctuations in currency rates risk and exposure to the uctuations of due.
The risk is reduced by the fact that between USD, GBP, CZK and EUR.
its customers are located in several jurisdictions and operate in largely The following table shows payments for Credit risk independent markets and the exposure the Groups products and services by end The outstanding balances of trade and to its largest individual distributors is also users either directly to Group or paid to an other receivables are monitored on a medium.
Sales to customers are required e-commerce service provider in individual regular basis, and the aim of management to be settled upfront by credit card or currencies.
Based on agreements with the is to minimise exposure of credit risk to any cash, thus further mitigating the risk.
Group, e-commerce service providers single counterparty or group of similar may convert billings collected on behalf Foreign currency risk counterparties.
The credit quality of larger of the Group in speci c currencies to a customers is assessed based on the Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair remittance currency usually USD and credit rating and individual credit limits value of future cash ows of an exposure EUR at the existing market rates which are fide ned in accordance with will uctuate because of changes in does not remove the underlying foreign the assessment.
The table below shows the exposure to the risk of changes in foreign original currency composition of payments The Group did not issue any guarantees exchange rates relates primarily to made by end users to illustrate the foreign or credit derivatives.
The ageing of the Groups operating activities exchange risk to billings.
Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 USD 49% 52% EUR 22% 19% GBP 9% 8% Other 20% 21% Total 100% 100% As the majority of revenues represent sales of software licences, the revenues are recognised over the duration of the licence period, despite payment being received at the start of the licence period.
Because the release of deferred revenues is performed using the exchange rates valid at the start of the licence term, they are not subject to foreign currency risk.
146 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31.
Financial risk management continued The following table shows financial assets and liabilities in individual currencies, net: 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 USD 644.0 712.8 EUR 518.8 404.7 CZK 32.6 217.8 GBP 53.3 78.3 Other 44.0 15.8 Total 1,098.1 1,241.2 Financial assets and liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables, term loan, lease liabilities, other current liabilities and non-current financial assets and liabilities.
The table below presents the sensitivity of the pro t before tax to a hypothetical change in EUR, CZK and other currencies and the impact on financial assets and liabilities of the Group.
The sensitivity analysis is prepared under the assumption that the other variables are constant.
The analysis against USD is based solely on the net balance of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and term loan.
the consolidated assets and liabilities, i. e. The 3-month USD LIBOR and 3-month Cash held by the Group is not subject to excluding inter-company receivables and EURIBOR is subject to a 1% interest any material interest.
However, Avast Software s. r. o. rate oor and 0% interest rate oor, held by the Group subject to interest rate has a signi cant inter-company loan from respectively.
As of 31 December 2018 risk are the loan and derivatives described Avast Operations B. V. denominated in the 3-month USD LIBOR was 2.39% p. a. in Note 29 and 30.
As the functional currency of Avast and 3-months EURIBOR was -0.32%.
provisions themselves are not subject to Software s. r. o. is the USD but the tax basis interest rate risk.
The Group keeps all its To reduce the interest rate risk, Avast of Avast Software s. r. o. is denominated in available cash in current bank accounts or Software B. V. entered into an interest rate CZK the income tax gains or losses of term deposit contracts see Note 19 with a cap Cap with certain counterparties on Avast Software s. r. o. are exposed to xed interest rate and original maturity not 20 February 2017 eff ective from 31 March signi cant foreign exchange volatility.
Under the Cap, 3 month USD LIBOR If the CZK depreciates against the USD, is limited to 2.75% p. a. for a notional As at 31 December 2018, the Group has a the corporate income tax expense would amount of $844 million at the beginning term loan with an interest rate of 3-month decrease.
Avast Operations B. V. is not to $709 million through 31 March 2021.
USD LIBOR plus a 2.50% p. a. mark-up for exposed to any similar volatilities as its USD tranche and 3-month EURIBOR plus a functional and tax currency is the USD.
Interest rate sensitivity A change of 100 basis points in market interest rates would have increased decreased equity and pro t and loss before tax by the amounts shown below based on average gross debt during the year : Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Increase in interest rates 15.3 17.6 Decrease in interest rates 15.3 17.6 Avast annual report 2018 147 Liquidity risk meet the capital expenditure requirement.
where subscription revenue is collected in The Group considers the impact on advance from end users and deferred over The Group performs regular monitoring of liquidity each time it makes an acquisition the licence period.
The Groups current its liquidity position to maintain suffi cient in order to ensure it does not adversely ratio excluding deferred revenue was financial sources to settle its liabilities and aff ect its ability to meet the financial 2.15 and 1.55 as at 31 December 2018 and commitments.
The Group is dependent on obligation as they fall due.
a long-term credit facility and so it must ensure that it is compliant with its terms.
As at 31 December 2018 and 2017, the The Group has established long-term As it generates positive cash ow from Groups current ratio current assets credit ratings of Ba3 with Moodys operating activities, the Group is able to divided by current liabilities including the and BB with Standard & Poors.
The credit cover the normal operating expenditures, current portion of deferred revenue was ratings are subject to regular review pay outstanding short-term liabilities as 0.71 and 0.60.
The ratio is signi cantly by the credit rating agencies and may they fall due without requiring additional impacted by the high current deferred change in response to economic and nancing and has suffi cient funds to make revenue balance due to the sales model, commercial developments.
The following table shows the ageing structure of financial liabilities as of 31 December 2018: Due within Due between Due between Due in more $ m 3 months 3 to 12 months 1 to 5 years than 5 years Total Term loan 18.3 55.0 1,337.2 1,410.5 Interest payment 14.9 44.8 195.3 255.0 1 Trade payables and other liabilities 54.6 9.4 64.0 Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.6 1.0 Other non-current liabilities 3.8 0.3 0.2 4.3 Total 88.2 113.6 1,532.8 0.2 1,734.8 1 As described in Note 6, the Group combined and reclassi ed trade and other payables and other current liabilities.
The following table shows the ageing structure of financial liabilities as of 31 December 2017: Due within Due between Due between Due in more $ m 3 months 3 to 12 months 1 to 5 years than 5 years Total Term loan 23.0 68.9 367.7 1,355.9 1,815.5 Interest payment 18.0 55.8 283.0 47.5 404.3 Finance Lease liability 1.0 1.0 2.8 0.2 5.0 Trade payables and other liabilities 51.2 22.9 74.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.4 1.2 1.6 3.2 Other non-current liabilities 1.5 0.7 2.2 Total 93.6 149.8 656.6 1,404.3 2,304.3 Capital management The Group manages its capital structure The Group monitors capital using the net and makes adjustments to it in the light of liability position and gearing ratio the net For the purpose of the Groups capital changes in circumstances, including liability position divided by the sum of the management, capital includes issued economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust net liability position and equity.
The Group capital, share premium and all other equity the capital structure, the Group may adjust includes within the net liability position reserves attributable to the equity holders the dividend payment to shareholders, all current and non-current liabilities, of parent.
The primary objective of the return capital to shareholders or issue less cash and cash equivalents.
Groups capital management is to new shares.
The Group currently expects maximise the shareholder value.
to maintain dividend payments of approximately 40% of Groups levered free cash ow in the short to medium term.
148 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31.
Financial risk management continued 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Current and non-current liabilities 2,004.4 2,358.4 Less: cash and short term deposits 272.3 176.3 Net liability position 1,732.1 2,182.1 Equity 900.4 435.1 Gearing ratio 65.8% 83.4% 32.
Share capital Number of Share Capital Share Premium Shares issued and fully paid: shares $ m $ m 1 Share capital at 31 December 2016 94,212,768 565.3 23.4 Exercise of options 1,302,134 2.5 0.5 2 Transfer within equity 23.0 23.0 2 Capital distribution 219.1 3 Share capital at 31 December 2017 95,514,902 371.7 0.9 Exercise of options 5,345 Share capital immediately prior to IPO 95,520,247 371.7 0.9 4 Converted at IPO 844,058,216 371.7 0.9 4 Net exercise of options at IPO 49,603,491 7.4 5 Initial public off ering 58,977,478 8.0 191.8 5 Share issue expenses 4.0 6 Group re-organisation 250.8 0.9 7 Capital reduction 180.6 Exercise of options 799,114 0.1 0.8 Share capital at 31 December 2018 Ordinary shares of 0.10 each 953,438,299 129.0 15.4 1 Share capital at 31 December 2016 represented 51,075,525 common and 43,137,243 preferred shares, each with a nominal value of $6.0 per share and a share premium of $0.284 per share.
2 On 11 October 2017, the Management Board and Shareholders of Avast Holding B. V. approved the Distribution of $264.8 million.
The Distribution consisted of two sources: Reduction in the nominal value of all Preferred Shares resulting in a Distribution of $219.1 million: and Payment of a regular dividend to holders of all Preferred Shares of $45.7 million.
On 10 October 2017, the other reserves were decreased by $54.9 million with a corresponding increase in retained earnings for the purpose of dividend distribution.
On 11 October 2017, the share premium was decreased by $23.0 million with a corresponding increase in share capital.
The Distribution is presented as a $219.1 million reduction in share capital and $45.7 million reduction in retained earnings.
3 Share capital at 31 December 2017 represented 52,377,659 common and 43,137,243 preferred shares.
The nominal value of the 51,264,275 class A common shares is $6.24 per share with a share premium of $0.044 and nominal value of the 1,113,384 class B common shares is $1.57 with a nil share premium.
The nominal value of the 43,136,243 preferred shares is $1.16 with a share premium of $0.044 and nominal value of the 1,000 management preferred shares is $6.24 per share with a share premium of $104.76 per share.
4 Avast plc listed its shares on the London Stock Exchange on 10 May 2018.
As part of the IPO, holders of equity instruments in Avast Holding received 844,058,216 shares in Avast plc.
In addition, holders of options in Avast Holding net-exercised at the IPO 49,603,491 shares in Avast plc and 58,977,478 new shares were issued, bringing the total amount of shares outstanding on Admission to 952,639,185.
The net exercise of options resulted in the Group recording a share premium of $7.4 million.
5 The increase in share capital and share premium of $195.8 million represents the net proceeds from the IPO, less direct share issue expenses of $4 million.
6 $250.8 million was reclassi ed from share capital and $0.9 million from share premium into other reserves to re ect the nominal value of 10 pence per outstanding share.
7 On 6 November 2018, the High Court of Justice in England and Wales made an order conrming the reduction of the share premium account by 138 million $180.6 million and the cancellation of the subscriber share of the company under section 648 Companies Act 2006.
The Company is able to apply the distributable reserves arising from the capital reduction and the subscriber share cancellation towards the payment of dividends in line with the Companys dividend policy and for the purposes of future share buybacks.
Other reserves The movements in the other reserves were as follows: 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Other reserves at 31 December 2017 2.4 49.7 fide ned bene t plan actuarial gain 0.1 Transfer within equity see Note 32 54.9 Group re-organisation see Note 32 251.7 1 Share-based payments 13.8 7.5 Net exercise of options see Note 32 7.4 Other reserves at 31 December 2018 260.5 2.4 1 The fair value of share awards granted to employees is recorded over the vesting periods of individual options granted as a personnel expense with a corresponding entry to other reserves.
Refer to Note 34 for further details of share-based payments.
Share-based payments Existing Employee Share plan formerly Avast plc, 2018 Long Term Incentive Restricted Stock Units RSUs known as Avast Holding 2014 Share Plan LTIP RSUs will be granted to key employees of Option Plan Avast Option Plan Following the IPO, the Company has the Group who are not Executive Directors The Avast Option Plan was the primary adopted the LTIP for employees and or members of the Executive Management share option plan of the Group prior to the Executive directors.
Each RSU entitles a participant to IPO under which certain employees and LTIP is to incentivise employees and receive a share in the Company upon Directors were granted options over Executive Directors whose contributions vesting of the RSU.
Each award of RSUs A-Ordinary and or B-Ordinary Shares are essential to the continued growth and will ordinarily vest either in three equal of Avast Holding.
Following the IPO, success of the business of the Company, proportions over a three year period or the Avast Option Plan was adjusted such in order to strengthen their commitment on the third anniversary of grant or over that the options granted under the plan to the Company and, in turn, further the such other period as the Committee may ceased to be options over shares of growth, development and success of the determine, provided the participant Avast Holdings and, instead, became Company.
The following types of awards remains in service.
options over shares of the Company can be granted: Stock Options Options of equivalent value.
Performance Stock Units PSUs Options may be granted to key employees No new options have been granted under PSUs will be granted to Executive of the Group who are not Executive the Avast Option Plan since the IPO.
Directors and members of the Directors or members of the Executive Furthermore, the Company does not Executive Management Team.
Each option entitles a intend to grant any further options under Each PSU entitles a participant to participant to the right to acquire a share the Avast Option Plan.
receive a share in the Company upon of the Company upon vesting of the the attainment, over a three year option.
Each option will ordinarily Options generally vest over a four-year performance period, of challenging become exercisable either in three equal period in four equal installments.
performance conditions determined proportions over a three year period or on Some of the options granted to the by the Remuneration Committee.
the third anniversary of the grant, or over key management personnel are such other period as the Remuneration performance-based.
The contractual Committee may determine.
life of all options is 10 years.
150 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 34.
Share-based payments continued Share Matching Plan SMP The Company has adopted the Avast Share Matching Plan SMP for employees and Executive Directors of the Group.
The purpose of the SMP is to encourage and enable employees and Executive Directors to acquire a signi cant stake in the Company so that they can share in the future growth, development and success of the Company.
Under this plan, employees will be granted one matched share for every three purchased shares after a two-year period.
No award under SMP was granted in 2018.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP The Company has adopted the Deferred Bonus Plan for only Executive Directors.
Where a participant is required to defer a portion of their annual bonus into shares under the terms of the Companys annual bonus arrangements, the Remuneration Committee may grant an award to acquire shares under the DBP in order to facilitate such deferral.
Awards will ordinarily vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant.
No award under DBP was granted in 2018.
Jumpshot Inc. 2015 Share Option Plan Jumpshot Option Plan The Jumpshot Option Plan was designed in order to grant options to purchase shares of common stock of Jumpshot Inc. to certain employees and directors of Jumpshot Inc.
The purpose of the Jumpshot Option Plan is to provide employees with an opportunity to participate directly in the growth of the value of Jumpshot by receiving options for shares.
Each option converts into one ordinary share of Jumpshot Inc. on exercise.
Options that are forfeited are available to be granted again.
Options generally vest over a four-year period in four equal installments.
Some of the options granted to the key management are performance-based.
The contractual life of all options is 10 years.
Share-based payment expense The total expense that relates to the equity-settled share-based payment transactions during the year is as follows: Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Avast Option Plan 8.5 7.5 LTIP 5.3 Jumpshot Option Plan 0.1 0.2 Total share-based payment expense 13.9 7.7 Share Options The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is, based on the several assumptions, on the date of the grant award using the Black-Scholes option valuation model.
The following table illustrates the weighted average inputs into the Black-Scholes model in the year: Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December Avast Option Plan 2018 2017 Number granted in year 1,810,000 3,198,398 Weighted average grant date fair value in $ cents per share 6.77 2.35 Weighted average exercise price in $ cents 26.98 13.17 Expected volatility 31.58% 32.66% Weighted average expected lives years 6.25 6.12 Risk free interest rate 2.67% 1.93% Expected dividends Nil Nil Avast annual report 2018 151 Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December Jumpshot Option Plan 2018 2017 Number granted in year 1,049,289 861,789 Weighted average grant date fair value in USD cents per share 0.35 0.26 Weighted average exercise price in USD cents 0.86 0.56 Expected volatility 44.88% 45.34% Weighted average expected lives years 6.92 6.25 Risk free interest rate 2.71% 2.07% Expected dividends Nil Nil Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical share price volatility of comparable listed companies over the expected life of the options.
The expected volatility re ects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may not be necessarily be the actual outcome.
An increase in the expected volatility will increase the estimated fair value.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of, and movements in, share options in the year is set out below: Year-ended 31 December 2018 Year-ended 31 December 2017 Weighted Weighted Number average exercise Number average exercise of shares $ cents of shares $ cents Outstanding 1 January 9,383,398 8.99 6,739,000 6.90 Granted 1,810,000 26.98 3,198,398 13.17 Forfeited 74,750 9.32 365,250 7.44 Exercised 188,750 6.48 Outstanding on Admission 11,118,648 12.13 Converted on Admission 69,905,909 1.69 Forfeited 234,963 1.23 Exercised 729,114 1.14 Outstanding 31 December 68,941,832 1.60 9,383,398 8.99 Vested and exercisable 31 December 26,685,849 0.98 2,985,992 6.86 The weighted average share price for options exercised during the year was pence 225.88.
Options outstanding at the end of the year had the following range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average shares remaining life shares remaining life Exercise price: outstanding years outstanding years $6.28 $9.27 6,974,365 7.68 $14.37 $15.22 2,409,033 9.32 $0.77 $0.88 23,736,711 6.14 $1.13 $1.84 31,141,544 8.21 $2.73 $3.41 14,063,577 9.22 Outstanding 31 December 68,941,832 7.61 9,383,398 8.10 152 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 34.
Share-based payments continued Replacement options Out of 7,717,640 options that were fully vested as of 21 March 2014 as part of a business combination, 5,345 options with an exercise price of $1.57 were exercised before the IPO.
The outstanding number of options on Admission was 6,598,911 which were converted into 12,336,682 options over Avast plc shares.
70,000 options with the weighted average exercise price of $0.18 were exercised after the IPO.
As of 31 December 2018, the outstanding and vested number of options was 12,266,682 with the weighted average exercise price of $0.19.
The following table summarises share option activity of Jumpshot Option Plan: Year-ended 31 December 2018 Year-ended 31 December 2017 Number Weighted Number Weighted of shares average exercise of shares average exercise Outstanding 1 January 6,815,525 0.34 6,365,986 0.31 Granted 1,049,289 0.86 861,789 0.56 Forfeited 1,154,152 0.50 280,500 0.33 Exercised 138,371 0.35 131,750 0.30 Outstanding 31 December 6,572,291 0.40 6,815,525 0.34 Vested and exercisable 31 December 3,766,538 0.31 2,767,836 0.31 Options outstanding of Jumpshot Option Plan at the end of the year had the following range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average shares remaining life shares remaining life Exercise price: outstanding years outstanding years $0.30 4,653,252 6.18 4,703,250 7.19 $0.36 583,500 7.45 1,265,486 8.53 $0.56 358,750 8.45 846,789 9.50 $0.86 976,789 9.55 Outstanding 31 December 6,572,291 6.92 6,815,525 7.73 Restricted Share units The following table illustrates the number and weighted average share price on date of award, and movements in, restricted share units granted under the LTIP: Year-ended 31 December 2018 Year-ended 31 December 2017 Weighted Weighted average average Number share price Number share price of shares pence of shares pence Outstanding 1 January Granted 5,188,917 234.94 Forfeited 261,585 234.29 Vested Outstanding 31 December 4,927,332 234.97 The fair value of RSUs granted is measured as at date of grant using Black-Scholes model, the outcome of which is a weighted average fair value of RSUs granted during the year was pence 219.07.
Future dividends have been taken into account based on expected cash ow and dividend policy.
Avast annual report 2018 153 Performance Share Units The following table illustrates the number and weighted average share price on date of award, and movements in, performance share units granted under the LTIP: Year-ended 31 December 2018 Year-ended 31 December 2017 Weighted Weighted average average Number share price Number share price of shares pence of shares pence Outstanding 1 January Granted 6,309,881 219.60 Forfeited Vested Outstanding 31 December 6,309,881 219.60 The fair value of PSUs granted is measured as at date of grant using the Black-Scholes model, the outcome of which is a weighted average fair value of PSUs granted during the year was pence 219.60.
Related party disclosures Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Compensation of key management personnel including Directors Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December $ m 2018 2017 Short term employee bene ts including salaries 13.3 10.9 Share-based payments 9.3 6.1 Total 22.6 17.0 The amounts in the table above includes, Other Related Parties CVC Administration Services S. r. l. in addition to the compensation of key Nadan fond AVAST The Groups subsidiaries Avast Software management personnel of the Group, AVAST Foundation B. V. Avast Operations B. V, Avast Holding the remuneration of employees of the B. V. Avast Corporate Services B. V. AVG The foundation was established by Group that are considered related parties Ecommerce CY Limited, Norman Data Avast Software s. r. o. and it distributes the under IAS 24 Related party disclosures.
Defense Systems B. V. signed sub-rental gifts to other charities and foundations in agreements with CVC Administration the Czech Republic.
The foundation is As a part of the IPO and Reorganisation, Services S.. r. l. for the lease of offi ce considered to be a related party as the share transactions occurred between premises which are automatically renewed spouses of Messrs. Kucera and Baudis Avast plc and key management personnel every year.
Total rent expenses for the are members of the management board and signi cant shareholders, including year ended December 2018 amounted to of the foundation.
Sybil Holdings S. r. l. The aggregate $16.8 thousand 2017: $11.8 thousand.
amount of gains made by directors on On 13 March 2018, the Board approved the exercise of share options during the Enterprise Offi ce Center that the donation for 2018 will be CZK 100 year was approximately $100 million million $5.0 million.
The donation is paid On 15 November 2016, Enterprise Offi ce 75 million.
These share options in quarterly installments during the year.
Center owned by Erste Group Immorent were granted in previous years, and where Avast Software s. r. o. resides was During the twelve months ended exercised upon IPO date of 10 May 2018. sold by a third party to a group of investors 31 December 2018, Avast Software Additionally, Mr. Erwin Gunst realised a including co-founders of Avast Group, s. r. o. made donations of CZK 68.4 million $0.2 million gain from the exercise of Eduard Kucera and Pavel Baudis for $3.1 million 2017: CZK 117.2 million 233,034 further options in July 2018.
The term $5 million to the Foundation.
As of Statutory directors remuneration of lease ends in August 2028 and off ers an 31 December 2018, the Company amounted to $3.3 million for qualifying option to extend for another 4 years under recorded an accrual of CZK 41.8 million services to the Company during the year.
The annual rent is $1.9 million 2017: nil.
Further details about the Directors 3.1 million $3.5 million.
remuneration is set out on pages 72-91.
154 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 36.
Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group leased offi ce space which incurred $12.4 million of the lease expense for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The minimum future rentals on operating leases excluding prolongation options are as follows as of 31 December 2018: $ m Less than 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years Total Lease 9.5 33.6 44.6 87.7 Sublease income 0.9 2.2 3.1 Net lease 8.6 31.4 44.6 84.6 The Group incurred a lease expense of $17.3 million for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The minimum future rentals on operating leases are as follows as of 31 December 2017: $ m Less than 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years Total Lease 12.6 40.0 23.9 76.6 Sublease income 0.4 1.6 2.0 Net lease 12.2 38.4 23.9 74.6 Finance lease commitments The Group leased servers with a gross value $4 million: there are no associated commitments as at 31 December 2018.
The future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value $ m payments of payments payments of payments Within one year 1.5 1.4 Total minimum lease payments 1.5 1.4 Present value of minimum lease payments 1.5 1.4 37.
Principal exchange rates Year-ended Year-ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Translation of Czech crown into US dollar $:CZK1.00 Average 0.0461 0.0429 Closing 0.0445 0.0470 Translation of Sterling into US dollar $:1.00 Average 1.3357 1.2882 Closing 1.2882 1.3520 Translation of Euro into US dollar $:1.00 Average 1.1814 1.1292 Closing 1.1451 1.1996 Avast annual report 2018 155 38.
Subsequent events On 1 February 2019 Avast plc sold the non-core asset of Managed Workplace, its remote monitoring and management product, to Barracuda Networks, Inc. Barracuda Managed Workplace was Avasts solution in the Remote Monitoring and Management RMM space, which is sold to Managed Service Providers MSPs.
This business is not core to our SMB strategy, which focuses on securing the workplace.
Barracuda, which has a large existing MSP base but does not currently off er an RMM solution, provides a better long-term solution for this business.
In addition, Barracuda has signed a reseller agreement, and will resell Avasts business security solutions to MSPs.
In the year ended 31 December 2018, the asset generated low teen revenue USD million with a materially lower margin pro le than the Group.
The proceeds of the sale will be used for general corporate purposes.
On 29 March, The Group voluntarily paid down $200m of existing USD debt using cash on the balance sheet.
To further optimise its capital structure, Avast executed an incremental 177.5m c. $200m add-on to its Euro-denominated term loan, in order to pay down USD-denominated debt of the same amount.
On 29 March 2019, Sybil Holdings S. r. l. sold an aggregate of 95.4 million ordinary shares of Avast plc, representing approximately 10.0%.
of the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital, at a price of 284 pence per share raising aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $359 million 271 million.
Sybil Holdings S. r. l. will now hold approximately 12.7% of the Companys issued share capital.
Full list of subsidiaries as of 31 December 2018 Class of shares Percentage of Country of incorporation Registered offi ce Registered address held share held Netherlands Avast Holding B. V. Schiphol Boulevard 369, Tower F, 7th oor, Ordinary 100% 1118BJ Schiphol, the Netherlands Avast Software B. V. Schiphol Boulevard 369, Tower F, 7th oor, Ordinary 100% 1118BJ Schiphol, the Netherlands Avast Operations B. V. Schiphol Boulevard 369, Tower F, 7th oor, Ordinary 100% 1118BJ Schiphol, the Netherlands Avast Corporate Services B. V. Schiphol Boulevard 369, Tower F, 7th oor, Ordinary 100% 1118BJ Schiphol, the Netherlands Norman Data Defense Schiphol Boulevard 369, Tower F, 7th oor, Ordinary 100% Systems B. V. 1118BJ Schiphol, the Netherlands AVG Ecommerce CY Limited Schiphol Boulevard 369, Tower F, 7th oor, Ordinary 100% 1118BJ Schiphol, the Netherlands Czech Republic Avast Software s. r. o. Pikrtova 1737 1a, 140 00 Prague 4, Ordinary 100% Czech Republic Jumpshot s. r. o. Pikrtova 1737 1a, 140 00 Prague 4, Ordinary 100% Czech Republic FileHippo s. r. o. Pikrtova 1737 1a, 140 00 Prague 4, Ordinary 100% Czech Republic Germany Avast Deutschland GmbH  6, 88046 Friedrichshafen, Ordinary 100% Germany United Kingdom AVG Technologies UK Limited 7th Floor 110 High Holborn, London, Ordinary 100% England, WC1V 6JS Privax Limited 7th Floor 110 High Holborn, London, Ordinary 100% England, WC1V 6JS Avast plc 7th Floor 110 High Holborn, London, Ordinary 100% England, WC1V 6JS Privax Services UK Limited Hill House, 1 Little New Street, London, Ordinary 100% England, EC4A 3TR Piriform Software Ltd 7th Floor 110 High Holborn, London, Ordinary 100% England, WC1V 6JS 156 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 39.
Full list of subsidiaries as of 31 December 2018 continued Class of shares Percentage of Country of incorporation Registered offi ce Registered address held share held USA AVAST Software, Inc. 2625 Broadway Street, Redwood City, Ordinary 100% County of San Mateo, CA, 94063, USA Remotium Inc. 2625 Broadway Street, Redwood City, Ordinary 100% County of San Mateo, CA, 94063, USA Avast Ancillary Services LLC 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, fide 19808, USA Ordinary 100% TACR SERVICES, INC Corporation Service Company 251 Little Falls Ordinary 100% Drive, Wilmington, fide 19808, USA Fero, Inc.
Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Ordinary 100% City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, fide 19801, USA Sybil Software LLC Corporation Service Company 251 Little Falls Ordinary 100% Drive, Wilmington, fide 19808, USA Jumpshot, Inc. 329 Bryant Street, Suite 3C San Francisco, Ordinary 100% CA 94107, USA AVG Technologies USA, LLC 1313 N. Market Street, Suite 1500 Wilmington, Ordinary 100% fide 19801, USA Location Labs, LLC 2100 Powell St, Emeryville, CA 94608, USA Ordinary 100% Piriform Inc.
Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Ordinary 100% Drive, Wilmington, fide 19808, USA Hong Kong AVAST Software Asia Limited 7 F Hong Kong Trade Centre, 161-167 Des Voeux Ordinary 100% Road Central, Hong Kong Israel AVG Mobile Technologies Ltd 2 HaShlosha Street, Tel Aviv Yaff o 6706054, Ordinary 100% Israel PO BOX 9244 Cyprus Piriform Group Ltd 1 Constantinou Skokou St, Capital Chambers, Ordinary 100% 5th Floor, Agios Antonios, 1061 Nicosia, Cyprus Piriform Limited 1 Constantinou Skokou St, Capital Chambers, Ordinary 100% 5th Floor, Agios Antonios, 1061 Nicosia, Cyprus Australia AVG Technologies AU Pty Ltd Level 7, 122 Arthur Street, 2060 Sydney Ordinary 100% North Sydney, New South Wales, Australia Canada AVG Technologies Canada Inc. 1125 Innovation Drive, Ottawa, Ontario Ordinary 100% K2K 3G6 Canada Brasil AVG Distribuidora fide Conj 38, R. Amazonas, 669 Santa Paula, Ordinary 100% Tecnologias do Brasil Ltda.
So Caetano do Sul SP, 09520-070, Brasil Norway AVG Technologies Norway AS Lysaker Torg 5, 1366 Lysaker, Brum, Norway Ordinary 100% Slovak Republic InloopX s. r. o. Vek Okrun 26A, 010 01 ilina, Slovakia Ordinary 100% Switzerland Avast Switzerland AG Mnchensteinerstr.
43, 4052 Basel, Switzerland Ordinary 100% Serbia Privax d. o. o Beograd Bulevar Mihaila Pupina 6, 11070 Belgrade-Novi Ordinary 100% Beograd, Serbia Japan Avast Software Japan Godo 1F and 2F Otemachi Building, 1-6-1 Otemachi, Ordinary 100% Kaisha Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Barbados Piriform Barbados Ltd Chancery House, High Street, Ordinary 100% Bridgetown, Barbados in liquidation The Companys directly held subsidiary is Avast Holding B. V. All other subsidiaries are indirectly held.
