Additional statutory information, continued however, be no guarantee that this will risks and to continue in operational Internal controls and risk continue to be their assessment and existence for the foreseeable future management that it will not be necessary to declare a which accounting standards require There has been a process for identifying, Permitted Maximum or exercise any other to be at least a year from the date of evaluating and managing principal risks of their or the Companys powers in the this report and have not identified any throughout the year to 31 March 2018 Articles referred to above.
material uncertainties to the Companys and up to the date of the approval of and the Groups ability to do so.
the financial statements for that year.
Directors duty to avoid For these reasons, they continue to adopt In respect of our financial reporting the going concern basis in preparing the conflicts ofinterest process and the process for preparing financial statements.
The Company has adopted a formal our consolidated accounts, management procedure for the disclosure, review, monitors the processes underpinning Auditor and authorisation and management of theGroups financial reporting systems Directors conflicts of interest and through regular reporting and review, disclosure of relevant potential conflicts of interest in and data for consolidation into the auditinformation accordance with the provisions of Groups financial statements is reviewed So far as the Directors who are in office theCompanies Act 2006. by management to ensure that it reflects atthe time of the approval of this report a true and fair view of the Groups The procedure requires Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit results in compliance with applicable formallyto notify the Board via the information namely, information accounting policies.
Company Secretary as soon as they needed by the Companys auditor in become aware of any actual or potential The Board, through the Audit and Risk connection with the preparation of its conflict of interest with their duties to the Committee, reviews the effectiveness of auditors report of which the auditor is Company or of any material change in the Companys internal control processes unaware.
Each such Director has taken all existing actual or potential conflicts that formally at least once a year.
The Group steps that he or she ought to have taken may have been authorised by the Board.
Financial Controller is asked to report on as aDirector in order to make himself or Notified actual or potential conflicts will the effectiveness of the Groups internal herself aware of any relevant audit be reviewed by the Board as soon as controls and the Audit and Risk information and to establish that the possible.
The Board will consider whether Committee reviews this report in light auditor is aware of that information.
a conflict or potential conflict does, ofall the other information supplied to in fact, exist and, if so, whether it is in  LLP is willing to itduring the course of the year including continue in office as independent auditor the interest of the Company that it be internal audit reports, risk reports and authorised and, if so, on what terms.
of the Company and a resolution to monthly financial and operational reports.
reappoint it will be proposed at the Inmaking their judgement on this, the The Board considers the system to be other Directors must have regard to forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
effective and in accordance with theirgeneral duties to the Company.
Guidance for Risk Management, Internal Aregister is maintained for the Board Control, and Related Financial and Directors responsibility of all such disclosures and the terms of Business reporting.
Further information statement any such authorisation.
on the principal internal controls in use The Directors are responsible for in the Company is to befound on pages Authorisations may be revoked, or the preparing the Annual Report and the 68 to 70. terms on which they were given varied, financial statements inaccordance at any time.
Cleared conflicts will in any withapplicable law andregulation.
event be reviewed annually by the Board.
Going concern Company law requires the Directors to In the event of any actual conflict arising statement prepare financial statements for each in respect of any matter, mitigating The going concern assessment financial year.
Under that law, the action would also be considered for considers whether it is appropriate to Directors have prepared the Group example, non-attendance of the Director prepare the financial statements on a financial statements in accordance concerned at all or part of Board meetings going concern basis.
withInternational Financial Reporting and non-circulation to him orher of Standards IFRS as adopted by the The Groups forecasts and projections, relevant papers.
European Union and the Company taking into account reasonably possible financial statements in accordance changes in trading performance, show with UK Generally Accepted Accounting that the Group has sufficient financial Practice United Kingdom Accounting resources.
The Directors have reasonable Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced expectations that the Company and the Disclosure Framework, and applicable Group are well placed to manage business Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 138 Strategic report Governance statement Financials law.
Under company law the Directors The Directors consider that the Annual the Group financial statements set out Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, on pages 150 to199 which have been must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a isfair, balanced and understandable and prepared in accordance with IFRS as provides the information necessary for adopted by the EU, give a true and fair true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the Shareholders to assess the Group and view of the assets, liabilities, financial Companys performance, business position and profit of the Group taken profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing the financial modeland strategy.
as a whole: and the Strategic report and Directors report contained on pages 1 statements the Directors arerequired to: Each of the Directors, whose names to 139 include afair review of the select suitable accounting policies and functions are listed in the Directors development and performance of the andthen apply them consistently report, confirm that, to the best of business and the position of the Group, their knowledge: state whether applicable IFRS as together with adescription of the adopted by the European Union have the Company financial statements, principal risks and uncertainties that been followed for the Group financial which have been prepared in itfaces.
statements and United Kingdom accordance with United Kingdom In addition, each of the Directors Accounting Standards, comprising Generally Accepted Accounting Practice listed below considers that the FRS101, have been followed for United Kingdom Accounting Standards, Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, the Company financial statements, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure balanced and understandable and subject to any material departures Framework, andapplicable law, give provides the information necessary for disclosed and explained in the a true and fair view of the assets, shareholders toassess the Companys financial statements liabilities, financial position and profit position, performance, business model make judgements and accounting of the Company andstrategy.
estimates that are reasonable the Group financial statements, which and prudent have been prepared in accordance with Mike Turner Chairman prepare the financial statements on IFRS as adopted by the European Union, Archie Bethel Chief Executive thegoing concern basis, unless it is give a true and fair view of the assets, Franco Martinelli Group Finance Director inappropriate to presume that the liabilities, financial position and profit John Davies Chief Executive, Land Group and Company will continue of the Group Sir David Omand Non-Executive Director inbusiness.
the Directors report includes a fair Ian Duncan Non-Executive Director review of the development and The Directors are responsible for keeping Jeff Randall Non-Executive Director performance of the business and the adequate accounting records that are Myles Lee Non-Executive Director position of the Group and Company, sufficient to show and explain the Group Prof. Victoire Non-Executive Director together with a description of the and Companys transactions and disclose fide Margerie principal risks and uncertainties that with reasonable accuracy at any time the itfaces.
Kjersti Wiklund Non-Executive Director financial position of the Group and the Company, and enable them to ensure that Lucy Dimes Non-Executive Director In the case of each Director in office atthe the Groups financial statements andthe date the Directors report isapproved: Directors Remuneration reportcomply Approval of the Strategic report so far as the Director is aware, there with the Companies Act2006 and, as and the Directors report is no relevant audit information of regards the Group financial statements, The Strategic report and the Directors which the Group and Companys Article 4 of the IASRegulation.
report pages 1 to 139 for the year auditors are unaware: The Directors are also responsible for ending 31March 2018 have been they have taken all the steps that they safeguardingthe assets of the Group approved by the Board and signed on ought to have taken as a Director in andthe Company, and hence for its behalf by: order to make themselves aware of takingreasonable steps for the anyrelevant audit information and prevention anddetection of fraud toestablish that the Group and andother irregularities.
Companys auditors are aware of The Directors are responsible for the thatinformation.
Mike Turner CBE Companys website.
Legislation in Chairman Each of the Directors listed below being theUnited Kingdom governing the the Board of Directors at the date of 22 May 2018 preparation and dissemination of financial thisAnnual Report and these financial statements maydiffer from legislation in statements confirms that to the best other jurisdictions.
ofhis or her knowledge: Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 139 Financials: Overview Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC 142 Group income statement 150 Group statement of comprehensive income 151 Group statement of changes in equity 151 Group balance sheet 152 Group cash flow statement 153 Notes to the Group financial statements 154 Company financial statements Company balance sheet 200 Company statement of changes in equity 201 Notes to the Company financial statements 202 One moment I could be working on a rail contract, the next an aircraft or a tank.
Applying the correct accounting to the companys complex operations is truly fascinating.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 140 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Stephen Regional Controller Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 141 Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Babcock International Group PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Group and Company statements of financial position as at 31 March 2018: the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income, the Group statement of cash flows, and the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Group and Company financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 4 of the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 26 million 2017: 24 million, based on 5% of profit before tax adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Overall Company materiality: 20 million 2017: 20 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Audit scope We conducted our audit work over the complete financial information for 23 reporting components, located in five countries, including one financially significant component, Devonport.
In addition, we performed the audit of specific balances and transactions at one further reporting component and for the Groups share of the results of six joint ventures, selected based on their relative contribution to Group results.
Where the reporting components were located outside the UK, we worked together with our network firms located in the relevant territory to make sure we had sufficient evidence upon which to base our audit opinion.
Taken together, the reporting components and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 79% of Group revenue, 69% of the Groups share of results of joint ventures and associates, and 81% of Group profit before tax adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Key audit matters Contract accounting and revenue profit recognition Group.
Valuation of defined benefit pension liabilities Group.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 142 142 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance statement Financials The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at the Group and component level to respond to these risks, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements, including, but not limited to industry regulations, anti-bribery laws and financial reporting regulations.
Our procedures included, but were not limited to: Understanding managements approach to ensuring compliance with laws and regulations: enquiries with local, sector and Group management teams: meetings with Group and local legal counsel to discuss legal matters: and focussing our testing of balances and transactions in addition to those listed as key audit matters below that are subject to estimation and judgement.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above, and the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 143 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC, continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We read the relevant clauses within new and amended key contracts and Contract accounting and revenue profit discussed each with management to obtain a full understanding of the specific recognition Group terms and risks, which informed our consideration as to whether revenue and Refer to note 1 to the Group financial statements, profit for these contracts was appropriately recognised.
and to the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on page 94.
We evaluated the design, implementation and operation of controls designed The Groups business involves entering into contractual to address the accuracy and timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements, including: relationships with customers to provide a range of services with a significant proportion of the Groups Contract reviews, which are performed by management, reviewed and revenues and profits derived from long term contracts.
signed off at both a Group and sector level, and include the estimation of Due to the contracting nature of the business, revenue total costs, stage of completion, profit margin and evaluating profitability: and recognition involves a significant degree of judgement Transactional controls that underpin the production of underlying contract and estimates including to: related cost balances, including the purchase to pay and payroll cycles.
We found the controls to be satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
Estimate total contract costs: Estimate the stage of completion of the contract: For a sample of contracts, based on quantitative and qualitative factors including size and risk, we: Forecast the profit margin, after consideration of additional revenue relating to cost and time Attended managements contract review meetings and, through discussions completion incentive targets: and with the contract project teams, we obtained an understanding of the Appropriately provide for loss making contracts.
performance and status of the contracts: Evaluated managements positions through the examination of externally There is a broad range of acceptable outcomes resulting from these estimates and judgements that generated evidence, such as customer correspondence including the validation of any incentives, acceptance certificates and or milestone could lead to different revenue and profit being reported in the financial statements.
agreements: Performed work on managements models, testing the mathematical accuracy and agreeing amounts recognised in the financial statements, including the consideration of the valuation and recoverability of balances: Discussed and understood managements estimates for total contract costs and forecast costs to complete, including taking into account the historical accuracy of such estimates: Evaluated any correspondence in respect of customer disputes, including discussion with legal counsel: and Compared managements position on the recognition of any cost and time completion incentive target amounts to the actual costs incurred and current progress of the contract.
Our testing did not identify any factors that management had not taken into account in their estimates of the total contract costs, stage of completion and expected profit margin of each contract including the expected losses on loss making contracts.
We consider the contract positions taken by management to be reasonable.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 144 144 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Key audit matter How our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated managements cash flow forecasts, and the process Goodwill impairment by which they were determined and approved.
This included Refer to note 10 to the Group financial statements and to the confirming that the forecasts were consistent with the latest Board Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on page 94. approved budgets and the mathematical accuracy of the The Group has goodwill of 2,601m 2017: 2,608m, principally underlying calculations, with no exceptions identified.
related to the acquisitions of the VT Group in 2010 and Avincis in 2015, which is subject to an annual impairment review.
We also considered the accuracy of previous forecasts made by management.
We evaluated the inputs included in the value in use No impairment charge has been recorded against these balances in the current financial year.
calculations, and challenged the key assumptions, by obtaining evidence including in respect to: The impairment assessments used to support the carrying value of goodwill cash generating units CGUs involves the application The growth rates used in the cash flow forecasts, by comparing them to historical results and economic forecasts: and of subjective judgement about future business performance.
We considered certain assumptions made by management in the The key market-related assumptions, including discount rates and value in use calculations supporting the impairment assessments to long term growth rates, by benchmarking these against external be key areas of judgement, including the forecast cash flows, the data, using our valuation expertise.
short and longer term growth rates and the discount rates applied.
We performed sensitivity analyses on the key driver of the cash flow Changes to the key assumptions used by management could result forecasts, being the operating profit, and market-related assumptions.
in the calculated value in use being lower than the carrying value Our work found that managements assessment that there were no of the CGU.
material impairments, to be reasonable.
We assessed the related disclosures in note 10 of the Group financial statements, and consider them to be appropriate.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the area of focus We used our actuarial specialists to assess whether the assumptions Valuation of defined benefit pension liabilities Group used in calculating the pension liabilities were reasonable, by Refer to note 24 to the Group financial statements, and to the performing the following: Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on page 94.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans, Assessing whether salary increases and mortality rate assumptions were consistent with the specifics of each plan and, where giving rise to net and gross pension liabilities of 5m 2017: 105m and 4,740m 2017: 4,781m respectively, which are applicable, with relevant national and industry benchmarks: significant in the context of the overall balance sheet of the Group.
Verifying that the discount and inflation rate assumptions were consistent with our internally developed benchmarks, based on The valuation of pension liabilities requires judgement and national data and other companies recent external reporting: and technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions such as salary increases, mortality rates, discount rates and inflation levels.
Reviewing the calculations prepared by external actuaries to assess the consistency of the assumptions used.
Management engaged external actuarial specialists to assist them in selecting appropriate assumptions and to calculate the liabilities.
Based on our procedures, we noted no exceptions and considered managements key assumptions to be within acceptable ranges.
Inappropriate selection of assumptions or methodologies for calculating the pension liabilities could result in a material difference in the value of the liabilities.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 145 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145 Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC, continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is primarily structured and managed across four sectors: Marine, Land, Aviation and Cavendish Nuclear.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of multiple reporting components, including both operating businesses and central functions.
The Groups reporting components vary significantly in size and we identified 23 components that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size and or risk.
This included one component, Devonport, whose results were individually financially significant to the Group.
Specific risk-based audit procedures were performed at one further reporting component and over the Groups share of the results of six joint ventures.
In scope reporting components, including joint ventures, were based in five countries: the UK, Spain, Italy, Canada and South Africa.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those locations to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
We issued formal, written instructions to component auditors setting out the work to be performed by each of them and maintained regular communication throughout the audit cycle.
The Group engagement leader and senior members of the Group team undertook visits to four components in the UK, Italy and Spain during the audit, including the Groups only financially significant component, Devonport.
Senior team members also attended the Devonport and the four sector clearance meetings in person.
During both the site visits and the clearance meetings, the findings reported by all component teams were discussed.
The Group team also evaluated the sufficiency of the audit evidence obtained through discussions with, and review of the work performed by, component teams.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level including audit procedures over material head office entities, pensions, impairment assessments, financial statement disclosures, tax, treasury, share based payments and consolidation adjustments, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statement Company financial statements 26 million 2017: 24 million.
20 million 2017: 20 million Overall Group materiality How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for 1% of total assets amortisation of acquired intangibles assets.
Given the contractual nature of the business, We consider a total asset measure to reflect the Rationale for benchmark applied and consistent with last year, we adjusted for nature of the Company, which primarily acts as amortisation of acquired intangibles assets as a holding company for the Groups this better reflects the underlying performance investments.
and nature of the Groups operations.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.6m to 20m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.0 million Group audit 2017: 1.2 million and 1.0 million Company audit 2017: 1.2 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 146 146 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Going Concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We have nothing material to add or to draw respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors attention to.
However, because not all future considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the events or conditions can be predicted, this financial statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least and Companys ability to continue as a going twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 79 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 79 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 147 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 147 Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC, continued Reporting on other information continued Other Code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 139, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 94 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement on page 138, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibility for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 148 148 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or The Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were originally appointed by the members to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2003 and subsequent financial periods.
Following an audit tender, we were reappointed by the members on 25 May 2016 for the year ended 31 March 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 16 years, covering the years ended 31 March 2003 to 31 March 2018.
Nicholas Campbell-Lambert Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 22 May 2018 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 149 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 149
