Group accounts Preparation Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of BAE Systems plc have been prepared on a going concern basis, as discussed in the Directors report onpage 82, and in accordance with EU-endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the Companies Act 2006 applicable tocompanies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and, unless stated otherwise, rounded to the nearest million.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date, with the resulting exchange differences recognised in the income statement.
Significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out in the relevant notes.
These policies have been applied consistently to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The directors believe that the consolidated financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates, and provide a true and fair view of the Groups financial performance and position.
Critical accounting policies Certain of the Groups significant accounting policies are considered by the directors to be critical because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The critical accounting policies are listed below and explained in more detail in the relevant notes to the Group accounts: Critical accounting policy Description Notes Revenue and profit The Group accounts for revenue in accordance with IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
1 recognition Formost of the Groups contracts, revenue and associated margin are recognised progressively over time ascosts are incurred, and as risks have been mitigated or retired.
The ultimate profitability of contracts is based on estimates of revenue and costs, including allowances fortechnical and other risks, which are reliant on the knowledge and experience of the Groups project managers, engineers and finance and commercial professionals.
Material changes in these estimates couldaffect the profitability of individual contracts.
Revenue and cost estimates are reviewed and updatedat least quarterly, and more frequently as determined by events or circumstances.
Carrying value of goodwill Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost lessaccumulated 8 impairment losses.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill isallocated to Cash-Generating Unitson a consistent basis.
The impairment review calculations require the use of estimates of the future profitability and cash-generating ability of the acquired businesses based on the Groups five-year Integrated Business Planandthe pre-tax discount rate used in discounting these projected cash flows.
Deferred tax asset on The Group has recognised a deferred tax asset inrespect of the deficits in its pension retirement schemes.
14 retirement benefitobligations It is managements judgement that the Group will generate sufficient taxable profits torecover the netdeferred tax asset recognised.
This judgement requires the use of estimates of future taxable profitsbased on the Groups Integrated Business Plan.
Tax provisions Provision is made for known issues based on managements interpretation of country-specific legislation 16 and managements assessment of the likely outcome of negotiations orlitigation.
The Groups approach is to consider each uncertain tax position separately.
Where management considers it is probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax authority, aprovision is recognised.
The position is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Provisions are measured using managements best estimate of the most likely amount, being the singlemost likely amount in a range of possible outcomes.
The Group disclosesany significant uncertainties in relation to tax matters to the relevant tax authority.
The resolution of tax positions takenby the Group can take a considerable period of time to conclude and, in some cases, it is difficulttopredict the outcome.
Valuation of retirement Defined benefit pension scheme accounting valuations are prepared by independent actuaries.
22 benefit obligations Theliabilities of the pension schemes are valued based on a number of actuarialassumptions.
For each of the actuarial assumptions used there is a range of possible values and management estimatesthe point within that range that most appropriately reflects theGroups circumstances.
Smallchanges in these assumptions can have a significant impact on the size of the deficit.
Judgements made in applying accounting policies In the course of preparing the financial statements, no judgements have been made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, other than those involving estimates, that have had a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
BAE Systems 142 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Preparation continued Sources of estimation uncertainty The application of the Groups accounting policies requires the use of estimates.
In the event that these estimates prove to be incorrect, there maybe an adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
The key significant risks of a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities during 2019 have been considered and assessed as relating to the following: The determination of the discount rate and inflation assumptions underpinning the valuation of the liabilities of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, where there is a range of possible values for each of the actuarial assumptions and small changes in assumptions may have asignificant impact on the size of the deficit.
Note 22 provides information on the key assumptions and analysis of their sensitivities.
The consideration of the carrying value of goodwill for impairment requires an assessment of future cash flows expected to be generated fromthe associated cash-generating unit, as well as the appropriate discount rate to apply to these projections.
Note 8 provides information onthe key assumptions adopted by the Group and associated sensitivity analysis.
Revenue and profit recognition on contracts is based on estimates of future costs as well as an assessment of contingencies for technical and other risks, such as the Groups inability to obtain or maintain the necessary export licences.
Note 1 includes information on revenue recognised in the year in respect of performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied inprevious periods providing an indication of the range of outcomes relating to these estimates.
Tax provisioning is based on estimates of the potential outcomes of tax litigation or negotiations, the amount recorded being the single most likely amount in a range of possible outcomes.
Such provisions can be difficult to estimate due to the complexity involved and the uncertainty inthe process for their resolution.
Note 16 provides information relating to potential material changes regarding tax provisions in the next financial year.
Changes in accounting policies IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers became effective on 1 January 2018.
The impact of adoption isset out in note 37.
IFRS 16 Leases will be effective from 1 January 2019.
The expected impact of adoption is set out in note 38.
The following other standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards became effective on 1 January 2018 and have not had amaterial impact on the Group: Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions: Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Investment Property: IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration: and Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20142016 Cycle.
The following other standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been issued but were not mandatory for accounting periods beginning on 1 January 2018 and are not expected to have a material impact on the Group: IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments, effective from 1 January 2019: Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation, effective from 1 January 2019: Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures, effective from 1 January 2019: Amendments to IAS 19: Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement, effective from 1 January 2019 not yet endorsed by the EU : Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20152017 Cycle, effective from 1 January 2019 not yet endorsed by the EU : Amendments to IFRS 3: Definition of a Business, effective from 1 January 2020 not yet endorsed by the EU : Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards, effective 1 January 2020 not yet endorsed by the EU : Amends to IAS 1 and IAS 8: Definition of Material, effective from 1 January 2020 not yet endorsed by the EU : IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts, effective from 1 January 2021: and Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture, effective date deferredindefinitely.
Consolidation The financial statements of the Group consolidate the results of the Company and its subsidiary entities, and include its share of its joint ventures results accounted for under the equity method.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
The Group controls a subsidiary when it is exposed, or has the rights, to variable returns from itsinvolvement with the subsidiary and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method where the Consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of their profits andlosses, and the Consolidated balance sheet includes its share of their net assets within equity accounted investments.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and equity accounted investments are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The income statements of such entities are translated at average rates of exchange during the year.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
Translation differences that arose before the transition date to IFRS 1 January 2004 are presented in equity, but not as a separate component.
When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative exchange differences recognised in equity since 1 January 2004 are recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on sale.
