Shareholder Information Communicating with Shareholders A Baillie Gifford Japan Trust web page at www.
co. uk Trust Magazine Trust Magazine Literature in Alternative Formats Trust is the Baillie Gifford investment trust magazine which is It is possible to provide copies of the literature in alternative published twice a year.
It provides an insight to our investment formats, such as large print or on audio tape.
Please contact the approach by including interviews with our fund managers, as well Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team for more information.
as containing investment trust news, investment features and Client Relations Team Contact Details articles about the trusts managed by Baillie Gifford, including You can contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team by Baillie Gifford Japan.
Trust plays an important role in helping to telephone, e-mail, fax or post: explain our products so that readers can really understand them.
For a copy of Trust, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Telephone: 0800 917 2112 Relations Team see contact details opposite.
Your call may be recorded for training or monitoring purposes.
com You can subscribe to Trust magazine or view a digital copy at Website: www.
Fax: 0131 275 3955 Client Relations Team Baillie Gifford Japan on the Web Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited Up-to-date information about Baillie Gifford Japan, including a Calton Square monthly commentary, recent portfolio information and 1 Greenside Row performance figures, can be found on the Companys page of the Edinburgh EH1 3AN Managers website at www.
You can also find a brief history of Baillie Gifford Japan, an explanation of the effects of gearing and a flexible performance Please note that Baillie Gifford is not permitted to give financial advice.
If you would like advice or if you have any reporting tool.
questions about the suitability of any of these plans for Suggestions and Questions you, please ask an authorised intermediary.
Any suggestions on how communications with shareholders can be improved are welcomed, so please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team and give them your suggestions.
They will also be very happy to answer questions that you may have, either about Baillie Gifford Japan or the plans described on page 53.
The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 55 Shareholder Information Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive In accordance with the AIFM Directive, information in relation to The Companys maximum and actual leverage see Glossary of the Companys leverage and the remuneration of the Companys Terms on page 57 levels at 31 August 2018 are shown below: AIFM, Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, is required to be made available Leverage to investors.
In accordance with the Directive, the AIFM remuneration policy is available at www.
com or on request see Gross method Commitment method contact details on the back cover.
The numerical remuneration Maximum limit 2.50:1 2.00:1 disclosures in respect of the AIFMs reporting period year ended Actual 1.15:1 1.15:1 31 March 2018 are available at www.
Automatic Exchange of Information In order to fulfil its obligations under UK Tax Legislation relating to All new shareholders, excluding those whose shares are held the automatic exchange of information, the Company is required in CREST, who come on to the share register will be sent a to collect and report certain information about certain certification form for the purposes of collecting this information.
For further information, please see HMRCs Quick Guide: The legislation will require investment trust companies to provide Automatic Exchange of Information information for account personal information to HMRC on certain investors who purchase holders https: www.
uk government publications shares in investment trusts.
As an affected company, The Baillie .
Gifford Japan Trust PLC will have to provide information annually to the local tax authority on the tax residencies of a number of non-UK based certificated shareholders and corporate entities.
Third Party Data Provider Disclaimer No third party data provider Provider makes any warranty, Without limiting the foregoing, no Provider shall have any liability express or implied, as to the accuracy, completeness or whatsoever to you, whether in contract including under an timeliness of the data contained herewith nor as to the results indemnity, in tort including negligence, under a warranty, to be obtained by recipients of the data.
under statute or otherwise, in respect of any loss or damage suffered by you as a result of or in connection with any opinions, No Provider shall in any way be liable to any recipient of the data recommendations, forecasts, judgments, or any other for any inaccuracies, errors or omissions in the index data included conclusions, or any course of action determined, by you or any in this document, regardless of cause, or for any damages third party, whether or not based on the content, information or whether direct or indirect resulting therefrom.
No Provider materials contained herein.
has any obligation to update, modify or amend the data or to otherwise notify a recipient thereof in the event that any matter stated herein changes or subsequently becomes inaccurate.
Benchmark The Benchmark for the Trust where stated within the Annual Report is the TOPIX total return in sterling terms.
