A7 NORTH BRIDGE CA L L T L I H O E N C C A L N T A O R O A L D Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the offices of Baillie Gifford & Co, Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh TRAM CALTON SQUARE EH1 3AN, on Thursday, 6 December 2018 at 12.30pm.
STOP OMNI CENTRE If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call us on 0800 917 2112.
JOHN LEWIS BUS Baillie Gifford may record your call.
STATION TRAM STOP By Rail: Edinburgh Waverley approximately a 5 minute walk away BALMORAL HOTEL By Bus: Lothian Buses local services include: 1, 5, 7, 8, 10, 12, 14, 15, 15A, 16, 22, 25, 34 By Tram: Stops at St Andrew Square and York Place EDINBURGH WAVERLEY Access to Waverley Train Station on foot STATION Notice is hereby given that the thirty seventh Annual General any security into shares in the Company Securities provided Meeting of The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC will be held at the that such authority shall be limited to the allotment of shares offices of Baillie Gifford & Co, Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, and the grant of rights in respect of shares with an aggregate Edinburgh EH1 3AN, on Thursday, 6 December 2018 at 12.30pm nominal value of up to 1,519,165.41, such authority to expire for the following purposes.
at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry Ordinary Business of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, whichever is To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions the earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by as Ordinary Resolutions.
the Company in a general meeting, save that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry of this authority make an 1.
To receive and adopt the Financial Statements of the offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require Company for the year to 31 August 2018 with the Reports Securities to be allotted or granted after the expiry of such of the Directors and of the Independent Auditor thereon.
authority and the Directors shall be entitled to allot or grant 2.
To approve the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration for Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the year to 31 August 2018. such authority had not expired.
To declare a final dividend of 0.60p per ordinary share.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass Resolutions 13 and 14 4.
To re-elect Mr NAC Bannerman as a Director.
To re-elect Mr JKR Falconer as a Director.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 12 above, and in substitution for any existing power but without prejudice to the 6.
To re-elect Mr DP Kidd as a Director.
exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the 7.
To re-elect Mr MH Paling as a Director.
Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally 8.
To elect Ms JB Pitman as a Director.
empowered, pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to allot equity securities 9.
To re-appoint KPMG LLP as Independent Auditor of the within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act, for cash Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting pursuant to the authority given by Resolution 11 above, and until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at to sell treasury shares for cash, as if section 561 1 of the Act which the Financial Statements are laid before the Company.
did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of power: the Independent Auditor of the Company.
a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General 11.
That, pursuant to article 165 of the Articles of Association of Meeting of the Company after the passing of this the Company, this meeting hereby approves the continuance Resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of the Company until the Annual General Meeting of the of this Resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company held in respect of the year to 31 August 2019.
Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities 12.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold after such prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities or sell date hereof, the Directors of the Company be and they are treasury shares in pursuance of any such offer or hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to expired: and exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 49 P QUEEN STREET O YORK PLACE O ST ANDREW SQUARE ST ANDREW SQUARE GEORGE STREET L R E T A A8 PRINCES STREET W G L E I T LEITH WALK H S T R NSIDE ROW E E R E E T ST ANDREW SQUARE Shareholder Information b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities or the Notes sale of treasury shares up to an aggregate nominal value 1.
As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to of 455,749.62, being approximately 10% of the nominal exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at value of the issued share capital of the Company, as at the AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but 23 October 2018. must attend the AGM to represent you.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to 14.
That, in substitution for any existing authority but without exercise rights attached to different shares.
You can only prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the appoint a proxy using the procedure set out in these notes date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally and and the notes to the proxy form.
You may not use any unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in accordance electronic address provided either in this notice or any related with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to documents including the circular and proxy form to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 communicate with the Company for any purpose other than of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 5 pence each in the those expressly stated.
capital of the Company ordinary shares either for retention as treasury shares for future reissue, resale, transfer or 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a cancellation, provided that: proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof, must be a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby received by post or during normal business hours only by authorised to be purchased is 13,663,373, or, if less, the hand at the Registrars of the Company at Computershare number representing approximately 14.99% of the issued Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of the Bristol, BS99 6ZY or www.
com no later passing of this Resolution: than 2 days excluding non-working days before the time of b the minimum price excluding expenses which may be the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
paid for each ordinary share is 5 pence: 3.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may paid for each ordinary share shall not be more than the do so by using the procedures described in the CREST higher of: Manual and or by logging on to the website www.
CREST personal members or i 5 per cent.
above the average closing price on the other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the members who have appointed a voting service provider s, five business days immediately preceding the date of should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service purchase: and provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action ii the higher of the last independent trade and the on their behalf.
highest current independent bid on the London Stock 4.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using Exchange as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST Regulation EC 22 December 2003 implementing the message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly Market Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buy authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland back programmes and stabilisation of financial Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information instruments No.
2273 2003 : and required for such instruction, as described in the CREST d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the Company in a general meeting, the authority hereby appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be General Meeting of the Company to be held in respect of valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys the year ending 31 August 2019, save that the Company registrar ID 3RA50 no later than 2 days excluding nonmay, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to working days before the time of the meeting or any purchase ordinary shares under such authority which will adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase to the message by the CREST Application Host from which of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
the Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
Special Business After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed To consider, and, if thought fit, to pass Resolution 15 as an through CREST should be communicated to the appointee Ordinary Resolution: through other means.
That, for the purposes of, and in accordance with, Article 105 of the Companys Articles of Association, the fees paid to Directors may not exceed in aggregate 200,000 per annum.
By order of the Board Baillie Gifford & Co Limited Managers and Secretaries 6 November 2018 50 Annual Report 2018 Shareholder Information 5.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company to sponsors, or voting service providers should note that publish, on its website, without payment a statement which Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available is also passed to the Auditor setting out any matter relating to special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
the audit of the Companys Financial Statements, including Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
The Company relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the will be required to do so once it has received such requests responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take from either members representing at least 5% of the total or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members who or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company provider s, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting on which there has been paid up an average sum per service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the writing and must state your full name and address and be CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, sent to the Company at Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Edinburgh, EH1 3AN.
sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, 13.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical information required by section 311A of the Companies Act limitations of the CREST system and timings.
2006, is available from the Companys page of the Managers 6.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction website at www.
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 14.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. accordance with section 319A of the Companies Act 2006.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of 15.
As at 23 October 2018 being the last practicable day prior to proxy will not prevent you attending the AGM and voting in the publication of this notice the Companys issued share person if you wish.
capital consisted of 91,149,925 ordinary shares, carrying one 8.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford as at 23 October 2018 were 91,149,925 votes.
Investment Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the 16.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of meeting must complete and return the enclosed reply-paid the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman Form of Direction.
of the meeting as his her proxy will need to ensure that both 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities he she and his her proxy complies with their respective Regulations 2001 and section 311 of the Companies Act disclosure obligations under the UK Disclosure and 2006 the Company specifies that to be entitled to attend and Transparency Rules.
vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of 17.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company no later than 2 days excluding non-working days prior to the commencement of the AGM or any adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in Notes 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those Notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 51
