Shareholder Information Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Baillie Gifford Japan Trust Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited offers a number of switch between investment trusts, except where there is more than one holder: plans that enable you to buy and hold shares in Baillie Gifford Japan cost-efficiently.
Purchases and sales are normally subject sell part or all of your holdings, except where there is more to a dealing price spread and Government stamp duty of 0.5% than one holder: and is payable on purchases.
update certain personal details e. g. address and telephone The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan number.
No initial charge Please note that a bare trust cannot be opened via OMS.
A bare trust application form must be completed.
No annual wrapper charge Normally cheaper than dealing through a stockbroker Further information Invest a lump sum from 250 or monthly from just 30 If you would like more information on any of the plans described, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team.
See contact No maximum investment limits details on page 55.
Stop and start saving at any time with no charge Risks Twice weekly dealing usually Tuesday and Friday Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
A withdrawal charge of just 22 Baillie Gifford Japan is a listed UK company.
As a result, The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA the value of the shares and, any income from those shares, can fall as well as rise and investors may not get back the amount Tax-efficient investment invested.
No set-up charge As Baillie Gifford Japan invests in overseas securities, changes in Flat rate annual management charge currently of 32.50 VAT the rates of exchange may also cause the value of your Lump sum investment from 2,000 currently up to a investment and any income it may pay to go down or up.
maximum of 20,000 each tax year Baillie Gifford Japan has borrowed money to make further Invest monthly from 100 investments sometimes known as gearing or leverage.
The risk is that when this money is repaid by the Company, the value A withdrawal charge of just 22 of the investments may not be enough to cover the borrowing ISA Transfers and interest costs, and the Company will make a loss.
If the Transfer existing ISAs from other plan managers into the Companys investments fall in value, any borrowings will increase Baillie Gifford ISA the amount of this loss.
Consolidate your plans into a managed global investment Baillie Gifford Japan can buy back its own shares.
The risks from borrowing, referred to above, are increased when the Company Minimum transfer value 2,000 buys back its own shares.
The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan Market values for securities which have become difficult to trade An excellent way for parents, grandparents or other adults may not be readily available, and there can be no assurance that to invest for a child any value assigned to such securities will accurately reflect the price the Company might receive upon their sale.
No initial charge Investment in smaller companies is generally considered higher No annual wrapper charge risk as changes in their share prices may be greater and the The option of a designated account or a bare trust in favour shares may be harder to sell.
Smaller companies may do less well of the child in periods of unfavourable economic conditions.
Flexible investment options: lump sum from 100 or monthly Baillie Gifford Japan invests in Japan and exposure to a single saving from just 25 market and currency may increase risk.
A withdrawal charge of just 22 Baillie Gifford Japan can make use of derivatives which may impact on its performance.
Currently the Company does not Online Management Service make use of derivatives.
You can also open and manage your Share Plan Childrens Savings Plan and or ISA online, through our secure Online Charges are deducted from income.
Where income is low, Management Service OMS which can be accessed through the the expenses may be greater than the total income received, Baillie Gifford website www.
As well as meaning the Company may not pay a dividend and the capital being able to view the details of your plan online, the service also value would be reduced.
allows you to: The aim of this Trust is to achieve capital growth and it is unlikely obtain current valuations: that the Company will provide a steady, or indeed any, income.
make lump sum investments, except where there is more than one holder: The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 53 Shareholder Information Shareholders in Baillie Gifford Japan have the right to vote at the Annual General Meeting on whether to continue the Company, or wind it up.
If the shareholders decide to wind the Company up, the assets will be sold and you will receive a cash sum in relation to your shareholding.
You should note that tax rates and reliefs may change at any time and their value depends on your circumstances.
The favourable tax treatment of ISAs may change.
Investment Trusts are UK public listed companies and as such comply with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
They are not authorised or regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Details of other risks that apply to investment in the savings vehicles are contained in the product brochures.
Further details of the risks associated with investing in the Company can be found at www.
co. uk or by calling Baillie Gifford on 0800 917 2112.
The information and opinions expressed in this document are subject to change without notice.
This information has been issued and approved by Baillie Gifford & Co and does not in any way constitute investment advice.
These Financial Statements have been approved by the Directors of The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC.
Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited BGSM is the ISA Manager and the Manager of the Share Plan and Childrens Savings Plan.
BGSM is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford & Co.
Both are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Baillie Gifford only provides information about its products and does not provide investment advice.
The staff of Baillie Gifford and Baillie Gifford Japans Directors may hold shares in Baillie Gifford Japan and may buy or sell such shares from time to time.
