NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 52 WEEKS ENDED 29 DECEMBER 2018 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION The Company was incorporated as a public limited company on 28 September 2017.
On 9 October 2017, the Companys name was changed from Diamond Newco plc to Bakkavor Group plc.
The Company acquired, by way of share for share exchange, the entire issued share capital of Bakkavor Holdings Limited on 10 November 2017.
Under IFRS, the Group reconstruction is treated as a common control transaction, for which there is no specific accounting guidance.
Consequently, the Board of Directors has had regard to the guidance in IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors on the selection of accounting policies.
The integration of the Company has been accounted for using merger accounting principles.
The policy, which does not conflict with IFRS, reflects the economic substance of the transaction.
The adoption of merger accounting presents the Company as if it had always been the parent undertaking of the Group.
As the Company was not incorporated until 28 September 2017, the consolidated results for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2017 and details of the financial position prior to this date reflect those presented previously as the results and financial position of Bakkavor Holdings Limited, the former parent of the Group.
The Company became listed on the London Stock Exchange on 16 November 2017 as part of an Initial Public Offering also referred to as public listing in these Financial Statements.
The Companys subsidiaries, both direct and indirect, at this date are listed in Note 5 to the Company only Financial Statements.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group comprise the preparation and marketing of fresh prepared food and the marketing and distribution of fresh produce.
These activities are undertaken in the UK, US and China and products are primarily sold through high-street supermarkets.
In the current period, the Group has adopted the following Standards and Interpretations with no material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group.
Amendments: IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Various Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20142016 cycle Various IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investment Entities, Applying the Consolidation Exception At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the following Standards and Interpretations relevant to the Group which have not been applied in these Financial Statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the European Union : New or revised standards: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts Amendments: IFRS 9 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation IFRS 15 Clarifications to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures Various Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 20152017 Cycle IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 23 Borrowing Cost IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement IFRS 10 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments With the exception of IFRS 16, the Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations will have no material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group.
IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS IFRS 9 Financial Instruments addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and liabilities.
The standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and has been completed in a number of stages with the final version issued by the IASB in July 2014.
IFRS 9 introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets.
The Group will apply the standard for the reporting period commencing 30 December 2018.
A complete review and assessment of IFRS 9 has been conducted with the conclusion that the introduction of the standard will have no material impact on the Group.
com 107 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION CONTINUED IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers specifies how and when an IFRS reporter will recognise revenue as well as requiring such entities to provide users of financial statements with more informative, relevant disclosures.
The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
The Standard provides a single, principles-based five-step model to be applied to all contracts with customers.
Managements assessment is that the adoption of IFRS 15 will have no impact on the timing of revenue recognition compared with that adopted under IAS 18.
The principal reason for this is that the Group only has an enforceable right to bill once the product is delivered to the customer.
A complete assessment has been carried out, focusing in particular on variable consideration.
Some agreements with customers offer discounts or volume rebates and the Group has reviewed these arrangements and concluded that there will be no change to the timing of recognition of such variable consideration as a result of the introduction of IFRS 15.
GENERAL IMPACT OF APPLICATION OF IFRS 16 LEASES IFRS 16 introduces new or amended requirements with respect to lease accounting.
It introduces significant changes to the lessee accounting by removing the distinction between operating and finance leases and requiring the recognition of a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement for all leases, except for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets.
The date of initial application of IFRS 16 for the Group is 30 December 2018.
The Group will apply IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective, asset equals liability approach with no restatement of the comparative information.
IMPACT OF THE NEW DEFINITION OF A LEASE The Group will make use of the practical expedient available on transition to IFRS 16 not to reassess whether a contract is or contains a lease.
Accordingly, the definition of a lease in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 will continue to be applied to leases entered or modified before 30 December 2018.
The change in definition of a lease mainly relates to the concept of control.
IFRS 16 determines whether a contract contains a lease on the basis of whether the customer has the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
The Group will apply the definition of a lease and related guidance set out in IFRS 16 to all lease contracts entered into or modified on or after 30 December 2018.
In preparation for the first-time application of IFRS 16, the Group has carried out an implementation project.
The project has shown that the new definition in IFRS 16 will not change significantly the scope of contracts that meet the definition of a lease for the Group.
IMPACT ON LESSEE ACCOUNTING FORMER OPERATING LEASES IFRS 16 changes how the Group accounts for leases previously classified as operating leases under IAS 17, which were off-balance-sheet.
Applying IFRS 16, for all leases except as noted below, the Group will: a recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position, initially measured at the present value of future lease payments: b recognise depreciation of right-of-use assets and interest on lease liabilities in the consolidated income statement: and c separate the total amount of cash paid into a principal portion presented within financing activities and interest presented within operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Lease incentives e. g. free rent period are recognised as part of the measurement of the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities whereas under IAS 17 they resulted in the recognition of a lease incentive liability, amortised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis.
Under IFRS 16, right-of-use assets are tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
This replaces the previous requirement to recognise a provision for onerous lease contracts.
For short-term leases lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets such as personal computers and office furniture, the Group has opted to recognise a lease expense on a straight-line basis as permitted by IFRS 16.
This expense will be presented within other expenses in the consolidated income statement.
FORMER FINANCE LEASES The main difference between IFRS 16 and IAS 17 with respect to assets formerly held under a finance lease is the measurement of residual value guarantees provided by a lessee to a lessor.
IFRS 16 requires that the Group recognises as part of its lease liability only the amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, rather than the maximum amount guaranteed as required by IAS 17.
This change will not have a material effect on the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
108 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 108 | Bakkavor Group plc IMPACT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The estimated impact ranges on the Financial Statements in the year of transition is expected to be as follows: million Range low to high Depreciation increase 11 13 Finance costs increase 2 3 Other administrative costs decrease 12 13 Profit after tax decrease 1 3 Basic and diluted earnings per share decrease pence 0.2 0.3 Total assets increase at transition date 75 83 Total liabilities increase at transition date 75 83 Previously reported equity will remain unchanged under the approach taken by the Group.
The expected impact of adoption as at 30 December 2018 may be subject to change until the Group presents its first Financial Statements under the new standards.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Financial Statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union.
These Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the foreign currency policy set out below.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments which are stated at fair value and the valuation of the retirement benefit asset obligation.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
GOING CONCERN The Directors have reviewed the historical trading performance of the Group and the forecasts through to April 2020.
The Directors, in their detailed consideration of going concern, have reviewed the Groups future revenue projections and cash requirements, which they believe are based on prudent interpretations of market data and past experience.
In addition, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the potential implications of Brexit.
The Directors have also considered the Groups level of available liquidity under its financing arrangements and consider that adequate headroom is available based on the forecasted cash requirements of the business.
Consequently, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group has adequate resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Group Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements of the parent undertaking and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the Groups share of the results of associated undertakings comprising a 52 or 53-week period ending on the Saturday nearest to 31 December.
Where the fiscal year 2018 is quoted in these Financial Statements this relates to the 52-week period ended 29 December 2018.
The fiscal year 2017 relates to the 52-week period ended 30 December 2017.
SUBSIDIARIES Subsidiary undertakings are included in the Group Financial Statements from the date on which control is achieved, and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee when facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the elements of control.
When the Group has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not it has power over the investee to direct the relevant activities of the investee unilaterally.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
The interests of non-controlling shareholders are measured at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Group.
com 109 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Business acquisitions from third parties are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on business combinations is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after the reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When the consideration in a business combination includes an asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred.
Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
The subsequent accounting for changes in fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates.
Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39 or IAS 37, as appropriate.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the income statement.
GOODWILL Goodwill is initially recognised and measured as set out above in the Business combinations note.
Goodwill is assumed to have an indefinite life as the acquired business is expected to trade for the foreseeable future and therefore goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating units CGUs or groups of CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs or groups of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
The Groups policy for goodwill on the acquisition of an associate is described in the Investments in associates note below.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES An investment in an associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these Financial Statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at cost and adjusted thereafter by the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
On acquisition of the investment, goodwill is the excess of cost of the investment over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
The entire carrying amount of the investment is tested for impairment, as a single asset by comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying amount.
Any impairment loss recognised forms part of the carrying amount of the investment.
Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are only recognised in the Financial Statements to the extent of interests in the associate that are not related to the Group.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operation.
A discontinued operation is presented as a single amount and is shown separately from continuing operations in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of customer deductions and discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
The Group sells fresh prepared foods and fresh produce.
Revenue from the sale of these goods is recognised when all of the following conditions are satisfied: The Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods The Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold The amount of revenue can be measured reliably It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow into the entity The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably As a result, revenue for the sale of these goods is generally recognised upon delivery to the customer.
110 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 110 | Bakkavor Group plc CUSTOMER DEDUCTIONS Consistent with standard industry practice, the Group has arrangements with its customers providing volume-related rebates, marketing and promotional funding contributions, discounts or lump sum incentives.
These costs are recognised as a reduction to revenue as they are considered to be an adjustment to the selling price for the Groups products.
Sometimes, the payment of this support is subject to the Groups customers performing specified actions or satisfying certain performance conditions associated with the purchase of products from the Group.
These include achieving agreed purchase volume targets and providing promotional marketing materials activities.
Whilst there is no standard definition, these amounts payable to customers are generally termed as customer deductions.
The Group recognises these costs as a deduction from revenue based upon the terms of the relevant arrangement in place.
Amounts payable relating to customer deduction arrangements are recognised within accruals except in cases where the Group has a legal right of set-off and intends to offset against amounts due from that customer.
LEASES Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
FINANCE LEASES Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period.
OPERATING LEASES Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
FOREIGN CURRENCY The individual Financial Statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in Pounds Sterling, being the functional currency of the Company and the presentation currency for the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In preparing the Financial Statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the income statement for the period.
For the purpose of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Income and expense items are translated at the annual average rate, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the dates of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the Groups translation reserve.
On the disposal of a foreign operation, all of the accumulated exchange differences in respect of that operation attributable to the Group are reclassified to the income statement.
However, a partial disposal of a foreign operation where the Group does not lose control results in the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences being re-attributed to non-controlling interests and is not recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development costs comprise all directly attributable costs necessary to create and produce new and updated products.
Expenditure on research and development, where development costs do not meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38, is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
OTHER ITEMS Other items are those that, in managements judgement, should be disclosed by virtue of their nature or amount and will typically include major restructuring programmes, legal cases, corporate transaction costs and pre-commissioning and start-up costs for new manufacturing facilities.
OPERATING PROFIT Operating profit is stated after charging Other items, impairment of assets, profit loss on the disposal of subsidiaries and associates and share of results of associates but before investment revenue, finance costs and other gains and losses.
com 111 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLANS A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity, which then invests the contributions to buy annuities for the pension liabilities as they become due based on the value of the fund and hence the Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as employee service is received.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each statement of financial position date.
Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of changes to the asset ceiling if applicable and the return on plan assets excluding interest, are recognised outside of the income statement and presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Defined benefit cost are categorised as follows: Service cost including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements : Net interest expense or income: and Remeasurement.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the earlier of: The date of the plan amendment or curtailment: and The date that the Group recognises  costs or termination benefits.
The Group recognises the first two components of defined benefit costs in the income statement.
The retirement benefit recognised in the statement of financial position represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS An expense is to be recognised for goods or services acquired in a share-based transaction when the goods are obtained or the service received.
The credit will be booked as either a liability or equity depending on the type of share-based payment.
Equity-settled share-based payment transactions are transactions where Group shares are issued as consideration for goods or services.
They are measured in the income statement at the fair value of the equity instrument granted at the date of grant with the corresponding amount booked to equity.
The fair value determined at the grant date of equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair value calculation should reflect market-based performance conditions.
The total expense will be reduced by estimates of options that will not vest due to leavers or not meeting non-market-based performance criteria.
Estimates of non-vesting are to be recalculated at each measurement date.
For grants of equity instruments with market conditions, the entity shall recognise the goods and services from a counterparty who satisfies other vesting conditions, regardless of whether that market condition is satisfied.
When options are exercised the share-based payment charge recognised in equity is transferred to share capital or share premium on the issue of new shares or if the shares are purchased from the market to retained earnings to the extent it exceeds the cash paid.
Cash-settled share-based payment transactions arise where the Group pays a cash amount calculated by reference to the price of Group shares as consideration.
The fair value of cash-settled options are calculated in line with the equity settled guidance but are revalued at each reporting date until the liability is settled.
Any changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement for the period.
The liability is extinguished on exercise.
TAXATION The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
Tax returns are prepared to adhere to tax rules and regulations and with all transactions being fully disclosed to the tax authorities.
However, the complex nature of tax sometimes means that the legislation is open to interpretation.
In such cases, judgement is required to quantify the tax liability to be reflected in the Financial Statements.
If there is a reasonable possibility that tax authorities may take a different view from the position taken in the filed returns then this will be reflected in the Financial Statements in the form of a tax provision.
In such cases, this provision will represent the full amount of any potential liability until the matter is agreed with the tax authorities.
112 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 112 | Bakkavor Group plc Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Where current and deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT All property, plant and equipment is stated in the statement of financial position at cost less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land and properties under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following bases: Buildings maximum period of 50 years Plant and machinery 1 to 20 years Fixtures and equipment 3 to 5 years Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Reviews of the estimated remaining useful lives and residual values of individual productive assets are performed annually, taking account of commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear.
All items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, and is recognised in the income statement.
CAPITALISED BORROWING COSTS Borrowing costs incurred in financing the construction of qualifying assets such as property, plant and equipment are capitalised up to the date at which the relevant asset is substantially complete.
Borrowing costs are calculated using the Groups weighted average cost of borrowing during the period of capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets, none of which are internally generated, have finite useful lives over which the assets are amortised on a straight-line basis.
The amortisation charge for customer relationships and customer contracts is recognised as an expense over 10 years and is charged to Other administrative costs in the income statement.
IMPAIRMENT The useful economic lives of intangible assets are determined based on a review of a combination of factors, including the asset ownership rights and the nature of the overall product life cycle.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when an event that might affect asset values has occurred.
Examples of such triggering events include significant planned restructuring, a major change in market conditions or technology, expectations of future operating losses, or a significant reduction in cash flows.
An impairment loss is recognised, in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying amount cannot be recovered either by selling the asset or by the discounted future earnings from operating the assets in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the weighted average method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
com 113 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FINANCIAL ASSETS All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Financial liabilities held by the Group are classified as other financial liabilities at amortised cost and derivatives at FVTPL.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Trade receivables and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
EFFECTIVE INTEREST METHOD Finance costs are recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating finance costs over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT FVTPL Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial asset liability is either held for trading or is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial asset liability is classified as held for trading if: It has been acquired incurred principally for the purpose of selling disposal in the near term: or It is a part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or It is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
A financial asset liability other than a financial asset liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: Such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or The financial asset liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the Group is provided internally on that basis: or It forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
Financial assets liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
The net gain or loss recognised in the income statement incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and interest paid on the financial liability.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT Financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value are grouped into levels 1 to 3, based on the degree to which fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indications of impairment at each statement of financial position date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have been affected.
Objective evidence of impairment could include: Significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or Default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or It becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
114 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 114 | Bakkavor Group plc For certain categories of financial assets such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are, in addition, assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period, as well as observable changes in national and local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the income statement.
If in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the income statement to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate cap contracts to manage these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives are not presented separately from the host in the statement of financial position.
The assessment regarding classification as current or non-current is based on the cash flows of the whole hybrid arrangement as the embedded derivatives cannot be settled separately from the host contract.
PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the statement of financial position date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Present obligations arising from onerous contacts are recognised and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and the existence of which will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured reliably.
A contingent liability is disclosed in the Notes to the Financial Statements and is not recognised when the obligation is not probable.
When an outflow becomes probable, it is recognised as a provision.
com 115 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The following are areas of particular significance to the Groups Financial Statements and include the application of judgement, which is fundamental to the compilation of a set of Financial Statements: CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING THE GROUPS ACCOUNTING POLICIES There are no critical judgements to be disclosed.
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY PENSIONS The Group maintains a defined benefit pension plan for which it has recorded a pension asset liability.
The pension asset liability is based on an actuarial valuation that requires a number of assumptions including discount rate, mortality rates and actual return on plan assets that may necessitate material adjustments to this asset liability in the future.
The assumptions used by the Group are the best estimates based on historical trends and the composition of the workforce.
Details of the principal actuarial assumptions used in calculating the recognised asset liability for the defined benefit plan, and the sensitivity of reported amounts to changes in those assumptions, are given in Note 36.
IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS The recoverable amount of CGUs or groups of CGUs are determined based on the higher of net realisable value and value in use calculations, which require the use of estimates.
The key estimates that can impact the value in use calculations are changes to the growth rates applied to derive a five-year forecast, or a movement in the discount rate applied to the future cash flows.
These are key estimates as they are subjective in nature and significant assumptions are required and any changes to assumptions may lead to impairment charges being recognised.
The Group has considered the impact of the assumptions used in the International CGU calculations and has conducted sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of the International CGU carrying value.
See Note 13 for further details.
CUSTOMER DEDUCTIONS Management is required to make estimates in determining the amount and timing of recognition of customer deductions due in respect of sales to its customers.
In determining the amount of customer deductions due for volume-related allowances in any period, management estimate whether customers will meet the purchase target volumes by the end of the arrangement, based on historical and forecast performance, and recognises this cost as a deduction from revenue over the period of the relevant arrangement.
Where there are ongoing negotiations with customers over the level of deduction, the Group makes its best estimate of the outcome based on a range of factors, including the latest negotiation position, past history and economic factors such as price inflation or deflation.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION The chief operating decision-maker has been defined as the Management Board headed by the Chief Executive Officer.
They review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the segments based on these reports.
As at the statement of financial position date, the Group is organised as follows: UK: The preparation and marketing of fresh prepared foods and fresh produce for distribution in the UK.
International: The preparation and marketing of fresh prepared foods and fresh produce in the US and China.
The Group manages the performance of its businesses through the use of Adjusted EBITDA as defined in Note 40.
Measures of total assets are provided to the Management Board: however, cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits and some other central assets are not allocated to individual segments.
Measures of segment liabilities are not provided to the Management Board.
116 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 116 | Bakkavor Group plc The following table provides an analysis of the Groups segmental information for the period to 29 December 2018: million UK International Un-allocated Total Revenue 1,653.6 201.6 1,855.2 Adjusted EBITDA 147.7 5.8 153.5 Depreciation 35.1 4.8 39.9 Amortisation 0.4 0.4 Other items Note 7 6.5 15.0 21.5 Share scheme charges 1.5 1.5 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2 0.4 Loss on disposal of subsidiary 4.6 4.6 Share of results of associates 0.4 0.4 Operating profit 99.8 14.2 85.6 Finance costs 13.2 Other gains 5.5 Profit before tax 77.9 Tax 10.7 Profit for the period 67.2 Other segment information: Capital additions 66.3 52.8 119.1 Interests in associates 12.5 12.5 Total assets 1,098.9 218.9 14.5 1,332.3 Non-current assets 931.3 181.0 0.2 1,112.5 All of the Groups revenue is derived from the sale of goods in 2018.
There were no inter-segment revenues.
The un-allocated amount of 0.2 million in non-current assets relates to derivative financial instruments.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups segmental information for the period to 30 December 2017: million UK International Un-allocated Total Revenue 1,636.3 178.5 1,814.8 Adjusted EBITDA 145.2 7.4 152.6 Depreciation 35.6 4.0 39.6 Amortisation 0.1 0.6 0.7 Other items Note 7 13.5 1.9 15.4 Share scheme charges 0.8 0.8 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.2 0.5 Share of results of associates 0.6 0.6 Operating profit 94.9 1.3 96.2 Finance costs 35.0 Other losses 22.2 Profit before tax 39.0 Tax 8.0 Profit for the period 31.0 Other segment information: Capital additions 52.4 25.3 77.7 Interests in associates 12.0 12.0 Total assets 1,074.1 136.4 22.6 1,233.1 Non-current assets 896.2 111.6 0.1 1,007.9 All of the Groups revenue is derived from the sale of goods in 2017.
The un-allocated amount of 0.1 million in non-current assets relates to derivative financial instruments.
com 117 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION CONTINUED MAJOR CUSTOMERS In 2018, the Groups four largest customers accounted for 76.2% 2017: 77.5% of total revenue from continuing operations.
The Group does not enter into long-term contracts with its retail customers.
Each of these four customers accounts for a significant amount of the Groups revenue and are all in the UK segment.
The percentage of Group revenue from these customers is as follows: 2018 2017 Customer A 30.2% 30.2% Customer B 25.0% 25.9% Customer C 11.5% 11.5% Customer D 9.5% 9.9% 5.
PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD Profit for the period has been arrived at after charging crediting : million 2018 2017 Continuing operations Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: owned 39.0 38.8 leased 0.9 0.8 Research and development costs 7.7 9.3 Cost of inventory recognised as an expense 885.5 863.3 Write-down of inventories recognised as an expense 1.0 3.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 0.4 0.7 Other items Note 7 21.5 15.4 Change in fair value of other payable Note 10 4.2 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.5 Loss on disposal of subsidiary Note 30 4.6 Share scheme charges Note 35 1.5 0.8 Foreign exchange gains losses Note 10 0.2 2.9 Staff costs Note 8 485.1 460.4 The analysis of the Auditors remuneration is as follows: million 2018 2017 The audit of the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements 0.1 0.1 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.3 Total audit fees 0.5 0.4 Tax services 0.1 0.4 Audit related assurance services 0.3 Other assurance services 0.5 Total non-audit fees 0.1 1.2 Tax services for 2018 relate to overseas employment tax work under the derogation provisions for non-audit services.
Audit related assurance services in 2017 represent the fee for the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the 26-week period ended 1 July 2017 required for the public listing.
Other assurance services relate to assurance work carried out for the public listing.
The 0.8 million for audit related assurance services and other assurance services in 2017 were charged to share premium.
All non-audit services provided in the prior period were incurred prior to the public listing in November 2017.
118 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 118 | Bakkavor Group plc 7.
OTHER ITEMS The Groups financial performance is analysed in two ways: underlying performance which does not include Other items and Other items that are not expected to reoccur.
Underlying performance is used by management to monitor financial performance as it is considered to aid comparability of the financial performance of the Group from year to year and it excludes items that are considered not to arise directly from ongoing trading activities.
OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS Other administrative costs include items that, in managements judgement, should be disclosed by virtue of their nature or amount and will typically include major restructuring programmes, legal cases, corporate transaction costs and pre-commissioning and start-up costs for new manufacturing facilities.
The amounts are as follows: million 2018 2017 Continuing operations Public listing costs 10.4 Restructuring costs 3.1 Legal cases 0.6 New site costs 12.4 1.3 Disruption costs 2.6 Onerous lease provision 1.7 GMP equalisation 2.6 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 3.5 Gain on bargain purchase 1.3 21.5 15.4 2018 The Group has incurred 21.5 million of Other items costs in the period, of which 12.4 million related to the initial start-up costs for the opening of new factories in the US and China, and 2.6 million for disruption costs as the existing factory in Carson in the US was expanded.
In addition, an onerous lease provision of 1.7 million was made in respect of the Groups non-core UK fast casual restaurant business and there was a charge of 2.6 million in respect of meeting the change in GMP for the defined benefit pension scheme which came into force from October 2018.
During the period, the Group has made an impairment charge of 3.5 million in the UK segment 2017: nil of property, plant and equipment, as the relevant assets no longer have any future value for the Group.
See Note 15 for further information on the impairment charge.
The Groups acquisition of Haydens Bakery Limited see Note 31 resulted in a gain on bargain purchase of 1.3 million, which is required to be released to income.
2017 In 2017, the Group incurred Other items costs of 15.4 million, of which 10.4 million related to costs incurred for the public listing in that year and 3.1 million related to the cost of closing a site in the UK and moving related operations to other sites.
The remaining costs related to the Groups International segment, of which 1.3 million were in respect of initial start-up costs for the opening of a new site in the US and 0.6 million were due to ongoing employment litigation in the US.
Further information on Other items not included in administrative costs for the loss on disposal of subsidiaries in the period can be found in Note 30, and for the fair value gain in the period can be found in Note 10.
Further information on the refinancing expenses included within Other items in the prior period can be found in Notes 9 and 10. www.
com 119 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 8.
STAFF COSTS The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors during the period was: 2018 2017 Number Number Continuing operations Production 16,706 16,653 Management and administration 2,183 1,992 Sales and distribution 953 948 19,842 19,593 Their aggregate remuneration comprised: million 2018 2017 Continuing operations Wages and salaries 426.3 409.3 Social security and other costs 47.3 44.0 Other pension costs Note 36 11.5 7.1 485.1 460.4 Details of the emoluments paid to Directors are included on page 84 of the Directors remuneration report.
FINANCE COSTS million 2018 2017 Continuing operations Interest on borrowings 12.7 19.9 Interest on obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.2 Amortisation of refinancing costs 1.4 4.9 Call premium on redemption of Senior Secured Notes 9.9 Unwinding of discount on provisions Note 27 0.4 0.3 Total interest expense 14.7 35.2 Less: amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 1.5 0.2 13.2 35.0 In 2017, the call premium of 9.9 million and the 3.3 million of accelerated amortisation of refinancing fees included in the 4.9 million relating to the redemption of the 2018 and 2020 Senior Secured Notes were classed as Other items in the consolidated income statement, as this related to the previous financing structure.
Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the general borrowing pool and are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 2.8% 2017: 2.8% to expenditure on such assets.
OTHER GAINS AND LOSSES million 2018 2017 Continuing operations Foreign exchange gains losses 0.2 2.9 Change in the fair value of derivative financial instruments 1.1 2.1 Change in fair value of call option 17.2 Release of other payable 4.2 5.5 22.2 Other gains and losses for 2018 includes a gain of 4.2 million on the release of an amount in other payables that was held at fair value in respect of a potential liability for a disputed historical claim which has not materialised and is now time-barred.
This has been classified as Other items in the consolidated income statement.
Other gains and losses for 2017 includes a loss of 17.2 million for the reversal of the mark-to-market asset held at 31 December 2016 in respect of the call option for the 2020 Senior Secured Notes, following the redemption of those Notes in March 2017.
The loss in 2017 has been classified as Other items in the consolidated income statement due to the fact that this related to the previous financing structure.
120 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 120 | Bakkavor Group plc 11.
TAX million 2018 2017 Continuing operations Current tax: Current period 16.8 12.2 Prior period adjustment 1.5 0.4 Total current tax charge 18.3 11.8 Deferred tax: Deferred tax relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences in the period 3.0 3.0 Deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 0.2 0.3 Change in US tax rate 0.7 Benefit arising from previously unrecognised temporary differences of a prior period 4.6 1.6 Unrecognised tax loss originating in the current period 0.2 0.4 Total deferred tax credit Note 24 7.6 3.8 Tax charge for the period 10.7 8.0 UK corporation tax is calculated at 19% 2017: 19.25% of the estimated assessable profit for the period.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The Group tax charge for the period was 10.7 million 2017: 8.0 million.
The 10.7 million charge represents an effective tax rate of 13.7% 2017: 20.5% on Profit Before Tax of 77.9 million 2017: 39.0 million.
Most of the Groups profits were earned in the UK, where the statutory tax rate was 19% for 2018 2017: 19.25%.
This slightly lower rate reduced the tax charge by 0.2 million in 2018 2017: 0.5 million.
The main reason for the lower effective rate was because of the increased recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of losses in overseas subsidiaries.
These are only recognised to the extent that the losses are expected to be used against future profits.
Excluding Other items, the effective tax rate was 14.9%.
It is expected that the rate will be between 15% and 16% in 2019.
Other reconciling items are shown in the table below.
Overseas tax rates that are different from the UK rate do not have a material impact on the tax charge and it is expected that this will continue to be the case in future.
This is particularly so now that the US federal rate is 21%, which is close to the UK statutory rate of 19%.
The charge for the period can be reconciled to the profit per the consolidated income statement as follows: 2018 2018 2017 2017 million % million % Profit before tax: 77.9 100.0 39.0 100.0 Tax charge at the UK corporation tax rate of 19% 2017: 19.25% 14.8 19.0 7.5 19.3 Non-taxable income non-deductible expenses 0.5 0.6 1.8 4.6 Change in US tax rate 0.7 1.8 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1.5 1.9 0.4 1.0 Tax effect of losses carried forward not recognised 0.2 0.3 0.4 1.0 Unprovided deferred tax assets now recognised 4.6 5.9 1.6 4.1 Overseas taxes at different rates 0.5 0.7 0.1 0.3 Deferred tax change in rate 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.8 Tax charge and effective tax rate for the period 10.7 13.7 8.0 20.5 In 2018, the tax risk provision was nil 2017: nil because it is considered unlikely that the tax authorities will take a different approach to any material calculations of tax liability.
There are currently no open disputes with any tax authorities in any of the countries in which the Group operates.
It is anticipated that the effective tax rate in the medium term will be lower than the UK corporation tax rate of 19%.
This is mainly because of the increasing recognition of tax losses together with a lower level of expected costs that will be disallowed for tax.
In recent years there has been a concerted effort, led by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD, to reduce tax avoidance by multinational companies.
Such avoidance has been thought possible on an international scale mainly because countries have different tax rates and differing rules as to what is or is not subject to tax in their jurisdiction.
Multinational companies have, arguably, been able to benefit from such inconsistencies.
The OECD compiled a list of 15 actions to combat such tax avoidance.
This is known as the BEPS Base Erosion Profit Shifting Project.
Anti-avoidance principles are first agreed internationally by the OECD members and then each country incorporates those principles into its domestic legislation.
None of the 15 BEPS actions is expected to have any material effect on the Group.
com 121 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11.
TAX CONTINUED Similar to the BEPS initiative, the European Union has also introduced measures to prevent international tax avoidance.
This applies to all countries within the European Union.
Subject to this, the member states are largely free to determine their own corporation tax system and tax rates.
For this reason it is expected that Brexit, in whatever form it may take, will not materially affect the corporation tax position of the Group.
Significant changes were made to US tax legislation in December 2017.
The US federal tax rate was reduced from 35% to 21% with effect from 1 January 2018.
There were several other tax measures introduced in that legislation.
These included limits to the deductions allowed for interest payments and restrictions on the use of trading losses.
None of these other measures is expected to have a material impact on our future tax charge.
In addition to the amount charged to the consolidated income statement, a 1.0 million credit 2017: 2.1 million charge relating to tax on the defined benefit pension scheme actuarial surplus has been recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Also, a deferred tax charge of 0.2 million 2017: 0.2 million credit has been recognised in equity in relation to share schemes under IFRS 2.
The UK corporation tax rate reduced from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017.
In accordance with the Finance Act 2016, the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 17% in 2020.
Deferred tax has been calculated at the tax rate applicable for the period in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse.
EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculation of earnings per Ordinary share is based on earnings after tax and the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the period.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary shares.
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: EARNINGS million 2018 2017 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 67.2 31.0 NUMBER OF SHARES 000 2018 2017 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares 579,426 530,738 Effect of potentially dilutive Ordinary shares 2,993 857 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares including dilution 582,419 531,595 The weighted average number of shares in the prior period has been adjusted to account for the 5 for 1 share split that occurred in November 2017.
2018 2017 Basic earnings per share 11.6p 5.8p Diluted earnings per share 11.5p 5.8p The Group calculates Adjusted basic earnings per Ordinary share and details of this can be found in Note 40, Alternative performance measures.
122 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 122 | Bakkavor Group plc 13.
GOODWILL million Cost At 31 December 2016 704.5 Exchange differences 4.8 At 30 December 2017 699.7 Exchange differences 3.2 At 29 December 2018 702.9 Accumulated impairment losses At 31 December 2016 53.0 Exchange differences 0.5 At 30 December 2017 52.5 Exchange differences 0.2 At 29 December 2018 52.7 Carrying amount At 29 December 2018 650.2 At 30 December 2017 647.2 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the CGUs or group of CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated to CGU groupings as follows: 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 UK 601.5 601.5 International 48.7 45.7 650.2 647.2 The International CGU grouping relates to the US business.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs or groups of CGUs are determined based on value in use calculations.
There was no impairment recognised during the period 2017: nil.
The key assumptions used in the impairment reviews were as follows: Discount rates: Management uses pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs.
The present value of the future cash flows is calculated using a pre-tax discount rate of 8.3% 2017: 8.3% for the UK and 9.2% 2017: 9.7% for the International CGU grouping.
Growth rates: The revenue growth rates are based on industry growth forecasts.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group has prepared cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budget approved by management for next year as determined by the business units, and extrapolated cash flows for the following four years based on an estimated growth rate, to provide a five-year forecast.
Cash flows are then extrapolated using a perpetuity growth rate of 1.7% 2017: 1.7%.
The headroom for each CGU based on the impairment review is as follows: million UK International Headroom of impairment test based on management assumptions 616.1 15.6 The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of each CGUs carrying value.
The assumptions used, and the impact of sensitivities on these assumptions for the International CGU which has lower levels of headroom, are shown below: The pre-tax discount rate for the International CGU grouping is 9.2%.
If the pre-tax discount rate for the International CGU were to be increased by 0.5% from 9.2% to 9.7% then there would be no impairment charge.
An increase to the pre-tax discount rate from 9.2% to 10.1% would result in no headroom.
The perpetuity growth rate included in future cash flows is 1.7%.
A decrease to the perpetuity growth rate to 0.7% would result in no headroom.
If profitability over the five-year forecast period were to be reduced by 7.4% in the International CGU this would result in no headroom.
com 123 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Customer Customer million relationships contracts Total Cost At 31 December 2016 88.7 1.6 90.3 Exchange differences 0.6 0.6 At 30 December 2017 88.1 1.6 89.7 Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary 0.7 0.7 Disposals 0.2 1.6 1.8 Exchange differences 0.4 0.4 At 29 December 2018 89.0 89.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 31 December 2016 85.1 1.6 86.7 Charge for the period 0.7 0.7 Exchange differences 0.3 0.3 At 30 December 2017 85.5 1.6 87.1 Charge for the period 0.4 0.4 Disposals 0.2 1.6 1.8 Exchange differences 0.3 0.3 At 29 December 2018 86.0 86.0 Carrying amount At 29 December 2018 3.0 3.0 At 30 December 2017 2.6 2.6 124 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 124 | Bakkavor Group plc 15.
At 29 December 2018, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to 13.2 million 2017: 7.6 million.
The carrying value of the Groups property, plant and equipment includes an amount of 75.2 million 2017: 23.1 million in respect of assets under the course of construction for the Group Boards development projects.
In addition, there is a total of 8.3 million 2017: nil of other assets that are under the course of construction.
During 2018, the Group has impaired 2.1 million 2017: nil of plant and machinery and 1.4 million 2017: nil of fixtures and equipment.
These impairments are included within Other administrative costs as Other items Note 7.
The impairments were all in the UK sector.
The 2.1 million 2017: nil impairment of plant and machinery arose from site restructurings which resulted in redundant, non-moveable, specialist assets which have been assessed as having nil value in use and are not saleable due to their specialist nature.
The 1.4m 2017: nil impairment of fixtures and equipment arose from fully impairing the assets of a subsidiary which is expected to generate operating losses for the foreseeable future.
The impairments were determined by comparing the carrying values of the assets with their recoverable amount being the higher of the assets fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
During 2018 and 2017, reclassifications have been made to align assets to their correct classifications.
com 125 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16.
SUBSIDIARIES The Group consists of a Parent Company, Bakkavor Group plc, incorporated in the UK, and a number of subsidiaries and associates held directly and indirectly by Bakkavor Group plc.
Note 5 to the Companys separate Financial Statements provides details of the interests in subsidiaries.
Haydens Bakery Limited, a subsidiary which was acquired during the period Note 31, has a different accounting reference date to the Group, being 31 March.
Included in these Consolidated Financial Statements are the results for 6 September 2018 to 29 December 2018 and these results will be included in Haydens Bakery Limiteds Financial Statements to 31 March 2019.
This subsidiary has a different accounting date to the Group due to the acquisition being completed relatively close to the Groups period end.
INTERESTS IN ASSOCIATES Details of the associated undertakings of the Group at 29 December 2018 were as follows: Proportion of Ordinary shares Place of registration Method of and operation Principal activity 2018 2017 accounting Name of associate La Rose Noire Limited Hong Kong Producer of bakery and pastry products 45% 45% Equity La Rose Noire million Limited Associates that are not individually material At 31 December 2016 13.3 Share of profit after tax 0.6 Exchange differences 1.2 Dividend payment 0.7 At 30 December 2017 12.0 Share of profit after tax 0.4 Exchange differences 0.8 Dividend payment 0.7 At 29 December 2018 12.5 18.
OTHER INVESTMENTS Non-listed investments held million at cost At 29 December 2018 0.1 At 30 December 2017 0.1 19.
INVENTORIES 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Raw materials and packaging 54.6 47.4 Work-in-progress 1.8 1.7 Finished goods 6.4 5.7 62.8 54.8 126 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 126 | Bakkavor Group plc 20.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Amounts receivable from trade customers 115.3 120.8 Allowance for doubtful debts 2.0 1.5 Net amounts receivable from trade customers 113.3 119.3 Other receivables 18.8 19.1 Prepayments 10.6 9.5 142.7 147.9 The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 21 days 2017: 23 days.
An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods of 2.0 million 2017: 1.5 million.
Allowances against receivables are made on a specific basis based on objective evidence and previous default experience.
Receivables are therefore deemed past due but not impaired when the contractual obligation to pay has been exceeded, but as yet no objective evidence or previous default experience indicates this debt will be irrecoverable.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables from customers approximates to their fair value due to their short-term nature.
The Other receivables amount mainly relates to non-specific amounts, the largest of which is recoverable VAT.
The following table is an ageing analysis of net trade receivables from customers: 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Not past due 99.7 102.5 Past due by 1 30 days 11.3 14.2 Past due by 31 60 days 2.0 1.3 Past due by 61 90 days 0.3 0.6 Past due by more than 90 days 0.7 113.3 119.3 There was no impact from trade receivables renegotiated in 2018 that would otherwise have been past due or impaired 2017: no impact.
The major customers of the Group, representing 76.2% 2017: 77.5% of the Groups revenue from continuing operations, hold favourable credit ratings.
On this basis, the Group does not see any need to charge interest, seek collateral or credit enhancements to secure any of its trade receivables due to their short-term nature.
The Group does not consider that it is exposed to any significant credit risk and therefore the carrying amount of trade receivables represents the expected recoverable amount and there is no further credit risk exposure.
The following table is an analysis of the movement of the Groups trade receivables allowance for doubtful debts: 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Balance at beginning of the period 1.5 1.1 Allowances recognised against receivables 0.7 1.3 Amounts written off as uncollectible during the period 0.4 Amounts recovered during the period 0.2 0.3 Allowance reversed 0.1 0.2 Recognised from acquisition of subsidiary 0.1 Balance at end of the period 2.0 1.5 www.
com 127 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 12.4 20.9 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less which are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
BORROWINGS The interest rates and currency profile of the Groups borrowings at 29 December 2018 were as follows: Facility Amount drawn amount down at year end Non-utilisation Facility Currency million million Interest rate fee Maturity date Term Loan A GBP 210.0 210.0 Libor plus a margin of 2.10% N A June 2021 Term Loan B GBP 37.5 37.5 Libor plus a margin of 3.85% N A June 2024 1 Revolving Credit Facility RCF GBP 200.0 68.7 Libor plus a margin of 2.10% 0.74% June 2021 1 A further 5.8 million has been drawn down in RCF ancillary facilities at the year end.
GROUP BANK FACILITIES The Groups total banking facilities amount to 447.5 million 2017: 447.5 million comprising i a 247.5 million term loan 2017: 247.5 million term loan, split 210.0 million and 37.5 million maturing in June 2021 and June 2024 respectively and ii 200.0 million Revolving Credit Facilities RCF 2017: 200.0 million RCF, which includes an overdraft and money market facility of 16.5 million 2017: 16.5 million and further ancillary facilities of 8.7 million 2017: 8.7 million.
In addition to this, the Group put in place an uncommitted multi-currency money market loan facility amounting to 35.0 million in 2018.
No amount was drawn under this uncommitted facility at the period end.
The bank facilities are unsecured.
RECEIVABLES SECURITISATION FACILITY The Group had a 50.0 million receivables securitisation facility in place until February 2018 when it matured and the facility was not renewed.
128 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 128 | Bakkavor Group plc 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Bank overdrafts 3.7 Bank loans 309.8 283.6 313.5 283.6 Borrowings repayable as follows: On demand or within one year 5.0 1.5 In the second year In the third to fifth years inclusive 271.9 245.6 Over five years 36.6 36.5 313.5 283.6 Analysed as: Amount due for settlement within 12 months shown within current liabilities 5.0 1.5 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 308.5 282.1 313.5 283.6 As at 29 December 2018 and 30 December 2017, all of the Groups borrowings were denominated in Sterling.
29 December 30 December 2018 2017 % % The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: Senior Secured Notes, bank loans and overdrafts 3.20 2.94 The Group has a 75.0 million notional principal interest rate cap that matures in October 2019.
Interest on the Groups term loan and other borrowings are at floating rates, thus exposing the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The fair value of the Groups borrowings is as follows: 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Fair value of the Groups borrowings 316.2 287.5 Statutory net debt is the net of cash and cash equivalents, prepaid fees to be amortised over the term of outstanding borrowings, outstanding borrowings, interest accrued on borrowings and finance lease liabilities, and is as follows: 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Analysis of net debt Cash and cash equivalents 12.4 20.9 Borrowings 3.7 Interest accrual 1.3 1.5 Finance leases 1.6 0.8 Debt due within one year 6.6 2.3 Borrowings 312.5 287.5 Unamortised fees 4.0 5.4 Finance leases 3.9 3.1 Debt due after one year 312.4 285.2 Group statutory net debt 306.6 266.6 www.
com 129 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Held-for-trading derivatives that are not designated in hedge accounting relationships: 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Interest rate contracts 0.1 Foreign currency contracts 0.2 Included in non-current assets 0.2 0.1 Interest rate contracts 0.1 Foreign currency contracts 1.8 1.6 Included in current assets 1.9 1.6 Foreign currency contracts 0.6 Included in current liabilities 0.6 Foreign currency contracts 0.2 Included in non-current liabilities 0.2 Total 2.1 0.9 Further details of derivative financial instruments are provided in Note 28.
DEFERRED TAX The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting period.
Overseas tax Accelerated IAS23 Retirement losses and tax capitalised Fair value Impairment benefit Share accrued million depreciation interest gains Intangibles Provisions losses obligations scheme interest Total At 31 December 2016 15.7 3.7 0.1 1.0 0.2 1.7 1.6 15.0 Charge credit to income continuing operations 0.8 3.5 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.5 0.1 1.9 3.8 Exchange differences 0.3 0.3 Charge credit to equity 2.1 0.2 1.9 At 30 December 2017 16.5 0.2 0.7 0.9 0.3 3.2 13.4 Charge credit to income continuing operations 6.6 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.3 14.1 7.6 Arising on acquisition 0.1 0.1 Exchange differences 0.4 0.8 0.4 Credit charge to equity 1.0 0.2 0.8 At 29 December 2018 23.5 0.3 0.4 0.1 1.0 0.1 0.4 18.1 4.7 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Deferred tax asset 19.6 3.2 Deferred tax liabilities 24.3 16.6 4.7 13.4 At the statement of financial position date, the Group had unused tax losses of 29.5 million 2017: 45.1 million available for offset against future taxable profits.
Of these losses, 8.1 million will expire after five years if unused, the balance can be carried forward without time limit.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised on the losses carried forward to the extent that it is not probable that the losses will be utilised.
The Group is not aware of any temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries due to the availability of tax credits against such liabilities.
The Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of any such temporary differences should they arise.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates are insignificant.
130 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 130 | Bakkavor Group plc 25.
OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES Present value of minimum Minimum lease payments lease payments 29 December 30 December 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 2018 2017 Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 1.7 0.9 1.6 0.8 In the second to fifth years inclusive 3.7 2.5 3.5 2.3 Over five years 0.4 0.9 0.4 0.8 5.8 4.3 5.5 3.9 Less: future finance charges 0.3 0.4 Present value of lease obligations 5.5 3.9 5.5 3.9 Analysed as: Amount due for settlement within 12 months shown within current liabilities 1.6 0.8 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 3.9 3.1 5.5 3.9 The weighted average lease term outstanding is 4.3 years 2017: 5.6 years.
For 2018, the weighted average effective borrowing rate was 3.80% 2017: 4.45%.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The finance lease obligations are denominated in Sterling and the fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors rights over the leased assets.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Trade payables 232.6 209.0 Social security and other taxation 2.0 2.2 Other payables 23.5 29.2 Accruals 133.6 153.4 391.7 393.8 Less: amounts due after one year Other payables 0.4 0.4 Trade and other payables due within one year 391.3 393.4 Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 55 days 2017: 57 days.
No interest is incurred against trade payables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
com 131 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
PROVISIONS Dilapidation million Onerous leases provisions Total At 31 December 2016 1.6 13.0 14.6 Utilisation of provision 0.5 0.5 Additional provision in the year 0.4 4.3 4.7 Release of provision 0.3 1.1 1.4 Unwinding of discount 0.3 0.3 At 30 December 2017 1.2 16.5 17.7 Included in current liabilities 0.8 2.3 3.1 Included in non-current liabilities 0.4 14.2 14.6 At 30 December 2017 1.2 16.5 17.7 Utilisation of provision 1.0 0.8 1.8 Additional provision in the year 2.2 0.2 2.4 On acquisition of subsidiary 0.6 0.6 On disposal of subsidiary 1.0 1.0 Unwinding of discount 0.4 0.4 At 29 December 2018 2.4 15.9 18.3 Included in current liabilities 0.4 2.9 3.3 Included in non-current liabilities 2.0 13.0 15.0 Onerous lease provisions brought forward relate to two vacant properties where leases end in 2019 and 2020.
A further provision has also been made in the period for a site closed in a previous financial period, this site is expected to be sublet by the end of 2019.
In addition, an onerous lease provision of 1.7 million was made in the period in respect of the Groups non-core UK fast casual restaurant business which has three property leases, one of which expires in 2030 with the others expiring in 2031.
As this business has been loss-making since incorporation, and this is expected to continue for the foreseeable future, the leases are considered to be onerous.
The provision has been calculated as the discounted total expected costs for occupying the property including rent, rates and service charges through to December 2021 on the basis that this business will not be loss-making by that time.
The provisions will be utilised over the term of the individual leases to which they relate.
Dilapidation provisions relate to estimated obligations under various property leases to ensure that, at the end of the leases, the buildings are in the condition agreed with the landlords.
The provisions will be utilised at the end of the individual lease terms to which they relate, which ranges from two to 32 years.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of borrowings, as disclosed in Note 22, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to owners of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
The Group manages its capital by collating timely and reliable information to produce various internal reports such as capital expenditure and weekly net debt reports, which enable the Board of Directors to assess the Groups capital, and manage that capital effectively and in line with the Groups objectives.
The gearing of the Group is constantly monitored and managed to ensure that the ratio between debt and equity is at an acceptable level, and enables the Group to operate as a going concern and maximise stakeholders return.
GEARING RATIO The gearing ratio at the period end was as follows: 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Debt 319.0 287.5 Cash and cash equivalents 12.4 20.9 Net debt 306.6 266.6 Equity 569.4 510.1 Net debt to net debt plus equity 35.0% 34.3% Debt is defined as long and short-term borrowings, as disclosed in Note 22 and finance leases payable in Note 25.
132 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 132 | Bakkavor Group plc SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in Note 2.
CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Financial assets Fair value through profit and loss: Derivative financial instruments 2.1 1.7 Loans and receivables at amortised cost: Trade receivables 113.3 119.3 Other receivables 18.8 19.1 Cash and cash equivalents 12.4 20.9 146.6 161.0 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Financial liabilities Fair value through profit and loss: Derivative financial instruments 0.8 Other payables 4.2 Other financial liabilities at amortised cost: Trade payables 232.6 209.0 Other payables 23.5 25.0 Accruals 133.6 153.4 Borrowings 313.5 283.6 Finance leases 5.5 3.9 708.7 679.9 The fair value of loans and receivables approximates to their carrying value due to the short-term nature of the receivables.
Fair values for the derivative financial instruments and other payables have been determined as level 2 under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Quoted prices are not available for the derivative financial instruments and so valuation models are used to estimate fair value.
The models calculate the expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract and then discount these values back to a present value.
These models use as their basis independently sourced market parameters including, for example, interest rate yield curves and currency rates.
The fair value of other financial liabilities at amortised cost approximates to their carrying value.
The trade and other payables approximate to their fair value due to the short-term nature of the payables.
The finance lease fair value approximates to the carrying value based on discounted future cash flows.
There have been no changes to fair values as a result of a change in credit risk of the Group or the Groups customers.
com 133 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is exposed to a number of financial risks such as access to and cost of funding, interest rate exposure, currency exposure and working capital management.
The Group seeks to minimise and mitigate against these risks where possible and does this by constantly monitoring and using a range of measures including derivative financial instruments.
Use of financial instruments is governed by Group policies which are approved by the Board.
The treasury function does not operate as a profit centre, makes no speculative transactions and only enters into or trades financial instruments to manage specific exposures.
MARKET RISK The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including: Interest rate caps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates: and Forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on purchases in foreign currencies.
Market risk exposures are supplemented by sensitivity analysis.
There has been no change in the Groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risk.
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT Foreign currency risk management occurs at a transactional level on purchases in foreign currencies and at a translational level in relation to the translation of overseas operations.
All transactional risks, cash flow forecasts and related hedges are reviewed by the Group Hedging Committee and Group Treasury, at least quarterly, to monitor foreign exchange rates and confirm the appropriateness of the Groups hedged cover.
The Groups main foreign exchange risk is to the Euro and US dollar.
During the 52-week period to 29 December 2018, the Euro strengthened against Sterling by 1.4%, with the closing rate at 1.1093 compared with 1.1249 at the prior period end.
The average rate for the 52-week period to 29 December 2018 was 1.1303, a 0.9% strengthening of the Euro versus the prior period.
In the same period, the US dollar strengthened against Sterling by 6.1%, with the closing rate at $1.2696 compared with $1.3522 at the prior period end.
The average rate for the 52-week period to 29 December 2018 was $1.3343, a 3.5% weakening of the US dollar versus the prior period.
The net foreign exchange impact on profit from transactions is a gain of 0.2 million 2017: loss of 2.9 million.
FOREIGN CURRENCY SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS A sensitivity analysis has been performed on the financial assets and liabilities to a sensitivity of 10% increase decrease in the exchange rates.
A 10% increase decrease has been used, as it represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the Group where the denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the currency of the lender or the borrower.
A positive number below indicates an increase in profit equity where Sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency.
Profit or loss Profit or loss 10% strengthening in currency 10% weakening in currency 29 December 30 December 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 2018 2017 Euro 7.5 7.9 9.2 9.7 USD 1.3 2.4 1.6 2.9 HKD 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 RMB 0.6 0.4 0.7 0.5 134 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 134 | Bakkavor Group plc FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS It is the policy of the Group to enter into foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments and receipts.
The Group also enters into foreign exchange contracts to manage the risk associated with anticipated purchase transactions and minimise the exposure generated.
The following table details Sterling foreign currency contracts outstanding as at 29 December 2018: Foreign currency Average Contract value Fair value million exchange rate million million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Outstanding contracts Net Euros: 3 months or less 30.0 33.2 1.11 1.14 27.0 29.0 0.2 0.4 3 to 6 months 39.6 32.9 1.10 1.14 35.4 28.8 0.6 0.5 6 to 12 months 39.1 38.4 1.11 1.14 35.1 33.6 0.5 0.7 Over 12 months 12.2 20.9 1.11 1.10 10.9 19.0 0.2 0.2 Net US dollars: 3 months or less 6.0 23.3 1.33 1.32 4.5 17.5 0.2 0.3 3 to 6 months 7.2 9.4 1.31 1.32 5.5 7.1 0.1 0.2 6 to 12 months 10.0 3.6 1.32 1.34 7.6 2.7 0.2 0.1 Over 12 months 0.6 0.4 1.30 1.36 0.4 0.3 126.4 138.0 2.0 0.8 The following table details the US dollar foreign currency contracts outstanding as at 29 December 2018: Foreign currency Average Contract value Fair value Fair value million exchange rate US$ million US$ million million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Outstanding contracts Net Canadian dollars: Less than 3 months 1.4 1.29 1.1 Net Euros: Less than 3 months 1.22 1.1 INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on borrowings.
The risk is managed by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and caps to minimise the risk associated with variable interest rates.
At the period end, 24.0% 2017: 26.1% of the Groups borrowings were covered by an interest rate cap.
Use of interest rate derivatives is governed by Group policies which are approved by the Board.
INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Interest rate sensitivity analysis has been performed on the financial assets and liabilities to illustrate the impact on Group profits and equity if interest rates increased decreased.
This analysis assumes the liabilities outstanding at the period end were outstanding for the whole period.
A 100 basis points increase or decrease has been used, as these are managements assessment of reasonably possible changes in interest rates.
Loss profit Loss profit 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Effects of 100 basis points increase in interest rate 2.4 2.3 Effects of 100 basis points decrease in interest rate 3.0 2.9 It is assumed that all other variables remain the same when preparing the interest rate sensitivity analysis.
com 135 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED INTEREST RATE CAP The Group entered into an interest rate cap agreement.
This is to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the outstanding variable rate borrowings.
The fair value of the interest rate cap at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the yield curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below.
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate cap contracts outstanding as at 29 December 2018: Average contract fixed Notional interest rate principal amount Fair value 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 % % million million million million Interest rate caps 6 to 12 months 0.75 75.0 0.1 Over 12 months 0.75 75.0 0.1 75.0 75.0 0.1 0.1 The interest rate cap settles on a quarterly basis.
The Group will receive payment if the three-month Libor rate exceeds the agreed cap of 0.75%.
CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT Credit risk refers to the risk of financial loss to the Group if a counterparty defaults on its contractual obligations of the loans and receivables at amortised cost held in the statement of financial position.
The Groups main credit risk is attributable to its trade receivables.
The Groups top four customers, all leading UK retailers, continue to represent more than 76% 2017: 77% of the Groups revenue from continuing operations.
These customers have favourable credit ratings and consequently reduce the credit risk for the Groups overall trade receivables.
Processes are in place to manage receivables and overdue debt, and to ensure that appropriate action is taken to resolve issues on a timely basis.
Credit control operating procedures are in place to review all new customers.
Existing customers are reviewed as management become aware of changes of circumstances for specific customers.
The amounts presented in the statement of financial position are net of appropriate allowance for doubtful trade receivables, specific customer risk and assessment of the current economic environment.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the Financial Statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with good credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Group policy dictates that Group deposits are shared between banks to spread the risk.
Currently, Group deposits are shared between banks that are counterparties in the Groups committed bank facilities.
The Groups current bank facilities comprise a 247.5 million term loan 2017: 247.5 million and a 200.0 million RCF facility 2017: 200.0 million, through a bank syndicate.
A. is the syndicate agent of this facility and they manage the syndicate and participation with other counterparties.
In addition to these committed facilities, the Group has access to an uncommitted multi-currency money market line facility amounting to 31.6 million 35 million 2017: nil.
COMMODITY RISK MANAGEMENT The Group acquires substantial quantities of raw materials for its operations.
The Group is therefore exposed to commodity price and supply risks for these raw materials.
The Group takes action to reduce overall material costs and exposure to price fluctuations by sourcing raw materials from suppliers all over the world, thereby decreasing geographic risk and it also frequently tenders to benchmark market prices.
In general, requirements are managed using contracts for periods of between three to 12 months forward.
The Group also manages any local currency exposure in line with agreed contracts.
LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group may not be able to fund the day-to-day running of the Group.
The Group manages liquidity risk by monitoring actual and forecast cash flows to ensure that adequate liquidity is available to meet the maturity profiles of financial liabilities.
The Group also monitors the drawdown of borrowings against the available banking facilities and reviews the level of reserves.
Liquidity risk management ensures sufficient funding is available for the Groups day-to-day needs.
The Group maintains reasonable headroom of unused committed bank facilities in a range of maturities at least 12 months beyond the period end.
136 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 136 | Bakkavor Group plc MATURITY PROFILE OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The following table illustrates the Groups undiscounted contractual maturity for its financial liabilities when they fall due.
29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Due within one year: Trade payables 232.6 209.0 Other payables 23.1 28.8 Accruals 133.6 153.4 Derivative financial instruments 0.6 Borrowings 3.7 Finance leases 1.6 0.8 Interest on borrowings 11.2 10.0 Total due within one year 405.8 402.6 In the second to fifth years inclusive: Other payables 0.4 0.4 Derivative financial instruments 0.2 Borrowings 275.0 250.0 Finance leases 3.5 2.3 Interest on borrowings 19.3 23.8 Total due in the second to fifth years 298.2 276.7 Due after five years: Borrowings 37.5 37.5 Finance leases 0.4 0.8 Interest on borrowings 0.9 2.7 Total due after five years 38.8 41.0 The weighted average interest rates for the Groups borrowings are found in Note 22 and in Note 25 for finance leases.
ITEMS OF INCOME, EXPENSE, GAINS OR LOSSES The following table provides an analysis of the Groups investment revenue, finance costs and changes in fair values by category of financial instrument: million 2018 2017 Finance costs On financial liabilities held at amortised cost 13.2 35.0 Changes in fair values recognised in Other gains and losses On financial liabilities held at fair value through profit and loss 5.3 19.3 www.
com 137 137 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES SHARE CAPITAL 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Issued and fully paid: 579,425,585 2017: 579,425,585 Ordinary shares of 0.02 each 11.6 11.6 All Ordinary shares of 0.02 each are non-redeemable and carry equal voting rights and rank for dividends and capital distributions, whether on a winding up or otherwise.
On 6 September 2018, the Company declared an interim dividend for the period ended 29 December 2018 of 2 pence per share to each of the Ordinary shareholders totalling 11,588,512 which was paid on 5 October 2018.
A final dividend of 4 pence per share has been proposed for approval at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2019 and will be payable on 29 May 2019 to Ordinary shareholders on the register at 3 May 2019.
No dividends were declared for the period ended 30 December 2017.
SHARE PREMIUM The share premium represents amounts received in excess of the nominal value of shares issued, net of the direct costs associated with issuing those shares.
million Share premium arising on issue of 55,555,555 new shares 98.9 Share premium arising on share for share exchange 275.2 Expenses incurred on issue of equity shares 8.0 Balance at 30 December 2017 366.1 Cancellation of share premium account 366.1 Balance at 29 December 2018 On 27 March 2018, the Company cancelled its share premium account of 366.1 million, resulting in a corresponding increase in retained earnings.
MERGER RESERVE In 2017, the merger reserve was debited by 185.8 million as a result of the acquisition of Bakkavor Holdings Limited and the elimination of the historical capital reserve which related to the previous group structure.
In 2007, a corporate reorganisation was completed to establish Bakkavor Holdings Limited as an intermediate holding company of the Group and was accounted for using the principles of merger accounting.
TRANSLATION RESERVE The translation reserve represents foreign exchange rate differences arising on the consolidation of the Groups foreign operations.
The assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in the translation reserve.
138 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 138 | Bakkavor Group plc 30.
DISPOSALS 2018 DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARY On 2 July 2018, the Group disposed of its interest in Anglia Crown Limited.
The net assets of Anglia Crown Limited at the date of disposal were as follows: million 2 July 2018 Property, plant and equipment 0.2 Deferred tax asset 0.1 Inventories 0.9 Trade receivables 1.9 Other debtors 0.1 Prepayments 0.6 Trade payables 2.0 Accruals 0.3 Provisions 1.0 Net assets 0.5 Disposal costs 0.2 Loss on disposal 4.6 Total consideration 3.9 Satisfied by: Cash and cash equivalents 3.9 Deferred consideration 0.7 3.2 Net cash outflow arising on disposal: Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents Less: cash and cash equivalent disposed of 3.2 3.2 The transaction has resulted in a loss on disposal of 4.6 million being recorded in the consolidated income statement as an Other item.
The deferred consideration will be settled in cash by the Group on 2 July 2020.
2017 There were no disposals in the period.
com 139 139 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
ACQUISITIONS 2018 On 6 September 2018, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of Haydens Bakery Limited from Real Good Food plc for a total consideration of 11.4 million.
The consideration comprised 0.5 million in cash and assumed borrowings of 8.5 million that were repaid immediately, and 2.4 million of existing finance leases.
The primary reason for the acquisition was to increase the breadth and depth of the Groups desserts range, extending the offering in in-store bakery.
The amounts recognised in respect of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed are as set out in the table below: 6 September million 2018 Other intangible assets 0.7 Property, plant and equipment 11.1 Inventories 1.5 Trade and other receivables 4.0 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 Trade and other payables 4.4 Obligations under finance leases 2.4 Provisions 0.6 Deferred tax liabilities 0.1 Net identifiable assets acquired 10.3 Gain on bargain purchase 1.3 Total cash consideration for share capital and assumed borrowings repaid 9.0 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition was: 6 September million 2018 Cash consideration for share capital 0.5 Immediate repayment of borrowings 8.5 9.0 Cash and cash equivalents acquired on acquisition 0.5 Cash outflow on acquisition of business 8.5 The Group was able to negotiate a purchase price within the sellers required range, which led to a gain on bargain purchase of 1.3 million.
Acquisition-related costs included in Other administrative expenses amount to 0.3 million.
The results of Haydens Bakery Limited have been consolidated in the Groups consolidated income statement from 6 September 2018 and contributed 12.4 million of revenue and a loss of 0.2 million to the Groups profit for the period.
If the acquisition of Haydens Bakery Limited had been completed on the first day of the financial period, Group revenues for the period would have been 1,877.1 million and Group profit would have been 65.0 million.
2017 There were no acquisitions in the period.
140 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 140 | Bakkavor Group plc 32.
NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS million 2018 2017 Operating profit 85.6 96.2 Adjustments for: Share of results of associates 0.4 0.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 39.9 39.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 0.4 0.7 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.5 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries Note 30 4.6 Gain on bargain purchase Note 31 1.3 Impairment of assets 3.5 Share scheme charges 1.5 0.8 Net retirement benefits charge less contributions 2.9 2.9 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 131.3 134.3 Increase decrease in inventories 7.4 4.4 Decrease in receivables 5.8 41.7 Decrease in payables 3.3 39.2 Increase in provisions 0.5 2.9 Cash generated by operations 126.9 144.1 Income taxes paid 14.7 11.9 Interest paid 13.1 38.8 Net cash from operating activities 99.1 93.4 ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET DEBT 31 December Exchange Other non-cash 29 December million 2017 Cash flow movements movements 2018 Borrowings 283.6 28.7 1.2 313.5 Finance leases 3.9 1.1 2.7 5.5 Total liabilities from financing activities 287.5 27.6 3.9 319.0 Cash and cash equivalents 20.9 8.6 0.1 12.4 Net debt 266.6 36.2 0.1 3.9 306.6 Includes accrued interest at 29 December 2018 of 1.3 million 2017: 1.5 million and prepaid bank fees of 4.0 million 2017: 5.4 million.
com 141 141 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS The Group may from time to time, and in the normal course of business, be subject to claims from customers and counterparties.
The Group regularly reviews all of these claims to determine any possible financial loss to the Group.
No provision was considered necessary in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In addition, there are a number of legal claims or potential claims against the Group.
The Group is currently subject to a National Living Wage enquiry, which has been ongoing since July 2017.
Whilst the Directors consider that there is a possible financial impact from this enquiry, given the stage of the enquiry it is not possible to quantify the potential financial impact and the outcome cannot at present be foreseen.
Provision has been made for all probable liabilities.
The Group has the following amounts of Letters of Credit issued: 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Letters of Credit 2.9 2.5 As at 29 December 2018, the Group had purchase commitments for the next 12 months to guarantee supply and price of raw materials of 129.3 million 2017: 96.5 million.
OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS THE GROUP AS LESSEE million 2018 2017 Continuing operations Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the period 12.0 12.2 At the statement of financial position date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: Land and buildings Other 29 December 30 December 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 2018 2017 Operating leases which expire: Within one year 6.6 5.4 2.7 2.8 Within two to five years 36.2 38.7 2.9 4.6 After five years 48.0 47.3 0.1 0.1 90.8 91.4 5.7 7.5 The Group leases various offices and operational facilities under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases plant and machinery under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
142 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 142 | Bakkavor Group plc 35.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Company has a share option scheme for selected employees of the Group.
Options granted under the scheme are exercisable at a discount to the estimated price of the Companys shares on the date of grant.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant the options expire.
Options may be forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
Details of the share options outstanding during the year were as follows: Number of Weighted average share options exercise price 29 December 30 December 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 2018 2017 Outstanding at the beginning of the period 9,178,785 0.68 Granted during the period 2,842,686 9,178,785 0.68 Forfeited during the period 297,374 0.47 Outstanding at the end of the period 11,724,097 9,178,785 0.52 0.68 Exercisable at the end of the period The options outstanding at 29 December 2018 had a weighted average exercise price of 0.52 2017: 0.68, and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 8.7 years 2017: 9.4 years.
The options had the following performance conditions for vesting: 1.
216,976 vest provided that the individual is an employee in April 2021.
Provided that the first condition is met, 12.5% of the remaining options vest provided the Groups TSR national rank versus a bespoke peer group of 34 companies at 26 December 2020 is at the median level, this increases up to 50% of the remaining options based on a sliding scale if the Groups TSR rank at 26 December 2020 is at the upper quartile level.
Provided that the first condition is met, 12.5% of the remaining options vest provided the Groups Adjusted EPS for the 2020 financial year is 16.5 pence with up to a further 50% of the remaining options vesting on a sliding scale if the Groups Adjusted EPS is between 16.5 pence and 18.6 pence for that year.
In 2017, options were granted on 3 July 2017 and 20 October 2017.
The options granted on 3 July 2017 have two performance conditions for vesting: 1.
50% vest provided that the individual is an employee in April 2020 and a liquidity event, i. e. a public listing or company sale has occurred by that date.
Provided that the first condition is met, a further 25% vest if Group Adjusted EBITDA for the 2019 financial year is 175.0 million with up to a further 25% vesting on a sliding scale if Group Adjusted EBITDA is between 175.0 million and 190.0 million for that year.
The options granted on 20 October 2017 have no performance conditions other than the employee needs to be employed by the business at the vesting date.
The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted in 2018 is 16.7 million 2017: 6.6 million.
The expected volatility is a measure of the amount by which a share price is expected to fluctuate during the period.
It is typically calculated based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over the length of the award period.
Bakkavor Group plc listed in November 2017 and as such this information is not available.
Instead, the expected volatility has been based on the average volatility of a peer group of companies, which are of a similar size and operate in a similar market to Bakkavor Group plc.
The Group recognised total expenses of 1.5 million 2017: 0.8 million related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in the period.
com 143 143 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES The Group operates a number of pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
These schemes are either trust or contract-based and have been set up in accordance with appropriate legislation.
The assets of each of the pension schemes are held separately from the assets of the Company.
In the UK, the two main schemes are a defined contribution scheme which is open to all UK employees joining the Group full or part-time and the other is the Bakkavor Pension Scheme, a funded defined benefit scheme which provides benefits on a final salary basis and was closed to future accrual in March 2011.
Pension costs charged in arriving at profit on ordinary activities before taxation were: million 2018 2017 UK defined contribution scheme net charge 8.3 6.1 Overseas defined contribution scheme net charge 1 UK defined benefit scheme net charge 3.2 1.0 Total charge 11.5 7.1 1 This includes a charge of 2.6 million in respect of Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation and has been shown as an Other item within Other administrative costs in the consolidated income statement.
DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES The total cost charged to income of 8.3 million 2017: 6.1 million represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates advised by the Group to all employees, subject to the minimum requirements set out in legislation.
Included in accruals was 1.6 million at the period end for the defined contribution schemes gross contributions 2017: 1.0 million.
DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES An actuarial valuation of Scheme assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation for funding purposes was carried out as at 31 March 2016.
The results were updated for IAS 19 Employee Benefits purposes to 29 December 2018 by a qualified independent actuary with Willis Towers Watson.
The projected unit cost method was used to value the liabilities.
The major assumptions used in this IAS 19 valuation were: 29 December 30 December 2018 2017 Future pension increases majority of liabilities 3.10% 3.05% Discount rate applied to Scheme liabilities 2.65% 2.40% Inflation assumption CPI 2.25% 2.20% The mortality table is based on scheme-specific postcode-fitted SAPS 2 tables with a 96% multiplier for male members and a 95% multiplier for female members.
Future improvements are in line with the CMIB core 2015 improvements model with a 1.0% p. a. long-term trend from 2007 onwards, giving life expectancies as follows: Males expected Males expected Females Females future lifetime future lifetime expected future expected future 2018 2017 lifetime 2018 lifetime 2017 Member aged 45 41.8 41.7 44.2 43.9 Member aged 65 22.3 22.3 24.4 24.4 The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Approximate impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 1.0% Decrease 45.1 million increase 61.3 million Rate of inflation Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase 19.4 million decrease 19.7 million Life expectancy Members assumed to be one year younger than their actual age Increase 9.2 million Amounts recognised in income in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: million 2018 2017 Net interest on net defined benefit asset liability 0.2 0.2 Administration costs incurred during the period 0.8 0.8 GMP equalisation 2.6 Total charge 3.2 1.0 All of the charges for each period presented have been included in total administrative expenses.
The actuarial loss of 6.3 million 2017: 12.3 million gain has been reported in other comprehensive income.
The actual return on Scheme assets was a decrease of 11.0 million 2017: 23.5 million increase.
144 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 144 | Bakkavor Group plc The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement benefit schemes is as follows: 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Fair value of Scheme assets 241.4 265.8 Present value of defined benefit obligations 241.9 260.6 Scheme deficit surplus 0.5 5.2 Related deferred taxation asset liability Note 24 0.1 0.9 0.4 4.3 The assumptions used are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The Scheme surplus in 2017 was recognised in accordance with IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction as the Schemes terms and conditions allow the Group to have an unconditional right to a refund of contributions when economic benefits are available.
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations DBO were as follows: 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Opening balance 260.6 262.6 Interest cost on the DBO 6.0 6.5 Benefits paid from scheme assets 16.4 13.4 Actuarial gain demographic assumptions 1.0 Actuarial gain loss financial assumptions 10.9 5.9 Past service cost plan amendments 2.6 Closing balance 241.9 260.6 Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows: 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Opening balance 265.8 252.6 Interest income on scheme assets 6.2 6.3 Return on scheme assets less greater than discount rate 17.2 17.2 Contributions from the sponsoring Companies 3.8 3.9 Benefits paid from scheme assets 16.4 13.4 Administrative costs paid 0.8 0.8 Closing balance 241.4 265.8 The analysis of the scheme assets at the statement of financial position date was as follows: Fair value of assets 29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Structured UK equity 1.8 6.6 Overseas equity 29.4 38.1 High yield bonds 10.0 18.9 Corporate bonds 13.6 12.8 Index linked government bonds 125.4 134.1 Cash 22.9 29.8 Other 38.3 25.5 241.4 265.8 The fair values of the majority of the equity and bonds have been determined as level 2 instruments under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, except for most of the Index linked government bonds which have quoted prices in active markets and are classed as level 1. www.
com 145 145 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED Structured UK equity provides exposure to UK equities but is a derivative-based solution and not a direct investment in equities.
A proportion of the Index linked government bonds are held as collateral against the Structured UK equity product.
The scheme assets also include swaps to hedge liability inflation and interest rate risks.
The swap value has been included in the value of the gilt securities used as collateral for the swaps.
Corporate bonds and cash are also used as collateral for the swaps in place.
The Scheme invests in four multi-asset funds which invest in a wide range of assets including alternative asset classes.
In the summary above, the multi-asset funds have been split into the relevant constituent asset classes.
The Bakkavor Pension Scheme operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustee on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation.
The Scheme is subject to scheme specific funding requirements as outlined in UK legislation.
The most recent scheme specific funding valuation at 31 March 2016 was finalised in April 2017.
The Group and the Trustee work closely together in matters concerning the Bakkavor Pension Scheme.
Regular meetings and correspondence on matters concerning the Scheme are shared in an open manner between both parties.
The Bakkavor Pension Schemes current investment strategy adopts a policy of investing broadly 60% in growth-seeking assets and 40% in bonds, although the proportions can vary significantly in order to allow for advanced liability hedging techniques, opportunistic allocation of assets and the structured equity component of the strategy increases the notional allocation to return-seeking assets to 95%.
A large proportion of both interest and inflation risk is hedged.
The strategy is intended to reduce the risk of significant changes to the funding level by hedging key risks, while retaining a proportion of return seeking assets to minimise long-term costs by maximising return within an acceptable level of risk.
The Schemes assets are held separately from those of the Group.
The weighted average duration of the Bakkavor Pension Scheme is approximately 20 years.
Employer contributions, except for deficit reduction contributions, ceased in March 2011 when the Scheme closed to future accrual.
Employee contributions also ceased at this date.
Following the closure of the Scheme to future accrual in March 2011, the Group and the Trustee agreed that members who were active members of the Scheme at the date of closure would remain entitled to access early retirement on preferential terms as long as they remained in employment within the Group.
The value of members accessing these preferential terms is not included in the defined benefit obligation as this benefit is not funded for in advance.
If members choose to access this benefit an employer contribution is made to the Scheme to reflect the increase in expected future pension costs.
In 2018, a small augmentation of c. 5,000 was made in respect of this benefit 2017: nil.
The current deficit reduction contributions were agreed between the Group and the Trustee as part of the 2016 triennial valuation.
The deficit contributions will be paid over an eight-year recovery period ending on 31 March 2024.
The recovery contributions are paid monthly and the agreed rates are 2.0 million in the year ended 31 March 2017, 4.5 million in the year ending 31 March 2018, 3.5 million in the year ending 31 March 2019 and 2.5 million per annum in subsequent years until 31 March 2024.
3.8 million was paid in the period to 29 December 2018 2017: 3.9 million.
The actual amount of employer contributions expected to be paid to the Scheme during 2019 is 2.8 million.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and associates are disclosed in the Companys separate Financial Statements.
TRADING TRANSACTIONS During the period, Group companies did not enter into any transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group.
REMUNERATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL The remuneration of the Directors and senior management, who are the key management personnel of the Company, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
million 2018 2017 Short-term employee benefits 4.5 9.3 Post-employment benefits 0.1 1 Share-based payments 0.9 0.4 5.5 9.7 1 This is the income statement charge for the year which represents the fair value of the share-based payments to the Directors and senior management.
Details of the share-based payments are set out in Note 35.
EVENTS AFTER THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION DATE There have been no significant events after the statement of financial position date to report.
146 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 146 | Bakkavor Group plc 39.
CONTROLLING PARTY These Financial Statements are the largest consolidated Group Financial Statements in which the Company has been included.
At 29 December 2018, Carrion Enterprises Limited and Umbriel Ventures Limited together held 290,666,260 Ordinary shares, representing 50.2% of the total issued Ordinary share capital of Bakkavor Group plc.
Two of the Companys Directors, Agust Gudmundsson and Lydur Gudmundsson, through their beneficial ownership of Carrion Enterprises Limited and Umbriel Ventures Limited are treated as acting in concert and are therefore controlling shareholders of the Company.
ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES The Group uses various non-IFRS financial measures to help evaluate growth trends, assess operational performance and monitor cash performance.
The Directors consider that these measures enable investors to understand the ongoing operations of the business and are used by management to monitor financial performance as it is considered to aid comparability of the financial performance of the Group from year to year and it excludes items that are considered not to arise directly from ongoing trading activities.
LIKE-FOR-LIKE LFL REVENUE The Group defines LFL revenue as revenue from continuing operations adjusted for the revenue generated from businesses closed or sold in the current and prior year, revenue generated from businesses acquired in the current period and the effect of foreign currency movements.
The Directors believe LFL revenue is a key metric of the Groups revenue growth trend as it allows for a more meaningful comparison of trends from period to period.
The following table provides the information used to calculate LFL revenue for the Group.
million 2018 2017 Change % Statutory revenue 1,855.2 1,814.8 2.2% Revenue from acquisitions 12.4 Revenue from closed and sold businesses 6.2 30.2 Effect of currency movements 5.4 Like-for-like revenue 1,842.0 1,784.6 3.2% The following table provides the information used to calculate LFL revenue for the UK segment.
million 2018 2017 Change % Statutory revenue 1,653.6 1,636.3 1.1% Revenue from acquisitions 12.4 Revenue from closed and sold businesses 6.2 30.2 Like-for-like revenue 1,635.0 1,606.1 1.8% The following table provides the information used to calculate LFL revenue for the International segment.
million 2018 2017 Change % Statutory revenue 201.6 178.5 12.9% Effect of currency movements 5.4 Like-for-like revenue 207.0 178.5 16.0% www.
com 147 147 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 40.
ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES CONTINUED ADJUSTED EBITDA The Group manages the performance of its businesses through the use of Adjusted EBITDA as this measure excludes the impact of items that hinder comparison of profitability year on year.
EBITDA is generally defined as operating profit loss before depreciation and amortisation.
In calculating Adjusted EBITDA, we further exclude share of results of associates, restructuring costs, asset impairments, share scheme charges non-cash and those additional charges or credits that are considered significant or one-off in nature.
The following table sets out a reconciliation from the Groups Operating profit to Adjusted EBITDA.
million 2018 2017 Operating profit 85.6 96.2 Depreciation 39.9 39.6 Amortisation 0.4 0.7 EBITDA 125.9 136.5 Other items Note 7 21.5 15.4 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.5 Share scheme charges 1.5 0.8 Loss on disposal of subsidiary Note 30 4.6 Share of results of associates after tax 0.4 0.6 Adjusted EBITDA 153.5 152.6 Adjusted EBITDA by segment is reconciled to operating profit in Note 4.
OPERATIONAL NET DEBT AND LEVERAGE Operational net debt excludes the impact of non-cash items on the Groups statutory net debt and therefore the Directors use this measure as it reflects actual net borrowings at the relevant reporting date and is most comparable with the Groups free cash flow.
The following table sets out the reconciliation from the Groups statutory net debt to the Groups operational net debt.
29 December 30 December million 2018 2017 Group statutory net debt 306.6 266.6 Unamortised fees 4.0 5.4 Interest accrual 1.3 1.5 Group operational net debt 309.3 270.5 Adjusted EBITDA 153.5 152.6 Leverage Operational net debt Adjusted EBITDA 2.0 1.8 FREE CASH FLOW The Group defines free cash flow as the amount of cash generated by the Group after meeting all of its obligations for interest, tax and pensions, and after purchases of property, plant and equipment excluding development projects, but before payments of refinancing fees.
The Directors view free cash flow as a key liquidity measure, and the purpose of presenting free cash flow is to indicate the cash available to pay dividends, repay debt or make further investments in the Group.
The following table provides a reconciliation from net cash generated from operating activities to free cash flow.
million 2018 2017 Net cash generated from operating activities 99.1 93.4 Dividends received from associates 0.7 0.7 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 112.7 79.1 Purchases of property, plant and equipment relating to development projects 52.1 23.1 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.5 Cash impact of exceptional items 15.9 14.2 Refinancing costs 16.3 55.1 71.1 148 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 148 | Bakkavor Group plc ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE The Group calculates Adjusted basic earnings per Ordinary share by dividing Adjusted earnings by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Adjusted earnings is calculated as profit attributable to equity holders of the Company adjusted to exclude Other items as presented in the consolidated income statement.
The Directors use this measure as it tracks the underlying profitability of the Group and enables comparison with the Groups peer companies.
The following table reconciles profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company to Adjusted earnings: million 2018 2017 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 67.2 31.0 Other items Note 7 21.5 15.4 Loss on disposal of subsidiary Note 30 4.6 Finance costs Note 9 13.2 Release of other payable Note 10 4.2 Change in fair value of call option Note 10 17.2 Tax on the above items 4.2 6.3 Adjusted earnings used for the adjusted earnings per share calculation 84.9 70.5 Add back: Tax on underlying activities 14.9 14.3 Adjusted profit before tax 99.8 84.8 Effective tax rate on underlying activities Tax on underlying activities Adjusted profit before tax 14.9% 16.9% NUMBER OF SHARES 000 2018 2017 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares 579,426 530,738 Effect of dilutive Ordinary shares 2,993 857 Weighted average number of diluted Ordinary shares 582,419 531,595 2018 2017 Continuing operations Adjusted basic earnings per share 14.7p 13.3p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 14.6p 13.3p www.
com 149 149 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 40.
ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES CONTINUED RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL ROIC The Group defines ROIC as Adjusted operating profit after tax divided by the average invested capital for the year.
Adjusted operating profit after tax is defined as operating profit from continuing operations excluding the impact of Other items, impairment of assets, and profit on disposal of subsidiaries less tax at the Groups effective tax rate.
Invested capital is defined as total assets less total liabilities excluding net debt at the period end, pension assets and liabilities net of deferred tax and fair values for derivatives not designated in a hedging relationship.
The Group utilises ROIC to measure how effectively it uses invested capital.
Average invested capital is the simple average of invested capital at the beginning of the period and the end of the period.
The Directors believe that ROIC is a useful indicator of the amount returned as a percentage of shareholders invested capital.
The Directors believe that ROIC can assist analysts, investors and stakeholders to evaluate the Groups profitability and the efficiency with which its invested capital is employed.
The following table sets out the calculations of adjusted operating profit after tax and invested capital used in the calculation of ROIC.
million 2018 2017 Operating profit 85.6 96.2 Other items Note 7 21.5 15.4 Loss on disposal of subsidiary Note 30 4.6 Adjusted operating profit 111.7 111.6 Taxation at the underlying effective rate 16.6 18.9 Adjusted operating profit after tax 95.1 92.7 Invested capital Total assets 1,332.3 1,233.1 Total liabilities 762.9 723.0 Net debt at period end 306.6 266.6 Derivatives not designated as hedges 2.1 0.9 Retirement benefit scheme deficit surplus 0.5 5.2 Deferred tax asset liability on retirement benefit scheme 0.1 0.9 Invested capital 874.3 771.5 Average invested capital for ROIC calculation 822.9 761.2 ROIC % 11.6% 12.2% 150 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 150 | Bakkavor Group plc
