Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 199 Shareholder information Financial calendar Shareholder information on the internet 2019 and  16 May Ex-dividend date for final 2018 ordinary dividend Our website www.
com provides a range of 16 May Annual General Meeting information about the Company, our people and businesses and 17 May Final 2019 ordinary dividend record date our policies on corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
It should be regarded as your first point of reference for information 23 May Ex-dividend date for July 2019 preference dividend on any of these matters.
The share price can also be found there.
24 May July 2019 preference dividend record date 1 July Preference dividend payable You can create a Share Portal account, through which you will 5 July Final 2018 ordinary dividend payable be able to access the full range of online shareholder services, 14 August Announcement of 2019 half-year results including the ability to: view your holdings and indicative share 24 October Ex-dividend date for interim 2019 ordinary dividend price and valuation: view movements on your holdings and your dividend payment history: register a dividend mandate to have 25 October Interim 2019 ordinary dividend record date your dividends paid directly into your bank account: change 21 November Ex-dividend date for January 2020 preference dividend yourregistered address: sign up to receive e-communications 22 November January 2020 preference dividend record date or access the online proxy voting facility: and download and 6 December Interim 2019 ordinary dividend payable printshareholder forms.
2020 1 January Preference dividend payable The Share Portal is easy to use.
Alternatively, you can email: Note Shareportal@caslink.
Unsolicited telephone calls Registrars In the past, some of our shareholders have received unsolicited The Balfour Beatty share register is maintained by the Companys telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters Registrars, Link Asset Services.
All administrative enquiries relating from organisations or persons claiming or implying that they have to shareholdings and requests to receive corporate documents some connection with the Company.
These are typically from byemail should, in the first instance, be directed to Link Asset overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to Services, clearly stating your registered address and, if available, sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in your shareholder reference number.
Please write to: UK or overseas investments.
Shareholders are advised to be very Link Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
oroffers of free reports on the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access always ensure the firm is on the Financial Conduct Authority charge.
If you are outside the UK, please call 44 0 371 664 0300.
FCA Register and is allowed to give financial advice before Calls from outside the UK will be charged at the applicable handing over your money.
Lines are open Monday to Friday 9.00 am to register home.
do 5.30pm, UK time, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
double-check the caller is from the firm they say they are ask Alternatively, you can email: enquiries@linkgroup.
for their name and telephone number and say you will call them back.
Check their identity by calling the firm using the contact Link Asset Services can help you to: check your shareholding: number listed on the FCA Register.
If there are no contact details register a change of address or name: obtain a replacement on the FCA Register or you are told that they are out of date, dividend cheque or tax voucher: or record the death of orifyou have any other doubts, call the FCA Consumer a shareholder.
Helplineon 0800 111 6768 Dividends and dividend reinvestment plan if you are approached about a share scam, please visit the Dividends may be paid directly into your bank or building society FCAs ScamSmart website at www.
uk scamsmart account through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
whereyou can access information about the various types The Registrars can provide a dividend mandate form.
A dividend ofscam, including share and boiler room fraud, see the FCAs reinvestment plan DRIP is offered which allows holders of ordinary Warning List and reports on firms about whom consumers shares to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys shares haveexpressed concerns.
Alternatively, you can call the FCA through a specially arranged share dealing service.
Full details Consumer Helpline see above.
If you use an unauthorised oftheDRIP and its charges, together with mandate forms, firmto buy or sell shares or other investments, you will not areavailable atwww.
haveaccess to the Financial Ombudsman Service or be eligibleto receive payment under theFinancial Services International payment service Compensation Scheme if things go wrong Shareholders outside the UK may elect to receive dividends direct you should also report any approach to Action Fraud, into their overseas bank account, or by currency draft, instead of which is theUKs national fraud reporting centre, at bysterling cheque.
For further information, contact the Companys www.
Calls from outside the UK will becharged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open Mondayto Friday 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time, excluding publicholidays in England and Wales.
Alternatively, you can log onto www.
com and click on the link for International Payment Service.
com AR2018 200 Shareholder information continued Gifting shares to your family or to charity London Stock Exchange Codes To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL codes please ask the Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form.
Alternatively, if you only have a small number of shares whose The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: Ordinary shares: value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider BBY: Preference shares: BBYB.
donating them to the share donation charity ShareGift registered charity no.
1052686, whose work Balfour Beatty supports.
Capital gains tax CGT Any shares you donate to ShareGift will be aggregated, sold For CGT purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour whenpossible, and the proceeds will be donated to a wide Beatty plcs ordinary shares of 50p each was 267.6p per share.
Since ShareGift was launched, This has been adjusted for the 1 for 5 rights issue in June 1992, over27m hasbeen given to more than 2,600 charities.
the2 for 11 rights issue in September 1996 and the 3 for 7rightsissue in October 2009 and assumes that all rights The relevant share transfer form may be obtained from the havebeentaken up.
For more information visit www.
Consolidated tax vouchers Share dealing services Balfour Beatty issues a consolidated tax voucher annually to Link Asset Services a trading name of Link Market Services allshareholders who have their dividends paid direct to their Trustees Limited provide a telephone and online share dealing bankaccounts.
If you would prefer to receive a tax voucher service for UK and EEA resident shareholders.
To use this service, ateachdividend payment date rather than annually, please telephone: 0371 664 0445.
Calls are charged at the standard contactthe Registrars.
A copy of the consolidated tax geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United vouchermaybe downloaded from the Share Portal Kingdom are charged at the applicable international rate.
open Monday to Friday 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, UK time, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Alternatively, you can log Enquiries onto www.
Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys results, business and Link Market Services Trustees Limited is authorised and regulated financialposition should be made in writing to the Corporate by the Financial Conduct Authority and is also authorised to conduct Communications Department at the address shown below cross border business within the EEA under the provisions of the orbyemail to info@balfourbeatty.
EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.
Balfour Beatty plc Registered Office: 5 Churchill Place, CanaryWharf, London E14 5HU.
Registered in England andWales, registered number 395826.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Forward-looking statements No representation or warranty is made that any of these statements This document may include certain forward-looking statements, or forecasts will come to pass or that any forecast results will be beliefs or opinions, including statements with respect to Balfour achieved, and projections are not guarantees of future performance.
Beattys business, financial condition and results of operations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this Theseforward-looking statements can be identified by the use document and Balfour Beatty and its advisers expressly disclaim offorward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, anyobligations or undertaking to release any update of, or revisions estimates, plans, anticipates, targets, aims, continues, to, any forward-looking statements in this document.
No statement expects, intends, hopes, may, will, would, could or inthe presentation is intended to be, or intended to be construed should or, in each case, their negative or other various or comparable as, aprofit forecast or profit estimate or to be interpreted to mean terminology.
These statements are made by Balfour Beatty in good thatBalfour Beatty plcs earnings per share for the current or future faith based onthe information available to it at the date of this report financial years will necessarily match or exceed its historical earnings and reflect the beliefs and expectations of Balfour Beatty.
As a result, you are cautioned not to place any undue nature, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown reliance on such forward-looking statements.
 because they relate to events and depend oncircumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
A number of factors could cause actual results and developments todiffer materially from those expressed or implied by the forwardlooking statements, including, without limitation, developments in theglobal economy, changes in UK and US government policies, spending and procurement methodologies, failure in Balfour Beattys health, safety or environmental policies and those factors set out under Principal Risks on pages 58 to 66 of this document.
Follow us on: Twitter twitter.
com company balfour-beatty-plc Facebook facebook.
com balfourbeatty Find out more about our investor relations at: www.
com investors Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar Printed in England by Pureprint Group The paper used in the report is Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified paper from responsible sources.
This ensures that there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using its pureprint environmental printing technology, with vegetable inks used throughout.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company.
Both the manufacturing mill and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Balfour Beatty 5 Churchill Place Canary Wharf London E14 5HU Telephone: 44 0 20 7216 6800 www.
com Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc
