120 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Basis of accounting The new and amended standards do not have a material effect on The Directors have acknowledged the guidance Going Concern the Group except as described below: andLiquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009 IFRS 9 sets out the requirements for recognising and measuring andconsider it reasonable to assume that the Group has adequate financial assets, financial liabilities and some contracts to buy or resources to continue for the foreseeable future and, for this sellnon-financial items.
This standard replaces IAS 39 Financial reason, have continued to adopt the going concern basis in Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces preparing the financial statements.
Further information is new models for classification of financial assets and accounting providedwithin the Chief Financial Officers review on page 54. forcredit losses.
The Group has adopted IFRS 9 retrospectively The annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance from 1 January 2018.
There was no material impact on adoption with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted ofthis new standard.
As disclosed in the Groups Annual Report by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the and Accounts 2017, underthe new standard the Group is able to EU IAS Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act continue torecord movements in its PPP financial assets through 2006 that areapplicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Other Comprehensive Income OCI using the fair value through The Group has applied all accounting standards and interpretations OCI category.
This is because these financial assets are held issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB withina business model whose objective at Group level is andInternational Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee achievedby both collecting contractual cash flows and selling asadopted by the European Union and effective for accounting financial assets and the contractual terms of the financial asset periods beginning on1 January 2018. meet the solely payments of principal and interest on the principaloutstanding criterion.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historicalcost convention, except as described under Note 2.26.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The functional and presentational currency of the Company and The Group has adopted IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018.
The Group thepresentational currency of the Group is sterling.
hasadopted IFRS 15 retrospectively and has chosen to apply the cumulative effect approach.
As a result, the Group has restated The separate financial statements of the Company are itsopening equity position as at 1 January 2018 by a credit of 3m presentedasrequired by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
toreflect the impact of transitioning to IFRS 15.
This adjustment The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under primarily reflects the impact of unbundling a handful of contracts FRS100 Financial Reporting Standard 100 issued by the according to what the Group has assessed to be the performance FinancialReporting Council.
Accordingly, in the year ended obligations to be delivered to the customer.
31 December 2018 the Companyreported under FRS 101 asissuedby the Financial Reporting Council.
In line with the requirements of the standard with regards tothetransition option adopted, the Group has not restated Except as noted below, the Companys accounting policies are itscomparative information which continues to be reported consistent with those described in the Groups consolidated financial underprevious revenue standards, IAS 11 and IAS 18.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken comparability, the Group has also presented its 2018 results advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard underIAS 11 and IAS 18 which canbefound in Note 40. in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of a cash flow statement, related party As a result of this new standard, the Group has also revised transactions and comparative information.
Where required, equivalent itsaccounting policies around revenue recognition where disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements.
In addition to the application of FRS 101, the Company has Accounting standards not yet adopted by the Group takenadvantage of Section 408 of the Act and consequently The following accounting standards, interpretations and itsStatement of Comprehensive Income including the profit amendments have been issued by the IASB but had either andlossaccount isnot presented as part of these accounts.
notbeen adopted by the European Union or were not yet effectiveinthe European Union at 31 December 2018: 2 Principal accounting policies IFRS 16 Leases 2.1 Accounting standards IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts Adoption of new and revised standards The following accounting standards, interpretations and amendments IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments have been adopted by the Group in the current period: Amendments to the following standards: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IAS 1 & IAS 8 Definition of Material IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IAS 19 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures Advance Consideration IFRS 3 Business Combinations Amendments to the following standards: IFRS 9 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property Improvements to IFRSs 20152017 IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based References to the Conceptual Framework.
Payment Transactions Apart from IFRS 16, the Directors donotexpect the other IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 standards above to have a material quantitative effect.
Insurance Contracts Clarifications to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contract with Customers Improvements to IFRSs 20142016.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 121 2 Principal accounting policies continued This policy is applied to contracts entered into, or changed, 2.1 Accounting standards continued onorafter 1 January 2019.
There is no material impact on the IFRS 16 Leases was issued by the IASB in January 2016 Group arising from its activities as lessor as this is insignificant.
andiseffective for accounting periods beginning on or after 2.2 Basis of consolidation 1 January2019.
The new standard will replace IAS 17 Leases The Group financial statements include the results of the andwill eliminate the classification of leases as either operating Companyand its subsidiaries, together with the Groups leases orfinance leases and, instead, introduce a single lessee shareofthe results of joint ventures and associates, accounting model.
The Directors have substantially completed their assessment of a Subsidiaries IFRS 16 and theGroup will adopt the new standard for the financial Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group year ending 31 December 2019 using the modified retrospective controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable approach.
This transition option does not require the Group to returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability restate its comparative year.
toaffect those returns through its power over the entity.
The adoption of IFRS 16 will result in a right-of-use ROU asset The results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date anda corresponding lease liability amounting to approximately thatcontrol commences until the date that control ceases.
135m respectively being brought onto the Groups balance sheeton 1 January 2019.
There will be no impact on the Groups The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the opening equity as a result of adopting this standard.
In deriving acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
On acquisition, the assets, theseamounts, judgement was made as to whether certain liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at leaseagreements represent a lease of an underlying asset or the theirfair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the fair provision of services by a third party.
The Group chose totake the value of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable low value item and short-term hire exemptions allowed under the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency standard which resulted in certain leases being excluded from IFRS ofthecostof acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable 16 accounting.
The Group also took the practical expedient available netassets acquired discount on acquisition is credited to the under paragraph C10 c which allows leases with terms ending income statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of within 12 months of the date of initial application to be treated non-controlling equity holders is stated at the non-controlling asshort-term leases in line with the short-term hire exemption.
equityholders proportion ofthe fair value of the assets and liabilities recognised.
In addition to the initial impact on the Groups balance sheet ofadopting this standard, the Groups income statement will When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on previously be impacted.
Lease charges which were accounted disposal is calculated as the difference between: i the aggregate foras and when hire charges were incurred within cost of sales of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of oroverheads will be replaced with a depreciation charge and any retained interest less direct costs of the transaction: and ii the aninterest cost, resulting in a higher profit from operations and previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, less ahigher interest cost.
Cash payments made for these leases liabilities of the subsidiary.
The fair value of any investment retained willalso be reported within financing activities on the Groups in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded cashflow statement rather than within cash from operations.
as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments or, when applicable, the The Group has chosen not to adopt any of the above standards costoninitial recognition of an investment in an associate or and interpretations earlier than required.
Amounts previously recognised in other IFRS 16 leases policies to be applied from 1 January 2019 comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary are accounted As a lessee, the Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, for in the same manner as would be required if the relevant a lease at the inception of a contract.
A lease exists if the contract assetsor liabilities were disposed of i. e. reclassified to profit conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a orlossortransferred directly to retained earnings.
period of time in exchange for consideration.
To assess if a lease Any acquisition or disposal which does not result in a change in exists, the Group assesses whether: i the contract involves the control is accounted for as a transaction between equity holders.
use of an identified asset: ii the Group has the right to obtain The carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative assetthroughout the lease term: and iii the Group has the interests in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the fair value righttodirect the use of the asset.
ofthe consideration paid or received and the amount by which The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at thenon-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly thelease commencement date.
The right-of-use asset is initially inequity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
measured at cost and subsequently depreciated over the lease Accounting policies of subsidiaries are adjusted where term.
The lease liability is measured at the present value of the necessarytoensure consistency with those used by the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, Group.
All , balances, income and discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, or if that expensesare eliminatedon consolidation.
ratecannot be readily determined, the Groups incremental borrowing rate.
b Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and Grouphas joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the lease liabilities for short-term leases of less than 12 months and netassets ofthe entity, rather than rights to its individual leases of low value assets.
Instead, the Group recognises the assetsandobligations for its individual liabilities.
leasepayments associated with these leases as an expense onastraight-line basis over the lease term.
com AR2018 122 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, 2.2 Basis of consolidation continued the results of foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint venture Associates are those entities over whose financial and operating entities are translated at average rates of exchange for the year, policies the Group has significant influence, but not control or unless the exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, joint control.
in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates prevailing at the reporting date.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments areincorporated in the financial statements using the equity arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the rates of The Group may elect to measure some of its investments in exchange at the reporting date.
Currency translation differences associates at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with arising are transferred to the Groups foreign currency translation IFRS 9 where the investment is held by a Group entity which reserve and are recognised in the income statement on disposal meetsthe classification of a venture capital organisation, in which ofthe underlying investment.
case the investment will be marked to market with movements being recognised in the income statement.
The equity return from In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the military housing joint ventures of the Group is contractually theGroup may enter into forward foreign exchange contracts.
limited to a maximum level of return, beyond which the Group does Refer to Note 2.26 c for details of the Groups accounting not share in any further return.
Therefore the Groups investment policiesin respect of such derivative financial instruments.
inthese projects is recognised at initial equity investment plus 2.4 Revenue recognition thevalue of the Groups accrued preferred return from the The Group recognises revenue when it transfers control over underlying projects.
aproduct or service to its customer.
Revenue is measured Any excess of the fair value of the cost of acquisition over the basedon the consideration specified in a contract with a Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of customerand excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
thejoint venture or associate entity at the date of acquisition is Where consideration is not specified within the contract and is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the fair value of the therefore subject to variability, the Group estimates the amount of costof acquisition below the Groups share of the fair values of the consideration to be received from its customer.
The consideration identifiable net assets of the joint venture or associate at the date recognised is the amount which is highly probable not to result in ofacquisition discount on acquisition is credited to the income asignificant reversal in future periods.
statement in the period of acquisition.
Where a modification to an existing contract occurs, the Group Investments in joint ventures and associates are initially carried in assesses the nature of the modification and whether it represents the balance sheet at cost including goodwill arising on acquisition aseparate performance obligation required to be satisfied by and adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of theGroup or whether it is a modification to the existing net assets of the joint venture or associate, less any impairment performance obligation.
inthe value of individual investments.
Losses of joint ventures and The Group does not expect to have any contracts where the associates in excess of the Groups interest in those joint ventures periodbetween the transfer of the promised goods or services and associates are only recognised to the extent that the Group tothe customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year.
iscontractually liable for, or has a constructive obligation to meet, As a consequence, the Group does not adjust its transaction theobligations of the joint ventures and associates.
pricefor the time value of money.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions with joint ventures The Groups activities are wide-ranging, and as such, andassociates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest dependingonthe nature of the product or service delivered in the relevant joint venture or associate.
andthetiming ofwhen control is passed onto the customer, c Joint operations theGroup will account for revenue over time and at a point The Groups share of the results, assets and liabilities of contracts intime.
Where revenue is measured over time, the Group carried out in conjunction with another party are included under usestheinputmethod to measure progress of delivery.
each relevant heading in the income statement and balance sheet.
Revenue is recognised as follows: 2.3 Foreign currencies revenue from construction and services activities is recognised Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of over time and the Group uses the input method to measure exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and progress of delivery liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the revenue from manufacturing activities is recognised at a point rates of exchange at the reporting date.
Significant exchange intime when title has passed to the customer ratesused in the preparation of these financial statements areshown in Note 3. interest income is accrued on a time basis using the effective interest method by reference to the principal outstanding andtheeffective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly discountsestimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount dividend income is recognised when the equity holders right toreceive payment is established.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 123 2 Principal accounting policies continued 2.7 Pre-contract bid costs and recoveries 2.5 Construction and services contracts Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until it is virtually When the outcome of individual contracts can be estimated reliably, certain that a contract will be awarded, from which time further contract revenue and contract costs are recognised as revenue and pre-contract costs are recognised as an asset and charged as expenses respectively by reference to the stage of completion at anexpense over the period of the contract.
Amounts recovered the reporting date.
Costs are recognised as incurred and revenue inrespect of pre-contract costs that have been written off are isrecognised on the basis of the proportion of total costs at the recognised in full when they are received in cash.
reporting date to the estimated total costs of the contract.
For construction and services projects, the relevant contract is the Estimates of the final out-turn on each contract may include cost construction or services contract respectively.
With respect to PPP contingencies to take account of the specific risks within each projects, an assessment is made as to which contractual element contract that have been identified during the early stages of the the pre-contract costs relate to, in order to determine the relevant contract.
The cost contingencies are reviewed on a regular basis period for amortisation.
The relevant contract is that which throughout the contract life and are adjusted where appropriate.
givesrise to a financial or intangible asset, which is either the However, the nature of the risks on contracts are such that they construction contract or the contract which transferred the often cannot be resolved until the end of the project and therefore assettothe project.
may not reverse until the end of the project.
The estimated final 2.8 Profit from operations out-turns on contracts are continuously reviewed, and in certain Profit from operations is stated after the Groups share of the limited cases, recoveries from insurers are assessed, and post-tax results of equity accounted joint venture entities and adjustments made where necessary.
associates, but before investment income and finance costs.
No margin is recognised until the outcome of the contract can 2.9 Finance costs beestimated with reasonable certainty.
Provision is made for Finance costs of debt, including premiums payable on settlement allknown or expected losses on individual contracts once such and direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement on an lossesare foreseen.
accruals basis over the term of the instrument, using the effective Revenue in respect of variations to contracts and incentive interest method.
payments is recognised when it is highly probable it will be agreed 2.10 Non-underlying items by the customer.
Revenue in respect of claims is recognised only Non-underlying items are items of financial performance which ifit is highly probable not to reverse in future periods.
Profit for the theGroup believes should be presented separately on the face year includes the benefit of claims settled in the year to the extent ofthe income statement to assist in understanding the underlying not previously recognised on contracts completed in previous years.
financial performance achieved by the Group.
Such items will 2.6 Segmental reporting notaffect the absolute amount of the results for the period The Group considers its Board of Directors to be the chief andthetrend of results.
The Groups underlying results operatingdecision maker and therefore the segmental disclosures  items.
provided in Note 5 are aligned with the monthly reports provided Non-underlying items include: tothe Board of Directors.
The Groups reporting segments are based on the types of services provided.
Operating segments gains and losses on the disposal of businesses and withsimilar economic characteristics have been aggregated into investments, unless this is part of a programme of releasing three reportable segments which reflect the nature of the services value from the disposal of similar businesses or investments provided by the Group.
A description of each reportable segment such as infrastructure concessions isprovided in Note 5.
Further information on the business activities costs of major restructuring and reorganisation ofeach reportable segment is set out on pages 14 to 26. ofexisting businesses Working capital is the balance sheet measure reported to the chief costs of integrating newly acquired businesses operating decision maker.
The profitability measure used to assess acquisition and similar costs related to business the performance of the Group is underlying profit from operations.
combinationssuch as transaction costs Segment results represent the contribution of the different impairment and amortisation charges on intangible assets segments after the allocation of attributable corporate overheads.
arisingon business combinations amortisation of acquired Transactions between segments are conducted at arms-length intangible assets market prices.
Segment assets and liabilities comprise those assets impairment of goodwill.
and liabilities directly attributable to the segments.
Corporate assets These are examples, however, from time to time it may be and liabilities include cash balances, bank borrowings, tax balances appropriate to disclose further items as non-underlying items and dividends payable.
Non-recourse net borrowings are directly inorder to highlight the underlying performance of the Group.
attributable to Infrastructure Investments and therefore not Refer toNote 5. includedwithin Corporate activities.
Major customers are defined as customers contributing more than10% of the Groups external revenue.
com AR2018 124 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued c Research and development 2.11 Taxation Internally generated intangible assets developed by the Group The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax, calculated arerecognised only if all the following conditions are met: using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted an asset is created that can be identified bythe reporting date.
Current tax and deferred tax are charged it is probable that the asset created will generate future orcredited to the income statement, except when they relate economic benefits toitemscharged or credited directly to equity, in which case therelevant tax is also accounted for within equity.
Current tax the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
isbasedon the profit for the year.
Other research expenditure is written off in the period in which Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary itis incurred.
differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 2.13 Property, plant and equipment and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Deferred taxon such assets and liabilities is not recognised if the depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill associated with bringing the asset to its operating location or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination and condition.
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither thetaxable profit nor the accounting profit.
2.14 Investment properties The Group classifies land and buildings which it holds to generate Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable capital appreciation and or to earn rental income as investment that future taxable profit will be available against which the properties.
The Group has chosen to state its investment properties temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
ofdeferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date.
The Group depreciates its investment properties over 25 years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Land is not depreciated.
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except 2.15 Leasing where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can Leases which transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of becontrolled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary ownership to the lessee are classified as finance leases.
All other difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
leases are classified as operating leases.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group theGroup at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
minimum lease payments, determined at the inception of the lease, 2.12 Intangible assets and depreciation is provided accordingly.
The liability to the lessor a Goodwill isincluded in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and other Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges businesses, joint ventures and associates and represents the andreduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant excess of the fair value of consideration over the fair value of the effective rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill on acquisitions Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a of subsidiaries and other businesses is included in non-current straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates and receivable as an incentive to enter into anoperating lease are isincluded in investments in joint ventures and associates.
also spread on a straight-line basis over thelease term.
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment and is carried at 2.16 Impairment of assets costless accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is included Assets that have an indefinite useful life such as goodwill arising when determining the profit or loss on subsequent disposal onacquisitions are reviewed at least annually for impairment.
ofthebusiness to which it relates.
Other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to reviewed for impairment whenever there is any indication that IFRS 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP thecarrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable.
amounts subject to being tested for impairment.
Goodwill written If the recoverable amount of an asset is less than its carrying off or discount arising on acquisition credited to reserves under amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
UKGAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell andvalue in use.
Value in use is assessed by discounting the b Other intangible assets estimated future cash flows that the asset is expected to generate.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated For this purpose assets, including goodwill, are grouped into amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation charges cash-generating units representing the level at which they are inrespect of software and Infrastructure Investments monitored by the Board of Directors for internal management  in underlying items.
Goodwill impairment losses are not reversed in subsequent periods.
Reversals of other impairment losses arerecognised in income when they arise.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 125 2 Principal accounting policies continued 2.24 Retirement benefit costs 2.17 Investments The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined benefit Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date and defined contribution retirement and other long-term employee where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract benefit schemes, the majority of which are of the defined benefit whose terms require delivery of the investment within the type and are funded.
Defined benefit contributions are determined timeframe established by the market concerned, and are in consultation with the trustees, after taking actuarial advice.
initiallymeasured at cost, including transaction costs.
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of Investments in mutual funds are measured at fair value.
Gains and providing benefits recognised in the income statement and the losses arising from changes in the fair value of these investments defined benefit obligations are determined at the reporting date arerecognised in equity, until the investment is disposed or is byindependent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss The liability recognised in the balance sheet comprises the present is included in the net profit or loss for theperiod.
Investments that value of the defined benefit pension obligations, determined by areheld until they reach maturity aremeasured at amortised cost.
discounting the estimated future cash flows using the market yield on a high-quality corporate bond, less the fair value of the scheme 2.18 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period in Non-current assets and groups of assets to be disposed of are which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are Held for sale assets are measured at the lower of their carrying chargedto the income statement as they fall due.
amount on classification as held for sale or fair value less costs to sell.
Any surplus of deficit contributions to the Balfour Beatty A component of the Group is presented as a discontinued operation PensionFund BBPF and the Railways Pension Scheme RPS if it has either been disposed of or is classified as held for sale and would be recoverable by way of a refund as the Group has the itis a separate major line of business or geographic operation or unconditional right to the surplus and controls the run-off of the theproposed sale is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose benefit obligations once all other obligations of the BBPF and ofasingle separate major line of business or geographical RPShave been settled.
When classified as a discontinued operation, income 2.25 Share-based payments statement performance is reported in summary form outside Employee services received in exchange for the grant of equitycontinuing operations and comparative figures are restated.
settled and cash-settled awards are charged to the income 2.19 Inventories statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
onthe fair values of the awards at the date of grant.
Cost includes an appropriate proportion of manufacturing The credits in respect of the amounts charged are included overheads incurred in bringing inventories to their present location withinseparate reserves in equity until such time as the awards and condition and is determined using the first-in first-out method.
areexercised, when the shares are transferred or cash payments Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less made to employees.
allestimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in 2.26 Financial instruments marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups 2.20 Trade receivables balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual Trade receivables are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently provisions of the instrument.
measured at amortised cost as reduced by allowances for estimated a Classification of financial liabilities and equity instruments irrecoverable amounts.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according 2.21 Trade payables tothe substance of the contractual arrangements.
An equity Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at cost.
instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest intheassets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
2.22 Provisions Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded Provisions for insurance liabilities retained in the Groups captive attheproceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
insurance arrangements, legal claims, defects and warranties, environmental restoration, onerous leases, and other onerous b Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares commitments are recognised at the best estimate of the andconvertible bonds expenditure required to settle the Groups liability.
The Companys cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares and the Groups convertible bonds are compound Provisions are recognised when: i the Group has a present legal instruments, comprising a liability component and an equity orconstructive obligation as a result of a past event: ii it is probable component.
The fair value of the liability components was that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: estimated using the prevailing market interest rates at the dates and iii the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
ofissue for similar non-convertible instruments.
The difference 2.23 Borrowings between the proceeds of issue of the preference shares and Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the respective proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Premiums payable liability components, representing the embedded option to onsettlement or redemption and direct issue costs are included convertthe liability components into the Companys ordinary inthe carrying amount of the instrument and are charged to the shares, is included in equity.
income statement on an accruals basis using the effective interestmethod together with the interest payable.
com AR2018 126 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued Due to the nature of the contractual arrangements, the projected 2.26 Financial instruments continued cash flows can be estimated with a high degree of certainty.
The interest expense on the liability components is calculated by In the construction phase, the fair value of the Groups PPP applying applicable market interest rates for similar non-convertible financialassets is determined by applying an attributable profit debt prevailing at the dates of issue to the liability components margin to the construction costs representing the fair value of ofthe instruments.
The difference between this amount and construction services performed.
In the operational phase, fair thedividend interest payable is included in the carrying amount value is determined by discounting the future cash flows allocated ofthe liability component and is charged to the income statement to the financial asset using discount rates based on long-term on anaccrual basis together with the dividend interest payable.
giltrates adjusted for the risk levels associated with the assets, c Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting withmarket-related movements in fair value recognised in OCI.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage Amounts originally recognised in OCI are transferred to the interestrate risk and to hedge exposures to fluctuations in incomestatement upon disposal of the asset.
foreigncurrencies in accordance with its risk management 2.27 Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty policy.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments The preparation of consolidated financial statements under forspeculative purposes.
A description of the Groups objectives, IFRSrequires management to make judgements, estimates policies and strategies with regard to derivatives and other andassumptions that affect amounts recognised for assets and financialinstruments is set out in Note 38. liabilities at the reporting date and the amounts of revenue and Derivatives are initially recognised in the balance sheet at expenses incurred during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes fairvalueon the date the derivative transaction is entered may differ from these judgements, estimates and assumptions.
 re-measured at their fair values.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions that have the most Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated significant effect on the carrying value of assets and liabilities andqualify as fair value hedges are recognised in the income oftheGroup as at 31 December 2018 are discussed below.
statement together with any changes in the fair value of the All the below are both judgements and estimates made by hedgeditem that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of the effective portion of derivatives a Revenue and margin recognition thatare designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised The Groups revenue recognition and margin recognition policies, in other comprehensive income OCI.
Changes in the fair value which are set out in Notes 2.4 and 2.5, are central to how the oftheineffective portion of cash flow hedges are recognised Groupvalues the work it has carried out in each financial year.
Amounts originally recognised in OCI aretransferred tothe income statement when the underlying These policies require forecasts to be made of the outcomes of transaction occurs or, ifthe transaction results in a non-financial asset long-term construction services and support services contracts, or liability, are included in the initial cost of that asset or liability.
which require both estimates and judgements to be made of both cost and income recognition on each contract.
On the cost side, Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that estimates of forecasts are made on the final out-turn of each contract donot qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income in addition to potential costs to be incurred for any maintenance and statement as they arise.
On the income side, estimates and judgements are Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument made on variations to consideration which typically include variations expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies due to changes in scope of work, recoveries of claim income from forhedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on customers, and potential liquidated damages that may be levied by the hedging instrument recognised in OCI is retained in equity until the customer.
The Groups estimates also include assessments of the hedged transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer recoveries from insurers.
Judgements and estimates are reviewed expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised regularly throughout the contract life based on latest available inOCI is transferred to the income statement for the period.
information and adjustments are made where necessary.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host In the construction portfolio there are a small number of longcontracts are treated as separate derivatives and recorded in the termand complex projects where the Group has incorporated balance sheet at fair value when their risks and characteristics are judgements over contractual entitlements.
The range of potential not closely related to those of the host contract.
Changes in the fair outcomes as a result of uncertain future events could result in value of those embedded derivatives recognised in the balance amaterially positive or negative swing to profitability and cash sheet are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
These contracts are primarily within the Groups major  units in the UK, US and Gammon.
d PPP concession companies Assets constructed by PPP concession companies are classified principally as financial assets measured at fair value through OCI.
In the construction phase, income is recognised by applying an attributable profit margin to the construction costs representing thefair value of construction services performed.
In the operational phase, income is recognised by allocating a proportion of total cash receivable over the life of the project to service costs by means ofadeemed rate of return on those costs.
The residual element ofprojected cash is allocated to the financial asset using the effective interest rate method, giving rise to interest income.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 127 2 Principal accounting policies continued A 5m gain was taken to other comprehensive income in 2018 2.27 Judgements and key sources of estimation 2017: 63m gain and a cumulative fair value gain of 274m had uncertaintycontinued arisen on these financial assets as a result of market-related b Taxation movements in the fair value of these financial assets at The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions and 31 December 2018 2017: 269m gain.
judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for f Provisions income taxes.
The Group provides for future liabilities in respect of Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and therefore uncertain tax positions where additional tax may become payable in making a reliable estimate of the quantum and timing of liabilities infuture periods and such provisions are based on managements judgement is applied and re-evaluated at each reporting date.
This may involve a significant amount of The range of potential outcomes as a result of uncertain future judgement as tax legislation can be complex and open to different events could result in a materially positive or negative swing to interpretation in particular in relation to the basis of taxation on profitability and cash flow.
Management uses both in-house and external tax experts and previous experience when assessing More specifically on the Groups provisions set aside for any tax risks.
These judgements are prone to changes in future periods.
liabilities arising due to defects, there is a latent defect period for Each potential liability or contingency is revisited annually, and which the provision is held, but where there are known identified where actual expected tax liabilities differ from the provisions, issues then the provision may be required to cover rectification adjustments are made which can have a material impact on work over a more extended period.
The Group recognised provisions at 31 December 2018 of 316m Deferred tax liabilities are generally provided for in full and deferred 2017: 292m.
Refer to Note 25. tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future g Retirement benefit obligations taxable profit will arise against which the temporary differences will Details of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are set out be utilised.
Management judgement is required to determine the in Note 28, including tables showing the sensitivity of the pension amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised based on the scheme obligations and assets to different actuarial assumptions.
likely timing and level of future taxable profits.
At 31 December 2018, the net retirement benefit assets c Non-underlying items recognisedon the Groups balance sheet were 54m 2017: 32m.
Non-underlying items are items of financial performance which The effects of changes in the actuarial assumptions underlying theGroup believes should be presented separately on the face theschemes obligations and discount rates and the differences ofthe income statement to assist in understanding the underlying between expected and actual returns on the schemes assets are financial performance achieved by the Group.
Determining whether classified as actuarial gains and losses.
During 2018, the Group an item is part of underlying items or non-underlying items requires recognised net actuarial gains of 21m 2017: 246m in OCI, judgement.
Certain items within non-underlying also require a including its share of the actuarial gains and losses arising in degree of estimation.
A total non-underlying loss after tax of jointventures and associates.
44mwas charged 2017: 25m credited to the income statement In 2018, the Group recognised additional liabilities following the for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Refer to Note 10. judgment on the Lloyds Banking Group High Court hearing on d Impairment of goodwill Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation which was Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation published on 26 October 2018.
The judgment indicated that ofthe value in use of the cash-generating units to which the pension trustees needed to amend scheme benefits to equalise goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires forthe effect of unequal GMPs and indicated an acceptable an estimate to be made of the timing and amount of future cash rangeof methods for how to do so.
flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and the This recent judgment therefore creates an obligation to equalise application of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the forboth the BBPF and RPS schemes.
The effect of GMP present value.
A nominal growth rate, based on real GDP growth equalisation which amounted to 28m has been recognised in plus CPI inflation, is used to calculate a terminal growth multiple theGroups income statement as a plan amendment.
The Group inaccordance with the Gordon Growth Model.
The discount rates has also treated this item as non-underlying due to the size used are based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital andnature of the income statement charge.
Any future changes adjusted to reflect the specific economic environment of the inrelation to GMP equalisation will be treated as part of the relevant cash-generating unit.
Judgement is also required when Groupsactuarial gains losses which are recognised within OCI.
determining the appropriateness of these assumptions as well Refer to Note 28.1. asthe underlying cash flows and the timing at which they arise.
The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2018 was 903m 2017: 874m.
Refer to Note 14. e Financial assets measured at fair value through OCI At 31 December 2018, 1,898m 2017: 2,006m of PPP financial assets constructed by the Groups subsidiary, joint venture and associate companies were classified as financial assets measured at fair value through OCI.
In the operational phase the fair value ofthese financial assets is measured at each reporting date by discounting the future value of the cash flows allocated to the financial asset.
A range of discount rates is used from 4.2% to7.8% 2017: 2.2% to 7.7%, which reflects the prevailing risk-freeinterest rates and the different risk profiles of the variousconcessions.
com AR2018 128 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3 Exchange rates The following key exchange rates were applied in these financial statements.
1 Construction Services The Groups Construction Services segment encompasses activities in relation to the physical construction of assets provided to public and private customers.
Revenue generated in this segment is measured over time as control passes to the customer as the asset is constructed.
Progress is measured by reference to the cost incurred on the contract to date compared to the contracts end of job forecast the input method.
Payment terms are based on a schedule of value that is set out in the contract and fairly reflect the timing and performance of service delivery.
Contracts with customers are typically accounted for as one performance obligation PO.
Typical Types of assets contract length Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms Buildings 12 to 36 months The Group constructs buildings which include commercial, healthcare, education, retail and residential assets.
As part of its construction services, the Group provides a range of services including design and or build, mechanical and electrical engineering, shell and core and or fit-out and interior refurbishment.
The Groups customers in this area are a mix of private and public entities.
The contract length depends on the complexity and scale of the building and contracts entered into forthese services are typically fixed price.
In most instances, the contract with the customer is assessed to only contain one PO as the services provided by the Group, including those where the Group is also providing design services, are highly interrelated.
However for certain types of contracts, services relating to fit-out and interior refurbishment may sometimes be assessed as a separate PO.
Infrastructure 1 to 3 months The Group provides construction services to three main types of infrastructure assets: highways, for small scale railways and other large scale infrastructure assets such as waste, water and energy plants.
infrastructure Highways represent the Groups activities in constructing motorways in the UK and the US.
works Thisincludes activities such as design and construction of roads, widening of existing motorways 24 to 60 orconverting existing motorways.
The main customers are government bodies.
months for large Railway construction services primarily in the UK and US include design and managing the scale complex construction of railway systems delivering major multi-disciplinary projects, track work, electrification construction and power supply.
The Group serves both public and private railways including high-speed passenger railways, freight and mixed traffic routes, dense commuter networks, metros and light rail.
Other infrastructure assets include construction, design and build services on large scale complex assets predominantly servicing the waste, water and energy sectors.
Contracts entered into relating to these infrastructure assets can take the form of fixed price or target-cost contracts with shared pain gain mechanisms.
Contract lengths vary according to the size and complexity of the asset build and can range from a few months for small scale infrastructure works to 45 years for large scale complex construction works.
In most cases, the contract itself represents a single PO where only the design and construction elements are contracted.
In some instances, the contract with the customer will include maintenance of the constructed asset.
The Group assesses the maintenance element as a separate PO and revenue from this PO is recognised in the Support Services segment.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 129 4 Revenue continued 4.1 Nature and services of goods continued 4.1.
2 Support Services The Groups work in this segment supports existing assets through maintaining, upgrading and managing services across utilities and infrastructure assets.
Revenue generated in this segment is measured over time as control passes to the customer as and when services are provided.
Payments are structured as milestone payments set out in the respective contracts.
Types of assets Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms Utilities Within the Groups services contracts, the Group provides support services to various types of utility assets.
For contracts servicing utility assets, the Group provides services such as renewal, upgrade and expansion of underground main pipelines for assets within the gas network.
Within the water network, services include clean and waste water mains renewal and repair, metering and treatment facilities.
Contracts are typically delivered through framework agreements which are normally granted on a regulatory cycle period of five years for water contracts and eight years for gas contracts.
Individual instructions delivered under the framework agreements can vary in size and duration but usually last between one to six weeks for smaller projects or up to one to two years for major projects.
Each instruction is accounted for as a separate PO.
Payments are normally set according to a schedule of rates and may include a pain gain element.
For contracts servicing power transmission and distribution assets, the Group constructs and maintains electricity networks, including replacement or new build of overhead lines, underground cabling, cable tunnels and offshore windfarm maintenance.
Contracts entered into are normally fixed-price and contract lengths can vary from 12 to 36 months, and up to 20 years for offshore windfarm maintenance contracts.
Each contract is normally assessed to contain one PO.
However, where a contract contains both a construction phase and a maintenance phase, these are assessed to contain two separate POs.
Infrastructure The Group provides maintenance, asset and network management and design services in respect of highways, railways and other publicly available assets.
The customer in this area of the Group is mainly government bodies.
Types of contract include a fixed schedule of rates, fixed price, target cost arrangements and cost-plus.
Contract terms range from 1 to 25 years.
Where contracts include lifecycle elements, this is accounted for as a separate PO and recognised when the work is delivered.
3 Infrastructure Investments The Group invests directly in a variety of assets, predominantly consisting of infrastructure assets where there are opportunities to manage the asset upon completion of construction.
The Group also invests in real estate type assets, in particular private residential and student accommodation assets.
Revenue generated in this segment is from the provision of construction, maintenance and management services and also from the recognition of rental income.
The Groups strategy is to hold these assets until optimal values are achieved through disposal of mature assets.
Types of services Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms Service The Group operates a UK and North America portfolio of service concession assets comprising of assets in the roads, concessions healthcare, schools, student accommodation, biomass and waste and offshore transmission sectors.
The Group accounts for these assets under IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements.
Where the Group constructs and maintains these assets, the two services are deemed to be separate performance obligations and accounted for separately.
If the maintenance phase includes lifecycle elements, then this is considered to be a separate PO.
Contract terms can be up to 40 years.
The Group recognises revenue over time using the input method.
Consideration is paid through a fixed unitary payment charge spread over the life of the contract.
Revenue from this service is presented across Buildings, Infrastructure or Utilities in Note 4.2.
Management The Group provides real estate management services such as property, development and asset management services.
services Contract terms can be up to 50 years.
The Group recognises revenue over time as and when service is delivered to the customer.
Revenue from this service is presented within Buildings in Note 4.2.
Housing The Group also develops housing units on land that is owned by the Group.
Revenue is recognised on the sale of individual development units at a point in time, which depicts when control of the asset is transferred to the purchaser.
This is deemed to be when an unconditional sale is achieved.
Revenue from this service is presented within Buildings in Note 4.2. balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 130 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4 Revenue continued 4.2 Disaggregation of revenue Following the implementation of IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018, the Group presents a disaggregation of its revenue according to the primary geographical markets in which the Group operates as well as the types of assets serviced by the Group.
The nature of the various services provided by the Group is explained in Note 4.1.
This disaggregation of revenue is also presented according to the Groups reportable segments as described in Note 5.
The revenue disaggregation below represents the Groups underlying revenue excluding the Groups revenue generated by Rail Germany which is presented as non-underlying.
For the year ended 31 December 2018 United United Rest of Kingdom States world Total Revenue by primary geographical markets m m m m Construction Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 1,885 3,324 918 6,127 Services Group revenue 1,885 3,309 20 5,214 Support Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 1,041 63 1,104 Services Group revenue 1,041 35 1,076 Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 238 298 35 571 Infrastructure Investments Group revenue 124 214 3 341 Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 3,164 3,622 1,016 7,802 Total revenue Group revenue 3,050 3,523 58 6,631 Buildings Infrastructure Utilities Other Total Revenue by types of assets serviced m m m m m Revenue including share of joint ventures Construction and associates 3,891 1,840 391 5 6,127 Services Group revenue 3,363 1,459 387 5 5,214 Revenue including share of joint ventures Support and associates 444 651 9 1,104 Services Group revenue 444 623 9 1,076 Revenue including share of joint ventures Infrastructure and associates 398 127 43 3 571 Investments Group revenue 336 3 2 341 Revenue including share of joint ventures Total revenue and associates 4,289 2,411 1,085 17 7,802 Group revenue 3,699 1,906 1,010 16 6,631 Construction Support Infrastructure Services Services Investments Total Timing of revenue recognition m m m m Over time 6,120 1,096 536 7,752 At a point in time 7 8 35 50 Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 6,127 1,104 571 7,802 Over time 5,207 1,068 306 6,581 At a point in time 7 8 35 50 Group revenue 5,214 1,076 341 6,631 Excludes revenue earnt in Rail Germany of 12m including share of joint ventures and associates or 3m excluding share of joint ventures and associates.
4.3 Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations excluding joint ventures and associates 2021 2019 2020 onwards Total m m m m Construction Services 4,019 1,921 1,858 7,798 Support Services 667 292 1,497 2,456 Infrastructure Investments 309 75 2,257 2,641 Total transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations 4,995 2,288 5,612 12,895 The total transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations represents the contracted revenue to be earnt by the Groupfordistinct goods and services which the Group has promised to deliver to its customers.
These include promises which are partially satisfied at the period end or those which are unsatisfied but which the Group has committed to providing.
In deriving this transaction price, any element of variable revenue is estimated at a value that is highly probable not to reverse in the future.
The transaction price above does not include any estimated revenue to be earned on framework contracts for which a firm order orinstruction has not been received by the customer.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 131 5 Segment analysis Reportable segments of the Group: Construction Services activities resulting in the physical construction of an asset Support Services activities which support existing assets or functions such as asset maintenance and refurbishment Infrastructure Investments acquisition, operation and disposal of infrastructure assets such as roads, hospitals, student accommodation, military housing, offshore transmission networks, waste and biomass and other concessions.
This segment also includes the Groups housing development division.
5.1 Total Group Construction Support Infrastructure Corporate Income statement performance by activity from continuing operations Services Services Investments activities Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 m m m m m 1 Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 6,127 1,104 571 7,802 1 Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 913 28 230 1,171 1 Group revenue 5,214 1,076 341 6,631 1 Group operating profit loss 67 48 95 33 177 1 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 28 2 2 28 1 Profit loss from operations 95 46 97 33 205 Non-underlying items: additional loss on the AWPR contract as a result of Carillions liquidation 10 10 amortisation of acquired intangible assets 3 5 8 other non-underlying items 36 7 3 40 49 7 2 58 Profit loss from operations 46 39 95 33 147 Investment income 35 Finance costs 59 Profit before taxation 123 1 Before non-underlying items Notes 2.10 and 10.
Construction Support Infrastructure Corporate Income statement performance by activity from continuing operations Services Services Investments activities Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m 1 Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 6,649 1,061 524 8,234 1 Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 1,074 30 236 1,340 1 Group revenue 5,575 1,031 288 6,894 1 Group operating profit loss 42 41 87 33 137 1 30 29 59 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 1 Profit loss from operations 72 41 116 33 196 Non-underlying items: additional loss on the AWPR contract as a result of Carillions liquidation 44 44 amortisation of acquired intangible assets 4 5 9 other non-underlying items 12 2 1 4 5 36 2 6 4 48 Profit loss from operations 36 39 110 37 148 Investment income 42 Finance costs 73 Profit before taxation 117 1 Before non-underlying items Notes 2.10 and 10. balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 132 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5 Segment analysis continued 5.1 Total Group continued Construction Support Infrastructure Corporate Assets and liabilities by activity Services Services Investments activities Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 m m m m m 2 Contract assets 251 97 15 363 2 Contract liabilities current 411 76 2 489 2 Inventories 46 12 26 84 2 Trade and other receivables current 741 126 28 7 902 2 Trade and other payables current 1,117 195 43 18 1,373 2 Provisions current 128 8 7 24 167 Working capital from continuing operations 618 44 17 35 680 Includes non-operating items and current working capital.
2 Total assets 2,171 509 1,162 725 4,567 2 Total liabilities 1,966 289 509 562 3,326 Net assets 205 220 653 163 1,241 2 The Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 January 2018 retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initial application recognised as an adjustment to opening equity Notes 2.1 and 40.
Construction Support Infrastructure Corporate Assets and liabilities by activity Services Services Investments activities Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m Due from construction contract customers 254 123 377 Due to construction contract customers 440 95 535 Inventories and non-construction work in progress 29 51 27 107 Trade and other receivables current 688 96 101 14 899 Trade and other payables current 1,205 242 53 42 1,542 Provisions current 150 18 6 20 194 Working capital from continuing operations 824 85 69 48 888 Includes non-operating items and current working capital.
Total assets 2,119 539 1,264 955 4,877 Total liabilities 2,030 270 635 876 3,811 Net assets 89 269 629 79 1,066 Construction Support Infrastructure Corporate Other information continuing operations Services Services Investments activities Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 m m m m m Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment Note 16 18 19 1 38 Capital expenditure on intangible assets Note 15 1 2 63 66 Depreciation Note 16 and Note 17 11 10 3 5 29 Gain on disposals of interests in investments Note 32.2 80 80 Construction Support Infrastructure Corporate Other information continuing operations Services Services Investments activities Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment Note 16 5 9 6 20 Capital expenditure on investment properties Note 17 3 3 Capital expenditure on intangible assets Note 15 82 5 87 Depreciation Note 16 and Note 17 13 8 3 5 29 Gain on disposals of interests in investments Note 32.2 86 86 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 133 5 Segment analysis continued 5.1 Total Group continued United United Rest of Performance by geographic destination continuing operations Kingdom States world Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 m m m m Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 3,164 3,622 1,028 7,814 Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 114 99 967 1,180 Group revenue 3,050 3,523 61 6,634 United United Rest of Performance by geographic destination continuing operations Kingdom States world Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 3,200 3,819 1,245 8,264 Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates 139 55 1,154 1,348 Group revenue 3,061 3,764 91 6,916 Major customers Included in Group revenue are revenues from continuing operations of 1,334m 2017: 1,276m from the US Government and 1,058m 2017: 1,093m from the UK Government, which are the Groups two largest customers.
These revenues are included in the results across all three reported segments.
5.2 Infrastructure Investments Share of joint Share of joint ventures and ventures and associates associates Group Note 18.2 Total Group Note 18.2 Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 1 Underlying profit from operations m m m m m m UK 9 17 8 9 15 24 North America 24 19 43 30 14 44 Gain on disposals of interests in investments 80 80 86 86 113 2 115 125 29 154 Bidding costs and overheads 18 18 38 38 95 2 97 87 29 116 Net assets liabilities UK 360 242 602 418 253 671 North America 179 181 360 103 160 263 539 423 962 521 413 934 Non-recourse borrowings net of associated cash and cash equivalents Note 26 309 309 305 305 Total Infrastructure Investments net assets 230 423 653 216 413 629 The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates is disclosed net of investment income, finance costs and taxation.
1 Before non-underlying items Notes 2.10 and 10. balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 134 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 6 Profit loss from operations 6.1 Profit loss from continuing operations is stated after charging crediting 2018 2017 m m Research and development costs 1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 28 28 Depreciation of investment properties 1 1 Amortisation of intangible assets 20 22 Net credit of trade receivables impairment provision 1 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2 Impairment of intangible assets 2 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5 6 Cost of inventory recognised as an expense 86 82 Exchange gains and losses 3 Auditors remuneration 3 3 Operating lease rentals 45 50 6.2 Analysis of auditors remuneration continuing and discontinued operations 2018 2017 m m Services as auditor to the Company 0.5 0.5 Services as auditor to Group subsidiaries 2.1 2.2 Total audit fees 2.6 2.7 Audit-related assurance fees 0.4 0.4 Other assurance fees 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.4 0.5 Total fees in relation to audit and other services 3.0 3.2 7 Employee costs 7.1 Group 2018 2017 Employee costs during the year m m Wages and salaries 1,113 1,193 Underlying redundancy costs 9 3 Non-underlying redundancy costs Note 10.1.
3.1 4 8 Social security costs 95 98 Pension costs Note 28 56 52 Non-underlying GMP equalisation costs Note 10.1.
3.3 28 Share-based payments Note 33 8 9 1,313 1,363 2018 2017 Average number of Group employees Number Number Construction Services 12,273 13,429 Support Services 5,833 5,917 Infrastructure Investments 1,520 1,448 Corporate 142 146 Continuing operations 19,768 20,940 At 31 December 2018, the total number of Group employees was 19,474 2017: 20,238.
Detailed disclosures of items of remuneration, including those accruing under the Companys equity-settled share-based payment arrangements can be found within the Remuneration report on pages 88 to 103.
7.2 Company The Company did not have any employees and did not incur any employee costs in the year 2017: nil.
Balfour Beatty Group Employment Ltd, which was established in February 2013, remains the employing entity for the Balfour Beatty Groups UK employees.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 135 8 Investment income 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Subordinated debt interest receivable 21 26 Interest receivable on PPP financial assets 9 11 Gain on foreign currency deposits 1 Other interest receivable and similar income 3 4 Net finance income on pension scheme assets and obligations Note 28.2 2 35 42 9 Finance costs 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Non-recourse borrowings bank loans and overdrafts 14 13 Preference shares finance cost 12 12 accretion 3 3 Convertible bonds finance cost 4 5 accretion 5 7 US private placement finance cost 12 13 Other interest payable committed facilities 1 1 letter of credit fees 3 4 other finance charges 5 9 Net finance cost on pension scheme assets and obligations Note 28.2 6 59 73 10 Non-underlying items 2018 2017 m m Items charged against credited to profit 10.1 Continuing operations 10.1.
1 Trading results of Rail Germany including nil 2017: 2m of other net operating expenses 10.1.
2 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 8 9 10.1.
3 Other non-underlying items: Build to Last transformation costs 11 12 additional loss on the AWPR contract as a result of Carillions liquidation 10 44 loss arising from the recognition of GMP equalisation on the Groups pension schemes 28 provision release relating to settlements of health and safety claims 13 additional gain on disposal of Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners 3 loss gain on disposal of Heery International Inc 12 18 loss on disposal of Blackpool Airport 1 Total other non-underlying items from continuing operations 45 39 53 48 10.1.
4 Share of results of joint ventures and associates costs relating to the liquidation of the Malaysia joint venture 5 Charged against profit before taxation from continuing operations 58 48 10.1.
5 Tax credits: tax on loss arising from the recognition of GMP equalisation on the Groups pension schemes 5 tax on other items above 9 2 tax effect as a result of the reduction in US Federal corporate income tax rate 32 non-underlying recognition of deferred tax assets in the UK 34 Total tax credit on continuing operations 14 68 Non-underlying items charged against credited to profit for the year from continuing operations 44 20 10.2 Discontinued operations 10.2.
1 Gain on disposal of Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC and BK Gulf LLC 5 Non-underlying items credited to profit for the year from discontinued operations 5 Charged against credited to profit for the year 44 25 balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 136 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10 Non-underlying items continued Continuing operations 10.1.
1 Rail Germanys results continue to be presented as part of the Groups non-underlying items within continuing operations as theGroupremains committed to exiting its Mainland European rail businesses and does not consider its operations part of the Groups underlying activity.
In 2018, the remaining parts of Rail Germany generated a nil profit or loss before tax 2017: nil.
2 The amortisation of acquired intangible assets from continuing operations comprises: customer contracts 5m 2017: 6m and customer relationships 3m 2017: 3m.
These have been included as non-underlying items as they relate to costs arising on acquisition of businesses.
The charge was recognised in the following segments: Construction Services 3m 2017: 4m and Infrastructure Investments 5m 2017: 5m.
3.1 In 2018, the Group continued its Build to Last transformation programme initially launched in February 2015.
The transformation programme is aimed to drive continual improvement across all of the Groups businesses and realise operational efficiencies.
As a result ofthis programme, restructuring costs of 11m were incurred in 2018 relating to: Construction Services 6m: and Support Services 5m.
These restructuring costs comprise: redundancy costs 4m: property-related costs 5m: and other restructuring costs 2m.
In 2017, the Group incurred restructuring costs of 12m relating to: Construction Services 6m: Support Services 2m: and Corporate 4m.
These restructuring costs comprise: redundancy costs 8m: property-related costs 3m: and other restructuring costs 1m.
3.2 As a result of Carillion filing for liquidation on 15 January 2018, the Group and its remaining joint operations partner on the AWPR project, Galliford Try plc, became jointly liable to deliver Carillions remaining obligations on the contract in addition to each partners existing 33% share.
This has resulted in the Group now having a 50% interest in the AWPR contract.
In 2018, the Group recognised additional losses on this project.
10m of this charge has been recognised in non-underlying as this reflects the additional loss that the Group has suffered in fulfilling Carillions obligations on the contract.
The loss incurred on the Groups original 33% joint venture share is treated as part of the Groups underlying performance.
The additional AWPR loss represents a net charge made up of cost increases on the project partially offset by recovery positions that the Group believes are highly probable to be agreed.
These losses have been recognised in the Construction Services segment.
3.3 In 2018, the Group recognised additional retirement benefit liabilities following the judgment on the Lloyds Banking Group High Court hearing on Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation which was published on 26 October 2018.
The judgment indicated thatpension trustees needed to amend scheme retirement benefits to equalise for the effect of unequal GMPs and indicated an acceptablerange of methods for how to do so.
This recent judgment therefore creates an obligation to equalise for both the BBPF and RPS schemes.
The effect of GMP equalisation whichamounted to 28m has been recognised in the Groups income statement as a plan amendment.
The Group has also treated this itemas non-underlying due to the size and nature of the income statement charge.
Any future changes in relation to GMP equalisation willbe treated as part of the Groups actuarial gains losses which are recognised within OCI.
The charge was recognised in the following segments: Construction Services 15m and Support Services 13m.
3.4 In 2018, the Group recognised a provision release of 13m relating to the settlement of health and safety claims.
These claims werepreviously included as part of the Groups overall reassessment of potential liabilities relating to historical health and safety breaches following new sentencing guidelines which was conducted in 2016.
As a result of this reassessment, a non-underlying charge of 25m wasrecognised in the first half of 2016.
The credit was recognised in the following segments: Construction Services 2m and Support Services 11m.
3.5 In 2018, the Group received further consideration of 3m relating to its previously disposed interest in Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners in 2016.
The additional consideration relates to the earn-out agreement that was entered into with the buyer as part of the disposal.
At the time of disposal, the Group did not include an estimate of the potential earn-out within its assessment of the gain on disposal as there was significant uncertainty as to whether the earn-out hurdles would be met.
This additional gain has been recognised within non-underlying consistent with the Groups treatment of the gain on disposal previously recognised in 2016.
This gain has been included in the Infrastructure Investments segment.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 137 10 Non-underlying items continued Continuing operations continued 10.1.
3.6 On 27 October 2017, the Group disposed of its 100% interest in Heery International Inc Heery for a cash consideration of 43m.
The disposal resulted in a net gain of 18m being recognised as a non-underlying item.
This gain on disposal was included in the Construction Services segment.
In 2018, an additional indemnity provision of 12m was recognised in the year following the reassessment of several projects which were indemnified by the Group as part of the sale.
This estimate is subject to final ongoing negotiations with various clients and any further gains or losses that arise as part of this indemnity obligation will be recorded within non-underlying as part of the Heery disposal.
3.7 On 12 September 2017, the Group disposed of its entire interest in Regional & City Airports Blackpool Holdings Ltd for a cash consideration of 4m.
The disposal resulted in a 1m loss being recognised as a non-underlying item.
This loss has been included in the Infrastructure Investments segment.
4.1 In 2018, the decision was made to enter the Groups 70% joint venture Balfour Beatty Rail Sdn.
In light of this decision, an assessment of the joint ventures balance sheet was carried out which resulted in the Groups investment balanceand associated goodwill being written off.
This write-off amounted to 5m and has been recognised within the Construction Services segment.
3.3, a non-underlying charge of 28m was recognised in 2018 to take into account the effect of GMP equalisation.
This charge has given rise to a deferred tax credit of 5m.
5.2 The remaining non-underlying items charged against the Groups operating profit from continuing operations gave rise to a tax credit of 9m comprising: 3m credit arising on the impact of additional indemnity provisions recognised on the disposal of Heery: 2m credit on the additional loss recognised for the AWPR contract: 2m credit on Build to Last restructuring costs: and 2m credit on amortisation of acquired intangible assets 2017: 1m charge on the gain on disposal of Heery: and 3m credit on amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
5.3 The US Government reduced the Federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% with effect from 1 January 2018.
The netimpacts of this change in 2017 were a non-underlying 32m tax credit to the income statement and a 1m credit to equity.
5.4 In 2017, significant actuarial gains in the Groups main pension fund, Balfour Beatty Pension Fund BBPF, led to the recognition of adeferred tax liability.
This in turn led to the recognition of additional UK deferred tax assets in 2017 of 34m.
Given the size and nature of the credit resulting from the increase to actuarial gains in the BBPF, the credit was included as a non-underlying item.
1 On 1 March 2017, the Group disposed of its 49% interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC and BK Gulf LLC to its joint venture partner fora total cash consideration of 11m, resulting in a gain on disposal of 5m.
com AR2018 138 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11 Income taxes 11.1 Income tax credit Nonunderlying Underlying items 1 items Note 10 Total Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 x Continuing operations m m m m Total UK tax 18 8 26 30 Total non-UK tax 20 6 14 15 Total tax charge credit 2 14 12 45 UK current tax current tax 5 3 2 4 adjustments in respect of previous periods 1 5 3 2 3 Non-UK current tax current tax 5 3 2 3 adjustments in respect of previous periods 2 2 6 3 3 3 Total current tax 8 6 2 UK deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 29 6 35 36 UK corporation tax rate change 6 1 7 3 23 5 28 33 Non-UK deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 15 3 12 18 US Federal corporate income tax rate change 32 adjustments in respect of previous periods 2 2 2 17 3 14 12 Total deferred tax 6 8 14 45 Total tax charge credit from continuing operations 2 14 12 45 x Excluding joint ventures and associates.
1 Before non-underlying items Notes 2.10 and 10.
The Group has recognised 14m of tax credits 2017: 68m within non-underlying items in the year.
The Group tax charge excludes amounts for joint ventures and associates refer to Note 18.2, except where tax is levied at the Group level.
The Groups underlying tax charge for the year benefits from the recognition of deferred tax assets for some of the Groups previously unrecognised historical UK taxlosses.
In addition to the Group tax charge, tax of 3m is charged 2017: 50m directly to other comprehensive income, comprising: a deferred taxcharge of nil for subsidiaries 2017: 37m : and a deferred tax charge in respect of joint ventures and associates of 3m 2017: 13m.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 139 11 Income taxes continued 11.2 Income tax reconciliation 2018 2017 Continuing operations m m Profit before taxation including share of results from joint ventures and associates 123 117 Less: share of results of joint ventures and associates 23 59 Profit before taxation 100 58 Add: non-underlying items charged excluding share of joint ventures and associates 53 48 1 Underlying profit before taxation for subsidiaries 153 106 Tax on profit before taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 19% 2017: 19.25% 29 20 Adjusted for the effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes and other permanent items 6 3 Non-taxable disposals 13 16 # Tax levied at Group level on share of joint ventures and associates profits 4 9 Preference share dividends not deductible 2 2 Deferred tax assets not recognised 1 Recognition of losses not previously recognised 38 1 Effect of tax rates in non-UK jurisdictions 6 10 UK corporation tax rate change 6 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 5 Total tax charge on underlying profit 2 23 Less: credit on non-underlying tax items Note 10.1.
5 14 68 Total tax credit on profit from continuing operations 12 45 These gains on disposal are not taxable due to availability of exemptions and use of capital losses.
# These are mainly in connection with US and Canadian joint ventures and associates where tax is levied at the Group level rather than within the share of joint ventures and associates.
Deferred tax was not recognised in 2017 on certain losses where these amounts were not expected to be recovered against future forecasted taxable profits.
In line with meeting Build to Last Phase Two targets additional UK tax losses of 197m have been recognised in 2018.
com AR2018 140 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 12 Earnings per ordinary share Earnings Basic Diluted Basic Diluted 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Continuing operations Earnings 135 135 162 162 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax credit of 2m 2017: 3m 6 6 6 6 Other non-underlying items net of tax credit of 12m 2017: 65m 38 38 26 26 Underlying earnings 179 179 142 142 Discontinued operations Earnings 6 6 Other non-underlying items 5 5 Underlying earnings 1 1 Total operations Earnings 135 135 168 168 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets net of tax credit of 2m 2017: 3m 6 6 6 6 Other non-underlying items net of tax credit of 12m 2017: 65m 38 38 31 31 Underlying earnings 179 179 143 143 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Weighted average number of ordinary shares 682 687 680 688 Earnings per share Basic Diluted Basic Diluted 2018 2018 2017 2017 Pence Pence Pence Pence Continuing operations Earnings per ordinary share 19.7 19.5 23.7 23.4 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.8 Other non-underlying items 5.7 5.6 3.6 3.5 Underlying earnings per ordinary share 26.3 26.0 20.9 20.7 Discontinued operations Earnings per ordinary share 1.0 1.0 Other non-underlying items 0.9 0.9 Underlying earnings per ordinary share 0.1 0.1 Total operations Earnings per ordinary share 19.7 19.5 24.7 24.4 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.8 Other non-underlying items 5.7 5.6 4.5 4.4 Underlying earnings per ordinary share 26.3 26.0 21.0 20.8 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 141 13 Dividends on ordinary shares Per share Amount Per share Amount 2018 2018 2017 2017 Pence m Pence m Proposed dividends for the year Interim current year 1.6 11 1.2 8 Final current year 3.2 22 2.4 16 4.8 33 3.6 24 Recognised dividends for the year Final prior year 16 12 Interim current year 11 8 27 20 The final 2017 dividend was paid on 6 July 2018 and the interim 2018 dividend was paid on 30 November 2018.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2019, the final 2018 dividend will be paid on 5 July 2019 to holders on the register on 17 May 2019 by direct credit or, where no mandate has been given, by cheque posted on 5 July 2019.
The ordinary shares will be quoted ex-dividend on 16 May 2019.
14 Intangible assets goodwill Accumulated impairment Carrying Cost losses amount m m m At 1 January 2017 1,110 173 937 Currency translation differences 48 2 46 Disposal of Blackpool Airport Notes 32.3.
6 4 4 Disposal of Heery International Inc Note 32.3.
6 21 4 17 At 31 December 2017 1,037 163 874 Currency translation differences 34 5 29 At 31 December 2018 1,071 168 903 Carrying amounts of goodwill by segment 2018 2017 United United United United Kingdom States Total Kingdom States Total m m m m m m Construction Services 260 460 720 260 434 694 Support Services 131 131 131 131 Infrastructure Investments 52 52 49 49 Group 391 512 903 391 483 874 Carrying amounts of goodwill by cash-generating unit 2018 2017 Pre-tax Pre-tax discount discount rate rate m % m % UK Regional and Engineering Services 248 10.1 248 10.3 Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc 438 11.0 413 11.0 Rail UK 68 10.1 68 10.4 Gas & Water 58 10.0 58 10.4 Balfour Beatty Communities US 52 11.3 49 11.0 Other 39 10.011.0 38 10.211.0 Group total 903 874 The recoverable amount of goodwill is based on value-in-use, a key input of which is forecast cash flows.
The Groups cash flow forecasts are based on the expected workload of each cash-generating unit CGU, giving consideration to the current level of confirmed and anticipated orders.
Cash flow forecasts for the next three years are based on the Groups Three Year Plan, which covers the period from 2019 to 2021.
The cash flow forecasts for each CGU were compiled from each of its constituent business units as part of the Groups annualfinancial planning process.
com AR2018 142 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14 Intangible assets goodwill continued The Group is working constructively with industry bodies and the UK Government to identify and manage any challenges caused by theUKs exit from the European Union.
Balfour Beatty recognises the inherent uncertainty arising from this and has been planning for alloutcomes.
The Group has contingency plans in place to ensure it can continue to deliver on current and future work commitments.
It is anticipated that the US construction market will remain stable, as will tender margins which will also be driven by increased selectivity ofprojects.
In the Support Services segment, market conditions are anticipated to be stable in the UK.
The other key inputs in assessing each CGU are its long-term growth rate and discount rate.
The discount rates have been calculated using the Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC method, which takes account of the Groups capital structure financial risk as well as the nature of each CGUs business operational risk.
Long-term growth rates are assumed to be the estimated future GDP growth rates based on published independent forecasts for the country or countries in which each CGU operates, less 1.0% to reflect current economic uncertainties and their consequent estimated effect on public sector spending on infrastructure.
In the derivation of each CGUs value-in-use, a terminal value is assumed based on a multiple of earnings before interest and tax.
The multiple is applied to a terminal cash flow, which is the normalised cash flow in the last year of the forecast period.
The EBIT multiple iscalculated using the Gordon Growth Model and is a factor of the discount rate and growth rate for each CGU.
The nominal terminal valueis discounted to present value.
2018 2017 Nominal Nominal Real long-term Real long-term Inflation growth growth rate Inflation growth growth rate rate rate applied rate rate applied % % % % % % UK Regional and Engineering Services 2.0 1.2 3.2 2.1 0.1 2.2 Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc 2.0 0.9 2.9 2.0 1.4 3.4 Rail UK 2.0 1.2 3.2 2.1 0.1 2.2 Gas & Water 2.0 1.2 3.2 2.1 0.1 2.2 Balfour Beatty Communities US 2.0 0.1 2.1 1.9 0.1 2.0 Other 2.0 1.1 3.1 2.1 0.2 2.3 Sensitivities The Groups impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used.
The major assumptions that result in significant sensitivities are the discount rate and the long-term growth rate, and for certain CGUs, changes to underlying cash projections.
A reasonable possible change in key assumptions would not give rise to an impairment in any of the Groups CGUs.
Sensitivity analysis carried out on the UK Regional and Engineering Services CGU factored in potential adverse implications that may arise from a no-deal exitfrom the European Union.
No impairment was triggered as a result of this.
The Group considers that the stabilisation and recovery oftheGas & Water business to more normal levels of performance is a key assumption underpinning the cash flow forecasts used to assess the recoverable amount of the related goodwill.
In particular, a reduction of 260 basis points in margin within the Gas & Water CGUwould reduce its headroom to nil.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 143 15 Intangible assets other Infrastructure Customer Customer Brand Investments Software contracts relationships names intangibles and other Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2017 238 50 4 78 125 495 Currency translation differences 20 5 1 26 Additions 82 5 87 Removal of fully amortised intangible asset 1 1 At 31 December 2017 218 45 3 160 129 555 Currency translation differences 13 3 1 17 Additions 63 3 66 Removal of fully amortised intangible asset 1 1 Disposal of interest in Holyrood Holdings Ltd Notes 32.2.
5 77 77 At 31 December 2018 231 48 3 146 132 560 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2017 152 31 4 2 81 270 Currency translation differences 13 3 1 17 Charge for the year 6 3 2 11 22 Removal of fully amortised 1 1 At 31 December 2017 145 31 3 4 91 274 Currency translation differences 9 3 12 Charge for the year 5 3 2 10 20 Impairment charge 2 2 Removal of fully amortised intangible asset 1 1 Disposal of interest in Holyrood Holdings Ltd Notes 32.2.
5 5 5 At 31 December 2018 159 37 3 1 102 302 Carrying amount At 31 December 2018 72 11 145 30 258 At 31 December 2017 73 14 156 38 281 The Group recognises certain assets held as part of service concession arrangements as Infrastructure Investments intangibles where the Group bears demand risk under IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements.
On 17 December 2018, the Group disposed of an interest in the Edinburgh Student Accommodation through an 80% disposal of Holyrood Holdings Ltd refer to Note 32.2.
The Group retains a 20% interest which is accounted for as a joint venture post-disposal.
In 2018, the Group continued construction on its remaining IFRIC 12 asset, atthe University of Sussex, incurring a spend of 63m 2017: 82m in the year including interest capitalised of 6m 2017: 6m.
Construction on this project is anticipated to complete in 2020.
The Infrastructure Investments intangible assets are amortised on astraight-line basis over the life of the projects, which is 50 years.
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, which are one to four years for customer contracts, three to 10 years for customer relationships, three to seven years for software, and up to five years for brand names, except for customer contracts and relationships relating to Balfour Beatty Investments North America which are amortised on a basis matching the returns earned over the life of the underlying contracts and relationships of up to 50 years.
Software assets recognised in the UK are amortised on a basis matching their usage profile over their seven-year life.
Other intangible assets are amortised over periods up to 10 years.
com AR2018 144 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 16 Property, plant and equipment 16.1 Movements Infrastructure Assets in Land and Plant and leasehold the course of buildings equipment improvements construction Total m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2017 93 309 68 470 Currency translation differences 3 7 6 16 Transfers 1 5 4 Additions 6 7 7 20 Reclassified from inventory 5 5 Removal of fully depreciated assets assets scrapped 5 5 Disposals 4 22 26 Disposal of Blackpool Airport Notes 32.3.
6 15 15 Disposal of Heery International Inc Notes 32.3.
6 4 6 10 At 31 December 2017 72 286 62 3 423 Currency translation differences 2 4 4 10 Transfers 3 3 Additions 8 28 2 38 Removal of fully depreciated assets assets scrapped 9 20 29 Disposals 20 20 At 31 December 2018 73 281 66 2 422 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2017 50 236 3 289 Currency translation differences 2 6 8 Transfers 1 1 Charge for the year 8 18 2 28 Removal of fully depreciated assets assets scrapped 5 5 Disposals 2 19 21 Disposal of Blackpool Airport Notes 32.3.
6 9 9 Disposal of Heery International Inc Notes 32.3.
6 3 5 8 At 31 December 2017 41 220 5 266 Currency translation differences 1 4 5 Transfers 1 1 Charge for the year 7 19 2 28 Impairment charge 2 2 Removal of fully depreciated assets assets scrapped 9 20 29 Disposals 18 18 At 31 December 2018 43 204 7 254 Carrying amount At 31 December 2018 30 77 59 2 168 At 31 December 2017 31 66 57 3 157 Infrastructure leasehold improvements comprise student accommodation projects in Iowa and Reno, for which all buildings are held under short leaseholds and are depreciated over 40 years.
The carrying amount of the Groups property, plant and equipment held under finance leases was nil 2017: nil.
The Company has noproperty, plant and equipment held under finance leases.
Except for land and assets in the course of construction, the costs of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basisover their expected useful lives.
Buildings are depreciated at 2.5% per annum and plant and equipment is depreciated at 4% to 33%per annum.
16.2 Analysis of carrying amount of land and buildings Group Group 2018 2017 m m Freehold 7 7 Long leasehold over 50 years unexpired 1 1 Short leasehold 22 23 30 31 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 145 17 Investment properties Accumulated Carrying Cost depreciation amount m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2017 36 36 Additions 4 4 Reclassified from inventories 7 7 Depreciation charge for the year 1 1 At 31 December 2017 47 1 46 Depreciation charge for the year 1 1 Disposals 12 12 At 31 December 2018 35 2 33 Investment properties are held by the Group to generate rental income and capital appreciation.
The Group has chosen to account for its investment property assets under the cost method.
For one of its remaining investment properties, the Group has secured non-recourse project specific financing amounting to 26m 2017: 26m, which is secured through a floating charge over the property.
No interest hasbeen capitalised on the asset in 2018 as the construction on the property was completed in 2017 2017: 1m.
Once a property is ready for use, the Group ceases capitalisation of interest cost and commences depreciation on the property, on astraight-line basis over 25 years.
The fair value of the Groups investment properties at 31 December 2018 approximates the carrying value.
The Group generated 3m 2017: 1m of rental income from its investment properties.
com AR2018 146 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates 18.1 Movements Net assets Loans Total m m m At 1 January 2017 426 202 628 Currency translation differences 21 21 Income recognised 60 60 Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets Note 30.1 60 60 Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges Note 30.1 10 10 Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities Note 30.1 4 4 Tax on items taken directly to equity Note 30.1 13 13 Dividends 69 69 Additions 29 29 Disposal of interest in Connect Plus M25 Note 32.3.
4 121 39 160 Loans advanced 4 4 # Reclassify profit generated by Dutco to provisions Note 25 1 1 At 31 December 2017 364 167 531 Currency translation differences 11 11 Income recognised 23 23 Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets Note 30.1 9 9 Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges Note 30.1 15 15 Actuarial movements on retirement benefit obligations Note 30.1 1 1 Tax on items taken directly to equity Note 30.1 3 3 Dividends 76 76 Additions 32 32 Disposal of interest in Connect Plus M25 Note 32.2.
1 30 11 41 Disposal of Consort Healthcare Fife Note 32.2.
2 9 9 Disposal of University of Texas Northside Campus Note 32.2.
4 1 1 Retained interest in Holyrood Holdings Ltd Note 32.2.
5 3 3 6 Reclassified to asset held for sale 5 5 Loans advanced 27 27 Loans repaid 3 3 At 31 December 2018 350 174 524 Includes 3m of subordinated debt interest expense which has been capitalised into the carrying amount of the loan.
# Represents the combined results of BK Gulf LLC and Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC as both joint ventures have common ownership and report under the same management structure.
Retained interest in net assets of Holyrood Holdings Ltd are presented at fair value.
The principal joint ventures and associates are shown in Note 39.
The amount of the Groups share of borrowings of joint ventures and associates which was supported by the Group and the Company was nil 2017: nil, relating to the Groups share of guaranteed borrowings.
The non-recourse borrowings of joint venture and associate entities relating to infrastructure concessions projects are repayable over periods extending up to 2048.
The non-recourse borrowings arise under facilities taken out by project-specific joint venture and associate concession companies.
The borrowings of each concession company are secured by a combination of fixed and floating charges over that concession companys interests in its projects assets and revenues and the shares in the concession company held by its immediate parent company.
A significant part of these loans has been swapped into fixed rate debt by the use of interest rate swaps.
As disclosed in Note 39 f, the Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding of joint ventures and associates in Infrastructure Investments projects and military housing concessions.
Further, in respect of a number of these investments the Group has committed not to dispose of its equity interest until construction is complete.
As is customary in such projects, banking covenants restrict the payment of dividends and other distributions.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 147 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 18.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates Infrastructure Investments Construction Support North Services Services UK America Total Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 Income statement continuing operations m m m m m m 1 Revenue 913 28 124 106 230 1,171 1 Underlying operating profit loss 30 2 5 21 16 44 Investment income 3 94 14 108 111 Finance costs 104 16 120 120 1 Profit loss before taxation 33 2 15 19 4 35 Taxation 5 2 2 7 Profit loss after taxation before non-underlying items 28 2 17 19 2 28 Share of results within non-underlying items 5 5 Profit loss after taxation 23 2 17 19 2 23 Balance sheet Non-current assets Intangible assets goodwill 31 31 Infrastructure Investments intangible 45 45 45 other 15 15 15 Property, plant and equipment 25 38 38 63 Investment properties 114 114 114 Investments in joint ventures and associates 2 2 PPP financial assets 1,485 257 1,742 1,742 Military housing projects 110 110 110 Other non-current assets 76 23 1 24 100 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 328 131 28 159 487 Other current assets 184 43 200 243 427 Total assets 646 1,780 710 2,490 3,136 Current liabilities Borrowings non-recourse 44 42 42 86 Other current liabilities 441 137 19 156 597 Non-current liabilities Borrowings non-recourse 1,255 508 1,763 1,763 Other non-current liabilities 61 3 275 2 277 341 Total liabilities 546 3 1,709 529 2,238 2,787 Net assets 100 3 71 181 252 349 Loans to joint ventures and associates 4 171 171 175 Total investment in joint ventures and associates 100 1 242 181 423 524 Including Singapore.
The Groups investment in military housing joint ventures and associates projects is recognised at its remaining equity investment plus the value of the Groups accrued returns from the underlying projects.
The military housing joint ventures and associates have total non-recourse net borrowings of 2,466m 2017: 2,340m.
Note 39 e details the Groups military housing projects.
On certain Infrastructure Investments concessions where net fair value revaluations of PPP financial assets and cash flow hedges resulted inthe Groups carrying value of these investments being negative, the Group has not recognised losses beyond the carrying value of its investments.
This is because the Group has not committed to provide any further funding to these investments and the borrowings within these concessions are non-recourse to the Group.
At 31 December 2018, the unrecognised cumulative net fair value charges to other comprehensive income amounted to 1m 2017: 9m.
com AR2018 148 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 18.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates continued Infrastructure Investments Construction Support North Services Services UK America Total Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Income statement continuing operations m m m m m m 1 Revenue 1,074 30 173 63 236 1,340 1 Underlying operating profit 32 5 15 20 52 Investment income 3 127 9 136 139 Finance costs 2 114 10 124 126 1 Profit before taxation 33 18 14 32 65 Taxation 3 3 3 6 Profit after taxation 30 15 14 29 59 Balance sheet Non-current assets Intangible assets goodwill 32 32 Infrastructure Investments intangible 23 23 23 other 3 12 12 15 Property, plant and equipment 25 38 3 41 66 Investment properties 72 72 72 Investments in joint ventures and associates 7 7 PPP financial assets 1,659 184 1,843 1,843 Military housing projects 112 112 112 Other non-current assets 53 17 17 70 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 329 156 19 175 504 Other current assets 206 53 3 56 262 Total assets 655 1,958 393 2,351 3,006 Current liabilities Borrowings non-recourse 32 41 41 73 Other current liabilities 456 1 141 11 152 609 Non-current liabilities Borrowings non-recourse 1,331 222 1,553 1,553 Other non-current liabilities 52 355 355 407 Total liabilities 540 1 1,868 233 2,101 2,642 Net assets 115 1 90 160 250 364 Loans to joint ventures and associates 4 163 163 167 Total investment in joint ventures and associates 115 3 253 160 413 531 Including Singapore.
18.3 Aggregate information of joint ventures and associates Joint ventures Associates Total 2018 2018 2018 m m m The Groups share of profit from continuing operations 15 8 23 Aggregate carrying amount of the Groups interest 412 112 524 Joint ventures Associates Total 2017 2017 2017 m m m The Groups share of profit from continuing operations 49 10 59 Aggregate carrying amount of the Groups interest 425 106 531 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 149 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 18.4 Details of material joint ventures Connect Plus @ Gammon M25 Ltd 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Proportion of the Groups ownership interest in the joint venture 50% 50% 15% 20% Income statement continuing operations Revenue 1,803 2,040 148 118 Underlying operating profit 47 35 3 3 Investment income 16 15 139 138 Finance costs 7 12 169 111 Income tax charge 7 6 5 6 Profit loss and total comprehensive income loss 100% 49 32 22 24 Groups share of profit loss and total comprehensive income loss 24 16 3 10 Dividends received by the Group during the year 23 37 6 Balance sheet Non-current assets 366 319 2,203 2,123 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 641 622 152 197 Other current assets 341 387 85 69 982 1,009 237 266 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 657 699 84 86 Provisions 44 54 Borrowings non-recourse 94 70 19 6 Other current liabilities 143 123 19 45 938 946 122 137 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 89 76 Provisions 23 21 Borrowings non-recourse 107 109 1,253 1,027 Other non-current liabilities including shareholder loans 42 36 433 618 261 242 1,686 1,645 Net assets 100% 149 140 632 607 Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in the above joint ventures recognised in the consolidated financial statements: Net assets of joint venture 100% 149 140 632 607 Groups share of net assets 75 70 95 121 Add: Groups interest in shareholder loans 28 39 Goodwill 31 29 Carrying amount of the Groups interest in the joint venture 106 99 123 160 @ Represents the combined results of Gammon China Ltd and Gammon Capital West Pte.
Ltd as both joint ventures have common ownership and report under the same management structure.
The Group disposed of a 20% interest in Connect Plus M25 Ltd in December 2017 and a further 5% in February 2018.
com AR2018 150 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 18.5 Cash flow from to joint ventures and associates Infrastructure Infrastructure Investments Investments North North UK America Other Total UK America Other Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 Cash flows from investing activities m m m m m m m m Dividends from joint ventures and associates 9 27 40 76 2 14 53 69 Subordinated debt interest received 7 7 9 9 Investments in and loans to joint ventures and associates 31 25 56 4 26 30 Equity 7 25 32 3 26 29 Subordinated debt invested 27 27 1 1 Subordinated debt repaid 3 3 Disposal of investments in joint ventures 150 13 1 164 103 3 106 Net cash flow from to joint ventures and associates 135 15 41 191 110 12 56 154 Including Singapore.
18.6 Share of reserves of joint ventures and associates PPP Currency Accumulated Hedging financial translation Total profit loss reserve assets reserve Note 30.1 m m m m m At 1 January 2017 91 198 227 64 184 Currency translation differences 18 18 Income recognised 60 60 Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets 60 60 Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges 11 11 Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities 4 4 Tax on items taken directly to equity 1 2 10 13 Dividends 69 69 Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal 58 143 85 Reserves disposed 20 1 21 At 31 December 2017 65 132 134 46 113 Currency translation differences 7 7 Income recognised 23 23 Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets 9 9 Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges 15 15 Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities 1 1 Tax on items taken directly to equity 2 1 3 Dividends 76 76 Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal 51 55 1 5 Reserves disposed 19 19 At 31 December 2018 8 68 87 52 63 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 151 19 Investments 19.1 Group Investments Corporate in mutual bonds funds Total m m m At 1 January 2017 22 23 45 Currency translation differences 2 2 Fair value gains 3 3 Additions 1 1 Maturities disposals 5 3 8 At 31 December 2017 17 22 39 Currency translation differences 1 1 Fair value gains 1 1 Maturities disposals 8 3 11 At 31 December 2018 9 21 30 The held to maturity bonds are held by the Groups captive insurance company, Delphian Insurance Company Ltd, and comprise fixed rate bonds or treasury stock with an average yield to maturity of 1.76% 2017: 0.73% and weighted average life of 3.9 years 2017: 2.2years.
The fair value of the bonds is 8m 2017: 17m, determined by the market price of the bonds at the reporting date.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December 2018 is the carrying amount.
These bonds have been pledged as security for letters of credit issued in respect of Delphian Insurance Company Ltd.
The investments in mutual funds comprise holdings in a number of funds, based on employees investment elections, inrespect of the deferred compensation obligations of the Group as disclosed in Note 28.2.
The fair value of these investments is 21m 2017: 22m, determined by the market price of the funds at the reporting date.
19.2 Company 2018 2017 m m Investment in subsidiaries 1,732 1,802 Provisions 26 102 1,706 1,700 Due to the liquidation of a number of dormant subsidiaries in the year, the Company has written off its investment in these subsidiaries which have all been fully provided for in previous years, resulting in a decrease in both its cost of investments and provisions against investments of 76m respectively.
The remaining increase of investment in subsidiaries of 6m relate to new capital injected into the Companys existing subsidiaries.
Including provisions recognised to date, the Directors have assessed the Companys investment in subsidiaries to be fully recoverable.
20 PPP financial assets Economic Social infrastructure infrastructure Total m m m At 1 January 2017 31 132 163 Income recognised in the income statement: interest income Note 8 3 8 11 Gains losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: fair value movements 1 4 3 Other movements: cash expenditure 1 1 cash received 4 11 15 At 31 December 2017 30 133 163 Income recognised in the income statement: interest income Note 8 2 7 9 Losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: fair value movements 1 3 4 Other movements: cash expenditure 1 1 2 cash received 4 10 14 At 31 December 2018 28 128 156 Assets constructed by PPP subsidiary concession companies are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through OCI and aredenominated in sterling.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the PPP financial assets.
There were no impairment provisions in 2018 or 2017. balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 152 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 21 Inventories 2018 2017 m m 2 Unbilled non-construction work in progress 55 2 Raw materials and consumables 53 20 Development and housing land and work in progress 26 27 Finished goods and goods for resale 5 5 84 107 2 The Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 January 2018 retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initial application recognised asanadjustment to opening equity Notes 2.1 and 40.
22 Contract balances The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collection results in trade receivables billed amounts, contract assets unbilled amounts and customer advances and deposits contract liabilities on the Groups balance sheet.
For services in which revenue is earned over time, amounts are billed in accordance with contractual terms, either at periodic intervals or upon achievement of contractual milestones.
The timing of revenue recognition is measured in accordance with the progress of delivery on a contract which could either be in advance orin arrears of billing, resulting in either a contract asset or a contract liability.
2018 Contract assets m 2 At 1 January 2018 414 Currency translation differences 8 Transfers from contract assets recognised at the beginning of the year to receivables 329 Increase related to services provided in the year 322 Reclassified from contract provisions Note 25 37 Impairments on contract assets recognised at the beginning of the year 15 At 31 December 2018 363 2018 Contract liabilities m 2 At 1 January 2018 476 Currency translation differences 17 Revenue recognised against contract liabilities at the beginning of the year 429 Increase due to cash received, excluding amounts recognised as revenue during the year 427 At 31 December 2018 491 2 The Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 January 2018 retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initial application recognised asanadjustment to opening equity Notes 2.1 and 40.
The amount of revenue recognised in 2018 from performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous periods amounted to 45m.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 153 23 Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company 2 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Current Trade receivables 599 536 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 5 7 594 529 Due from subsidiaries 2,083 1,531 Due from joint ventures and associates 24 23 Due from joint operation partners 19 25 # Contract retentions receivable 192 185 2 Accrued income 3 18 Prepayments 30 35 Due on disposals 1 63 Other receivables 39 21 902 899 2,083 1,531 Non-current Due from joint ventures and associates 51 38 1 2 # Contract retentions receivable 150 173 Due on disposals 5 4 Other receivables 6 1 212 216 1 2 Total trade and other receivables 1,114 1,115 2,084 1,533 Comprising Financial assets Note 38 1,084 1,080 2,084 1,533 Non-financial assets prepayments 30 35 1,114 1,115 2,084 1,533 # Including 339m 2017: 352m construction contract retentions receivable.
2 The Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 January 2018 retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initial application recognised asanadjustment to opening equity Notes 2.1 and 40.
Based on prior experience, an assessment of the current economic environment and a review of the financial circumstances of individual customers, the Directors believe no further credit risk provision is required in respect of trade receivables.
The Directors consider that the carrying values of current and non-current trade and other receivables approximate their fair values.
Movement in the provision for impairment of trade receivables Group Group 2018 2017 m m At 1 January 7 7 Charged credited to the income statement: additional provisions 1 2 unused amounts reversed 2 2 Utilised during the year 1 At 31 December 5 7 Maturity profile of impaired trade receivables and trade receivables past due but not impaired Past due but not Impaired impaired Group Group Group Group 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Up to three months 1 63 31 Three to six months 12 9 Six to nine months 1 6 5 Nine to 12 months 8 3 More than 12 months 4 6 18 27 5 7 107 75 At 31 December 2018, trade receivables of 107m 2017: 75m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of individual customers where there is no reason to believe that the receivable is not recoverable.
The Company had no provision for impairment of trade receivables and no trade receivables that were past due but not impaired ineither year.
com AR2018 154 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 24 Trade and other payables Group Group Company Company 2 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Current Trade and other payables 758 833 1 Accruals 580 604 6 7 2 Deferred income 1 VAT, payroll taxes and social security 26 68 2 Advance payments on contracts 16 Due to subsidiaries 2,158 1,911 Due to joint ventures and associates 11 Dividends on preference shares 6 6 6 6 Due on acquisitions 3 3 1,373 1,542 2,170 1,925 Non-current Trade and other payables 108 120 1 1 Accruals 18 19 Due to joint ventures and associates 9 7 3 3 Due on acquisitions 8 11 143 157 4 4 Total trade and other payables 1,516 1,699 2,174 1,929 Comprising Financial liabilities Note 38 1,484 1,585 2,174 1,929 Non-financial liabilities: accruals not at amortised cost 6 29 2 deferred income 1 VAT, payroll taxes and social security 26 68 2 advance payments on contracts 16 1,516 1,699 2,174 1,929 Included within the Groups trade and other payables balance is thirty three thousand pounds 2017: 0.2m relating to payments due to UK suppliers who are on bank-supported supply chain finance arrangements.
The Group settles these amounts in accordance with the relevant suppliers standard payment terms, normally 30 days.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group decided to close down this scheme.
The remaining balance outstanding on the scheme was fully settled in January 2019.
Maturity profile of the Groups non-current financial liabilities at 31 December Due to joint Trade ventures and other and Due on payables Accruals associates acquisitions Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 m m m m m Due within one to two years 82 7 3 92 Due within two to five years 23 9 1 5 38 Due after more than five years 3 2 8 13 108 18 9 8 143 Due to joint Trade ventures and other and Due on payables Accruals associates acquisitions Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m Due within one to two years 104 13 3 120 Due within two to five years 12 5 8 25 Due after more than five years 4 1 7 12 120 19 7 11 157 The Directors consider that the carrying values of current and non-current trade and other payables approximate their fair values.
The fair value of non-current trade and other payables has been determined by discounting future cash flows using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 155 25 Provisions Contract Employee Other 2 provisions provisions provisions Total m m m m At 1 January 2017 146 61 66 273 Currency translation differences 3 1 4 Transfers 4 3 7 Reclassified from accruals and due to construction contract customers 13 1 14 Charged credited to the income statement: additional provisions 122 29 12 163 unused amounts reversed 38 7 10 55 profits generated by Dutco 1 1 Utilised during the year 51 24 10 85 Disposal of Dutco Note 32.3.
1 11 11 Disposal of Heery International Inc Note 32.3.
6 2 2 At 31 December 2017 191 62 39 292 2 Adjustment as a result of transitioning to IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018 98 98 Adjusted balance at 1 January 2018 289 62 39 390 Currency translation differences 4 4 Reclassified from accruals 12 3 9 Charged credited to the income statement: additional provisions 140 12 8 160 unused amounts reversed 31 6 14 51 Utilised during the year 141 10 8 159 Reclassified to contract assets 37 37 At 31 December 2018 236 55 25 316 2 The Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 January 2018 retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initial application recognised asanadjustment to opening equity Notes 2.1 and 40.
Contract Employee Other Contract Employee Other 2 provisions provisions provisions Total provisions provisions provisions Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m m Due within one year 139 17 11 167 148 22 24 194 Due within one to two years 62 10 5 77 20 7 6 33 Due within two to five years 29 14 6 49 16 9 6 31 Due after more than five years 6 14 3 23 7 24 3 34 236 55 25 316 191 62 39 292 2 The Group adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on 1 January 2018 retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initial application recognised asanadjustment to opening equity Notes 2.1 and 40.
Contract provisions include construction insurance liabilities, principally in the Groups captive insurance arrangements, loss provisions, and defect and warranty provisions on contracts, primarily construction contracts, that have reached practical completion.
There is a latent defect period for which the provision is held, but where there are known identified issues then the provision may be required to cover rectification work over a more extended period.
Employee provisions are principally liabilities relating to employers liability insurance retained in the Groups captive insurance arrangements and provisions for employee termination liabilities arising from the Groups restructuring programmes.
Other provisions principally comprise: motor and other insurance liabilities in the Groups captive insurance arrangements: legal claims and costs, where provision is made for the Directors best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress: propertyrelated provisions, mainly onerous lease commitments, some of which arise from the Groups restructuring programmes: and environmental provisions.
The Group takes actuarial advice when establishing the level of provisions in the Groups captive insurance arrangements and certain othercategories of provision.
Insurance-related provisions within these categories were 67m 2017: 62m as follows: Contract provisions 35m 2017: 32m : Employee provisions 28m 2017: 26m : and Other, mainly motor, provisions 4m 2017: 4m.
Restructuring provisions within these categories were 7m 2017: 6m as follows: Employee provisions 5m 2017: 1m : and Other, mainly property-related, provisions 2m 2017: 5m.
com AR2018 156 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 26.1 Group Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost US private placement Note 26.2 239 239 33 226 259 liability component of convertible bonds Note 26.3 226 226 other loans 15 15 9 4 13 15 239 254 268 230 498 Cash and deposits at amortised cost 587 587 717 717 Term deposits at amortised cost 4 4 116 116 Cash and cash equivalents excluding infrastructure concessions 591 591 833 833 576 239 337 565 230 335 Non-recourse infrastructure concessions project finance loans at amortised cost with final maturity between 2019 and 2072 48 331 379 8 432 440 Infrastructure concessions cash and cash equivalents 70 70 135 135 22 331 309 127 432 305 Net cash borrowings 598 570 28 692 662 30 The loans relating to project finance arise under non-recourse facilities taken out by project-specific subsidiary companies.
The loans of each company are secured by a combination of fixed and floating charges over that companys interests in its projects assets and revenues and the shares in the company held by its immediate parent company.
A significant part of these loans has been swapped into fixed rate debt bythe use of interest rate swaps.
Included in cash and cash equivalents is restricted cash of: 18m 2017: 25m held by the Groups captive insurance company, Delphian Insurance Company Ltd, which is subject to Isle of Man insurance solvency regulations: 51m 2017: 12m held within construction project bank accounts: and 70m 2017: 135m relating to the maintenance and other reserve accounts in the Infrastructure Investments subsidiaries.
Cash, deposits and term deposits include the Groups share of amounts held by joint operations of 318m 2017: 261m.
Maturity profile of the Groups borrowings at 31 December Non-recourse Non-recourse project Other project Other finance borrowings Total finance borrowings Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m Due on demand or within one year 48 15 63 8 268 276 Due within one to two years 4 36 40 70 4 74 Due within two to five years 48 164 212 22 34 56 Due after more than five years 279 39 318 340 192 532 379 254 633 440 498 938 The carrying values of the Groups borrowings are equal to the fair values at the reporting date.
The fair values are determined by discounting future cash flows using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Undrawn Group committed borrowing facilities at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent were satisfied Non-recourse Non-recourse project Other project Other finance borrowings Total finance borrowings Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m Expiring in one year or less 1 25 26 Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 400 400 Expiring in more than two years 375 375 400 400 1 400 401 The Group has committed facilities of 400m which expire in December 2020.
The entire facilities remain undrawn at 31 December 2018.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 157 26 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings continued 26.2 US private placement In March 2013, the Group raised US$350m 231m of borrowings through a US private placement of a series of notes with an average coupon of 4.94% per annum and an average maturity of 9.3 years.
On 7 March 2018, the Group repaid the first tranche of these notes amounting to US$45m 32.5m.
At 31 December 2018, US$305m 239m remain with an average coupon of 5.1% and a remaining average maturity of 4.1 years.
26.3 Convertible bonds On 3 December 2013, the Group issued convertible bonds of 100,000 each maturing on 3 December 2018 at a total issue price of 252.7m and incurred transaction costs of 6.7m resulting in net proceeds of 246m.
The bonds had a coupon of 1.875% per annum payable semi-annually in arrears and the initial conversion price was set at 3.6692 per share.
On 23 April 2014, the conversion price wasrevised to 3.6212 per share.
From 14 January 2014 until 14 days prior to final maturity, one bond was convertible at the option of the holder into one preference share inBalfour Beatty Finance No 2 Ltd which would immediately be transferred to the Company in exchange for the issue of ordinary shares inthe Company.
The bonds were compound instruments, comprising equity and liability components.
The fair value of the liability component at the date of issue, included under non-current liabilities, was 220m estimated using the prevailing market interest rate of 4.29% per annum for a similar non-convertible instrument.
The difference between the net proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds after the transaction costs and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the value of the equity conversion component, was included in equity holders funds.
In 2018, following the partial repurchase of bonds in December 2017 21.3m and March 2018 17.7m, the Group repaid the remaining convertible bonds for a further 213.7m as it fell due on 3 December 2018.
As a result of this settlement, the remaining amount previously held in other reserves which related to the equity conversion component of the bonds was transferred in full to retained earnings.
Liability component recognised in the Balance Sheet 2018 2017 m m Liability component at 1 January at amortised cost 226 240 Accretion 5 7 Repayment repurchase of bonds 231 21 Liability component at 31 December at amortised cost 226 26.4 Company NonNonCurrent current Total Current current Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m Cash and deposits 134 134 134 134 US private placement Note 26.2 239 239 33 226 259 Net borrowings 134 239 105 101 226 125 balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 158 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 27 Deferred tax 27.1 Group Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Net deferred tax position at 31 December Group Group Company Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Deferred tax assets 80 52 Deferred tax liabilities 90 70 1 10 18 1 Movement for the year in the net deferred tax position Group Company m m At 1 January 2017 26 2 Currency translation differences 7 # Credited to income statement 45 1 # Charged to equity 37 Research and development tax credit 1 Disposal of Blackpool Airport Notes 32.3.
6 1 Disposal of Heery International Inc Notes 32.3.
6 9 At 31 December 2017 18 1 Currency translation differences 6 Credited to income statement 14 1 Research and development tax credit 1 Disposal of interest in Holyrood Holdings Ltd Notes 32.2.
5 1 At 31 December 2018 10 # The movement in 2017 also included a 32m credit to the income statement and 1m credit to equity in relation to changes in the US Federal corporate income rate taxes.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 159 27 Deferred tax continued 27.1 Group continued The table below shows the deferred tax assets and liabilities before being offset where they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
Net deferred tax position Depreciation in excess Retirement Unrelieved ShareOther Research and of capital benefits trading based Preference Fair value GAAPdevelop ment allowances losses payments Provisions shares adjustments Derivatives differences credit Total m m m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 17 22 62 2 44 2 79 7 99 26 Currency translation differences 1 4 1 4 7 7 Credited charged to income statement 2 5 21 2 16 14 27 45 Credited charged to equity 37 1 1 37 Research and development tax credit 1 1 Disposal of Blackpool Airport Notes 32.3.
6 1 1 Disposal of Heery International Inc Notes 32.3.
6 3 4 10 9 At 31 December 2017 19 21 79 5 26 2 57 6 74 1 18 Currency translation differences 2 3 5 6 Transfers 1 4 1 4 Credited charged to income statement 2 35 1 1 8 11 14 Credited charged to equity 1 1 Research and development tax credit 1 1 Disposal of interest in Holyrood Holdings Ltd Notes 32.2.
5 2 3 1 At 31 December 2018 18 21 109 4 27 1 67 5 86 2 10 At the reporting date the Group had unrecognised tax losses from operations excluding capital losses that arose over a numbers of years ofapproximately 754m 2017: 922m which are available for offset against future profits.
16m 2017: 8m will expire between five and 20 years after the year in which they arose, using losses incurred in earlier years before those incurred in later years, with the first expiry in 2019.
The remaining losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets for UK corporation tax trading losses of 405m 2017: 245m.
The Group has UK corporation tax trading losses of 437m 2017: 612m which are not recognised as deferred tax assets.
As set out in Note 11, the Group has recognised 197m of additional UK tax losses in the period consistent with meeting Phase Two Build to Last targets.
The Group also had temporary differences relating to retirement benefits on which a deferred tax asset has not been recognised of 44m 2017: 62m.
Deferred tax liabilities on fair value adjustments of 67m relate to temporary differences arising on goodwill and intangibles.
Deferred tax liabilities on other GAAP differences of 86m relate to temporary differences arising on joint ventures.
At the reporting date the undistributed reserves for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised were nil 2017: nil in respect ofsubsidiaries and nil 2017: nil in respect of joint ventures and associates.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because either no temporary difference arises or the timing of any distribution is under the Groups control and no distribution which gives rise to taxation is contemplated.
27.2 Company The table below shows the deferred tax assets and liabilities before being offset where they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax Deferred tax liabilities assets Net deferred Preference Share-based tax assets shares Provisions payments liabilities m m m m At 1 January 2017 2 2 Credited to income statement 1 1 At 31 December 2017 2 1 1 Credited to income statement 1 1 At 31 December 2018 1 1 balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 160 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities 28.1 Introduction The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes.
Defined contribution schemes are those where the Groups obligation is limited to the amount that it contributes to the scheme and the scheme members bear the investment and actuarial risks.
Defined benefit schemes are schemes other than defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligation is to provide specified benefits on retirement.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 19 prescribes the accounting for defined benefit schemes in the Groups financial statements.
Obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method and discounted to a net present value using the market yield on high-quality corporate bonds.
The pension expense relating to current service cost is charged to contracts or overheads based on the function of scheme members and is included in cost of sales and net operating expenses.
The net finance income arising from the expected interest income onplan assets and interest cost on scheme obligations is included in investment income.
Actuarial gains and losses are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The IAS 19 accounting valuations are set out in Note 28.2.
A different calculation is used for the formal triennial funding valuations undertaken by the scheme trustees to determine the future company contribution level necessary so that over time the scheme assets will meet the scheme obligations.
The principal difference between the two methods is that under the funding basis the obligations are discounted using a rate of return reflecting the composition of the assets inthe scheme, rather than the rate of return on high-quality corporate bonds as required by IAS 19 for the financial statements.
Details of thelatest formal triennial funding valuations are set out in Note 28.3.
The assets of the schemes do not include any direct holdings of the Groups financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets of, the Group.
Principal schemes The Groups principal schemes are the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund BBPF, which includes defined contribution and defined benefit sections, and the Balfour Beatty Shared Cost Section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS.
The defined benefit sections of both schemesare funded and closed to new members with the exception of employees where employment has transferred to the Group undercertain agreed arrangements.
Pension benefits are based on employees pensionable service and their pensionable salary.
The schemes operate under trust law and are managed and administered by trustees on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the trust deed and rules and relevant legislation.
Defined benefit contributions are determined in consultation with the trustees, after taking actuarial advice.
The trustees are responsible for establishing the investment strategy and ensuring that there are sufficient assets to meet the cost of current and future benefits.
These schemes expose the Group to investment and actuarial risks where additional contributions may be required if assets are not sufficient to pay future pension benefits: investment risk: equity returns are a key determinant of investment return but the investment portfolio is also subject to a range ofotherrisks typical of the investments held, for example, credit risk on corporate bond holdings.
actuarial risk: the ultimate cost of providing pension benefits is affected by inflation rates and members life expectancy.
The net presentvalue of the obligations is affected by the market yield on high-quality corporate bonds used to discount the obligations.
Changes in the principal actuarial assumptions based on market data, such as inflation and the discount rate, and experience, suchaslifeexpectancy, expose the Group to fluctuations in the net IAS 19 liability and the net finance cost.
Balfour Beatty Pension Fund The investment strategy of the BBPF is to hold assets of appropriate liquidity and marketability to generate income and capital growth.
The BBPF invests partly in a diversified range of assets including equities and hedge funds in anticipation that, over the longer term, they will grow in value faster than the obligations.
The equities are in the form of pooled funds and are a combination of UK, other developed market and emerging market equities.
The remaining BBPF assets are principally fixed and index-linked bonds and derivatives, providing protection against movements in inflation and interest rates and hence enhancing the resilience of the funding level of the scheme.
The performance ofthe assets is measured against market indices.
On 1 July 2015, the Group established a Scottish Limited Partnership SLP structure into which its investment in Consort Healthcare Birmingham Holdings Ltd Consort Birmingham, which owns the Groups 40% interest in the Birmingham Hospital PFI investment, was transferred.
The BBPF is a partner in the SLP and is entitled to a share of the income of the SLP.
In accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, the SLP is deemed to be controlled by the Group, which retains the ability to substitute the investment in Consort Birmingham for other investments from time to time.
On 29 December 2016 the Group transferred into the SLP its investment in Holyrood Student Accommodation Holdings Ltd, which owned the Groups 100% interest in the Edinburgh student accommodation project.
In December 2018, the Group extracted from the SLP the investment in Holyrood Student Accommodation Holdings Ltd and in its place, theGroup transferred in its 15% share of the Connect Plus M25 asset.
Under IAS 19, the investment held by the BBPF in the SLP does not constitute a plan asset and therefore the pension surplus presented in these financial statements does not reflect the BBPFs interest in the SLP.
Distributions from the SLP to the BBPF will be reflected in the Groups financial statements as pension contributions on a cash basis.
In 2018, the BBPF received distributions of 1m from the SLP 2017: 1m.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 161 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued 28.1 Introduction continued Alongside the establishment of the SLP, agreement was reached to make a series of deficit payments to the BBPF with the first payment of4m paid in 2016: 5m in 2017: and a further 7m in 2018.
A formal triennial funding valuation of the BBPF was carried out as at 31 March 2016.
As a result, the Group made ongoing deficit payments in addition to those set out above of 22m in 2017 and 18m in 2018.
The Group will make further contributions of 19m per annum from January 2019 and 11m in 2020.
If the dividend cover ratio is below an agreed trigger level then the contributions set out above may need to be accelerated.
This agreement constitutes a minimum funding requirement MFR under IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The Group has not recognised any liabilities in relation to this MFR as any surplus of deficit contributions to the BBPF would be recoverable by way of a refund and the Group has the unconditional right to the surplus and controls therun-off of the benefit obligations once all other obligations of the BBPF have been settled.
Railways Pension Scheme The RPS is a shared cost scheme.
The legal responsibility of the Group in the RPS is approximately 60% of the schemes assets and liabilities based on the relevant provisions of the trust deed and rules and trustee guidelines regarding future surplus apportionments anddeficit financing.
In 2013 and previous years, the assumed cost of providing benefits was split between the Group and the members in the ratio 60:40.
This had been a reasonable assumption to make of how costs might have been shared over the long term.
This assumption has been retained in relation to the cost of providing future service benefits.
Because of a declining population of active members, it has become less likely that the Groups costs of meeting any deficits would becapped in line with its strict legal obligation of 60% as members might only be able to afford to fund a small proportion of the schemedeficit.
From 1 January 2016 it has been assumed that the Group will be responsible for 100% of any deficit and the balance sheetassets and obligations disclosed, therefore, are equal to 100% of the total scheme assets and obligations.
The RPS invests in a range of pooled investment funds intended to generate a combination of capital growth and income and, as determinedby the trustee, taking account of the characteristics of the obligations and the trustees attitude to risk.
The majority of the RPSassets that are intended to generate additional returns, over the rate at which the obligations are expected to grow, are invested inasingle pooled growth fund.
This fund is invested in a wide range of asset classes and the fund manager RPMI has the discretion tovarytheasset allocation to reflect its views on the relative attractiveness of different asset classes at any time.
The remaining assets inthe RPS are principally fixed and index-linked bonds.
Following the formal triennial funding valuation carried out as at 31 December 2016, the Group agreed to make ongoing fixed deficit contributions of 6m per annum which should reduce the deficit to zero by 2027.
This agreement constitutes a MFR under IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The Group has not recognised any liabilities inrelation to this MFR as any surplus of deficit contributions to the RPS would be recoverable by way of a refund and the Group has the unconditional right to the surplus and controls the run-off of the benefit obligations once all other obligations of the RPS have been settled.
Other schemes Other schemes comprise unfunded post-retirement benefit obligations in Europe, the majority of which are closed to new entrants, and deferred compensation schemes in North America, where an element of employees compensation is deferred and invested in investments in mutual funds as disclosed in Note 19.1 in a trust, the assets of which are for the ultimate benefit of the employees butareavailable to the Groups creditors in the event of insolvency.
The Group also participates in The Plumbing & Mechanical Services Industry Pension Scheme Plumbers Scheme, which is an industrywide non-associated multi-employer defined benefit scheme.
As the Plumbers Scheme does not segregate assets and liabilities between the different participating employers, the Groups only obligation to the Plumbers Scheme is to pay the contributions requested by the scheme Trustees as they fall due.
In accordance with IAS 19, this obligation has been accounted for on a defined contribution basis and therelevant employer contributions have been charged to the income statement.
com AR2018 162 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued 28.1 Introduction continued Membership of the principal schemes Balfour Beatty Railways Balfour Beatty Railways Pension Fund Pension Scheme Pension Fund Pension Scheme 2018 2018 2017 2017 Defined Defined Defined Defined Number benefit Average Number benefit Average Number benefit Average Number benefit Average of obligations duration of obligations duration of obligations duration of obligations duration members m Years members m Years members m Years members m Years Defined benefit active members 8 3 17 104 44 22 10 3 17 93 43 22 deferred pensioners 11,121 1,602 22 1,217 137 22 11,753 1,692 23 1,234 139 22 pensioners, widow er s and dependants 17,922 1,711 11 1,746 196 13 18,186 1,817 11 1,709 209 13 Defined contribution 13,582 13,534 Total 42,633 3,316 16 3,067 377 17 43,483 3,512 17 3,036 391 17 28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations Principal actuarial assumptions for the IAS 19 accounting valuations of the Groups principal schemes Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Pension Pension Fund Scheme Fund Scheme 2018 2018 2017 2017 % % % % Discount rate 2.80 2.80 2.55 2.55 Inflation rate RPI 3.20 3.20 3.15 3.15 CPI 2.20 2.20 2.05 2.05 Future increases in pensionable salary 2.20 2.20 2.05 2.05 Rate of increase in pensions in payment or such other rate as is guaranteed 2.95 2.30 2.95 2.20 In 2018, the Group recognised additional liabilities following the judgment on the Lloyds Banking Group High Court hearing on GMP equalisation which was published on 26 October 2018.
The judgment indicated that pension trustees needed to amend scheme retirement benefits to equalise for the effect of unequal GMPs and indicated an acceptable range of methods for how to do so.
The effect of GMP equalisation, which amounted to 26m for the BBPF scheme and 2m for the RPS scheme, has been recognised in the Groups income statement asaplan amendment.
The Group has also treated this item as non-underlying due to the size and nature of the income statement charge.
Any future changes in relation to GMP equalisation will be treated as part of the Groups actuarial gains losses which are recognised within OCI.
Following independent advice from the Groups actuaries, the Group reassessed the difference between RPI and CPI measures of price inflation from 1.1% at December 2017 to 1.0% at December 2018.
This resulted in an actuarial loss of 16m being recognised within the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The BBPF actuary undertakes regular mortality investigations based on the experience exhibited by pensioners of the BBPF and due to thesize of the membership of the BBPF 42,633 members at 31 December 2018 is able to make comparisons of this experience with the mortality rates set out in the various published mortality tables.
The actuary is also able to monitor changes in the exhibited mortality over time.
This research is taken into account in the Groups mortality assumptions across its various defined benefit schemes.
The mortality assumptions as at 31 December 2018 have been updated to reflect the experience of Balfour Beatty pensioners for the period 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
The mortality tables adopted for the 2018 IAS 19 valuations are the Self-Administered Pension Scheme SAPS S2tables 2017: SAPS S2 tables with a multiplier of 102% for all male and female members 2017: 102% and 106% for female widows anddependants 2017: 106% : all with future improvements in line with the CMI 2017 core projection model 2017: CMI 2016 core projection model, with long-term improvement rates of 1.25% per annum and 1.00% per annum for males and females respectively 2017: 1.25% perannum and 1.00% per annum.
2018 2017 Average life Average life expectancy expectancy at 65 years of age at 65 years of age Male Female Male Female Members in receipt of a pension 21.7 23.5 21.9 23.6 Members not yet in receipt of a pension current age 50 22.8 24.5 23.0 24.6 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 163 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued 28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued Amounts recognised in the income statement The BBPF defined contribution employer contributions paid and charged to the income statement have been separately identified in the table below and the defined contribution section assets and liabilities amounting to 444m 2017: 460m have been excluded from the tables on pages 164 to 166.
Defined contribution charges for other schemes include contributions to multi-employer pension schemes.
Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Other Pension Pension Other Fund Scheme schemes Total Fund Scheme schemes Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m m Group Current service cost 2 1 2 5 2 1 3 6 Administrative expenses 1 1 Defined contribution charge 45 5 50 43 3 46 Included in employee costs Note 7 47 2 7 56 45 1 6 52 Past service cost as a result of GMP equalisation Note 10.1.
3.3 26 2 28 Interest income 92 8 100 89 7 96 Interest cost 87 10 1 98 90 10 2 102 Net finance income cost Notes 8 and 9 5 2 1 2 1 3 2 6 Total charged to income statement 68 6 8 82 46 4 8 58 Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Other Pension Pension Other Fund Scheme schemes Total Fund Scheme schemes Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m m Actuarial movements on pension schemeobligations 123 11 5 139 72 20 2 94 Actuarial movements on pension schemeassets 108 9 117 129 19 148 Total actuarial movements recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income Note30.1 15 2 5 22 201 39 2 242 Cumulative actuarial movements recognised inthe Statement of Comprehensive Income 118 66 22 206 133 68 27 228 The actual return on plan assets was a loss of 17m 2017: gain of 244m.
Amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Other Pension Pension Other Fund Scheme schemes Total Fund Scheme schemes Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m m Present value of obligations 3,316 377 49 3,742 3,512 391 53 3,956 Fair value of plan assets 3,487 309 3,796 3,668 320 3,988 Asset liabilities in the balance sheet 171 68 49 54 156 71 53 32 Investments in mutual funds of 21m 2017: 22m are held to satisfy the Groups deferred compensation obligations Note 19.1.
The defined benefit obligations comprise 49m 2017: 53m arising from wholly unfunded plans and 3,693m 2017: 3,903m arising from plans that are wholly or partly funded.
com AR2018 164 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued 28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued Movement in the present value of obligations Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Other Pension Pension Other Fund Scheme schemes Total Fund Scheme schemes Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m m At 1 January 3,512 391 53 3,956 3,683 416 56 4,155 Currency translation differences 2 2 2 2 Current service cost 2 1 2 5 2 1 3 6 Past service cost as a result of GMP equalisation 26 2 28 Interest cost 87 10 1 98 90 10 2 102 Actuarial movements from changes in discount rate methodology 110 13 123 Actuarial movements from reassessing thedifference between RPI and CPI 12 4 16 20 5 25 Other financial actuarial movements 115 13 5 133 64 7 2 69 Actuarial movements from changes indemographic assumptions 23 3 26 40 4 44 Experience losses gains 3 1 4 6 15 21 Total actuarial movements 123 11 5 139 72 20 2 94 Benefits paid 188 16 4 208 191 16 4 211 At 31 December 3,316 377 49 3,742 3,512 391 53 3,956 Movement in the fair value of plan assets Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Pension Pension Fund Scheme Total Fund Scheme Total 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m At 1 January 3,668 320 3,988 3,621 303 3,924 Interest income 92 8 100 89 7 96 Actuarial movements 108 9 117 129 19 148 Contributions from employer regular funding 2 1 3 1 1 2 ongoing deficit funding 21 6 27 19 6 25 Administrative expenses 1 1 Benefits paid 188 16 204 191 16 207 At 31 December 3,487 309 3,796 3,668 320 3,988 Ongoing deficit funding contributions in 2018 presented above for BBPF of 21m are less than the amounts prescribed in the funding agreement of 25m due to 4m of BBPF running costs which are funded from ongoing deficit contributions as per the BBPF schedule of contributions.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 165 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued 28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued Fair value of the assets held by the schemes at 31 December 2018 2017 Balfour Balfour Beatty Railways Beatty Railways Pension Pension Pension Pension Fund Scheme Total Fund Scheme Total m m m m m m Return-seeking 1,114 170 1,284 1,126 222 1,348 Developed nation equities 297 297 384 384 Emerging market equities 28 28 36 36 Hedge funds 361 361 337 337 Return-seeking growth pooled funds 170 170 222 222 Other return-seeking assets 428 428 369 369 Liability-matching bond-type assets 1,784 139 1,923 2,060 86 2,146 Corporate bonds 456 456 621 621 Fixed interest gilts 456 456 397 397 Index-linked gilts 719 719 887 887 Liability-matching pooled funds 139 139 86 86 Interest and inflation rate swaps 153 153 155 155 Property 194 194 215 215 Secure income assets 177 177 115 115 Other 218 218 152 12 164 Total 3,487 309 3,796 3,668 320 3,988 The amounts represent 100% of the schemes assets.
Of the assets above, 1,175m 2017: 1,248m are assets that have quoted prices in active markets.
The remaining assets that are neither quoted nor traded on an active market are stated at fair value estimates provided by the manager of the investment or fund.
Estimated contributions expected to be paid to the Groups principal defined benefit schemes during 2019 Balfour Beatty Railways Pension Pension Fund Scheme Total 2019 2019 2019 m m m Regular funding 2 1 3 Ongoing deficit funding 28 6 34 Total required by schedule of contributions 30 7 37 Estimated BBPF running costs to be funded from ongoing deficit contributions 4 4 Estimated total cash contributions 26 7 33 The running costs of the BBPF are funded from ongoing deficit contributions as per the BBPF schedule of contributions.
com AR2018 166 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued 28.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on reasonably possible changes in assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
In each case the relevant change in assumption occurs in isolation from potential changes in other assumptions.
In practice more than one variable is likely to change at the same time.
The sensitivities have been calculated using the projected unit credit method.
Sensitivity of the Groups retirement benefit obligations at 31 December 2018 to different actuarial assumptions Decrease Decrease Percentage increase in increase in points obligations obligations Years % m Increase in discount rate 0.5% 7.5 % 278 Increase in market expectation of RPI inflation 0.5% 5.3% 196 Increase in salary growth 0.5% 0.0% 1 Increase in life expectancy 1 year 4.0% 149 Sensitivity of the Groups retirement benefit assets at 31 December 2018 to changes in market conditions Decrease Decrease increase increase Percentage in assets in assets points % m Increase in interest rates 0.5% 8.1 % 306 Increase in market expectation of RPI inflation 0.5% 5.1% 192 The asset sensitivities only take into account the impact of the changes in market conditions on bond type assets.
The value of the schemes return-seeking assets is not directly correlated with movements in interest rates or RPI inflation.
Year end historical information for the Groups retirement defined benefit schemes 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 m m m m m Present value of obligations 3,742 3,956 4,155 3,397 3,518 Fair value of assets 3,796 3,988 3,924 3,251 3,390 Surplus deficit 54 32 231 146 128 Experience adjustment for obligations 4 21 76 1 7 Experience adjustment for assets 117 148 704 154 574 Total deficit funding 27 25 41 66 49 28.3 Latest formal triennial funding valuations Balfour Beatty Railways Pension Pension Fund Scheme m m Date of last formal triennial funding valuation 31 03 2016 31 12 2016 Scheme deficit Market value of assets 3,536 319 Present value of obligations 3,642 367 Deficit in defined benefit scheme 106 48 Funding level 97.1% 86.9% Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 167 29 Share capital 29.1 Ordinary shares of 50p each Issued Million m At 31 December 2017 and 2018 690 345 All issued ordinary shares are fully paid.
Ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income but each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
No ordinary shares were issued during the current or prior year.
29.2 Cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares of 1p each Issued Million m At 31 December 2017 and 2018 112 1 All issued preference shares are fully paid.
During the current and prior year, no preference shares were repurchased for cancellation by theCompany.
Holders of preference shares are entitled to a preferential dividend equivalent to a gross payment of 10.75p per preference share per annum, payable half-yearly.
A preference dividend of 5.375p per cumulative convertible redeemable preference share of 1p was paid on 1 July 2018 in respect of the six months ended 30 June 2018.
A preference dividend of 5.375p per cumulative convertible redeemable preference share of 1p was paid on 1 January 2019 in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2018.
On 1 July 2020, any preference shares still outstanding are redeemable at 1 each, together with any arrears or accruals of dividend, unless the holder exercises any option granted by the Company to extend the redemption date.
The maximum redemption value of all of the issued and outstanding preference shares, excluding any arrears or accruals of dividend, was 112m at 31 December 2018 2017: 112m.
At the option of the holder, preference shares are convertible on the first day of the next calendar month following receipt of the conversion notice into new Balfour Beatty plc ordinary shares effectively on the basis of 24.69136 ordinary shares for every 100 preference shares, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.
The Company is entitled to convert all outstanding preference shares into ordinary shares ifthere are fewer than 44,281,239 preference shares in issue or if the average of the closing mid-market price for a Balfour Beatty plc ordinary share during a 30-day period exceeds 810p, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.
The preference shares carry no voting rights at a general meeting of the Company, except where the dividend is six months or more inarrears, or where the business of the meeting includes a resolution which directly affects the rights and privileges attached to the preference shares or a resolution for the winding up of the Company.
On winding up the Company, holders are entitled to receive the sumof1 per preference share, together with any arrears or accruals of dividend, in priority to any payment on any other class of shares.
The preference shares are a compound instrument, comprising equity and liability components.
The fair value of the liability component atthe date of issue, included under non-current liabilities, was estimated using the prevailing market interest rate of 13.5% per annum for asimilar non-convertible instrument.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the preference shares and the fair value assigned totheliability component, at the date of issue, representing the equity conversion component at 18m, was included in equity holders equity, netof deferred tax.
Liability component recognised in the Balance Sheet 2018 2017 m m Redemption value of shares in issue at 1 January 112 112 Equity component 18 18 Interest element 9 6 Liability component at 1 January at amortised cost 103 100 Interest accretion 3 3 Liability component at 31 December at amortised cost 106 103 The fair value of the liability component of the preference shares at 31 December 2018 amounted to 120m 2017: 126m.
The fair value isdetermined by using the market price of the preference shares at the reporting date and attributing a fair value to the equity component.
Interest expense on the preference shares is calculated using the effective interest method.
29.3 Convertible bonds On 3 December 2013, the Group issued convertible bonds for net proceeds of 246m.
The convertible bonds were compound instruments comprising equity and liability components.
The fair value of the liability component was estimated as 220m using the prevailing market rate at the date of issue for a similar non-convertible instrument.
The difference between the net proceeds and the fair value of the liability represented the embedded option to convert the liability into the Companys ordinary shares being the equity component of 26m.
In 2018, following the partial repurchase of bonds in December 2017 21.3m and March 2018 17.7m, the Group repaid the remaining convertible bonds as they fell due for a further 213.7m.
com AR2018 168 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30 Movements in equity 30.1 Group Other reserves Share Equity of joint component ventures of Calledand preference up Share associates shares and PPP Currency Nonshare premium Special reserves convertible Hedging financial translation Retained controlling capital account reserve Note 18.6 bonds reserves assets reserve Other profits interests Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 m m m m m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2017 345 65 22 113 42 27 27 105 28 336 10 1,066 Adjustment as a result oftransitioning to IFRS 15 2 on 1 January 2018 3 3 Adjusted equity at 1January 2018 345 65 22 113 42 27 27 105 28 339 10 1,069 Profit for the year 23 112 135 Currency translation differences 7 18 25 Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities 1 22 21 Fair value revaluations PPP financial assets 9 4 5 cash flow hedges 15 3 18 investments in mutual funds measured at fair value through OCI 1 1 Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income @ statement on disposal 5 5 Tax on items recognised in other comprehensive @ income 3 1 1 3 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 45 2 3 18 1 134 195 Ordinary dividends 27 27 Joint ventures and associates dividends 76 76 Movements relating to share-based payments 4 4 Transfers 9 9 Reserve transfers relating to joint venture and associate disposals 19 19 Convertible bonds repayment 24 24 At 31 December 2018 345 65 22 63 18 25 24 123 22 574 10 1,241 @ Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal has no associated tax effect.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 169 30 Movements in equity continued 30.1 Group continued Other reserves Share Equity of joint component ventures of and preference CalledShare associates shares and PPP Currency Retained Nonup share premium Special reserves convertible Hedging financial translation profits controlling capital account reserve Note 18.6 bonds reserves assets reserve Other losses interests Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 345 65 22 184 44 30 25 135 17 50 5 762 Profit for the year 60 108 168 Currency translation differences 18 30 48 Actuarial movements on retirement benefit liabilities 4 242 246 Fair value revaluations PPP financial assets 60 3 63 cash flow hedges 11 4 15 investments in mutual funds measured at fair value through OCI 3 3 Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income @ statement on disposal 85 85 Tax on items recognised inother comprehensive @ income 13 1 1 2 37 50 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 19 3 2 30 5 313 312 Ordinary dividends 20 20 Joint ventures and associates dividends 69 69 Movements relating to share-based payments 6 1 7 Reserve transfers relating to joint venture and associate disposals 21 21 Minority interests 5 5 Convertible bonds repurchase 2 2 At 31 December 2017 345 65 22 113 42 27 27 105 28 336 10 1,066 @ Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal has no associated tax effect.
Representing the minority interests share of the impact of fair valuing the loan instrument which was injected into the related Group subsidiary.
com AR2018 170 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30 Movements in equity continued 30.2 Company Other reserves Equity component of preference Called-up Share shares and share premium Special convertible Retained capital account reserve bonds Other profits Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 345 65 22 44 78 578 1,132 Loss for the year 54 54 Currency translation differences 19 19 Total comprehensive loss for the year 35 35 Ordinary dividends 20 20 Movements relating to share-based payments 2 1 1 Convertible bonds repurchase 2 2 At 31 December 2017 345 65 22 42 80 524 1,078 Profit for the year 362 362 Currency translation differences 7 7 Total comprehensive income for the year 355 355 Ordinary dividends 27 27 Movements relating to share-based payments 7 3 4 Convertible bonds repayment 24 24 At 31 December 2018 345 65 22 18 87 873 1,410 As permitted under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its Statement of Comprehensive Income including the profit and loss account for the year.
Balfour Beatty plc reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 of 362m 2017: 54m loss.
The retained profits of Balfour Beatty plc are wholly distributable.
By special resolution on 13 May 2004, confirmed by the court on 16 June2004, the share premium account was reduced by 181m and the 4m capital redemption reserve was cancelled, effective on25 June 2004, and a special reserve of 185m was created.
This reserve becomes distributable to the extent of future increases insharecapital andshare premium account, of which nil occurred in 2018 2017: nil.
30.3 Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust The retained profits in the Group and the retained profits of the Company are stated net of investments in Balfour Beatty plc ordinary shares acquired by the Groups employee discretionary trust, the Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust, to satisfy awards under the Performance Share Plan, the Executive Buyout Scheme, the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Restricted Share Plan.
The market value of the 6.4m 2017: 9.7m shares held by the Trust at 31 December 2018 was 15.9m 2017: 28.7m.
The carrying value of these shares is 16.2m 2017: 24.1m.
Following confirmation of the performance criteria at the end of the performance period in the case of the Performance Share Plan and the Executive Buyout Scheme, and at the end of the vesting period in the case of the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Restricted Share Plan, the appropriate number of shares will be unconditionally transferred to participants.
In 2018, 3.0m shares were transferred to participants in relation to the June 2015 awards under the Performance Share Plan 2017: 0.5m shares were transferred to participants in relation to the March 2014 awards under the Performance Share Plan, 0.5m shares were transferred to participants in relation to the January 2015 awards under the Executive Buyout Scheme 2017: 0.4m, 0.6m shares were transferred to participants in relation to awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan 2017: 0.3m shares and 0.7m shares were transferred to participants in relation to awards under the Restricted Share Plan 2017: 20 thousand shares.
The Trustees have waived the rights to dividends on shares held by the trust.
Participants in the schemes receive an award of shares torepresent the dividends which would have been payable on the shares since the date of grant.
Other reserves in the Group and Company include 7.5m 2017: 10.1m relating to unvested Performance Share Plan awards, 3.5m 2017: 3.1m relating to unvested Restricted Share Plan awards, 2.6m 2017: 2.4m relating to unvested Deferred Bonus Plan awards andnil 2017: 1.2m relating to unvested Executive Buyout Scheme awards.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 171 31 Notes to the statement of cash flows 31.1 Cash from used in operations Continuing operations Nonunderlying Underlying items 1 items Note 10 2018 2018 2018 2017 Notes m m m m Profit loss from operations 205 58 147 154 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 18 28 5 23 60 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 28 28 28 Depreciation of investment properties 17 1 1 1 Amortisation of other intangible assets 15 12 8 20 22 Impairment of IT intangible assets 15 2 2 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 16 2 2 Pension payments including deficit funding 28.2 30 30 27 Movements relating to share-based payments 33 8 8 9 Gain on disposal of investments in infrastructure concessions 32.2 80 80 86 Net gain on disposal of other businesses 32.2 3 3 22 Loss on disposal of investment properties 2 2 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5 5 6 Loss on GMP equalisation 28 28 Other non-cash items 1 Operating cash flows before movements in 115 18 97 14 working capital Increase decrease in operating working capital 169 60 229 27 2 Inventories 16 16 12 2 Contract assets 53 53 2 Trade and other receivables 8 4 12 95 2 Contract liabilities 2 2 2 Trade and other payables 185 11 196 92 2 Provisions 27 53 80 29 2 Due from construction contract customers 14 2 Due to construction contract customers 21 Cash used in from operations 54 78 132 41 1 Before non-underlying items Notes 2.10 and 10.
The movement in working capital has been presented to exclude movements arising from IFRS 15 reclassification adjustments.
Refer to Note 40 for a re-presentation oftheGroups balance sheet at 1 January 2018 under IFRS 15.
31.2 Cash and cash equivalents Group Group Company Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 m m m m Cash and deposits 587 717 133 71 Term deposits 4 116 1 63 Cash balances within infrastructure concessions 70 135 661 968 134 134 Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than three months.
com AR2018 172 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 31 Notes to the statements of cash flows continued 31.3 Analysis of movement in borrowings Infrastructure concessions non-recourse Loans under project US private Convertible committed finance placement bonds facilities Other Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2017 240 285 240 50 14 829 Currency translation differences 4 26 30 Accretion on convertible bonds 7 7 Proceeds from new loans 212 212 Repayments of loans 4 21 50 2 77 Amortisation of arrangement fees 1 1 Fair value adjustment on loan attributable to minority interest 4 4 At 31 December 2017 440 259 226 13 938 Currency translation differences 2 13 1 16 Accretion on convertible bonds 5 5 Proceeds from new loans 4 4 Repayments of loans 6 33 231 270 Disposal of interest in Holyrood Holdings Ltd Notes 32.2.
5 61 61 Amortisation of arrangement fees 1 1 At 31 December 2018 379 239 15 633 During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group repaid the remaining convertible bonds for 231m.
In addition to this, the Group also repaid the first tranche of the US private placement notes amounting to 33m US$45m.
None of these borrowings were replaced with another form of debt.
In relation to the Groups non-recourse loans, 61m of these loans were disposed as part of the Groups disposal of an80% interest in Holyrood Holdings Ltd.
The Groups entire revolving credit facilities of 400m remain undrawn at31 December 2018.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 173 32 Acquisitions and disposals 32.1 Current and prior year acquisitions There were no material acquisitions in 2018.
Deferred consideration paid during 2018 in respect of acquisitions completed in earlier years was 3m 2017: 3m.
This related to the Groups acquisition of Centex Construction in 2007.
32.2 Current year disposals Direct costs incurred, indemnity Amount provisions recycled created and Percentage Cash Net assets from fair value Underlying disposed consideration disposed reserves uplift gain Notes Disposal date Entity business % m m m m m 32.2.
2 18 September 2018 Consort Healthcare Fife Holdings Ltd 50% 43 3 17 23 32.2.
Net assets disposed include 4m of accrued subordinated debt receivable which was settled as part of the disposal.
The balance also includes 1m of excess bid costs recovered which were released and credited to the gain on disposal.
# Total cash consideration received by the Group also includes 3m of cash received in respect of the Groups disposal of Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners in 2016 Note 10.1.
3.5 and 1m of deferred cash consideration received in respect of the Groups disposal of its Middle Eastern joint ventures in 2017 Note 32.3.
1 On 19 February 2018, the Group agreed to dispose of a further 5% interest in Connect Plus M25 Holdings Ltd to Equitix for a cash consideration of 42m, resulting in a gain on disposal of 22m in the first half of 2018.
In addition to the consideration for this disposal, the Group also received 62m on 23 February 2018 from the disposal of a 7.5% interest in December 2017, which was structured as an unconditional right to sell the stake to Dalmore for an identical price if Equitix failed to exercise its right to acquire this interest.
The Group assessed that a loss of control was triggered as a result of this agreement and therefore the gain on disposal for this tranche was recognised in 2017 and 62m of consideration held as amounts due on disposal.
Equitix subsequently exercised its right to acquire in 2018 and together with its acquisition of the further 5% stake in 2018, paid a consideration to the Group of104m.
The Group retained a 15% interest in Connect Plus M25 Holdings Limited.
2 On 18 September 2018, the Group disposed of its entire 50% interest in Consort Healthcare Fife Holdings Ltd for a cash consideration of 43m.
The infrastructure concession disposal resulted in a net gain of 23m being recognised in underlying operating profit, comprising: a gain of 40m in respect of the investment in the joint venture and a loss of 17m related to the recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement.
3 On 17 December 2018, the Group disposed of 80% of its interest in Holyrood Holdings Ltd for a cash consideration of 24m.
The disposal resulted in a gain of 22m being recognised in underlying operating profit which includes a fair value uplift of 5m relating totheremaining 20% interest which the Group retained.
The disposal included cash disposed of 3m.
4 On 28 December 2018, the Group disposed of an 81% interest in Northside Campus Partners LP Texas Dallas for a cash consideration of 13m.
The infrastructure concession disposal resulted in a 13m gain being recognised in underlying operating profit, comprising a gain of 12m in respect of the Groups investment in the joint venture and a gain of 1m in respect of foreign currency translation reserves recycled to the income statement on disposal.
The Group retained a 10% interest in Northside Campus Partners LP.
com AR2018 174 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32 Acquisitions and disposals continued 32.2.
5 Subsidiaries net assets disposed Holyrood Holdings Ltd Net assets disposed Notes m Intangible assets other 15 72 Deferred taxation 27.1 1 Trade and other payables 7 Cash 3 Non-recourse borrowings 31.3 61 Net assets of interest retained 1 7 Fair value uplift on interest retained 5 Cash consideration 24 Gain on disposal 22 Net cash flow effect Total consideration 24 Cash and cash equivalents disposed 3 Net cash consideration 21 32.3 Prior year disposals Direct costs incurred, indemnity Amount provisions recycled created and NonPercentage Cash Net assets from fair value Underlying underlying disposed consideration disposed reserves uplift gain gain loss Notes Disposal date Entity business % m m m m m m 32.3.
2 12 September 2017 Regional & City Airports Blackpool Holdings Ltd 100% 4 5 1 32.3.
Net assets disposed include loan receivables due to the Company from BK Gulf LLC of 17m which were settled as part of the disposal.
# Cash consideration above reflects elements which have been deferred and were therefore discounted at year end.
These amounted to 5m and were included in due ondisposalswithin trade and other receivables.
@ Of this amount, 103m was received in 2017.
The remaining 62m was included in due on disposals within trade and other receivables and was subsequently received on23 February 2018.
& Net assets disposed include 6m of subordinated debt receivable which was settled as part of the disposal.
The balance also includes 2m of excess bid costs recovered whichwere released and credited to the gain on disposal.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 175 32 Acquisitions and disposals continued 32.3 Prior year disposals continued 32.3.
1 On 26 January 2017, the Group reached agreement to sell its 49% interests in Dutco Balfour Beatty LLC and BK Gulf LLC to its jointventure partner for a total cash consideration of 11m, an element of which was deferred.
The sale subsequently completed on 1 March2017.
The Groups share of results in these entities was presented as part of its discontinued operations with comparatives restatedaccordingly.
The 5m gain on the disposal was presented as non-underlying within discontinued operations.
2 On 12 September 2017, the Group disposed of its entire 100% interest in Regional & City Airports Blackpool Holdings Ltd for a cashconsideration of 4m.
The disposal resulted in a 1m loss being recognised as a non-underlying item within continuing operations.
3 On 27 October 2017, the Group disposed of its 100% interest in Heery International Inc for a cash consideration of 43m.
The disposal resulted in a net gain of 18m being recognised as a non-underlying item within continuing operations in 2017, comprising a gain of 12m in respect of net assets disposed after direct costs and indemnity provisions incurred of 10m and a gain of 6m in respect ofcumulative foreign exchange reserves recycled to the income statement.
The disposal included cash disposed of 5m.
In 2018, an additional indemnity provision of 12m was recognised following the reassessment of several projects which were indemnified by the Group in the sale agreement.
This has been recognised as a loss within non-underlying items in 2018.
4 On 21 December 2017, the Group disposed of a 12.5% interest in Connect Plus M25 Holdings Ltd to Dalmore for a cash consideration of 103m.
Subsequently on 29 December 2017, the Group disposed of a further 7.5% interest in the joint venture for a cash consideration of 62m.
On this date, the Group ceased to jointly control this 7.5% interest as Equitix had the right to acquire this stake for acash consideration of 62m which was exercisable up until 13 March 2018.
At the same time, the Group had an unconditional right to sellthe stake to Dalmore for an identical price if Equitix failed to exercise its right to acquire.
The completion of this portion of the disposal was ongoing at 31 December 2017 and therefore the consideration of 62m was included in trade and other receivables as amounts due ondisposals.
This consideration was subsequently received on 23 February 2018 following completion of the disposal to Equitix.
These disposals resulted in a net gain of 86m being recognised within underlying operating profit, comprising a gain of 1m in respect ofthe Groups investment in the joint venture and a gain of 85m in respect of revaluation reserves recycled to the income statement on disposal.
5 On 21 November 2016, the Group reached agreement to dispose of its 49% interest in Balfour Beatty Sakti Indonesia to its joint venture partner for a payment by the Group of 3m reflecting the Groups share of the net liabilities of the joint venture.
This was recognised as a disposal in 2016 as completion of the sale was not subject to any substantive terms at 31 December 2016.
The Group subsequently completed the disposal in March 2017.
A payment of 3m was made by the Group to the purchaser following the completion of this disposal.
6 Prior year subsidiaries net assets disposed Region & City Airports Heery Blackpool International Holdings Ltd Inc Total Net assets disposed Notes m m m Intangible assets goodwill 14 17 17 Property, plant and equipment 16.1 6 2 8 Deferred taxation 27.1 1 9 8 Due to construction contract customers 6 6 Trade and other receivables 18 18 Trade and other payables 22 22 Provisions 25 2 2 Cash 5 5 5 21 26 Costs directly related to the sale 10 10 5 31 36 Cash consideration 4 43 47 Amounts recycled from reserves 6 6 Loss gain on disposal 1 18 17 Net cash flow effect Total consideration 4 43 47 Cash and cash equivalents disposed 5 5 Transaction costs paid 2 2 Net cash consideration 4 36 40 balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 176 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 33 Share-based payments The Company operates four equity-settled share-based payment arrangements, namely the Executive Buyout Scheme EBS, the Performance Share Plan PSP, the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP and the Restricted Share Plan RSP.
The Group recognised total expenses relating to equitysettled share-based payment transactions of 8m in 2018 2017: 9.4m.
Refer to the Remuneration report for details of the various schemes.
In 2017, the Company introduced two cash-settled share-based payment arrangements, namely the Shadow PSP SPSP and the Shadow RSP SRSP.
These share-based payment arrangements mirror the conditions of the equity-settled PSP and RSP plans, the only difference being they are settled in cash.
Movements in share plans Equity-settled share-based payment awards EBS PSP DBP RSP conditional conditional conditional conditional 2018 number of awards awards awards awards awards Outstanding at 1 January 1,270,173 9,905,225 1,709,075 3,142,660 Granted during the year 3,393,943 734,073 1,226,338 Awards in lieu of dividends 27,815 41,988 Forfeited during the year 752,513 1,064,305 43,734 354,101 Exercised during the year 517,660 3,006,009 587,604 773,203 Expired during the year Outstanding at 31 December 9,228,854 1,839,625 3,283,682 Exercisable at 31 December Weighted average remaining contractual life years 1.3 1.4 1.5 Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for awards exercised inthe year 287.6p 280.8p 270.7p 278.7p EBS PSP DBP RSP conditional conditional conditional conditional 2017 number of awards awards awards awards awards Outstanding at 1 January 1,905,260 8,128,097 1,464,322 1,936,946 Granted during the year 3,087,443 632,308 1,539,448 Awards in lieu of dividends 19,054 28,974 Forfeited during the year 189,854 821,131 76,848 342,624 Exercised during the year 445,233 489,184 329,761 20,084 Expired during the year Outstanding at 31 December 1,270,173 9,905,225 1,709,075 3,142,660 Exercisable at 31 December 61,662 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 1.3 1.3 1.6 Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for awards exercised in the year 271.6p 139.3p 272.1p 274.6p The principal assumptions, including expected volatility determined from the historical weekly share price movements over the three-year period immediately preceding the award date, used by the consultants in the stochastic model for the 33.3% of the PSP awards granted in2018 subject to market conditions, were: Closing Calculated share Expected Expected Risk-free fair value price on volatility of term of interest of an award date shares awards rate award Award date Name of award Pence % Years % Pence 27 March 2018 PSP award 273.0 27.62 3.0 0.94 167.0 For the 66.7% of the PSP awards granted in 2018 subject to non-market conditions and for the DBP and RSP awards granted in 2018, thefair value of the awards is the closing share price on the date of grant.
Cash-settled share-based payment awards SPSP SRSP conditional conditional 2018 number of awards awards awards Outstanding at 1 January 3,125,765 Granted during the year 2,651,931 381,754 Awards in lieu of dividends Forfeited during the year 6,261 12,000 Exercised during the year Expired during the year Outstanding at 31 December 5,771,435 369,754 Exercisable at 31 December Weighted average remaining contractual life years 1.6 2.3 Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for awards exercised inthe year Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 177 34 Commitments Capital expenditure authorised and contracted for which has not been provided for in the financial statements amounted to 7m 2017: 2m in the Group and nil 2017: nil in the Company.
The Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding and subordinated debt in Infrastructure Investments projects which have reached financial close.
Refer to Note 39 f. The Group leases land and buildings, equipment and other various assets under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The lease expenditure charged to the income statement for continuing operations is disclosed in Note 6.1.
Future operating lease expenditure commitments Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other 2018 2018 2017 2017 m m m m Due within one year 20 27 22 33 Due between one and five years 37 38 47 48 Due after more than five years 20 2 15 3 77 67 84 84 The Company did not have any future operating lease expenditure commitments as at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
Future committed operating lease income Land and Land and buildings buildings 2018 2017 m m Due within one year 5 7 Due between one and five years 2 6 7 13 The Company did not have any future committed operating lease income as at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
35 Contingent liabilities The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings have, in the normal course of business, given guarantees and entered into counterindemnities in respect of bonds relating to the Groups own contracts and given guarantees in respect of their share of certain contractual obligations of joint ventures and associates and certain retirement benefit liabilities of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund and the Railways Pension Scheme.
Guarantees are treated as contingent liabilities until such time as it becomes probable payment will be required under theterms of the guarantee.
Provision has been made for the Directors best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress.
The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where the Directors consider, based on thatadvice, that the action is unlikely to succeed, or that the Group cannot make a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation.
36 Related party transactions Joint ventures and associates The Group has contracted with, provided services to, and received management fees from, certain joint ventures and associates amountingto 269m 2017: 279m.
These transactions occurred in the normal course of business at market rates and terms.
In addition, the Group procured equipment and labour on behalf of certain joint ventures and associates which were recharged at cost with no mark-up.
The amounts due from or to joint ventures and associates at the reporting date are disclosed in Notes 23 and 24 respectively.
Transactions with non-Group members The Group also entered into transactions and had amounts outstanding with related parties which are not members of the Group as set out below.
These companies were related parties as they are controlled or jointly controlled by a non-executive director of Balfour Beatty plc.
2018 2017 m m Anglian Water Group Ltd Sale of goods and services 26 18 Amounts owed by related parties 3 URENCO Ltd Sale of goods and services 19 72 Amounts owed by related parties 2 All transactions with these related parties were conducted on normal commercial terms, equivalent to those conducted with external parties.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No expense hasbeen recognised in the year for bad or doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
com AR2018 178 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 36 Related party transactions continued Compensation of key management personnel of the Company 2018 2017 m m Short-term benefits 2.724 2.938 Share-based payments 1.728 2.584 4.452 5.522 Key management personnel comprise the executive Directors who are directly responsible for the Groups activities and the .
The compensation included above is in respect of the period of the year during which the individuals were Directors.
Further details of Directors emoluments, post-employment benefits and interests are set out in the 2018 Remuneration report onpages88to 103.
37 Events after the reporting date As at 12 March 2019, there were no material post balance sheet events arising after the reporting date.
38 Financial instruments Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure its ability to continue as a going concern and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The components of capital are as follows: equity attributable to equity holders of the Company comprising issued ordinary share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 29.1 and 30: convertible redeemable preference shares as disclosed inNote 29.2: US private placement as disclosed in Note 26: and cash and cash equivalents and borrowings as disclosed inNote 26.
The Group maintains or adjusts its capital structure through the payment of dividends to equity holders, issue of new shares and buybackofexisting shares, and drawdown of new borrowings and repayment of existing borrowings.
The policy of the Group is  balance between cash, borrowings other than the non-recourse borrowings of companies engaged  projects, working capital and the value in the Infrastructure Investments investment portfolio.
The overall capital risk management strategy of the Group remains unchanged from 2017.
Categories of financial instruments Loans and Financial Loans and Financial receivables Financial assets at Financial receivables Financial assets at Financial at amortised liabilities at fair value assets at at amortised liabilities at fair value assets at cost, cash amortised through amortised cost, cash amortised through amortised and deposits cost OCI cost Derivatives and deposits cost OCI cost Derivatives 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m m m m Financial assets Fixed rate bonds and treasury stock 9 17 Mutual funds 21 22 PPP financial assets 156 163 Cash and deposits 661 968 Trade and other receivables 1,084 1,080 Derivatives 1 3 Total 1,745 177 9 1 2,048 185 17 3 Financial liabilities Liability component of preference shares 106 103 Trade and other payables 1,484 1,585 Unsecured borrowings 254 498 Infrastructure concessions nonrecourse term loans 379 440 Derivatives 29 35 Total 2,223 29 2,626 35 Net 1,745 2,223 177 9 28 2,048 2,626 185 17 32 Current year comprehensive income loss excluding share of joint ventures andassociates 25 59 4 1 3 31 67 17 1 4 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 179 38 Financial instruments continued Derivatives Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets Financial liabilities NonNonNonNonCurrent current Total Current current Total Current current Total Current current Total 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m m m m m m m Foreign currency contracts Designated as cash flow hedges 1 1 2 1 3 1 1 Interest rate swaps Designated as cash flow hedges 4 25 29 4 30 34 1 1 4 25 29 2 1 3 5 30 35 Non-derivative financial liabilities gross maturity The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities.
The table reflects the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial liabilities including interest that will accrue on those liabilities except where the Group isentitled to and intends to repay the liability before its maturity.
The discount column represents the possible future cash flows included inthe maturity analysis, such as future interest, that are not included in the carrying value of the financial liability.
Maturity profile of the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities at 31 December Total nonNon-recourse Other derivative project Other financial financial Carrying finance borrowings liabilities liabilities Discount value 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 m m m m m m Due on demand or within one year 50 15 1,341 1,406 2 1,404 Due within one to two years 6 36 207 249 8 241 Due within two to five years 57 164 36 257 10 247 Due after more than five years 513 39 12 564 233 331 626 254 1,596 2,476 253 2,223 Discount 247 6 253 Carrying value 379 254 1,590 2,223 Total nonNon-recourse Other derivative project Other financial financial Carrying finance borrowings liabilities liabilities Discount value 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m Due on demand or within one year 11 274 1,448 1,733 9 1,724 Due within one to two years 84 4 99 187 14 173 Due within two to five years 30 34 138 202 17 185 Due after more than five years 398 191 13 602 58 544 523 503 1,698 2,724 98 2,626 Discount 83 5 10 98 Carrying value 440 498 1,688 2,626 Derivative financial liabilities gross maturity The following table details the Groups expected maturity for its derivative financial liabilities.
The table reflects the undiscounted net cash inflows outflows on the derivative instruments that settle on a net basis interest rate swaps and undiscounted gross inflows outflows forthose derivatives that are settled on a gross basis foreign exchange contracts.
When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, theamount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates, using the yield curves at the reporting date.
Maturity profile of the Groups derivative financial liabilities at 31 December Net Net Payable Receivable payable Payable Receivable payable 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 m m m m m m Due on demand or within one year 30 27 3 21 18 3 Due within one to two years 10 7 3 7 3 4 Due within two to five years 9 9 10 10 Due after more than five years 20 20 24 24 Total 69 34 35 62 21 41 balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 180 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38 Financial instruments continued Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk: credit risk: and liquidity risk.
The Groups financial risk management strategy seeks to minimise the potential adverse effect of these risks on the Groups financial performance.
Financial risk management is carried out centrally by Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board.
Group Treasury liaises with the Groups operating companies to identify, evaluate and hedge financial risks.
The Board provides written principles for overall financial risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity.
Compliance with policies and exposure limits is monitored through the Groups internal audit and risk management procedures.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments tohedge certain risk exposures.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, forspeculative purposes.
a Market risk The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including: forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on trading activities transacted in a currency that is not thefunctional currency of the operating company interest rate swaps to mitigate the cash flow variability in non-recourse project finance loans arising from variable interest rates on borrowings.
There has been no material change to the Groups exposure to market risks and there has been no change in how the Group manages thoserisks since 2017. i Foreign currency risk management The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from exposure to various currencies, primarily to USdollars, euros and Hong Kong dollars.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future trading transactions, assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Group policy requires operating companies to manage their transactional foreign exchange risk against their functional currency.
Whenever acurrent or future foreign currency exposure is identified with sufficient reliability, Group Treasury enters into forward contracts onbehalf of operating companies to cover 100% of foreign exchange risk above materiality levels determined by the Chief Financial Officer.
Refer to page 179 for details of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding at the reporting date in respect of foreign currency transactional exposures.
As at 31 December 2018, the notional principal amounts of foreign exchange contracts in respect of foreign currency transactions where hedge accounting is not applied was 17m 2017: 13m receivable and 18m 2017: 12m payable with related cash flows expected tooccur within two years 2017: one year.
The foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from fair valuing these unhedged foreign exchangecontracts will affect the income statement throughout the same periods.
The Group has designated forward exchange contracts with a notional principal amount of 16m 2017: 8m receivable and 15m 2017: 9m payable as cash flow hedges against highly probable cash flows which are expected to occur within two years 2017: fouryears.
Fair value losses on these contracts of 2m 2017: 1m gains have been taken to hedging reserves through other comprehensive income.
No significant amounts in relation to hedge ineffectiveness have been charged or credited to the income statement in relation to any foreignexchange cash flow hedges.
The Groups investments in foreign operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risks.
The Group does not enter into forward foreign exchange or other derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency denominated net assets.
In March 2013, the Group raised US$350m through a US private placement which has been designated as a net investment hedge againstchanges in the value of the Groups US net assets due to exchange movements.
On 7 March 2018, the Group repaid the first tranche of thisloan amounting to US$45m.
The Group has reassessed this hedge and has concluded that the hedge continues to be effective.
Exchange movements in the year totalled 16m 2017: 26m.
A 5% increase decrease in the US dollar to sterling exchange ratewould lead to a 11m decrease 2017: 12m 13m increase 2017: 14m in the carrying amount of the liability on the Groups balancesheet, with the movement recognised in other comprehensive income.
The hedging policy is reviewed periodically.
At the reporting date there had been no change to the hedging policies since 2017. ii Interest rate risk management Interest rate risk arises in the Groups non-recourse project companies which borrow funds at both floating and fixed interest rates and hold financial assets measured at fair value through OCI.
Floating rate borrowings expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Groups policy to manage this risk is to swap floating rate interest to fixed rate, using interest rate swap contracts.
In an interest rate swap, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated on agreednotional principal amounts.
The net effect of a movement in interest rates on income would be immaterial.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the yield curve at the reporting date.
During 2018 and 2017, the Groups non-recourse project subsidiaries borrowings at variable rates of interest were denominated in sterling and US dollars.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 181 38 Financial instruments continued The notional principal amounts of the subsidiaries interest rate swaps outstanding at 31 December 2018 totalled 109m 2017: 113m withmaturities that match the maturity of the underlying borrowings ranging from one year to 21 years.
At 31 December 2018, the fixed interest rates range from 3.5% to 5.1% 2017: 3.5% to 5.1% and the principal floating rates are LIBOR plusafixed margin.
A 50 basis point increase decrease in the interest rate in which financial instruments are held would lead to a 5m increase 2017: 6m 7m decrease 2017: 8m in amounts taken directly to other comprehensive income by the Group in relation to the Groups exposure to interest rates on the PPP financial assets and cash flow hedges of its Infrastructure Investments subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk also arises on the Groups cash and cash equivalents, term deposits and other borrowings.
The majority of the debt of theGroup is held at fixed interest rates.
A 50 basis point increase decrease in the interest rate of each currency in which these financial instruments are held would lead to a 3.2m decrease 2017: 2.8m 3.2m increase 2017: 1.4m in the Groups net finance cost.
iii Price risk management The Groups principal price risk exposure arises in its Infrastructure Investments concessions.
At the commencement of the concession, anelement of the unitary payment by the customer is indexed to offset the effect of inflation on the concessions costs.
The Group is exposed to price risk to the extent that inflation differs from the index used.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations, resulting in financial loss.
Credit risk arises from cash and deposits, derivative financial instruments and credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
The Group has a policy of assessing the creditworthiness of potential customers before entering into transactions.
For cash and deposits and derivative financial instruments, the Group has a policy of only using counterparties that are independently rated with a minimum long-term credit rating of BBB.
At 31 December 2018, nil 2017: 1m did not meet this criterion due to the operational and relationship difficulties in transferring certain balances, however no losses are anticipated from these counterparties.
The credit rating ofa financial institution will determine the amount and duration for which funds may be deposited under individual risk limits set by the Board of Directors for the Group and subsidiary companies.
Management monitors the utilisation of these credit limits regularly.
For trade and other receivables, credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable using independent ratings where available or by assessment of the customers credit quality based on its financial position, past experience and other factors.
The Groups most significant customers are public or regulated industry entities which generally have high credit ratings or are of a high credit quality due to the nature of the customer.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in respect of the above at the reporting date is the carrying value of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, net of any allowance for losses.
c Liquidity risk The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash balances and banking facilities, continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities are set outin Note 26.1.
The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities is set out on page 179.
Fair value estimation The Group holds certain financial instruments on the balance sheet at their fair values.
The following hierarchy classifies each class offinancial asset or liability in accordance with the valuation technique applied in determining its fair value.
There have been no transfers between these categories during 2018 or 2017.
Level 1 The fair value is calculated based on quoted prices traded in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The Group holds investments in mutual funds measured at fair value through OCI which are traded in active markets and valued at the closing market price at the reporting date.
Level 2 The fair value is based on inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, eitherdirectly or indirectly.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows utilising yield curves at the reportingdate and taking into account own credit risk.
Own credit risk for Infrastructure Investments swaps is not material and is calculated using the following credit valuation adjustment CVA calculation: loss given default multiplied by exposure multiplied by probability of default.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date and yieldcurves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts.
Own credit risk for the other  is not material and is calculated by applying a relevant credit default swap CDS rate obtained from a third party.
Level 3 The fair value is based on unobservable inputs.
com AR2018 182 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 38 Financial instruments continued The fair value of the Groups PPP financial assets is determined in the construction phase by applying an attributable profit margin by reference to the construction margin on non-PPP projects reflecting the construction risks retained by the construction contractor, and fair value of construction services performed.
In the operational phase it is determined by discounting the future cash flows allocated to the financial asset at a discount rate which is based on long-term gilt rates adjusted for the risk levels associated with the assets, with marketrelated movements in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income and other movements recognised in the income statement.
Amounts originally recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement upon disposal of the asset.
A change in the discount rate would have a significant effect on the value of the asset and a 50 basis point increase decrease, which represents managements assessment of a reasonably possible change in the risk-adjusted discount rate, would lead to a 6m decrease 2017: 7m 7m increase 2017: 7m in the fair value of the assets taken through equity.
Refer to Note 20 for a reconciliation of the movement from the opening balance to the closing balance.
2018 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial instruments at fair value m m m m m m m m Investments in mutual fund financial assets 21 21 22 22 Financial assets foreign currency contracts 1 1 3 3 PPP financial assets 156 156 163 163 Total assets measured at fair value 21 1 156 178 22 3 163 188 Financial liabilities foreign currency contracts 1 1 Financial liabilities infrastructure concessions interest rate swaps 29 29 34 34 Total liabilities measured at fair value 29 29 35 35 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 183 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates a Principal subsidiaries Country of incorporation orregistration Construction and Support Services Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc US Balfour Beatty Construction, LP Canada Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc US Infrastructure Investments Note 39 Balfour Beatty Communities LLC US Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investments Ltd Balfour Beatty Investments Inc US Balfour Beatty Campus Solutions LLC US Balfour Beatty Investments, LP Canada Balfour Beatty Communities, LP Canada Other Balfour Beatty Holdings Inc.
US Delphian Insurance Company Ltd Isle of Man b Principal joint ventures and associates Country of Ownership incorporation interest or registration % Construction and Support Services Gammon China Ltd Hong Kong 50.0 Infrastructure Investments Note 39 Connect Plus M25 Ltd 15.0 c Principal joint operations The Group carries out a number of its larger contracts in joint arrangements with other contractors so as to share resources and risk.
The principal joint projects in progress during the year are shown below.
Crossrail 26.7 M25 Maintenance 52.5 Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route 50.0 Area 10 ASC 70.0 A14 33.3 Bergstrom CRC US 45.0 Regional Rail Partners North Metro US 50.0 Notes i Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose results did not, in the opinion of the Directors, materially affect the results or net assets of the Group are not shown.
ii Unless otherwise stated, 100% of the equity capital is owned and companies are registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are conductedinthe country of incorporation.
Indicates held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
Previously 20%, the Group disposed of a 5% interest in February 2018.
A full list of the Groups related undertakings is included in Note 42. balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 184 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued d Balfour Beatty Investments UK Roads Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in 13 road and street lighting projects to construct new roads, to upgrade and maintain existing roads and to replace and maintain street lighting.
The principal contract is the project agreement with the governmental highway authority.
All assets transfer to the customer at the end of the concession.
Total debt and equity funding Financial Duration Construction Concession company i Project m Shareholding close years completion Connect M1-A1 Ltd 30km road 290 20% March 1996 30 1999 Connect A50 Ltd 57km road 42 25% May 1996 30 1998 Connect A30 A35 Ltd 102km road 127 20% July 1996 30 2000 Connect M77 GSO plc ii 25km road 167 85% May 2003 32 2005 Connect Roads Sunderland Ltd Streetlighting 27 20% August 2003 25 2008 Connect Roads South Tyneside Ltd Streetlighting 28 20% December 2005 25 2010 Connect Roads Derby Ltd Streetlighting 36 100% April 2007 25 2012 Connect Plus M25 Ltd J16 J23, J27 J30 and A1 M Hatfield T unnel 1,309 15% May 2009 30 2012 Connect CNDR Ltd Carlisle Northern Development Route 176 25% July 2009 30 2012 Connect Roads Coventry Ltd Streetlighting 56 20% August 2010 25 2015 Connect Roads Cambridgeshire Ltd Streetlighting 51 20% April 2011 25 2016 Connect Roads Northamptonshire Ltd Streetlighting 64 20% August 2011 25 2016 Aberdeen Roads Ltd Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route 665 33.3% December 2014 33 2019 Notes i Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Connect M77 GSO plc and Aberdeen Roads Ltd which areregistered in and conduct their principal operations in Scotland.
ii Due to the shareholders agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financialand operating policies of this company, the Directors consider that the Group does not control this company and it has been accounted for as a joint venture.
Healthcare Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in three healthcare projects to build hospital accommodation and to provide certain non-medical facilities management services over the concession period.
The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession company and the NHS Trust and in the case of the Irish Primary Care Centres, the Irish Government.
All assets transfer tothecustomer at the end of the concession.
Total debt and equity funding Financial Duration Construction Concession company i Project m Shareholding close years completion Consort Healthcare Birmingham Ltd Teaching hospital and mental health hospital 553 40% June 2006 40 2011 Woodland View Project Co Ltd Mental health hospital in Irvine 58 100% June 2014 27 2016 Healthcare Centres PPP Ltd Primary health care centres 158 40% May 2016 26 2019 Note i Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Woodland View Project Co Ltd which is registered in and conducts its principal operations in Scotland and Healthcare Centres PPP Ltd which is registered in and conducts its principal operations in Ireland.
Student accommodation Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in four student accommodation projects.
On Holyrood, Sussex and Aberystwyth, theprincipal agreement is between the concession company and the university and the assets transfer to the customer at the end of theconcession.
On Glasgow Residences the building is owned outright by Balfour Beatty and rooms will be let to individual students.
Total debt and equity funding Duration Construction Concession company i Project m Shareholding Financial close years completion Holyrood Student Accommodation SPV Ltd Edinburgh 82 20% July 2013 50 2016 Aberystwyth Student Accommodation Ltd Aberystwyth 51 100% July 2013 35 2015 Glasgow Residences Kennedy Street SPV Ltd Glasgow 40 100% April 2016 n a 2017 East Slope Residencies Student Accommodation LLP Sussex 218 80% March 2017 50 2020 Note i Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales except Holyrood Student Accommodation SPV Ltd and Glasgow Residences Kennedy Street SPV Ltd which are registered in and conduct their principal operations in Scotland.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 185 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued d Balfour Beatty Investments UK continued Other concessions Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd PCDL has a 25-year contract with the Environment Agency to maintain a shingle bank sea defence in East Sussex.
Gammon Capital West Pte Ltd has a contract with the Institute of Technical Education ITE College West of Singapore to design, build and finance the ITE and provide long-term facilities management services for the remainder of the 27-year project.
Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd is contracted by the local authority to design, construct, fund and provide facilities for 16 community firestations in Merseyside, Cumbria and Lancashire.
UBB Waste Essex Ltd and UBB Waste Gloucestershire Ltd have contracts with the local authorities to design, build and operate sustainable waste treatment facilities.
Thanet involves the operation of transmission assets for the 300MW offshore windfarm project located off the Kent coast.
Gwynt y Mr involves the operation of transmission assets for the 576MW offshore wind farm in the Irish Sea.
Humber involves the operation of transmission assets for the 219MW offshore wind farm in the North Sea.
Thanet, Gwynt y Mr and Humber operate and maintain the transmission assets under the terms of perpetual licences granted by Ofgem which contain the right to be paid a revenue stream over a 20-year period on an availability basis.
Birmingham Bio Power involves the design, construction, financing, operation and maintenance of a 9.3MW waste wood gasifier located at Tyseley Energy Park, Birmingham.
Welland Bio Power involves the design, construction, financing, operation and maintenance of a 10.4MW waste wood gasifier located atPebble Hall Farm, Thredingworth.
With the exception of the Birmingham Bio Power and Welland Bio Power plants, all assets transfer tothecustomer at the end of the relevant concession.
Total debt and equity funding Duration Construction Concession company i Project m Shareholding Financial close years completion Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd Sea defences 3 25% July 2000 25 n a Gammon Capital West Pte Ltd Technical education college 100 50% August 2008 27 2010 Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue NW Ltd Fire stations 55 100% February 2011 25 2013 UBB Waste Essex Ltd Waste processing plant 146 30% May 2012 28 2015 UBB Waste Gloucestershire Ltd Waste processing plant 223 49.5% January 2016 25 2019 Thanet OFTO Ltd Offshore transmission 197 20% December 2014 20 n a Gwynt y Mr OFTO plc ii Offshore transmission 256 60% February 2015 20 n a Birmingham Bio Power Ltd Waste wood gasifier 53 37.5% December 2013 n a 2018 Welland Bio Power Ltd Waste wood gasifier 17 25% March 2015 n a 2018 Humber Gateway OFTO Ltd Offshore transmission 187 20% September 2016 20 n a Notes i Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Gammon Capital West Pte Ltd which is registered in and conducts its principal operations in Singapore.
ii Due to the shareholders agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial and operating policies of this company, the Directors consider that the Group does not control this company and it has been accounted for as a joint venture.
Due to delays in achieving planning, UBB Waste Gloucestershire Ltd reached a second financial close in January 2016. e Balfour Beatty Investments North America Military housing Summary Balfour Beatty through its subsidiary Balfour Beatty Communities LLC is a manager, developer, and investor in a number of USmilitary privatisation projects associated with a total of 55 US government military bases which includes 55 military family housing communities and one unaccompanied personnel housing community that are expected to contain approximately 43,000 housing units oncedevelopment, construction and renovation are complete.
The projects comprise 11 military family housing privatisation projects with the United States Department of the Army Army, seven projects with the United States Department of the Air Force Air Force and two projects with the United States Department of the Navy Navy.
In addition, there is one unaccompanied personnel housing UPH project with the Army at Fort Stewart.
Contractual arrangements The first phase of the project, known as the initial development period, covers the period of initial construction or renovation of military housing on a base, typically lasting three to eight years.
With respect to Army and Navy projects, the government becomes a member or partner of the project entity Project LLC : the Air Force is not a named partner or member in Balfour Beatty Communities Project LLCs, however it contributes a commitment to provide a government direct loan to the Project LLC and has similar rights to share in distributions and cash flows of the Project LLC.
On each project, the Project LLC enters into a ground lease with the government, which provides the Project LLC with a leasehold interest in the land and title to the improvements on the land for a period of 50years.
Each of these military housing privatisation projects includes agreements covering the management, renovation, and development of existing housing units, as well as the development, construction, renovation and management of new units during the term of the project, which, in the case of the Army, could potentially extend for up to an additional 25 years.
The 50-year duration of each project calls for continuous renovation, rehabilitation, demolition and reconstruction of housing units.
At the end of the ground lease term the ProjectLLCsleasehold interest terminates and all project improvements on the land generally transfer to the government.
com AR2018 186 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued e Balfour Beatty Investments North America continued Military housing continued Preferred returns The projects will typically receive, to the extent that adequate funds are available, an annual minimum preferred rate of return.
On most existing projects, this annual minimum preferred rate of return ranges from 9% to 12% of Balfour Beatty Communities initial equity contribution to the project.
During the initial development period, the project is precluded from distributing funds to pay the minimum preferred rate of return.
The unpaid amounts will generally accrue and accumulate, and can be used to fund renovation and construction costs, if necessary.
If the accumulated funds are not needed to fund renovation and construction costs, at the end of the initial development period they are distributed to pay accrued preferred returns to Balfour Beatty Communities and the government in accordance with the terms of the project agreements.
Allocation of remaining operating cash flows Subsequent to the initial development period, any operating cash flow remaining after the annual minimum preferred rate of return is paid is shared between Balfour Beatty Communities and the reinvestment account held by the project for the benefit of the government.
On most of the existing projects, the total amount that Balfour Beatty Communities is entitled to receive inclusive of the preferred return is generally capped at an annual modified rate of return, or cash-on-cash return, on its initial equity contribution to the project.
Historically, these caps have ranged between approximately 9% to 18% depending on the particular project and the type of return annual modified rates of return or cash-on-cash.
However, in some of the more recent projects, there are either no annual caps or lower projected annual rates of return.
The total capped return generally will include the annual minimum preferred return discussed above.
The reinvestment account is an account established for the benefit of the military, but funds may be withdrawn for construction, development and renovation costs during the remaining life of a privatisation project upon approval by the applicable military service.
Return of equity Generally, at the end of a project term, any monies remaining in the reinvestment account are distributed to Balfour Beatty Communities and the Army, Navy or Air Force, in a predetermined order of priority.
Typically these distributions will have the effect of providing the parties with sufficient funds to provide a minimum annual return over the life of the project and a complete return of the initialcapital contribution.
After payment of the minimum annual return and the return of a partys initial contribution, all remaining funds willtypically be distributed to the applicable military service.
Total project funding Duration Construction Military concession company i ii Projects m Financial close years completion Military family housing Fort Carson Family Housing LLC Army base 138 November 2003 46 2004 Fort Carson expansion 102 November 2006 43 2010 Fort Carson GTA expansion 78 April 2010 39 2013 Fort Carson GTA II expansion 53 June 2015 34 2018 Stewart Hunter Housing LLC Two Army bases 294 November 2003 50 2012 Fort Hamilton Housing LLC Army base 48 June 2004 50 2009 Fort Detrick Walter Reed Army Medical Center Housing LLC Two Army bases 88 July 2004 50 2008 Northeast Housing LLC Seven Navy bases 389 November 2004 50 2010 Fort Eustis Fort Story Housing LLC Two Army bases 137 March 2005 50 2011 Fort Eustis expansion 6 July 2010 45 2011 Fort Eustis Marseilles Village 21 March 2013 42 2015 Fort Bliss White Sands Missile Range HousingLP Two Army bases 336 July 2005 50 2011 Fort Bliss expansion 36 December 2009 46 2011 Fort Bliss GTA expansion phase I 122 July 2011 44 2014 Fort Bliss GTA expansion phase II 115 November 2012 43 2016 Fort Gordon Housing LLC Army base 86 May 2006 50 2012 Carlisle Picatinny Family Housing LP Two Army bases 66 July 2006 50 2011 Carlisle Heritage Heights phase II 17 October 2012 44 2014 AETC Housing LP Four Air Force bases 282 February 2007 50 2012 Southeast Housing LLC 11 Navy bases 438 November 2007 50 2013 Vandenberg Housing LP Air Force base 122 November 2007 50 2012 Leonard Wood Family Communities LLC Army base 181 Acquired June 2008 47 2014 AMC West Housing LP Three Air Force bases 336 July 2008 50 2015 West Point Housing LLC Army base 173 August 2008 50 2016 Fort Jackson Housing LLC Army base 142 October 2008 50 2013 Lackland Family Housing LLC Air Force base 82 Acquired December 2008 50 2013 Western Group Housing LP Four Air Force bases 258 March 2012 50 2017 Northern Group Housing LLC Six Air Force bases 328 August 2013 50 2019 ACC Group Housing LLC Two Air Force bases 44 June 2014 50 2018 Military unaccompanied personnel housing Stewart Hunter Housing LLC 28 January 2008 50 2010 Notes i Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
ii The share of results of the military housing joint ventures of Balfour Beatty Communities is limited to a pre-agreed preferred return on funds invested.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 187 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued e Balfour Beatty Investments North America continued Military housing continued The Group evaluated each of its interests in the military housing projects to determine if the entities should be consolidated.
This analysis included, but was not limited to, identifying the activities that most significantly impact an entitys economic performance, which party or parties control those activities and the risks associated with these entities.
Decision-making power over key facets of the contracts was evaluated when determining which party or parties had control over the activities that most significantly impacted a projects economics.
Based on this review, the Directors consider that the Group does not have the power to direct these activities and does not have control andtherefore the Group does not consolidate the military housing projects.
Hospitals Summary Balfour Beatty is a developer, operator and investor in two hospital projects in Canada.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession companies and the authorities.
An inflation-indexed payment is primarily based upon availability of the hospital subject to any performance related deductions.
The construction services for the BC Childrens and BC Womens Hospitals project were subcontracted to a joint venture in which the Group had a 50% participation and the facilities maintenance services were subcontracted to a joint venture in which the Group has a 50% participation.
The soft facilities management services at North Island Hospital were subcontracted to a Group company and the hard facilities management services were subcontracted to a third party.
The payments for the soft facilities management services, at both projects, are initially market adjusted afterthe third year of operations and then every six years thereafter.
All assets transfer to the authorities at the end of the concession.
Total project funding Duration Construction Hospitals i Project m Shareholding Financial close years completion Affinity Partnerships ii BC Childrens and BC Womens Hospitals 262 70% April 2014 33 2017 THP Partnerships North Island Hospital 295 50% June 2014 32 2017 Notes i Registered in the province of Manitoba in Canada and the principal operations of each project are conducted in British Columbia, Canada.
ii Balfour Beatty has joint control over the project through unanimous consent over all significant operating and financing decisions, and therefore does not consolidate the project.
Other PPP concessions Summary Balfour Beatty is a developer, operator and investor in a data centre located at the Canadian Forces base in Borden, Ontario and inthe automated people mover at the Los Angeles airport.
The people mover will be a 2.25 mile, above ground airport transport system.
Contractual arrangements The principal contracts are the respective project agreements between the concession partnership and the authorities.
Total debt and equity funding Duration Construction Concession partnership Project m Shareholding Financial close years completion UIP GP i Borden Data Centre 89 50% May 2016 25 2018 LAX Integrated Express Solutions LLC ii LINXS 2,158 27% June 2018 30 2023 Notes i Registered in the province of Ontario in Canada and the principal operations of the project are conducted in Ontario, Canada.
ii Registered in the US and the principal operations of the project are conducted in the US.
Residential investments Summary Balfour Beatty is a developer, operator and investor in 10 multifamily residential projects.
Contractual arrangements Balfour Beatty has formed joint ventures to acquire residential apartment buildings for 10 multifamily residential projects.
For the Dallas 5 Portfolio, Townlake of Coppell, Mobile Alabama portfolio, Evergreen, Carolina Cove, Riverchase, Zephyr Ridge, Lexington and Southwind projects, the joint ventures entered into agreements with Balfour Beatty Communities LLC to perform the operations and renovation work.
For the Ranch at Pinnacle Point, the joint venture entered into an agreement with Balfour Beatty Communities LLC to perform the asset management services and renovation work.
In November 2018, the RAPP-BB Associates LLC joint venture restructured intoa tenancy-in-common ownership, resulting in Balfour Beatty holding a 100% shareholding in BBC-TIC Owner LLC which owns 50% of the Pinnacle Point project.
The Groups share of assets and liabilities within that project has been presented as held for sale at 31 December 2018 and the project was subsequently sold in January 2019.
Total project funding Renovation Residential investments i m Shareholding Financial close completion BBC-TIC Owner LLC Pinnacle Point, Arkansas 34 100% February 2015 2018 DFW 5 Holdings, LLC Dallas 5 Portfolio, Texas 135 10% May 2015 2018 Coppell Properties, LLC Texas 40 10% May 2015 2018 BBC Apexone Mobile Eastern, LLC Alabama 20 50% January 2016 2018 Carolina Cove Wilmington Owner LLC North Carolina 38 50% December 2017 2018 TBB Evergreen Holdings, LLC Atlanta, Georgia 65 15% June 2017 2021 Riverchase Landing Hoover Owner, LLC Alabama 33 8% March 2018 2022 Zephyr Ridge Zephyrhills Owner, LLC Tampa, Florida 24 50% August 2018 2021 Lexington Ridgeland Owner, LLC Jackson, Mississippi 19 50% August 2018 2021 Southwind Memphis Owner, LLC Tennessee ii 31 20% December 2018 2023 Note i Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
ii Under the joint venture terms, Balfour Beatty maintains a 20% voting ownership interest in the entity and a 15% economic ownership in regard to distributions.
com AR2018 188 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 39 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued e Balfour Beatty Investments North America continued Student accommodation Summary Through its subsidiary, Balfour Beatty Campus Solutions LLC, Balfour Beatty is a manager on one student accommodation project, where it also acted as a developer.
Balfour Beatty is also a developer and owner of five additional student accommodation projects.
Contractual arrangements The principal contract in the Florida Atlantic University project is the property management agreement with thestate university setting out the obligations for the operation and maintenance of the student accommodation.
The principal contracts inthe other student accommodation projects where Balfour Beatty is an owner are the ground leases, development leases and operating agreements with the state universities setting out the obligations for the construction, operation and maintenance of the student accommodation including lifecycle replacement during the concession period.
Total project funding Duration Construction Concession company i m Shareholding Financial close years completion C-BB Management LLC C-BBC Development LLC Florida 79 ii March 2010 30 2011 BBCS-Hawkeye Housing LLC Iowa Phase 1 24 100% June 2013 41 2014 BBCS-Hawkeye Housing LLC Iowa Phase 2 26 100% May 2015 39 2016 BBCS-UN Reno Housing LLC Reno 17 100% August 2013 43 2014 Northside Campus Partners LP Texas Dallas 42 10% March 2015 61 2016 Northside Campus Partners 2, LP Texas Dallas 49 10% February 2017 61 2018 Balfour Beatty-Walsh Housing LLC Purdue 68 67% January 2018 45 2019 Notes i Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
ii 50% holding in the management company.
f Balfour Beatty Investments UK and North America Total future committed equity and debt funding for Infrastructure Investments project companies 2022 2019 2020 2021 onwards Total Concessions m m m m m UK Student accommodation 6 17 23 Waste and biomass 27 27 Other UK 9 4 2 15 30 42 21 2 15 80 North America Aviation 20 20 Multibuild housing 1 1 1 20 21 43 21 2 35 101 Projects at financial close 34 17 20 71 Projects at preferred bidder stage 9 4 2 15 30 Total 43 21 2 35 101 Note These categories have been presented within Other concessions in Note 39 d. 40 Impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 40.1 Impact areas Except for the adoption of IFRS 15, the Group has consistently applied the accounting policies to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
The Group has adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers from 1 January 2018.
As a result, the Group has changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition and the new policy is detailed in Notes 2.4 and 2.5.
The Group has applied IFRS 15 using the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of equity at 1 January 2018.
Therefore, the comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under IAS11and IAS 18.
The details of the significant changes and the quantitative impact of the changes are set out below: Adjustment 1: Relates to the recognition of the impact on transition to IFRS 15 at 1 January 2018 of a 3m credit to equity.
The adjustment relates to the unbundling of certain contracts according to the Groups assessment of each contracts performance obligations to be delivered toits customers.
Adjustment 2: In addition to the impact on equity following transition to IFRS 15 at 1 January 2018, the Groups consolidated balance sheet is impacted as a result of moving away from IAS 11 balance sheet captions to those prescribed by IFRS 15.
The main reclassification adjustment is in relation to reclassifying amounts due to from construction contract customers to contract assets or contract liabilities.
In addition to this, provision balances which were previously presented within amounts due to from construction contract customers for contracts that were ongoing at that time in line with the requirements of IAS 11 have now been presented within provisions as appropriate.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 189 40 Impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers continued 40.2 Impact on the financial statements on transition at 1 January 2018 The cumulative effect of the changes made to the Groups consolidated balance sheet at 1 January 2018 for the adoption of IFRS 15 isas follows: 31 December Adjustment Adjustment 1 January 2017 1 2 2018 m m m m Non-current assets Investments in joint ventures and associates 531 531 PPP financial assets 163 163 Trade and other receivables 216 216 Deferred tax assets 52 52 Other non-current assets 1,554 1,554 2,516 2,516 Current assets Inventories and non-construction work in progress 107 53 54 Contract assets 2 412 414 Due from construction contract customers 377 377 Trade and other receivables 899 31 930 Other current assets 978 978 2,361 2 13 2,376 Total assets 4,877 2 13 4,892 Current liabilities Due to construction contract customers 535 535 Contract liabilities 5 481 476 Trade and other payables 1,542 4 30 1,516 Provisions 194 90 284 Current tax payable 15 15 Other current liabilities 281 281 2,567 1 6 2,572 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 157 1 156 Provisions 98 8 106 Deferred tax liabilities 70 70 Other non-current liabilities 919 919 1,244 7 1,251 Total liabilities 3,811 1 13 3,823 Net assets 1,066 3 1,069 Equity Retained profits 336 3 339 Other reserves not affected by IFRS 15 720 720 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,056 3 1,059 Non-controlling interests 10 10 Total equity 1,066 3 1,069 40.3 Impact of adopting IFRS 15 on the Groups 2018 results Impact on the Groups consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 The Groups consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 is impacted by Adjustment 1.
At 31 December 2018, the Group would have recognised an additional loss of 1m if it had continued to apply IAS 11 and IAS 18 in 2018.
There is no other impact on the Groups consolidated income statement for the year as a result of applying previous revenue accounting standards.
Impact on the Groups consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2018 In addition to the impact arising from Adjustment 1, the Groups consolidated balance sheet is also impacted by balance sheet reclassifications as a result of adopting balance sheet captions prescribed by IFRS 15 in place of IAS 11 requirements.
The reclassification adjustments to convert the Groups consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2018 back to what it would have been if the Group had continued to apply previous revenue accounting standards is set out on page 190. balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 190 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 40 Impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers continued 40.3 Impact of adopting IFRS 15 on the Groups 2018 results continued 31 December 31 December 2018 2018 as reported Adjustment Adjustment reported under under IFRS 15 1 2 IAS 11 IAS18 Consolidated balance sheet m m m m Non-current assets Investments in joint ventures and associates 524 524 PPP financial assets 156 156 Trade and other receivables 212 212 Deferred tax assets 80 80 Other non-current assets 1,563 1,563 2,535 2,535 Current assets Inventories and non-construction work in progress 84 7 91 Contract assets 363 363 Due from construction contract customers 2 395 397 Trade and other receivables 902 75 827 Other current assets 667 667 2,016 2 36 1,982 Assets held for sale 16 16 2,032 2 36 1,998 Total assets 4,567 2 36 4,533 Current liabilities Due to construction contract customers 5 461 466 Contract liabilities 489 489 Trade and other payables 1,373 1 12 1,386 Provisions 167 12 155 Current tax payable 17 17 Other current liabilities 67 67 2,113 6 28 2,091 Liabilities held for sale 11 11 2,124 6 28 2,102 Non-current liabilities Contract liabilities 2 2 Trade and other payables 143 143 Provisions 149 8 141 Deferred tax liabilities 90 90 Other non-current liabilities 818 818 1,202 8 1,194 Total liabilities 3,326 6 36 3,296 Net assets 1,241 4 1,237 Equity Retained profits 574 4 570 Other reserves not affected by IFRS 15 657 657 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,231 4 1,227 Non-controlling interests 10 10 Total equity 1,241 4 1,237 41 Audit exemptions taken for subsidiaries The following subsidiaries are exempt from the requirements under the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual financial statements by virtue of Section 479A of the Act.
Company registration number Education Investments Holdings Ltd 6863458 Consort Healthcare Infrastructure Investments Ltd 6859623 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 191 42 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2018 In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, partnerships, associates and joint ventures, including the principal activity, the country of incorporation and the effective percentage of equity owned as at 31 December 2018 is disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, all interests are in the ordinary share capital or shares of common stock in the entity and are held indirectly by the Company, and all entities operate principally in their country of incorporation.
All subsidiaries had a reporting period ended 31 December 2018 and are wholly owned and consolidated into the Groups results, except where indicated.
Subsidiary undertakings incorporated in the United Kingdom Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity West Stratford Investment holding Balfour Beatty Rail Ltd Agent of Balfour 350 Euston Road, Regents Place, Developments Ltd company Beatty Group Ltd London NW1 3AX 5 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf, Balfour Beatty Rail Projects Ltd Agent of Balfour Aberystwyth Student Infrastructure London E14 5HU Beatty Group Ltd Accommodation Ltd concession Avatar Ltd Dormant Balfour Beatty Rail Technologies Agent of Balfour Balfour Beatty Fire and Investment holding Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Rescue NW Holdings Ltd company Balfour Beatty Build Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Balfour Beatty Rail Track Systems Agent of Balfour Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue Infrastructure Ltd Beatty Group Ltd NW Intermediate Ltd concession Balfour Beatty Building Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Balfour Beatty Agent of Balfour Balfour Beatty Fire and Rescue Infrastructure Refurbishment Ltd Beatty Group Ltd NW Ltd concession Balfour Beatty CE Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Balfour Beatty Regional Agent of Balfour Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investment holding Construction Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Investments Ltd i company Balfour Beatty Civil Agent of Balfour Engineering SW Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Balfour Kilpatrick Ltd Dormant Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investment holding Partners Member Ltd company Balfour Beatty Civil Agent of Balfour Balvac Ltd Agent of Balfour Engineering Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investment holding Projects Investments Ltd company Balfour Beatty Civils Ltd Agent of Balfour Bical Construction Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Balfour Beatty Investments Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Balfour Beatty Const Ltd Agent of Balfour Bignell & Associates Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Balfour Beatty OFTO Investment holding Holdings Ltd company Balfour Beatty Construction SW Agent of Balfour Birse Group Ltd Investment holding Ltd Beatty Group Ltd company BBI Holdings Australia Ltd Investment holding company Balfour Beatty Construction Agent of Balfour Birse Metro Ltd Construction and International Ltd Beatty Group Ltd support services BBPF LLP iv Investment partnership Balfour Beatty Construction Agent of Balfour Bnoms Ltd i Nominee company Northern Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Connect Roads Derby Investment holding BPH Equipment Ltd Hire of plant and Holdings Ltd company Balfour Beatty Engineering Agent of Balfour transport Services HY Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Connect Roads Derby Ltd Infrastructure Cowlin Group Ltd Investment holding concession Balfour Beatty Group Employer for UK company Employment Ltd workforce Connect Roads Infrastructure Investment holding Guinea Investments Ltd Investment holding Investments Ltd company Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Construction and company support services Consort Healthcare Infrastructure Investment holding Haden Building Services Ltd Investment holding Investments Ltd company Balfour Beatty Homes Ltd Agent of Manring company Homes Ltd East Slope Residencies Facilities Infrastructure Haden Young Ltd i Dormant Management Ltd concession Balfour Beatty International Ltd Agent of Balfour Hall & Tawse Western Ltd Dormant Beatty Group Ltd East Slope Residencies Investment holding Laser Rail Ltd Agent of Balfour HoldingsLtd company Balfour Beatty Investment Investment holding Beatty Group Ltd Holdings Ltd i company East Slope Residencies Infrastructure Lounsdale Electric Ltd Dormant Partner Ltd concession Balfour Beatty Management Ltd Agent of Balfour Manring Homes Ltd Property investment Beatty Group Ltd East Slope Residencies PLC ii Infrastructure Multibuild Construction Agent of Balfour concession Balfour Beatty Nominees Ltd Nominee company & Interiors Ltd Beatty Group Ltd East Slope Residencies Student Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Overseas Investment holding Office Projects Interiors Ltd Agent of Balfour Accommodation LLP ii iv concession Investments Ltd company Beatty Group Ltd Education Investments Investment holding Balfour Beatty Overseas Ltd Investment holding Omnicom Engineering Ltd Construction HoldingsLtd company company services Initial GP1 Ltd Investment holding Balfour Beatty Property Ltd i Agent of Balfour Raynesway Construction Ltd Agent of Balfour company Beatty plc Beatty Group Ltd Manchester Residences Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Rail Infrastructure Agent of Balfour Strata Construction Ltd Dormant NewCross Ltd concession Services Ltd Beatty Group Ltd balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 192 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 42 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2018 continued Subsidiary undertakings incorporated in the United Kingdom continued Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity Midmill Business Park, Tumulus Way, Southern Track Renewals Dormant in Hereford Steel Works, Holmer Road, Kintore, Aberdeenshire AB51 0TG Company Ltd liquidation Hereford HR4 9SW Balfour Beatty Engineering Agent of Balfour West Service Road, Raynesway, Painter Brothers Ltd Agent of Balfour Services CL Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Derby DE21 7BG Beatty Group Ltd Park Square, Newton Chambers Road, Balfour Beatty Plant & Hire of plant and Kings Business Park, Kings Drive, Thorncliffe Park, Chapeltown, Sheffield S35 2PH FleetServices Ltd transport Prescot, Merseyside L34 1PJ C O Mazars LLP, 100 Queen Street, Balfour Beatty Utility Agent of Balfour Balfour Beatty Pension Pension fund trustee Glasgow, G1 3DN, Scotland SolutionsLtd iii Beatty Group Ltd Trust Ltd i Aberdeen Construction Dormant in BB Indonesia Ltd Support services C O Mc Griggors LLP, Arnott House, Group Ltd liquidation 12-16 Bridge Street, Belfast, BT1 1LS Q14, Quorum Business Park, Benton Lane, Notes: Northern Ireland Newcastle upon Tyne NE12 8B i Held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
Balfour Kilpatrick Dormant Balfour Beatty Rail Corporate Agent of Balfour ii 80% owned.
NorthernIrelandLtd Services Ltd Beatty Group Ltd iii Preference shares and or deferred sharesalso held.
The Curve Building, Axis Business Park, Balfour Beatty WorkSmart Ltd Agent of Balfour iv Partnership interests held.
Hurricane Way, Langley, Berkshire, SL3 8AG Beatty Group Ltd Balfour Beatty Ground Agent of Balfour C O Mazars, Tower Bridge House, Engineering Ltd Beatty Group Ltd St Katharines Way, London E1W 1DD Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Agent of Balfour Balfour Beatty Homes Dormant in Services Ltd Beatty Group Ltd SouthWestern Ltd liquidation Balfour Beatty Living Places Ltd Agent of Balfour Balfour Beatty Power Networks Dormant in Beatty Group Ltd Distribution Services Ltd liquidation Sunderland Streetlighting Ltd Agent of Balfour Birse Construction Ltd Investment holding Beatty Group Ltd company in liquidation Testing and Analysis Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Birse Rail Ltd Dormant in liquidation Maxim 7, Maxim Office Park, Parklands Avenue, Eurocentral, Holytown ML1 4WQ Dean & Dyball Developments Ltd Dormant in liquidation Balfour Beatty Construction Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Dean & Dyball Rail Ltd Dormant in liquidation Balfour Beatty Construction Agent of Balfour Scottish & Southern Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Dean & Dyball Workforce Ltd Dormant in liquidation Balfour Beatty Kilpatrick Limited Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd Edgar Allen Engineering Ltd Dormant in liquidation Balfour Beatty Rail Agent of Balfour Residuary Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Eastern Infrastructure Dormant in Maintenance Company Ltd liquidation Balfour Beatty Regional Agent of Balfour Civil Engineering Ltd Beatty Group Ltd Footprint Furniture Ltd Dormant in liquidation BBPFS LP iv Investment partnership Heery International Ltd Dormant in liquidation Glasgow Residences Investment holding KennedyStreet Holdings Ltd company Mansell plc Investment holding company in Glasgow Residences Infrastructure liquidation KennedyStreet LLP iv concession Multibuild Interiors Ltd Dormant in Glasgow Residences Infrastructure liquidation KennedyStreet SPV Ltd concession Multibuild Hotels and Leisure Ltd Dormant in Hall & Tawse Ltd Dormant liquidation Initial Founder Partner GP1 Ltd Investment holding Office Projects Group Ltd Investment holding company company in Woodland View Investment holding liquidation Holdings Co Ltd company Office Projects Ltd Dormant in Woodland View Infrastructure liquidation IntermediateCoLtd concession South East Infrastructure Dormant in Woodland View Project Infrastructure Maintenance Company Ltd liquidation Co Ltd concession Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 193 42 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2018 continued Subsidiary undertakings incorporated outside the United Kingdom Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity Australia Chile Malaysia Allens Corporate Services Pty Ltd, Level 4 Vicuna MacKenna Poniente 6843, Oficina 209, Level 8, Symphony House, Block D13, Deutsche Bank Place, 126 Phillip Street, La Florida, Santiago Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A 46, SydneyNSW 2000 47301 Petaling Jaya Balfour Beatty Chile SA Construction services Balfour Beatty Australia Pty Ltd Construction and Balfour Beatty Rail Design Support services China support services International Sdn Bhd Beijing Landmark Towers Building 2, Balfour Beatty Holdings Investment holding Netherlands Room 511-514, No 8 Dongsanhuan North Road, AustraliaPty Ltd company Chaoyang District, Beijing Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097 JB, Amsterdam Bahamas Dormant Balfour Beatty Rail Construction services BICC Finance BV The Alexander Corporate Group Limited, Electrification Equipment in liquidation OneMillars Court, PO Box N-7117, Nassau Trading Beijing Ltd Rapenburgerstraat 177 B, 1011 VM, Amsterdam Balfour Beatty Bahamas Ltd Dormant Germany Balfour Beatty Netherlands BV Investment holding company Brazil Garmischer Strasse 35, 81373 Munich New Zealand Avenida Brigadeiro Faria Lima, No.
1478, Suites Balfour Beatty Capital GmbH Dormant 105, 1st Floor, Jardim Paulistano, So Paulo, C O Price Waterhouse Coopers, Level 8, Balfour Beatty Offshore Dormant 01.451001 Price Waterhouse Coopers Tower, Transmission Germany GmbH 188 Quay Street, Private Bag 92162, Auckland RHA do Brasil Servios fide Construction services Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH Construction services Infraestrutura Ltda Balfour Beatty New Zealand Ltd Construction and BICC Holdings GmbH Investment holding Canada support services company Boren Ladner Gervais LLP, 22 Adelaide Centre Schreck-Mieves GmbH Dormant East Tower Toronto ON M5H 4E3 Romania Hong Kong BB Group Canada Inc Investment holding 23 General Ernest Brosteanu Street, 1st District, company 010527 Bucharest Level 54, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East BB UIP Inc Infrastructure SC Balfour Beatty Rail SRL Dormant Investment Balfour Beatty Hong Kong Ltd Construction and Sri Lanka Taylor McCaffrey LLP, 900-400 St. Mary Avenue, support services No.
216 fide Saram Place, Colombo 10 Winnipeg MB R3C 4K5 India Balfour Beatty Ceylon Construction services Balfour Beatty Communities Infrastructure 3rd Floor, Municipal No.
1, Service Road, Private Ltd GP, Inc investment 11 VB Colony, Outer Ring Road, Ward No.
88, Switzerland Balfour Beatty Communities, Infrastructure Bansawadi, Banglore, Karnataka-KA Hansmatt 32, 6370 Stans LP iii investment Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Engineering design India Pvt.
Ltd consultancy Balfour Beatty Construction Construction services Balfour Beatty Rail Schweiz Dormant GmbH in liquidation GP, Inc Ireland Balfour Beatty Construction, Construction services Thailand City Junction Business Park, Northern Cross, LP iii Malahide Road, Dublin 17 9 Soi Santisuk, Sithisarn Road, Huay Kwang, Bangkok Balfour Beatty CWH Infrastructure Support services Balfour Beatty Ireland Ltd ii Holdings Inc concession Asia Trade Development Co Ltd Dormant C O Mazars, Block 3, Harcourt Centre, Balfour Beatty Investments Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Construction Dormant Harcourt Road, Dublin 2 GP, Inc investment Thailand Co Ltd Dormant in Kenton Utilities & Developments Balfour Beatty Investments, Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Holdings Dormant liquidation LP iii investment Ireland Ltd Thailand Co Ltd Isle of Man Balfour Beatty THP Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Thai Ltd Dormant Holdings, Inc. concession Tower House, Loch Promenade, Linwood Co Ltd Dormant Douglas, IM1 2LZ, Isle of Man BB CWH, LP iii Infrastructure investment Delphian Insurance Company Insurance company Ltd i BB CWH GP, Inc Infrastructure investment Jersey BB NIH, LP iii Infrastructure 12 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RT investment Balfour Beatty Employees Employee trust BB NIH GP, Inc Infrastructure Trustees Ltd i investment 47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 0BD Balfour Beatty Finance Finance company No.
com AR2018 194 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 42 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2018 continued Subsidiary undertakings incorporated outside the United Kingdom continued Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity Name of undertaking Principal activity United States BBC Military Housing AETC Infrastructure BICC Cables Corporation Business services General PartnerLLC concession 1011 Centre Road, Suite 310, Corporation Service Company, 300 Deschutes Wilmington fide 19805 BBC Military Housing AETC Infrastructure Way SW, Suite 304, Tumwater WA 98501 Limited Partner LLC concession Balfour Beatty Holdings Inc Investment holding Howard S Wright Construction Co Construction company BBC Military Housing AMC Infrastructure services General Partner LLC concession Balfour Beatty LLC Investment holding HSW, Inc Construction company BBC Military Housing AMC Infrastructure services Limited Partner LLC concession 50 Public Square, Suite 2175, Cleveland OH 44113 CSC Nevada, C O CSC Services of Nevada, Inc. BBC Military Housing Bliss Infrastructure 502 East John Street, Carson City, Nevada, 89706 National Engineering & Construction services WSMR General Partner LLC concession Contracting Company Balfour Beatty Golden Construction BBC Military Housing Bliss Infrastructure Construction Company services 999 Peachtree Street NE, Atlanta, WSMR Limited Partner LLC concession Georgia 30309-39764 Balfour Beatty Construction Construction BBC Military Housing Carlisle Infrastructure Company, Inc services Balfour Beatty Infrastructure, Construction services Picatinny General Partner LLC concession Inc Balfour Beatty Construction Construction BBC Military Housing Carlisle Infrastructure Group, Inc services Corporation Service Company, 505 5th Avenue Picatinny Limited Partner LLC concession Suite 729, DesMoines, IA50309 Notes: BBC Military Housing FDWR Infrastructure BBCS Condominium Infrastructure i Held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
LLC concession Association, Inc concession ii In accordance with the provisions of Section 357 of BBC Military Housing Fort Infrastructure the Irish Companies Act 2014, the Company, as the Corporation Service Company, 1127 Broadway ultimate parent of Balfour Beatty Ireland Ltd BBIL Carson LLC concession Street NE, Suite310, SalemOR 97301 having its registered office at City Junction BBC Military Housing Fort Infrastructure Business Park, Northern Cross, Malahide Road, Balfour Beatty Rock Springs LLC Construction services Dublin 17, Ireland, irrevocably guarantees in respect Gordon LLC concession Corporation Service Company, 1703 Laurel Street, of the whole of the financial year of BBIL ended BBC Military Housing Fort Infrastructure 31 December 2018, all the liabilities of BBIL Columbia SC 29201 Hamilton LLC concession provided that this guarantee shall not extend to any National Casualty and Insurance company liability or commitment of BBIL which shall not have BBC Military Housing Fort Infrastructure Assurance, Inc arisen otherwise than in respect of the financial year Jackson LLC concession or which shall not constitute a liability or loss.
Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls iii Partnership interests held.
BBC Military Housing Hampton Infrastructure Drive, Wilmington fide 19808 iv 65% interest held.
Roads LLC concession Balfour Beatty Campus Infrastructure holding BBC Military Housing Lackland Infrastructure Solutions, LLC company LLC concession Balfour Beatty Infrastructure BBC Military Housing Leonard Infrastructure Communities, LLC investment Wood LLC concession Balfour Beatty Construction Construction BBC Military Housing Navy Infrastructure D. C. LLC services Northeast LLC concession Balfour Beatty Construction, Construction BBC Military Housing Navy Infrastructure LLC services Southeast LLC concession Balfour Beatty Equipment, Construction BBC Military Housing Northern Infrastructure LLC services Group, LLC concession Balfour Beatty Investments, Inc Investment BBC Military Housing Stewart Infrastructure company Hunter LLC concession Balfour Beatty Management Inc Business services BBC Military Housing Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Military Housing Infrastructure Vandenberg General Partner LLC concession Development LLC investment BBC Military Housing Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Military Housing Investment holding Vandenberg Limited Partner LLC concession Investments LLC company BBC Military Housing West Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Military Housing Infrastructure Point LLC concession Management LLC investment BBC Military Housing Western Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Worthgroup, Construction General Partner, LLC concession LLC services BBC Military Housing Western Infrastructure BBC D5 Investors, LLC iv Investment Limited Partner, LLC concession company BBC Multifamily Holdings, LLC Infrastructure BBC AF Housing Infrastructure investment ConstructionLLC investment BBCS Hawkeye Housing, LLC Infrastructure BBC AF Management Infrastructure concession Development LLC investment BBCS Northside Campus, LLC Infrastructure BBC Evergreen, LLC Investment company concession BBC Independent Infrastructure BBCS UN Reno Housing, LLC Infrastructure MemberI, Inc investment concession BBC Independent Infrastructure BBCS Development, LLC Infrastructure MemberII, Inc investment investment BBC Military Housing ACC Infrastructure BBC TIC Owner, LLC Investment Group, LLC concession company Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 195 42 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2018 continued Joint ventures incorporated in the United Kingdom % held % held % held by the Principal by the Principal by the Principal Name of undertaking Group activity Name of undertaking Group activity Name of undertaking Group activity 350 Euston Road, Regents Place, Consort Healthcare 40 Infrastructure Welland Bio Power Ltd 25 Infrastructure London NW1 3AX Birmingham concession concession Intermediate Ltd BBDE Orbital Holdings, 37.5 Investment holding Connect Plus House St Albans Road, LLP iii company Consort Healthcare 40 Infrastructure South Mimms, Hertfordshire EN6 3NP Birmingham Ltd concession Connect A30 A35 20 Investment Connect Plus M25 15 Investment Holdings Ltd iv holding company East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd iii iv holding company Sweetwater Projects concession Connect A30 A35 Ltd iv 20 Infrastructure Connect Plus M25 15 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd iv concession Intermediate Ltd iii iv concession East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Connect A50 Ltd iv 25 Infrastructure Connect Plus M25 15 Infrastructure Sweetwater Projects concession concession Issuer Plc iii iv concession Phase 1 Ltd iv Connect CNDR 25 Investment Connect Plus M25 15 Infrastructure East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd iv holding company Ltd iii iv concession Sweetwater Projects concession Connect CNDR 25 Infrastructure Maxim 7, Maxim Office Park, Parklands Avenue, Phase 2 Ltd iv Intermediate Ltd iv concession Eurocentral, Holytown ML1 4WQ East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Connect CNDR Ltd iv 25 Infrastructure Aberdeen Roads Finance 33.3 Infrastructure Sweetwater Projects concession concession plc concession Phase 3 Ltd iv Connect M1-A1 20 Investment Aberdeen Roads Holdings 33.3 Investment East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd i iv holding company Ltd holding company Sweetwater Projects concession Connect M1-A1 Ltd iv 20 Infrastructure Phase 4 Ltd iv Aberdeen Roads Ltd 33.3 Infrastructure concession concession East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Connect M77 GSO 85 Investment Sweetwater Projects concession Holyrood Holdings Ltd 20 Investment Holdings Ltd ii iv holding company Phase 5 Ltd iv holding company Connect M77 GSO 85 Infrastructure East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Holyrood Student 20 Investment holding plc ii iv concession Sweetwater Projects concession Accommodation Holdings company Phase 6 Ltd iv Ltd Connect Roads 20 Investment Cambridgeshire holding company East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Holyrood Student 20 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd Sweetwater Projects concession Accommodation concession Phase 7 Ltd iv Intermediate Ltd Connect Roads 20 Infrastructure Cambridgeshire concession East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Holyrood Student 20 Infrastructure Intermediate Ltd Sweetwater Finance concession Accommodation plc concession Holdings Ltd iv Connect Roads 20 Infrastructure Holyrood Student 20 Infrastructure Cambridgeshire Ltd concession East Wick and 50 Infrastructure Accommodation SPV Ltd concession Sweetwater Projects concession Connect Roads Coventry 20 Investment Westminster House, Crompton Way, Finance Ltd iv Holdings Ltd holding company Segensworth West, Fareham, Gwynt y Mor OFTO 60 Investment Hampshire PO15 5SS Connect Roads Coventry 20 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd ii iv holding company IntermediateLtd concession Pevensey Coastal 25 Infrastructure Gwynt y Mor OFTO 60 Infrastructure Defence Ltd concession Connect Roads 20 Infrastructure IntermediateLtd ii iv concession Coventry Ltd concession Notes: Gwynt y Mor OFTO 60 Infrastructure Connect Roads Ltd 25 Investment i Held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
plc ii iv concession iv holding company ii Due to the shareholders agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring Humber Gateway OFTO 20 Investment Connect Roads 20 Investment unanimity of agreement in respect of significant HoldingsLtd iv holding company Northamptonshire holding company matters related to the financial and operating Holdings Ltd Humber Gateway OFTO 20 Infrastructure policies of the company, the Directors consider that the Group does not control the company and it has IntermediateLtd iv concession Connect Roads 20 Infrastructure been accounted for as a joint venture.
Northamptonshire concession Humber Gateway 20 Infrastructure iii The Group owned 37.5% of BBDE Orbital Holdings Intermediate Ltd OFTO Ltd iv concession LLP at 31 December 2018.
Connect Plus M25 Holdings Ltd and its subsidiaries are 40% owned Connect Roads 20 Infrastructure Thanet OFTO Holdco Ltd 20 Investment byBBDE Orbital Holdings LLP.
iv Northamptonshire Ltd concession holding company iv 31 March year end.
Connect Roads South 20 Investment Thanet OFTO 20 Infrastructure Tyneside Holdings Ltd holding company Intermediate Ltd iv concession Connect Roads South 20 Infrastructure Thanet OFTO Ltd iv 20 Infrastructure Tyneside Ltd concession concession Connect Roads 20 Investment Blythe House, Blythe Park, Cresswell, Sunderland HoldingsLtd holding company Stoke on Trent, Staffordshire ST11 9RD Connect Roads 20 Infrastructure Birmingham Bio 37.5 Infrastructure Sunderland Ltd concession Power Ltd concession Consort Healthcare 40 Infrastructure Pebblehall Bio Power Ltd 25 Investment Birmingham Funding plc concession holding company Consort Healthcare 40 Investment Tyseley Bio Power Ltd 37.5 Investment Birmingham holding company holding company Holdings Ltd balfourbeatty.
com AR2018 196 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 42 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2018 continued Joint ventures incorporated outside the United Kingdom % held % held % held by the Principal by the Principal by the Principal Name of undertaking Group activity Name of undertaking Group activity Name of undertaking Group activity BBC ApexOne Mobile 50 Infrastructure Bermuda Ireland Eastern, LLC investment Conyers Dill & Pearman Limited, 2 Clarendon Dunmoy House, St Margarets Road, BBC ApexOne Zephyr 50 Infrastructure House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM 11 Finglas, Dublin 11 Ridge, LLC investment CP Bay Carry A LP 20 Infrastructure Balfour Beatty CLG Ltd 50 Support BBC Army Integrated, LLC 50 Infrastructure concession services investment CP Bay Carry B LP 20 Infrastructure C O Sweett Group, 2nd Floor, Cathedral Court, concession New Street South, Dublin 8 Carolina Cove 50 Infrastructure Wilmington Owner, LLC investment British Virgin Islands Healthcare Centres PPP 40 Investment Holdings Ltd holding company Coppell Properties, LLC 10 Infrastructure Vistra Corporate Services Centre, Wickhams Cay investment II, Road Town, Tortola, VG1110 Healthcare Centres PPP 40 Infrastructure Ltd concession LAX Integrated Express 27 Infrastructure Gammon Asia Ltd 50 Management Solutions Holdco, LLC concession company Malaysia LAX Integrated Express 27 Infrastructure Gammon Construction 50 Investment Level 8, Symphony House, Block D13, Solutions, LLC concession Holdings Ltd holding company Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A 46, 47301 Petaling Jaya Lexington Ridgeland 50 Infrastructure Canada Owner, LLC investment Balfour Beatty Ansaldo 60 Construction Taylor McCaffrey LLP, 900-400 St. Mary Avenue, Systems JV Sdn Bhd ii services in Northside Campus 10 Infrastructure Winnipeg MB R3C 4K5 Limited Partner, LLC i concession liquidation Affinity BBL Inc 50 Infrastructure Balfour Beatty Rail Sdn 70 Construction Park Place Foley Owner, 50 Infrastructure investment LLC investment Bhd ii services in Affinity General 50 Infrastructure liquidation Riverchase Landing 7.5 Infrastructure Partner Inc investment Hoover Owner, LLC investment Singapore Affinity Limited 70 Infrastructure 239 Alexandra Road, 159930 Southwind Memphis 20 Infrastructure Partnership i iv investment Owner, LLC investment Gammon Capital West 50 Infrastructure Affinity Partnerships 70 Infrastructure Holdings Pte.
Ltd concession Southwind Memphis 20 Infrastructure investment Holdings, LLC investment Gammon Capital West 50 Infrastructure CWH Facilities 50 Infrastructure Pte.
Ltd concession Summer Trace Gulf 50 Infrastructure Management, LP iv investment Shores Owner, LLC investment Gammon Investments 50 Investment CWH FM GP Inc 50 Infrastructure Pte.
Ltd holding company T-BBA Riverchase 7.5 Infrastructure investment Holdings, LLC investment United States CWH Design Build 50 Construction Windscape Daphne 50 Infrastructure GP iv services Corporation Service Company, 1201 Hays Street, Owner, LLC investment Tallahassee FL 32301 Gracorp Balfour Beatty 50 Infrastructure Zephyr Ridge Zephyrhills 50 Infrastructure THP HoldingsInc concession C-BB Management, LLC 50 Infrastructure Owner, LLC investment investment Ledcor Balfour Beatty 50 Investment 430 Eastwood Road, Wilmington, NC 28403 Affinity HoldingsInc holding company C-BBC Development, LLC 50 Infrastructure investment New Energy Alliance LLC 50 Construction and THP GBB Inc 50 Infrastructure supportservices investment Corporation Service Company d b a CSCLawyers, Incorporating Service Company, 211 E. Northside Campus 10 Infrastructure THP GP Inc 50 Infrastructure Limited Partner, LLC i concession 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin TX 78701-3218 investment Northside Campus 10 Infrastructure 430 Eastwood Road, Wilmington, NC 28403 THP Limited Partnership iv 50 Infrastructure Partners, LP iv concession investment New Energy Alliance LLC 50 Construction and Northside Campus 10 Infrastructure supportservices THP Partnership 50 Infrastructure Partners 2, LP iv concession concession Notes: Northside Campus 50 Infrastructure Forum House at Brookfield Place, Scotia Plaza, i Due to the shareholders agreement between General Partner, LLC concession 181 Bay Street, EP210, Toronto, ON M5J 2T3 Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls unanimity of agreement in respect of significant UIP GP 50 Infrastructure Drive, Wilmington fide 19808 matters related to the financial and operating concession policies of the company, the Directors consider that Balfour Beatty Benham 90 Infrastructure Germany the Group does not control the company and it has Military Communities LLC i investment been accounted for as a joint venture.
38, 10117 Berlin ii The Group holds a 70% interest in Balfour Beatty Balfour Beatty PHELPS 90 Infrastructure InoSig GmbH 50 Construction Rail Sdn Bhd, which holds a 60% interest in Balfour Military Communities LLC i investment Beatty Ansaldo Systems JV Sdn Bhd.
Due to the services shareholders agreement between Balfour Beatty BBC ApexOne Carolina 50 Infrastructure Hong Kong and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of Cove, LLC investment agreement in respect of significant matters related 28th Floor, Devon House, Taikoo Place, 979Kings to the financial and operating policies of these BBC ApexOne 50 Infrastructure Road companies, the Directors consider that the Group Lexington, LLC investment does not control these companies and they have Gammon China Ltd 50 Investment BBC ApexOne 50 Infrastructure been accounted for as joint ventures.
holding company Riverchase Landing, LLC investment iii Preference shares and or deferred shares also held.
Gammon Construction 50 Construction iv Partnership interests held.
BBC ApexOne 50 Infrastructure Ltd iii services Southwind, LLC investment Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 197 42 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2018 continued Associated undertakings incorporated Associated undertakings incorporated % held in the United Kingdom outside the United Kingdom by the Principal Name of undertaking Group activity % held % held TBB Evergreen 15 Infrastructure by the Principal by the Principal Name of undertaking Group activity Name of undertaking Group activity Commons, LLC investment United Kingdom United States TBB Evergreen Holdings, 15 Infrastructure LLC investment Newington House, 237 Southwark Bridge Road, Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls London SE1 6NP Drive, Wilmington fide 19808 TBB Evergreen Park, LLC 15 Infrastructure investment Power Asset 25 Infrastructure ACC Group Housing, LLC i 80 Infrastructure Development concession concession TBB Evergreen Terrace, 15 Infrastructure Company Ltd LLC investment AETC Housing LP i ii 100 Infrastructure UK Power Networks 10 Infrastructure concession Vandenberg Housing LP 90 Infrastructure Services Powerlink Ltd concession i ii concession AMC West Housing LP i 100 Infrastructure Ashford House, Grenadier Road, Exeter, EX1 3LH ii concession Western Group Housing, 100 Infrastructure LP i ii concession UBB Waste Essex 30 Investment Balfour Beatty-Walsh 67 Infrastructure Holdings Ltd holding company Housing, LLC concession West Point Housing LLC 10 Infrastructure UBB Waste Essex 30 Infrastructure Carlisle Picatinny Family 10 Infrastructure concession Intermediate Ltd concession Housing LP ii concession Notes: UBB Waste Essex Ltd 30 Infrastructure DFW 5 Josey Ranch, LLC 10 Infrastructure i The Group evaluated each of its interests in the concession investment military housing projects to determine if the associated entities should be consolidated.
UBB Waste 49.5 Investment DFW 5 Madison 10 Infrastructure This analysis included, but was not limited to, Gloucestershire holding company Parkway, LLC investment identifying the activities that most significantly impact Holdings Ltd DFW 5 Round Grove, 10 Infrastructure an entitys economic performance, which party or parties control those activities and the risks associated UBB Waste 49.5 Infrastructure LLC investment with these entities.
Decision-making power over key Gloucestershire concession DFW 5 Wimberly, LLC 10 Infrastructure facets of the contracts were evaluated when Intermediate Ltd determining which party or parties had control over investment the activities that most significantly impact a projects UBB Waste 49.5 Infrastructure DFW 5 Wimbledon 10 Infrastructure economics.
Based on this review, the Directors Gloucestershire Ltd concession Oaks, LLC investment consider that the Group does not have the power to direct these activities and does not control or jointly DFW 5 Holdings, LLC 10 Infrastructure control them and therefore the entities have investment beenaccounted for as associated undertakings.
FDWR Parent LLC 10 Infrastructure concession Fort Bliss White Sands 10 Infrastructure Missile Range Housing LP concession ii Fort Carson Family 10 Infrastructure Housing LLC concession Fort Detrick Walter Reed 9 Infrastructure Army Medical Center concession Housing LLC Fort Eustis Fort Story 10 Infrastructure Housing LLC concession Fort Gordon Housing LLC 10 Infrastructure concession Fort Hamilton Housing 10 Infrastructure LLC concession Fort Jackson Housing LLC 10 Infrastructure concession Lackland Family Housing, 100 Infrastructure LLC i concession Leonard Wood Family 10 Infrastructure Communities, LLC concession Nesbit Palisades, LLC 15 Infrastructure investment Northeast Housing LLC 10 Infrastructure concession Northern Group Housing, 100 Infrastructure LLC i concession Southeast Housing LLC 10 Infrastructure concession Stewart Hunter Housing 10 Infrastructure LLC concession balfourbeatty.
