The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The Bankers Investment Trust PLC is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 October 2018 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
These comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC that remain in effect, to the extent that IFRSshave been adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Thesepolicies have been applied consistently throughout the year.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment companies issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in November 2014 and updated in February 2018 with consequential amendments is consistent with the requirements of IFRSs, the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis consistent with therecommendations of the SORP.
The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities that are listed and readily realisable and, accordingly, the Directors believe that the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Having assessed these factors, the principal risks and other matters discussed in connection with the viability statement see page 29, the Directors have decided that it is appropriate for the financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Accounting standards i The following new and amended standards are applicable to the Company and have been adopted.
The only impact on the financial statements is the addition of note 22 as an additional disclosure: Amendments to IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Pronouncements issued and effective for 31 October 2018 year ends: Effective for annual periods beginning Standards onor after IAS 7 Amendment Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017 IAS 12 Amendment Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses 1 January 2017 IFRS 12 Amendment AI 2014-16 Clarification of the Scope of the Standard 1 January 2017 ii Relevant new standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the current financial year and not early adopted by the Company: Effective for annual periods beginning Standards onor after IAS 28 Amendment AI 2014-16 Measuring an associate or joint venture at fair value 1 January 2018 IAS 40 Amendment Transfers of Investment Property 1 January 2018 IFRS 1 Amendment AI 2014-16 Deletion of short-term exemptions for first-time adopters 1 January 2018 IFRS 2 Amendment Classification and measurement of share-based payment 1 January 2018 transactions IFRS 4 Amendment Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 1 January 2018 Insurance Contracts IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Amendment Effective date of IFRS 15 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Amendment Clarifications 1 January 2018 IAS 12 Amendment AI 2015-17 Income tax consequences of payments on financial 1 January 2019 instruments classified as equity IAS 19 Amendment Plan amendment, curtailment or settlement 1 January 2019 IAS 23 Amendment AI 2015-17 Borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation 1 January 2019 IAS 28 Amendment Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2019 IFRS 9 Amendment Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation 1 January 2019 55 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Effective for annual periods beginning Standards onor after IFRS 11 Amendment AI 2015-17 Previously held interest in a joint operation 1 January 2019 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRS 3 Amendment AI 2015-17 Previously held interest in a joint operation 1 January 2019 IAS 1, 8, 34, 37, 38 and IFRS 2, 3, 6 14 Amendment to references to the conceptual framework 1 January 2020 IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2021 Interpretations IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance 1 January 2018 Consideration IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 1 January 2019 IFRIC 12, 19, 20, 22 and SIC 32 Amendment to references to the conceptual framework 1 January 2020 The Directors have assessed the impact of these new standards, in particular IFRS 9 and IFRS 15.
IFRS 9 should have no material impact because, under the new standard, the Company will continue to classify, and account for, all its investment assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The debenture stock and unsecured loan notes will continue to be accounted for at amortised cost.
All other financial assets and liabilities are currently accounted for at a reasonable approximation of fair value and this will not change under the new standard.
IFRS 15 will have no impact because the Companys business is that of investing in financial instruments and investment income is outside the scope of IFRS 15. b Investments held at fair value through profit or loss All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Investment transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
Assets are fide-recognised at the trade date of the disposal.
Proceeds are measured at fair value, which are regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
The fair value of the financial instruments in the statement of financial position is based on their quoted bid price at the statement of financial position date, without deduction of the estimated future selling costs.
Unquoted investments are valued by the Directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as Losses gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Also included within this caption are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments, including the difference between the purchase priceof an investment and its bid price at the date of the purchase.
c Presentation of Statement of Comprehensive Income In accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The net revenue is the measure the Directors believe appropriate in assessing the Companys compliance with certain requirements set out inSection 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. d Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Special dividends are treated as revenue return or as capital return, depending on the facts of each individual case.
Income from fixed interest debt securities is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
Bank deposit interest and stock lending income are accounted for on an accrual basis.
Where the Company enters into a commitment to underwrite an issue of securities in exchange for the receipt of commission, commission income is allocated to the revenue return.
Gains or losses arising from the take up shares are allocated to the capitalreturn.
e Expenses All expenses and interest payable are accounted for on an accruals basis.
On the basis of the Boards expected long term split of total returns in the form of capital and revenue returns of 70% and 30% respectively, the Company charges 70% of its finance costs and investment management fees to capital.
Expenses which are incidental to the purchase or sale of an investment are charged to the capital return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income and allocated to other capital reserves.
All other operating expenses are charged to the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
56 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued f Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Statement ofComprehensive Income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The liability for current tax is calculated using the applicable rate of corporation tax for the accounting period.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the Statement of Financial Position liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Investment trusts which have approval as such under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are notliable for taxation on capital gains.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Statement of Financial Position date.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Statement of Comprehensive Income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
g Dividends payable to shareholders Dividends payable to shareholders are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid or, in the case of final dividends, when they are approved by shareholders.
Dividends paid are disclosed in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
h Foreign currency For the purposes of the financial statements, the results and financial position is expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentational currency of the Company.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions recorded in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities and equity investments held at fair value through profit or loss that are denominated in overseas currencies at the Statement of Financial Position date are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at that date.
Exchange gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss are included within Losses gains on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and on demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
j Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans, overdrafts, debentures and loan notes are recorded initially at fair value, being the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance costs and direct issue costs are accounted for on anaccruals basis in the Statement of Comprehensive Income using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
k Repurchase of ordinary shares The cost of repurchasing ordinary shares including related stamp duty and transaction costs are taken directly to equity and disclosed in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Share repurchase transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
The nominal value of ordinary share capital repurchased and cancelled is transferred out of called-up share capital and into the capital redemption reserve.
57 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued l Capital and other reserves Capital reserve arising on investments sold The following are accounted for in this reserve: gains and losses on the disposals of investments: expenses and finance costs allocated to capital net of tax relief: realised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature: and costs of repurchasing ordinary share capital.
Capital reserve arising on revaluation of investments held The following are accounted for in this reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end: and unrealised foreign exchange differences of a capital nature.
Revenue reserve The revenue reserve represents accumulated revenue profits retained by the Company that have not currently been distributed to shareholders as a dividend.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of ordinary shares repurchased and cancelled.
Share capital Share capital represents the nominal value of ordinary shares in issue.
Share premium The share premium account represents the premium above nominal value received by the Company on issuing shares net of issue costs.
m Distributable reserves The Companys capital reserve arising on investments sold and revenue reserve may be distributed by way of a dividend.
n Key estimates and assumptions Estimates and assumptions used in preparing the financial statements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these estimates and assumptions form the basis of making judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
There are no estimates and assumptions that may cause material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities.
o Receivables Receivables are amounts due from securities sold for future settlement, withholding tax recoverable, prepayments and accrued income in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value based on contractual settlement amounts and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
p Payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for securities purchased for future settlement, accruals and deferred income that have been acquired incurred in the ordinary course of business.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within oneyear or less or in thenormal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value based on contractual settlement amounts and subsequently measured at amortised costusing the effective interestrate method.
