The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report: Glossary Alternative Investment Fund Managers Dividend Yield The annual dividend see note 10 expressed as a percentage of the Directive AIFMD share price at the year end see page 3.
Agreed by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union and adopted into UK legislation, the AIFMD classifies certain investment vehicles, including investment companies, as Alternative Gearing Investment Funds AIFs and requires them to appoint an Gearing means borrowing money to buy assets with the expectation Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and Depositary to that the return on investments bought will exceed the interest cost manage and oversee the operations of the investment vehicle.
The gearing percentage reflects the amount of Board of the Company retains responsibility for strategy, operations borrowings e. g. bank loans, overdrafts and debt securities the and compliance and the Directors retain a fiduciary duty to Company has used to invest in the market and is calculated by taking shareholders.
the difference between non-current asset investments see note 11 and equity shareholders funds see Statement of Financial Position dividing by equity shareholders funds and multiplying by 100.
The Association of Investment Companies AIC Company can use synthetic gearing through derivatives.
None were The Company is a member of the AIC which is the trade body for used inthe year under review.
investment companies and represents the industry in relation to various matters which impact the regulation of such entities.
Investment Trusts Investment trusts are public limited companies, listed on the London Custodian Stock Exchange, which provide shareholders with a professionally The Custodian is responsible for ensuring the safe custody of the managed portfolio of investments.
Investment trusts are exempt from Companys assets and that all transactions in the underlying tax on the capital gains arising on their investments subject to holdings are transacted in an accurate and timely manner.
Income, net of expenses and tax, is substantially distributed to shareholders.
Investment trusts are also Depositary known as investment companies although the tax legislation retains the reference to investment trusts.
From 22 July 2014 AIFs were required to appoint a Depositary which has responsibility for overseeing the operations of the Company, including safekeeping, cash monitoring and verification of ownership Liquidity and valuation of the underlying holdings.
The Depositary is strictly In the context of the liquidity of shares in the stock market, this refers liable for the loss of any investments or other assets in its custody to the availability of buyers in the market for the share in question.
unless it has notified that it has discharged its liability in certain Where the market in a particular share is described as liquid that markets.
TheDepositary has confirmed that it has not discharged share will be in demand and holders wishing to sell their shares liability inrelation to any of the Companys assets.
Conversely, where the market in a share is illiquid the difficulty of finding a buyer will tend to depress the price Derivative that might be negotiated for a sale.
A contract between two or more parties in relation to an underlying security.
The value of a derivative will fluctuate in accordance with Market Capitalisation Market Cap the value of the security and is a form of gearing as the fluctuations The market value of a company calculated by multiplying the in value are usually greater than the fluctuations in the underlying mid-market price per share by the number of shares in issue.
Examples of derivatives are put and call options, swap contracts, futures and contracts for difference.
Treasury Shares Shares repurchased by the Company but not cancelled.
Dividend Dates When declared or recommended, each dividend will have three key dates applied to it.
The payment date is the date on which shareholders will receive their dividend either by BACS transfer or by receipt of a dividend cheque.
The record date applied to the dividend is used as a cut-off for the Companys registrars to know which shareholders should be paid a dividend.
Only shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on the record date will receive the dividend.
The ex-dividend date is the business day before the record date and is the date upon which the Companys net asset value per share and share price will be disclosed ex-dividend.
