The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 General Shareholder Information AIFMD Disclosures Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA In accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers FATCA is a United States federal law enacted in 2010 whose intent Directive AIFMD, information in relation to the Companys leverage is to enforce the requirement for United States persons including and remuneration of Janus Henderson, as the Companys Alternative those living outside the US to file yearly reports on their non-US financial accounts.
As a result of HMRCs change of interpretation Investment Fund Manager AIFM are required to be made available to investors.
These disclosures, including those on the AIFMs on the meaning of shares and securities regularly traded on an established securities market, investment trusts now need to monitor remuneration policy, are contained in a separate document called each year the trading volume and frequency of their shares and AIFMD Disclosure which can be found on the Companys website.
securities to assess whether they have financial accounts.
The Company will therefore need to make an annual assessment, before BACS the FATCA return is due, to determine if the shares represent Dividends can be paid to shareholders by means of BACS Bankers financial accounts and, where they do, will need to identify and report Automated Clearing Services : mandate forms for this purpose are US reportable accounts to HMRC, as required.
available from the UK Registrar, Equiniti Limited.
Alternatively, shareholders can write to the UK Registrar the address is given on General Data Protection Regulation GDPR page 27 to give their instructions: these must include the bank GDPR came into force on 25 May 2018.
A privacy statement can account number, the bank account title and the sort code of the bank to which payments are to be made.
be found on the website www.
Shareholders on the register in New Zealand can have their ISA dividends paid in New Zealand dollars by writing to the New Zealand The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs in order to Registrar, Computershare Investor Services plc the address isgiven qualify as an eligible investment for a stocks and shares ISA.
Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments Common Reporting Standard NMPI status Tax legislation under the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Common Reporting Standard for Automatic The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its ordinary Exchange of Financial Account Information was introduced with shares of 25p each can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail effect from 1January 2016.
The legislation requires the Company investors in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys toprovide personal information to HMRC on certain investors who FCA rules in relation to non-mainstream investment products and purchase shares in investment trusts.
This information isprovided intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The shares annually to the local tax authority of the tax residencies of a number are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to nonof non-UK based certificated shareholders and corporate entities.
mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
Equality Act 2010 Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Copies of this report and other documents issued by the Company are available from the Corporate Secretary.
If needed, copies can be Investment Products Regulation PRIIPs made available in a variety of formats, including Braille or larger type KeyInformation Document KID as appropriate.
Investors should be aware that the PRIIPs Regulation requires the You can contact the Registrar, which has installed textphones to Manager, as the PRIIP manufacturer, to prepare a key information allow speech and hearing impaired people who have their own document in respect of the Company.
This KID must be made textphone to contact them directly, without the need for an available by the Manager to retail investors prior to them making intermediate operator by dialling 0371 384 2255.
Specially trained anyinvestment decision and is available on the Companys website.
operators are available during normal business hours to answer The Company is not responsible for the information contained in queries via this service.
theKID and investors should note that the procedures for calculatingthe risks, costs and potential returns are prescribed Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator bythe law.
The figures in the KID may not reflect the expected provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People dial 18001 returns for the Company and anticipated performance returns followed by the number you wish to dial.
73 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 General Shareholder Information continued Performance Details Share Price Information Details of the Companys share price and NAV per share can be found on www.
The Companys NAV per share is published daily.
Shareholder Details Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form can check their shareholding with the Registrar contact details can be found onpage 27.
There is now a range of shareholder information online.
You can check your holding and find practical help on transferring shares orupdating your details at www.
Share Price Listings The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is published daily in the Financial Times.
The Financial Times also shows figures for the estimated NAV per share and the discount.
The market price of the Companys shares can be found in the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Financial Statements on the website The financial statements are published on the website, www.
com which is a websitemaintained by the Manager, Janus Henderson.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Themaintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Janus Henderson or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of Janus Henderson.
The work carried out by the Auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the Annual Report since it was initially presented on the website.
Warning to Shareholders Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based 'brokers' who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary ofany unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the Companys UK Registrar, Equiniti Limited, or the New Zealand Registrar, Computershare Investor Services plc, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls would relate only to official documentation already circulated to shareholders and never in respect of investment 'advice'.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, please call either the Corporate Secretary or the Registrar at the numbers provided on page 27.
