l a n o i t a n r e t n I s y a s l e c c i v r r a e S B n o s y i t a l u Chief Executives review We are delivering on our strategy we had created our Service Company, Of course one area where performance Barclays Execution Services, or BX, as progress has unfortunately not been reflected a state-of-the-art operating platform is in our share price, which remains on which to run and build our business disappointingly low.
In common with all going forward.
European banks, we have been hit very hard in this regard by macroeconomic issues which We were able to resolve major outstanding have weighed heavily on investor sentiment.
legacy conduct issues for the bank in 2018: Notwithstanding that, I have repeatedly said reaching a settlement with the US that a management team cannot rest while Department of Justice in relation to the share price trades below book value, and it Residential Mortgage Backed Securities is a priority for us to drive a recovery.
having the UK SFO charges against the bank relating to our 2008 capital raisings Improved returns to shareholders will certainly help in that endeavour.
In 2018, based on our dismissed: and strong capital position, the restoration of the providing further for the completion dividend to 6.5p, and the redemption of of PPI redress.
expensive preference shares dating from the We have also implemented our contingency financial crisis, saw us return around 1.8bn plan to ensure we can continue to seamlessly of capital.
That is progress, but not yet service our clients across Europe following sufficient.
investment banking, enabled by our size a UK withdrawal from the EU.
and commitment across asset classes, is As we generate excess capital going forward we This transformation as with any major intend to return a greater proportion of those important to Barclays future returns and we corporate restructuring cost a substantial demonstrably do compete.
For example, earnings to shareholders by way of dividends amount of money to effect, and absorbed and other distributions including buybacks, and in our Markets business in 2018 we saw enormous amounts of colleague time and revenue growth on a US dollar basis.
I am optimistic for our prospects to do more in management focus.
But the effort and 2019 and beyond.
Third, we are today investing in multiple investment was worth it to remove major There are three principal reasons for that growth opportunities principally in drags on the operational effectiveness and optimism.
technology development across the Group.
profitability of Barclays, and to create the The efficiencies driven by BX, our service model we laid out in our strategy a First, the opportunity to further digitise our company, have been instrumental in creating transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank, consumer businesses in the UK, the US, and the capacity to do so, while continuing with global reach which is now starting to in Germany is significant.
For example, today to control our costs.
Such meaningful generate attractive and sustainable returns we have 11 million digitally active customers, investments in growth opportunities for our shareholders.
with over six million users of our awardwere simply not a viable option during winning mobile banking app in the UK, and The fundamental strength of our Group rests the many years of reshaping this company.
the quality of engagement with customers on a diversified, though connected, portfolio on digital platforms such as these is As our strategy continues to work, the of businesses - and Barclays is well diversified impressive.
On average, a Barclays customer principal calls on our future earnings by geography, by product and by currency visits a branch once every six weeks.
Contrast should now be returns to shareholders between our consumer and wholesale that with the statistics for Barclays Mobile and investment in growing the business businesses.
Banking, where customers typically go into rather than litigation and conduct charges, We have a great position in UK retail and the app every single day.
Our relationships restructuring costs, and capital accumulation.
business banking, serving 23 million with these customers are consequently much That shift is very welcome.
customers and a million small businesses stronger, and we are better able to help them I remain hugely proud of the continuing in a market where we have roots going back with their financial needs.
Of course as we positive impact which Barclays has in the 328 years.
We have an enviable position in fast expand our offering in this area we have a communities in which we operate around growing international cards and payments in close eye on the security and resilience of the world.
From our major citizenship the UK, US, and Europe.
And we are a strong systems.
programmes such as LifeSkills, Connect and profitable global player in corporate and Second, the importance of capital markets with Work, and Unreasonable Impact, to the investment banking, anchored in the worlds as a source of funding for corporates and individual, local, social and charitable efforts deepest and most sophisticated capital investment is growing, continuing the shift of colleagues and teams around the world.
markets of London and New York.
in recent years away from reliance on bank This work says much about the culture of Our diversified model is not only designed to balance sheets.
In the past decade bank Barclays today driven by a deep commitment be well balanced and produce consistent and lending to corporates has declined by 14% to help customers, clients, and wider society, attractive returns through the economic cycle, relative to GDP.
At the same time there has to rise and succeed.
I am grateful for the effort it is also a more robust model for any modern been a surge in capital market issuance, with and commitment Barclays people exhibit financial services business.
A decade after the global Debt Capital Markets up by 75% in the every day.
financial crisis I am very confident that past decade - and we are a top 4 player in Barclays today would be well prepared to Debt Capital Markets.
Since the financial crisis, weather major shocks in the future.
growth in the bond market in Europe has replaced 90% of the decline in bank lending.
These trends will continue and, as the only non-US investment bank operating at scale in both London and New York, we are well placed to participate in the opportunity this represents.
Competing in the top tier of global 06 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport c r c a e B x E s y a l c r a B K U s y a l c r a B Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Finally, I want to pay tribute to the contribution of our retiring Chairman, Delivering for our wider stakeholders is integral to our success John McFarlane, to the development of We are responding to global challenges like Barclays over these past four years.
climate change and global energy demand John took on the Chairmanship of the by evaluating our financing of carbon Group during a period of tumultuous change intensive energy sources, while proactively for financial services, and for this bank in supporting the development of green particular.
Barclays, and I personally, have financial products and services.
We are been fortunate to benefit from his wisdom, contributing to inclusive prosperity by his challenge, his courage to make tough calls, enhancing the skills and meaningful and his steadfast leadership during that time.
employment opportunities of people It is due in no small part to John that we find in our local communities.
And we are ourselves in such a positive position today, investing in innovation from our best with our turnaround complete, and confident asset our colleagues to test and scale in our prospects.
On behalf of colleagues new business opportunities that tackle across the bank, I would like to thank John social and environmental challenges.
for his stewardship, and to wish him and his family well following his retirement in May.
We are responding to global challenges, supporting the James E. Staley Group Chief Executive development of green financial products and services, and contributing to inclusive prosperity.
The Environmental Social Governance ESG Report provides additional information on key non-financial topics and forms part of the Barclays PLC Annual Report suite.
See Barclays PLC ESG Report 2018 available at home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 07 Operating environment A constantly evolving operating environment Barclays is a transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank, anchored in our two home markets of the UK and US, therefore impacted by a wide range of macroeconomic, political, regulatory and accounting, technological and social developments.
The evolving operating environment presents opportunities and risks which we continue to monitor and evaluate to ensure that we appropriately adapt our strategy and its delivery.
Economic growth The uncertain political environment may with our regulators in the UK and Europe to impact market dynamics and sentiment ensure we will be able to support our clients in The global economy continued to expand a in 2018, at an estimated rate of 3.7%.
however, we believe in Barclays ability Europe, and globally, from the moment the UK to adapt to changes for the benefit of leaves the EU.
However, execution risks remain However, there have been noticeable regional differences.
US expansion accelerated through customers, clients and broader stakeholders.
for the industry as a whole, including but not limited to balance sheet and trade transfers, higher consumer spending as tax cuts Regulations boosted disposable income.
On the other client readiness and operational resiliency.
From 1 January 2019, the largest UK banks hand, growth in Japan, Eurozone and the were required to have separated core retail The revised Payments Services Directive UK slowed amid political and economic PSD2 and Open Banking went live in early banking operations from investment banking disruption.
Significant concerns remain and international banking activities to comply 2018.
These initiatives require banks to around the sustainability of the sovereign share more customer information, subject to with the Financial Services Banking Reform debt level in Italy.
These banks have had to restructure customer consent, with regulated third parties due to higher interest rates in the US, volatile than ever before.
Such regulatory changes their activities and operations on a scale oil price and escalating trade tensions.
rarely seen before to comply with the are designed to bolster innovation and market competition.
This poses challenges to the Central banks continued tightening monetary new legislation.
These changes have had conditions, notably, the Federal Reserve implications for almost all stakeholders, with traditional banking business model, however, opportunities exist for banks that develop new and Bank of England increased their policy banks particularly focused on minimising rate and the European Central Bank ECB disruption for clients and customers.
products and services to customers, improve customer journeys, and extend beyond announced the end of its quantitative easing On 1 April 2018, Barclays UK banking programme.
Labour markets have tightened, traditional financial products.
business, largely comprising of Personal putting upward pressure on inflation, Banking, Barclaycard Consumer UK and The EU General Data Protection Regulation indicating potential further monetary Business Banking, was transferred from GDPR came into effect in May 2018.
Barclays Bank PLC BBPLC to Barclays Bank GDPR aims primarily to give individuals Barclays business mix spans multiple UK PLC under the single ring-fencing transfer control over their personal data and to scheme.
The corresponding products and simplify the regulatory environment for geographies and client types we believe a diversified portfolio lowers volatility and services including current and savings international business by unifying the accounts, consumer lending, credit cards, regulation within the EU.
In todays modern enhances stability in a macro environment such as ours today.
As a result, we believe investment products and services, and economy, data is becoming increasingly business banking solutions, were also important and banks are emerging as key in Barclays ability to generate solid returns through economic cycles, even when some transferred.
custodians of customers and clients data.
areas perform less well than others.
Separately, as a consequence of the likely Barclays has a history of innovation spanning three industrial revolutions.
We want to lead Political risks departure of the UK from the European Union Global political uncertainty continued to EU, financial services firms that previously the change, being technological, regulatory, or customer driven, rather than simply manifest itself in 2018.
Conflicts remained accessed European markets through the unresolved in some areas of the world, such UK, will need to establish new legal entities responding to it.
We are committed to providing a market leading digital offering as Asia, the Middle East and Eastern Europe.
in Europe to ensure business continuity In addition, rising trade tensions across the and minimise disruption to clients.
Banks in to our customers and clients by making customer journeys simpler and more intuitive globe are starting to have a negative impact particular are having to implement significant on economic activity, consumer confidence changes that include but are not limited to: and offering and building digital platforms that benefit the whole society and economy.
The the transfer, or recruitment, of colleagues into possibility of an escalating trade conflict the EU: building infrastructure: transfer of between the US and China would likely balance sheet: and trades.
See page 131 of this report for further have significant and wide-ranging economic information on material and emerging risks To help manage the risks related to Brexit, and political consequences.
Separately, Barclays is expanding its existing banking Brexit continues to give rise to significant subsidiary in the EU, Barclays Bank Ireland PLC uncertainty across the socio-economic BBI.
BBI will become a wholly owned environment in Europe.
subsidiary of BBPLC, through which we will be able to continue to serve our European clients globally and our global clients in Europe.
We currently already have branches of BBPLC in key European jurisdictions, which will become branches of BBI as part of our response to the Note UK exiting the EU.
We continue to work closely a IMF estimate, January 2019.
08 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Our preparations for the departure of the UK from the EU 2016 June Begin evaluation of business model options post-Brexit 2017 February October Launch of formal programme to Submission of draft Licence Extension address Brexit contingency planning Application to the ECB and the Central Bank of Ireland 2018 October December Licence extension approval for Migration of Germany Branch Barclays Bank Ireland attained from Opened new office space in Dublin the Central Bank of Ireland 2019 February January March Migration of Spain and Sweden Branches Court order received to enable use Italy, Portugal, France, Netherlands of Part VII transfer scheme branch migrations Euro payments technology transferred over from London to Frankfurt Investment Banking, Markets and private banking: Onboarding to Barclays Corporate Bank client migrations begin Bank Ireland and start of position migrations home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 09 Purpose and values We are a company of opportunity makers Our common Purpose is Creating opportunities to rise.
Because when our customers, clients, colleagues and society rise, Barclays rises too.
We measure and reward our people, not just on commercial results, but on how they live our Values and bring them to life every day.
Our Purpose and Values are central to Barclays.
They drive everything we say and do.
They Our Purpose are fundamental to the relationships we build with our colleagues, customers, clients and Creating opportunities to rise stakeholders and have been part of our DNA for We are a company of opportunity makers, working together to over 328 years.
They reflect our entrepreneurial help people rise customers, clients, colleagues and society spirit: our relentless quest for better: and our commitment to putting people first.
Singleminded application of our Purpose and Values, across all of our activities, continues to build the Our Values bank, providing the fundamentals upon which to build further success.
Our values underpin our business and govern everything we do In April 2018, we completed one of the most complex restructurings ever undertaken by a bank.
We now look to the future and have a renewed focus on growth and returns.
The ring fencing undertaken is a necessary regulatory requirement, but in all the ways that make us Service Respect Integrity Barclays, we remain one.
Were united by a We put our common set of Values and a single guiding We respect and value We act fairly, customers and Purpose, detailed here, along with the other those we work with ethically and openly clients at the centre elements that help us play our part in building and the contribution in all we do of what we do a clear, creative and compelling Barclays.
they make Our Purpose In todays world, a bank needs to demonstrate, both internally and externally, the honest and authentic way it goes about Excellence Stewardship its business, and the value it brings to its We use our energy, Were passionate stakeholders.
Purpose-driven organisations have higher levels of employee satisfaction, skills and resources about leaving things to deliver the best better than we higher levels of business performance, and a higher level of societal impact.
sustainable results found them We want to see Barclays playing a key role in restoring the professionalism of banking and want this bank to be respected and admired for the strength of its character: for our ability to foster trust between Barclays and its customers, clients and society.
Our Purpose also needs to reflect our entrepreneurial spirit: our drive to leave things Our Group strategy better: our customer and client centricity: and our commitments to colleagues and to society To build on our strength as a transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank, at large.
anchored in our two home markets of the UK and US, with global reach In the process of researching the new Purpose, we interviewed colleagues and found that a new Purpose would be welcomed in order to reflect our strategy and a renewed sense of optimism.
Measuring success Colleagues said the statement should reOur performance measurement approach reflects the way emphasise and build on the strength of existing in which management monitors the performance of the Group, values, and it should focus on what business we allows for a holistic assessment and sets out our progress are in, and the impact we make.
Our new towards the strategic goals of the organisation Purpose therefore reflects this.
10 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Our Values Our five Values as shown in the chart Our culture and people opposite, hold us to account and guide us We have continued to run key programmes The culture of Barclays is formed by to behave in the right way.
They have always its people and the choices they make.
and initiatives across the organisation that underpinned our Purpose and will continue to we know support our colleagues and help Fostering the right environment so that our do so.
Because Creating opportunities to rise people can flourish is critical to our success them to achieve excellent performance.
must never come at the cost of what is right.
These include Dynamic Working, and to our values-based culture.
The tone It will always be grounded in the deep-rooted from the top has been clear throughout sponsorship and development Values of our organisation Respect, Integrity, programmes, mental health and well-being 2018, including through the launch of Service, Excellence and Stewardship.
the Purpose, colleague forums specifically awareness, and upgrading our technology The Barclays Code of Conduct The Barclays and infrastructure.
We are building the next focused on colleague initiatives that are Way outlines the Values and Behaviours making Barclays a great place to work generation workplace and we have had which govern our way of working across our some great successes this year including and the inaugural CEO Rise Awards business globally.
It constitutes a reference which recognised the outstanding the launch of our world-class Whippany point covering all aspects of our working campus and announcing our intention to work our colleagues did in 2018. relationships, specifically with other Barclays build further campuses in Glasgow and We are proud of the progress we have made employees, customers and clients, governments India, which provide our colleagues the to promote respect, diversity and excellence and regulators, business partners, suppliers, tools that they need to deliver outstanding in the workplace, and we see this progress competitors and the broader community.
service, and help us to attract and retain reflected in our employee opinion survey The objective is to define the way we think, the very best talent in the global market.
The engagement of our colleagues work and act at Barclays to ensure we We are starting to build new skill sets across has improved by four percentage points deliver against our Purpose of Creating the firm, such as advanced analytics, digital since 2016 when we last asked all opportunities to rise.
and data and becoming more experimental, colleagues to take part in the survey so we can be at the forefront of innovation.
at the same time to 79% in 2018 and we were especially pleased to see that 92% of From the trading floors to our branches, We want to see Barclays playing colleagues agreed that Barclays is focused the way that we hire, train, develop and a key role in restoring the on achieving good customer and client retain our colleagues, and the day-to-day outcomes up 9% points since 2016.
In decisions that they make, are intrinsic professionalism of banking and addition, 91% of colleagues said they felt to embedding our culture and in turn, want this bank to be respected they can be themselves at work, and when delivering the best for our customers, asked to describe the culture of Barclays, clients and local communities.
For further and admired for the strength of the top ten words selected by colleagues details on the wide range of colleague its character: for our ability to have all remained positive.
Eighty-six per and diversity initiatives that support foster trust between Barclays cent of our colleagues agree that its safe our ambition to be the most accessible, to speak up, which is encouraging.
To inclusive and sought after employer, please and its customers, clients continue to encourage a culture which refer to the People section on pages 93 and society.
supports speaking up, the Group Executive to 98.
Committee announced the creation of a centralised team and a new intranet site The Barclays Way is aligned to the Code which sets out clearly how to raise a of Professional Conduct, published by the concern when things dont seem right.
Chartered Banker Professional Standards Board, which sets out the ethical and professional attitudes and behaviours expected of bankers.
Barclays subscribes to this code and is committed to ensuring the broad principles into our business continue to apply.
You can learn more online at: home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 11 Strategy Playing to our strengths As a leading, diversified, transatlantic bank with global reach, our goal is to support our stakeholders via a commercially successful business that generates long-term sustainable returns.
Building on our strong foundations approach to citizenship and sustainability Barclays UK, Barclays International and supported by BX.
We remain fully committed Our strategy is to build on our strength as a that is integrated with our core business.
By transatlantic consumer and wholesale bank, focusing on our core products and services, to our model as a diversified bank and will remain a well-diversified financial institution anchored in our two home markets of the and our relationships, we can make the UK and US, with global reach.
Our two clearly greatest positive impact.
providing excellent products and services to our customers and clients, underpinned by defined divisions, Barclays UK and Barclays You can read more about our approach within International, provide diversification to our world class operations.
We believe we are our performance metrics on pages 18 to 27. well positioned to deliver future growth business model.
We believe that combining consumer and wholesale businesses, as well Completion of the restructuring and appropriate returns for shareholders.
as accessing geographic diversification, In 2018, we successfully concluded our provides real advantages to both the Group restructuring which saw us run-down the We will remain a well-diversified and our investors and helps contribute to the Non-Core, sell-down Barclays Africa, complete delivery of more consistent and sustainable the Structural Reform Programme and create financial institution providing returns through the business cycle.
These combined actions have significantly excellent products and services diversification should help to reduce volatility contributed to the simplification of the Group, to our customers and clients.
of income and earnings, generate higher helping to reduce drag on Group profitability returns through the cycle and improve and laying the foundations for Barclays to drive sustainable returns in its businesses.
We continue to invest in our technological and the resilience of the Group as a whole.
digital capabilities, particularly in Barclays UK Consistent with the objective of delivering Delivering the Barclays of the future where we already have a strong digital long-term sustainable value for our Our focus is now on building the Barclays proposition, Barclays Mobile Banking.
We are stakeholders, we continue to pursue an of the future, operating principally through using technology to deliver more meaningful customer relationships by transforming the way we interact with customers, leverage data analytics and utilise the opportunities presented by Open Banking.
Delivering a truly customer-centric model is at the heart of Barclays UKs strategy.
Barclays International will continue to focus on markets and services where we have a competitive advantage, allocating capital where we see the ability to generate the most attractive risk-adjusted returns and investing where we see an opportunity to expand our market share.
We see technology as a significant enabler across the investment banking business, particularly in Markets business lines, and will continue to invest appropriately, alongside recruiting the best talent as we build the Barclays of the future.
12 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic opportunities Leveraging our geographic and business diversification, we see a significant opportunity to develop our payments capabilities across the Group.
We aim to leverage our extensive experience and expertise developed through our leadership position in the UK to grow our market share in the US.
In the Business to Business B2B space, we will continue to invest in our commercial payments capabilities, in order to meet the evolving needs of our customers, by leveraging innovative solutions and our data assets.
On the consumer side, we are growing our mobile payment solutions in the UK.
In the US, we see continued opportunity to build on our position as a Top 10 credit card issuer by receivables, as our targeted partnership model drives continued growth.
Furthermore, we are investing in our US consumer banking proposition, where we have a growing, own-brand digital banking offering.
Our strategy is enhanced by the launch of Barclays mobile app BX.
BX changes the way Barclays operates, enabling the delivery of world class services numbers: and the functionality in the app to Our customers increasingly engage with through a more standardised global operating Barclays using a smartphone and we see freeze cards if customers believe it to be lost model.
We believe this will enable us to extract or stolen.
that our app, BMB, has become a vital part cross-Group cost synergies through scale, of their financial life.
Current account aggregation was one of simpler processes, enhanced controls, a better 6.2 million customers use the Barclays app the first of many innovations made possible co-ordinated service provision and more to manage their finances, c. 700k more than by Open Banking.
We were the first UK bank effective management of investment in our last year, of which 5 million log into the app to launch this feature in our app in technology and processes.
On average each customer September 2018.
Our customers can see is expected to improve as well by applying typically logs in every day and spends 21 current accounts from other UK high street a price-quantity approach, that transfers minutes on the app per month.
In addition banks safely and securely.
We are planning increasing cost ownership to the business.
to the 1.5 million customers who use the to expand this functionality by adding more BX is a key component of Barclays Barclaycard app, last year our customers banks, aggregating other types of accounts operating model.
logged in a total of 2 billion times.
like savings accounts and credit cards, and We remain focused on conduct, regulations 3.6 million payments and 3 million transfers introducing the ability to initiate payments and delivering enhanced controls are made through the app every week, and from accounts held with other providers We aspire to be one of the worlds most we complete 155k personal loan fulfilments from within the Barclays app.
We have a year providing convenience and simplicity A key need for our customers is the ability worked hard to resolve outstanding legacy for our customers.
In 2018 we embedded to understand and manage their spending.
issues, while continuing to strengthen our the ability to open up savings accounts Customers will soon be able to undertake control environment.
We put our customers which led to 200k customers opening an further analysis of spending by category, and clients at the heart of everything we do account via the Barclays app.
view the top merchants they spend the and seek to strengthen the trust of our The app supports our customers through most money with, and get meaningful customers, clients and wider society.
their life moments, for example, buying a insights on their spending.
This will further home starts with helping customers save enable our customers to make informed for a deposit, not just when they need a decisions on how they manage their mortgage.
We also help customers with finances.
relevant offers and services to help them We also intend to bring innovation from the move in and settle down in their new home.
Fintech community around the world.
We will continue to evolve the Barclays app Working with start-ups coming through the around the theme of being a one-stop-shop Barclays RISE accelerator as well as with for all the money management needs our other Fintech partners, we continue to customers have.
We intend to do so gather customer feedback on innovative through our investments in cutting edge features through our Launchpad app.
One technology and data capabilities.
Just a few such recent example is our partnership with of the recent examples include: current Bink, bringing to life payment card linked account aggregation: transaction loyalty.
categorisation: the ability to turn off We will continue to listen to our customers spending in merchant categories including to make the Barclays app the best money gambling and premium rate phone management experience in the UK.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 13 l a n o i t a n r e t n I s y a l c r a s e B c i v r e S n o s i y t a l u Business model Working together to help people rise Our business model enables us to leverage resource and relationships to produce long-term sustainable outputs for our stakeholders.
These outputs provide combined value for our stakeholders, helping people to rise.
We believe our diversified business model through business line, geography and Resource and Relationships Resource and relationships customer, helps enhance our resilience to changes in the external environment, and captures the benefits of diversification through the efficient delivery of cross-group synergies and funding.
Barclays operates via two clearly defined divisions Barclays UK and Barclays International, supported by BX.
Barclays UK is a personal and business banking franchise with true scale, built around our customers needs with innovation at its core.
It comprises our UK retail banking operations, our UK consumer credit cards business, our UK-based wealth offering, and banking for smaller businesses.
Barclays International is a diversified transatlantic business comprising our corporate banking franchise, which is market leading in the UK with strong international growth opportunities, our top-tier investment bank, a strong and growing US and international cards business, our international wealth offering, and leading payments capability through both corporate banking and the Barclaycard merchant acquiring expertise.
Barclays International has scale in wholesale We draw on the following to support We aim to provide superior services to banking and consumer lending, strength in our activities and deliver value to our help customers and clients create, grow our key markets, excellent growth potential, stakeholders: and protect wealth in a sustainable way: and good balance in its revenue streams, the strength and reputation of our brand Barclays customers and clients include: delivering further resilience and diversification.
serving customers and clients for over individuals, small and medium-sized 328 years businesses, large corporates and multiBX provides state of the art, simple, national companies: financial institutions a strong, well-funded and diversified efficient, innovative and secure operation and banks: institutional investors, funds, and technology services which deliver balance sheet sovereign institutions and governments.
BX achieves customer and client trust and depth this by building world-wide connectivity, of relationships We offer: standardising services, creating synergies a safe place to save, invest and manage our geographic focus: firmly anchored and cost efficiencies, fostering innovation, cash and payments in the two financial centres of London leveraging technology Group-wide and and New York, with global reach funding for purchases and growth ensuring resilience and security.
It also builds a track record of successfully innovating management of business and trust through ensuring resilience and security, for customers and clients financial risks whilst creating capacity for investment.
the skills and expertise of our people financial and business support For further information on our divisions, see: and our shared values which inform innovative digital and technology the way we work and how we act.
Barclays UK see pages 30 to 33 Barclays International see pages 34 to 37 Barclays Execution Services see pages 38 to 39 14 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport c c r a e B x E s y a l c r a B K U s y a l c r a B Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Outputs Value created Company We support our stakeholders via a commercially successful business that generates long-term sustainable returns.
Financial We work together with regulators to help reduce risk in the industry and provide a more sustainable banking landscape over the long term.
Customers and clients We offer superior service through a broad range of products to enable customers and clients to achieve their goals, and engaging Non-financial with customers and clients in the way the want to engage with us.
We develop strong relationships with customers and clients built on trust.
Financial Group Return on Tangible Equity RoTE of greater than 9% Colleagues in 2019 and greater than 10% in 2020, excluding litigation We help our people have challenging and conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of c. 13%.
and fulfilling careers in a values-driven CET1 ratio of c. 13%.
Group costs, excluding litigation and conduct, of 13.613.9bn We help our colleagues develop themselves in 2019, and a target cost: income ratio below 60% over time.
and empower them to work in a way that suits their lives and supports our business.
Non-financial Building trust with our customers and clients.
Successfully innovating and developing products.
Citizenship Providing accessible products and services.
We deliver financing solutions in social and Fostering a diverse and inclusive workforce.
environmental sectors, and enable access Motivating engaged and enabled colleagues.
to financial and digital empowerment for Enabling a positive conduct and a values-based environment.
Making decisions and doing business that provides our We help provide employment and growth stakeholders with access to a prosperous future.
in the economies in which we operate.
Proactively manage the environmental and societal impacts We engage with governments and society of our business.
to address societal issues and needs.
See pages 44 to 46 for our non-financial information statement See pages 18 to 27 this report for further insights home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 15 Stakeholder engagement Engaging stakeholders for feedback and direction Barclays aims to create value for all of our stakeholders, balanced across both the short and the long term.
We engage with our stakeholders to better inform them of our activities to create mutually supportive opportunities and outcomes for them.
At Barclays, stakeholder engagement is key What is our ambition for our stakeholders?
What were the key topics raised?
to ensure responsible balanced decisions We engaged with our shareholders and stakeholders Discussions included, but were not limited to: We placed greater emphasis on regular new and are made.
We provide opportunity for at our AGM in May 2018, with the Board providing existing shareholder engagement with a broader engagement through the year via different improved operating performance of the a review of the performance of the Group, range of divisional management presenting to Group in the first year post-restructuring forums and channels to help shape the and providing opportunity for interaction investors, deepening understanding of Barclays continued digitisation of the bank direction of our business, aligned to Company and shareholder voting on resolutions.
investment case, and promoting greater ongoing investment in technology stakeholders needs and expectations.
awareness and understanding of our operating Achieving our targets is consistent with our aim of generating We held conference calls or webcasts for our value being created by Barclays Execution Services businesses.
quarterly results briefings and an in-person long-term sustainable returns for the shareholders: Through engagement, we aim to build trust in improving the mix and efficiency of our cost presentation for our 2017 full year results in February We published our Environment and Climate and confidence, promote participation and Group return on tangible equity 9% in 2019 10% in 2020 base.
2018, all hosted by the Group Chief Executive and Change Statement to clarify our position and influence, identify and promote robust risk Group Finance Director.
Investors also discussed topics including the commitment to supporting the transition CET1 ratio at c. 13% management, and ultimately make decisions strategy, prudent risk management and steps taken to less carbon intensive sources of energy.
We have an open and regular engagement with our Group cost guidance of 13.613.9bn in 2019. to mitigate the potential impact from the uncertainty with shared benefits for our stakeholders.
regulators, ensuring clarity and transparency, and These actions help promote dialogue on Targeting cost:income ratio below 60% over time surrounding Brexit, as well as climate change and sharing views and expectations of Barclays.
longer-term strategic developments in addition By having an open and frequent dialogue ESG factors.
to recent financial performance of the Group.
Excluding litigation and conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of c. 13% across stakeholders, we have developed Excluding litigation and conduct a clearer understanding of stakeholder requirements and ambitions and how we can best address these needs.
Our front-line colleagues are integral in engaging Innovation to meet our customers rapidly We will look to improve customer experience by: with our customers and clients, and we gain evolving needs and expectations.
As competition accelerating automation: building value and image Our performance measures build invaluable insight to how our customers feel about intensifies, with new FinTech and challengers perceptions: and delivering strong customer on our stakeholder engagement our service and what we could do better.
entering the market, the pace of change is faster outcomes to grow relationships.
Customers and clients than ever and we continue to invest to meet this Our performance measurement framework By continually monitoring customer feedback, we Accessibility new services were launched challenge.
Building trust with our customers and clients, aim to understand what features customers really including: the ability for deaf customers to contact builds on our stakeholder engagement to want and need, as well as any frustration they may The complaints we receive help us identify areas us by telephone with the assistance of a such that they are happy to recommend us to others.
align Barclays performance to their ambitions.
be feeling, which we can work to either develop or in our business which need to be improved.
third-party interpreter, online support page for Successfully innovating and developing products and We reflect a balance of key financial rectify.
Including processes and services we deliver, people experiencing mental health concerns, services that meet their needs.
through to the underlying policies.
and a wide-range of considerations for older performance metrics and broader strategic In developing our propositions, we look to take a customers including fraud and scams awareness Offering suitable products and services in an accessible way, customer-centric approach and put customers and For our business banking clients, managing cash non-financial measures which focus on the and accessible banking services.
clients at the heart of the process to understand flow and raising capital for growth are two key ensuring excellent customer and client experience.
impact we have on our customers and clients, what they really need and would value and build our challenges they face, especially for those without colleagues, and the benefit we bring to society products and services accordingly.
premises to offer for a secured loan.
These measures are underpinned by how we behave towards all our stakeholders, through our conduct and our culture.
During the year, we engaged with our people The ability to work flexibly continues to be key Continued focus on dynamic working: We through a number of forums and channels, to gather to unlocking colleague engagement colleague published a white paper on Dynamic Working to To assess our performance we use a number thoughts, opinions and feedback on how we are engagement of those who work dynamically is help other organisations understand the benefits.
of sources including dashboards of our doing, with the opportunity to ask questions directly up four percentage points on overall engagement Reducing under-investment and duplication: Colleagues to our senior leadership teams.
These include the score in 2018. performance metrics and measures, regular We have invested in hardware and software annual Employee Opinion Survey supported by Promoting and maintaining: management reporting and external measures Scores on enablement, e. g. tools to do the job collaboration tools designed to make it easier quarterly pulse checks, local colleague forums, have been historically low and continue to be a and more efficient for colleagues to work.
to provide a balanced review of performance a diverse and inclusive workforce in which colleagues town halls, and skip-level meetings where senior key area of focus.
However, there has been an We have focused on mental health through our during the year, while additionally monitoring of all backgrounds are treated equally and have the leaders meet with small groups of employees not in improvement year on year, highlighting that our Be Well campaign to launch new training for all for emerging trends.
opportunity to be successful and achieve their potential their direct management.
More recently we have continued investment is having an impact.
colleagues and a launch of a film of senior leaders seen an uptake in reverse mentoring sessions with engaged and enabled colleagues discussing their experiences of mental health to Performance against our financial metrics and senior leaders being mentored by more junior support with tackling the stigma and support our strategic non-financial performance measures a positive conduct and values-based environment.
colleagues with managing stress in the workplace.
is directly linked to executive remuneration, and influences incentive outcomes for Barclays employees more broadly.
This approach supports us in our work to deliver positive outcomes for all our stakeholders.
We engage in a continual dialogue with nonGreen finance and supporting clients through We responded on key topics in 2018 through governmental organisations NGOs and other the transition to a low carbon economy.
a number of communications and business Please refer to the Remuneration report interest groups, to improve our understanding of developments including: Responsible financing for companies in sensitive on pages 99 to 126 for further information.
emerging and existing environmental and societal energy sectors.
continuing to grow our suite of green products Citizenship topics.
We regularly engaged with our stakeholders Societal impacts and work in the communities releasing statements on coal, World Heritage The following pages detail the performance through participation in forums and round tables and Making decisions and doing business that provides in which we operate.
Sites and Ramsar Wetlands, and a comprehensive of the Group for 2018. joined industry, sector and specific topic debates.
We our clients, customers, shareholders, colleagues and the Energy and Climate Change Statement which Accessibility of our products and services to all explored citizenship and sustainability agendas, replaced and strengthened the Coal Statement communities which we serve with access to a prosperous demographics, and treating customers fairly.
where collaboration and joint action are needed.
published previously and sustainable future.
We continue to engage with these stakeholder maintaining ongoing dialogue with NGOs and civil Proactively managing the environmental and societal groups on an ongoing basis through Barclays society regarding financing extractive industries Sustainability and Citizenship teams.
enhancing transparency around our transition journey to a low carbon economy, and the support we provide to clients.
See pages 18 to 27 of this report for further insights 16 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information What is our ambition for our stakeholders?
We engaged with our shareholders and stakeholders Discussions included, but were not limited to: We placed greater emphasis on regular new and at our AGM in May 2018, with the Board providing existing shareholder engagement with a broader improved operating performance of the a review of the performance of the Group, range of divisional management presenting to Group in the first year post-restructuring and providing opportunity for interaction investors, deepening understanding of Barclays continued digitisation of the bank Company and shareholder voting on resolutions.
investment case, and promoting greater ongoing investment in technology awareness and understanding of our operating Achieving our targets is consistent with our aim of generating We held conference calls or webcasts for our value being created by Barclays Execution Services businesses.
quarterly results briefings and an in-person long-term sustainable returns for the shareholders: in improving the mix and efficiency of our cost presentation for our 2017 full year results in February We published our Environment and Climate Group return on tangible equity 9% in 2019 10% in 2020 base.
2018, all hosted by the Group Chief Executive and Change Statement to clarify our position and Group Finance Director.
Investors also discussed topics including the commitment to supporting the transition CET1 ratio at c. 13% strategy, prudent risk management and steps taken to less carbon intensive sources of energy.
We have an open and regular engagement with our Group cost guidance of 13.613.9bn in 2019. to mitigate the potential impact from the uncertainty regulators, ensuring clarity and transparency, and These actions help promote dialogue on Targeting cost:income ratio below 60% over time surrounding Brexit, as well as climate change and sharing views and expectations of Barclays.
longer-term strategic developments in addition ESG factors.
Excluding litigation and conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of c. 13% Excluding litigation and conduct Our front-line colleagues are integral in engaging Innovation to meet our customers rapidly We will look to improve customer experience by: with our customers and clients, and we gain evolving needs and expectations.
As competition accelerating automation: building value and image invaluable insight to how our customers feel about intensifies, with new FinTech and challengers perceptions: and delivering strong customer our service and what we could do better.
Customers and clients than ever and we continue to invest to meet this By continually monitoring customer feedback, we Accessibility new services were launched challenge.
Building trust with our customers and clients, aim to understand what features customers really including: the ability for deaf customers to contact want and need, as well as any frustration they may The complaints we receive help us identify areas us by telephone with the assistance of a such that they are happy to recommend us to others.
third-party interpreter, online support page for Successfully innovating and developing products and rectify.
and a wide-range of considerations for older In developing our propositions, we look to take a customers including fraud and scams awareness Offering suitable products and services in an accessible way, customer-centric approach and put customers and For our business banking clients, managing cash and accessible banking services.
what they really need and would value and build our challenges they face, especially for those without products and services accordingly.
During the year, we engaged with our people The ability to work flexibly continues to be key Continued focus on dynamic working: We through a number of forums and channels, to gather to unlocking colleague engagement colleague published a white paper on Dynamic Working to thoughts, opinions and feedback on how we are engagement of those who work dynamically is help other organisations understand the benefits.
doing, with the opportunity to ask questions directly up four percentage points on overall engagement Reducing under-investment and duplication: Colleagues to our senior leadership teams.
These include the score in 2018.
We have invested in hardware and software annual Employee Opinion Survey supported by Promoting and maintaining: Scores on enablement, e. g. tools to do the job collaboration tools designed to make it easier quarterly pulse checks, local colleague forums, have been historically low and continue to be a and more efficient for colleagues to work.
a diverse and inclusive workforce in which colleagues town halls, and skip-level meetings where senior key area of focus.
However, there has been an We have focused on mental health through our of all backgrounds are treated equally and have the leaders meet with small groups of employees not in improvement year on year, highlighting that our Be Well campaign to launch new training for all opportunity to be successful and achieve their potential their direct management.
colleagues and a launch of a film of senior leaders seen an uptake in reverse mentoring sessions with engaged and enabled colleagues discussing their experiences of mental health to senior leaders being mentored by more junior support with tackling the stigma and support our a positive conduct and values-based environment.
a number of communications and business interest groups, to improve our understanding of developments including: Responsible financing for companies in sensitive emerging and existing environmental and societal energy sectors.
We regularly engaged with our stakeholders Societal impacts and work in the communities releasing statements on coal, World Heritage through participation in forums and round tables and Making decisions and doing business that provides in which we operate.
Sites and Ramsar Wetlands, and a comprehensive joined industry, sector and specific topic debates.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 17 Key performance indicators Measuring performance Our performance measurement framework undertakes a holistic assessment and sets out our progress towards the strategic goals of the organisation.
Our framework is focused on achieving positive and sustainable outcomes for our diverse group of stakeholders.
RoTE measures our ability to generate How we are doing Group RoTE acceptable returns for shareholders.
It is calculated as profit after tax attributable RoTE for the Group, excluding litigation and Company conduct, was 8.5%.
Based on a CET1 ratio to ordinary shareholders, including an adjustment for the tax credit recorded of 13% this would have been 8.3%.
in reserves in respect of other equity CET1 instruments, as a proportion of average Key outcomes - we will look to achieve: The Groups CET1 ratio continued to be at the How we are doing shareholders equity excluding non-controlling end-state target of c. 13%.
The ratio decreased Our financial targets, consistent with our interests and other equity instruments Group Return on Tangible Equity aim of generating long-term sustainable to 13.2% 2017: 13.3%, as CET1 capital adjusted for the deduction of intangible RoTE decreased to 41.1bn and RWAs remained returns for the shareholders of Barclays PLC.
broadly stable at 311.9bn, as underlying How we measure success This measure indicates the return generated profit generation of 4.2bn was more than 8.5% We disclosed progress against our financial 2017 1.2 % by the management of the business based on offset by 2.1bn of litigation and conduct targets quarterly: shareholders tangible equity.
Achieving a charges, as the bank resolved legacy matters, Gr CET1 oup RoTE 9% in 2019 and 10% in 2020 target RoTE demonstrates the organisations 1.7bn for ordinary dividends and AT1 CET1 ratio c. 13% ability to execute its strategy and align coupons paid and foreseen, and 1.0bn from 13.2% managements interests with the the redemption of capital instruments.
Group operating expenses, excluding 2017 13.3% shareholders.
RoTE lies at the heart of the litigation and conduct, of 13.613.9bn in Operating expenses and cost: income ratio Groups capital allocation and performance 2019, and to have a target cost: income Cost: income ratio Group operating expenses were 13.9bn in management process.
line with 2018 guidance, while Total operating 77% The CET1 ratio is a measure of the capital expenses were 16.2bn 2017: 15.5bn, 2017 73% strength and resilience of Barclays.
The including litigation and conduct, and a charge Groups capital management objective is of 140m in relation to the equalisation of Operating expenses to maximise shareholder value by prudently Guaranteed Minimum Pensions GMP.
managing the level and mix of its capital.
The Group cost: income ratio including 13.9bn This is to ensure the Group and all of its litigation and conduct increased to 77% 2017 14.2bn subsidiaries are appropriately capitalised 2017: 73% due to stable income and a 5% relative to their minimum regulatory and increase in total operating expenses, which stressed capital requirements, and to support included litigation and conduct charges for an the Groups risk appetite, growth, and RMBS settlement and PPI provisions.
strategic options while seeking to maintain a robust credit proposition for the Group For further information on the financial and its subsidiaries.
performance of the Group, please see page 224.
The ratio expresses Barclays capital as a percentage of risk weighted assets RWAs, as defined by the PRA, in the context of Capital Requirements Directive IV CRD IV an EU directive prescribing capital adequacy and liquidity requirements, and is part of the regulatory framework governing how banks and depository institutions are supervised.
Barclays views operating expenses as a key strategic area for banks: those which actively manage costs and control them effectively will gain a strong competitive advantage.
The cost:income ratio measures operating expenses as a percentage of total income and is used to assess the productivity of the business operations.
Excluding litigation and conduct Excluding litigation and conduct and Guaranteed Minimum Pensions GMP charges 18 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Customers and Clients How we are doing Barclays Net Promoter Score NPS 17 2017 14 Lending to UK businesses c. 63bn 2017 c. 66bn Barclays UK complaints including PPI down 1% YoY 2017 down 7% YoY c Key outcomes we will look to How we are doing Client rankings and market shares achieve include: Areas of encouragement The Banking franchise maintained its sixth b building trust with our customers and Net Promoter Scores NPS place ranking by fee share 2017: sixth in our clients, such that they are happy to The net promoter metrics across our brands UK and US home markets across M&A, equity recommend us to others are a view of how willing customers are to and debt capital markets, and retained its top 3 recommend our products and services to position in the UK Dealogic.
successfully innovating and developing others, indicating how satisfied they are with products and services that meet their needs Our Markets franchise delivered strong their overall experience with us.
Barclays offering suitable products and services in an results, maintaining its fourth place ranking Relationship NPS increased to 17 2017: 14 accessible way, ensuring excellent customer in Global Fixed Income market share due to continued investment into our and client experience.
customer experience, value propositions and How we measure success consumer campaigns that not only strengthen Ninety-five per cent of our largest UK corporate Measures used in our evaluation include, our brand but work to improve the financial clients considered the service they receive from but are not limited to: and security awareness of our customers.
Barclays to be good, very good or excellent, Barclaycard UK relationship NPS stayed flat up from 88% in 2017 Charterhouse.
Net Promoter Score NPS over the year, closing at 9 at year-end 2017: a client rankings and market shares Lending volumes provided to 9.
The Relationship NPS of the US Consumer d customers and clients complaints performance Bank increased further to 38 2017: 36 Barclays continued to be an important provider lending volumes provided to customers supported by our customer centric culture of financial services to UK businesses.
We and clients and improvements in our products and digital provided around 63bn of lending, down 6% experience.
digital engagement on 2017, as we continued to exert high levels of conduct indicators.
discipline in capital allocation decisions as part of our returns agenda, strengthening the long-term sustainability of the business for all our stakeholders.
Notes a All Markets ranks and shares: Coalition, FY18 Preliminary Competitor Analysis based on the Coalition Index and Barclays internal business structure b NPS measures customer experience and facilitates benchmarking.
It is widely used in banking and other industries and utilises a mixed-methodology to ensure full representativeness of financial behaviours across the UK population.
The basis of Barclays Relationship NPS has been a 12-month rolling average to minimise data fluctuations.
Source: UK: GfK FRS, 12 months ending December 2018.
Adults interviewed: 8,765 Barclays main Current Account holders Barclays Relationship NPS, and 4,741 Barclays main Credit Card holders Barclaycard UK Relationship NPS : US: Satmetrix, average of two semi-annual results c Charterhouse Research based on 683 interviews 173 Barclays 25m with companies turning over between 25m and 1bn carried out in year end 2018.
Survey data is weighted by turnover and region to be representative of the total market in Great Britain.
% Responses Excellent, Very Good and Good.
d Best Lender for Buy to Let Moneywise, Best lender for Remortgage Moneywise, Best Lender for Large loans Moneywise, Best National Bank Mortgage Strategy Gazette, Best Intermediary Lender Mortgage Strategy Gazette, Best Overall Lender Mortgage Strategy Gazette, Best Buy to Let Lender Mortgage Strategy Gazette, Mortgage Lender of the Year Mortgage Introducer, Best Offset Mortgage Lender What Mortgage, Best remortgage lender Personal Finance Net Promoter, Net Promoter System, Net Promoter Score, NPS and the NPS-related emoticons are registered trademarks of Bain & Company, Inc. Fred Reichheld and Satmetrix Systems, Inc. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 19 Key performance indicators Measuring performance A vibrant small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs sector is a vital ingredient for a healthy market economy.
Barclays UK provided new lending of 2.8bn to SMEs, 3% more than last year and completed over 110,000 mortgages for customers, worth over 23bn, up 1.5% year-on-year.
Our Mortgage business won 10 awards in 2018, confirming our continued focus on customer experience.
Digital engagement In the era of constant technological development, it is crucial for us to provide a market leading digital offering and digitally engage with our customers.
By the end of 2018, around 10.8m customers and clients in the UK were using our digital services on a regular basis, 6% more than in 2017 with our Barclays Mobile Banking BMB user base increasing from 5.5m to nearly 6.2m.
In 2018, 69% of the US Consumer Bank customers are now digitally active vs. 66% in 2017, and 57% now receive paperless statements.
Our strategy and customer centricity is encouraged by the prestigious third place in J. D. Powers 2018 Credit Card Satisfaction Survey.
To maintain and improve this position, we continue to work on building our single, integrated native app to provide accounts being opened digitally this year.
Conduct indicators our customers an effortless experience.
We will continue to add great new features Barclays has operated at the overall set The app will allow customers to apply for to BMB in the near future, including spend tolerance for Conduct risk throughout 2018. products, manage their accounts, and track categorisation and financial insights.
The tolerance is assessed by the business rewards earned all in one convenient place.
through key indicators which are aggregated Areas of continued focus In the Open Banking environment, we are and provide an overall rating which is reported Complaints performance committed to serve a new type of client: to the Board Reputation Committee as part of In Barclays UK, we continue to focus on developers.
Through our API Exchange, we the Conduct Dashboard.
We remain focused customer experience by transforming received more than 8.4m calls or requests on the continuous improvement being made customer journeys.
Our underlying complaint a to our open APIs in 2018. to manage Conduct risk effectively, with an volumes reduced 9% year-on-year.
However, emphasis on enhancing governance and BMB is the most used mobile banking app in we have seen an increase of 2% in PPI management information to facilitate the the UK source: eBenchmarkers and was the complaints.
Total Barclays UK complaint identification of risks at earlier stages.
For first core banking app from a major UK high volumes including PPI were down 1% further information on the management and street bank to enable account aggregation year-on-year.
Barclays International complaint performance of Conduct risk, please refer to through Open Banking technology.
This volumes have shown a small increase 2% the Risk review section on pages 146 and 212. means that customers can now view their year on year.
The level of complaints we balances and transactions from other banks in receive remains too high and reducing them BMB without having to share their online or further will continue to be a key priority for mobile banking credentials.
Further to this, we us in 2019 also improved the functionality of our app throughout 2018 to better help our customers manage their money, with a temporary card-freeze feature for misplaced debit cards, a calendar view of regular payments and the ability to open an Everyday Saver account entirely in BMB.
This has proved particularly popular, with over 60% of Everyday Saver Note a Open APIs are publicly available application programming interfaces that provide developers programmatic access to our products and services and use them in third-party applications.
For example, a bookshop can integrate Barclays payment initiation API into its web shop.
After selecting the desired book, the customer is directed to her bank to authorise the payment without using a card or sharing any details with the bookshop.
We make our open APIs available on the Barclays API Exchange website.
20 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Colleagues How we are doing Sustainable engagement of colleagues 79% 2017 78%, 2016 75% Women in senior leadership roles 24% 2017 23% I would recommend Barclays as a good place to work 86% 2017 82% Key outcomes we will look to How we are doing This year, our overall sustainable engagement achieve include: Areas of encouragement increased to 79%, up four points from 2016, Promoting and maintaining: A diverse and inclusive workforce when we last had our all colleague survey.
Our a diverse and inclusive workforce in which We continue to focus heavily on our culture, scores around Energise and Engage were also employees of all backgrounds are treated and in particular how we provide the right up five and four points on 2016 to 83% and equally and have the opportunity to be environment for all of our colleagues to feel 88%, respectively, which is above Financial successful and achieve their potential able to bring their whole selves to work.
We Services Companies norms and our Enable were delighted that 91% of our employees score was up five percentage points to 65%.
engaged and enabled colleagues who responded in our Your View employee a positive conduct and values-based culture.
A positive conduct and value-based culture opinion survey agreed that we had made real We have continued to make good progress How we measure success progress again this year.
on embedding our culture measurement Measures used in our evaluation include, We were also proud to be recognised through framework and are now working with our but are not limited to: businesses to develop further metrics to track a number of external awards in 2018: diversity and inclusion statistics and monitor performance on a more granular The Times Top 50 Employers for Women employee sustainable engagement level which will be implemented in 2019.
2018 survey scores Stonewall Top Global Employer for LGBT We saw a notable increase on the question, conduct and culture measures.
Is it safe to speak up at Barclays, which went employees, 2018 from 77% to 86%.
Other key highlights which Working Families UK Best for Embedded also demonstrate the continued embedding of flexibility for Dynamic Working, 2018 the Values of Respect and Stewardship UK Top 10 employer for Working Families, include: Barclays is focused on achieving 2018 good customer and client outcomes 92% Department of Work and Pensions Disability favourable, 2016: 83% : I would recommend Confident Leader, 2017 to 2020 Barclays as a good place to work 83% favourable, 2016: 76% : and I can be myself Business in the Community Best Employer at work 91% favourable.
A new question for Race 2018. for 2018.
Engaged and enabled colleagues Areas of continued focus An engaged workforce is critical to the A diverse and inclusive workforce success and delivery of our strategy.
We Gender diversity, particularly at senior continue to measure this with our annual leadership levels within the organisation Employee Opinion Survey, Your View, using remains our focus.
At the end of 2012 the the outputs to help shape our human capital percentage of women in our senior leadership agenda and areas of executive focus across all roles Managing Directors and Directors was of our businesses and functions supported by 20% and we set ourselves a target to reach small pulse check surveys each quarter.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 21 Key performance indicators Measuring performance position was 24% at the Barclays Group level How we are doing 2017: 23%, the 2% gap can be attributed to Areas of encouragement the divestment of our Africa business.
Our Delivery against the Shared Growth Ambition 2021 target is to reach 28% women in our Citizenship We met or exceeded five out of six internal senior leadership roles with each of our objectives on the annual Shared Growth businesses developing local actions to help Ambition metrics.
Performance was ahead of reach this Group-wide target.
target against our annual internal milestones for the three focus areas of Access to How we are doing We report progress on the women in senior financing, Access to digital and financial leadership target annually to HM Treasury Access to financing empowerment and Access to employment.
as part of our commitment to the Women We also met or exceeded our 2018 annual in Finance Charter.
We have committed to the 27.3bn targets for The Barclays Way training and Hampton-Alexander recommended targets 2017 31.7bn carbon emissions reduction.
Supplier payment of 33% female representation on the Board of on time was below target due to a change in People helped to improve skill sets Directors by 2020 year-end, and 33% female systems, which impacted performance through employability partnerships representation across the Group Executive during the year.
Committee and direct reports by 2020 2.4m year-end.
We have continued to build our capability to deliver financing solutions across a range of This year, we have again increased our Global carbon emissions reduction social and environmental sectors including activities to support the development of our renewable energy, education, healthcare and senior female leadership population and we 38% development finance institutions.
Our financing expanded our Encore!
Programme to attract 2017 26.1% volume is tracked and screened using Barclays more women returners.
At our graduate level, Impact Eligibility Framework, developed in the percentage of female hires in 2018 was collaboration with Sustainalytics a global 37% across the Barclays Group 2017: 40%.
provider of ESG and corporate governance, Under the Companies Act 2006, Barclays is research, ratings and analytics.
In 2018 Barclays required to report on the gender breakdown facilitated 27.3bn in financing for specific of our employees and senior managers.
Of Key outcomes we will look to social and environmental sectors across our our global workforce of 83,500 47,500 male, business 2017: 31.7bn.
The reduction from achieve include: 36,000 female, 555 were senior managers making decisions and doing business in prior year reflects market conditions, including 401 male, 154 female, which include Officers the impact of changes in U. S. tax law which a way that provides our clients, customers, of the Group, certain direct reports of the shareholders, colleagues and the caused certain qualifying clients to accelerate Chief Executive, heads of major business new debt issuance from 2018 into 2017. communities we serve with access to units, certain senior Managing Directors, a sustainable and prosperous future.
Underlying environmental financing increased and directors on the boards of undertakings 11% to 5.3bn, driven by a range of capital proactively managing the environmental of the Group, but exclude individuals who sit markets transactions and a growing volume and societal impacts of our business.
as Directors on the Board of the Company.
from our dedicated green product portfolio.
How we measure success The definition of senior managers within We expanded our green product portfolio, Measures used in our evaluation include, this disclosure has a narrower scope than including the launch of the first Green but are not limited to: the Managing Director and Director female Mortgage for retail customers by a mainstream delivery against the Shared Growth representation data provided above.
UK institution, added Green Trade Finance to Ambition Engaged and enabled colleagues our Corporate Banking green product set, and colleague engagement in citizenship Our score on the Enable pillar, which structured several innovative transactions such activities measures how Barclays is helping colleagues as the first  Revolving external benchmarks and surveys.
to meet challenges and overcome obstacles, Credit Facility for a US borrower.
has been on an upward trend since 2016.
Yet We also deepened client engagement on it remains our biggest opportunity to improve, these issues and hosted Barclays inaugural and we are not yet where we want to be.
Green Frontiers conference with a keynote An area of continued opportunity is enabling presentation from former US Vice President Al our colleagues through enhanced technology Gore.
We continue to engage with industry and collaboration tools.
groups and policymakers on enhancing A positive conduct and value-based culture sustainable finance flows and providing a We will maintain our focus to embed supportive policy framework.
meaningful tracking of our culture with the revised culture dashboards.
We will continue to target efforts in our action plans to address the key opportunities for improvement, such as an obstacle-free working environment that allows colleagues to do their jobs well.
22 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information carbon emissions by 38% 2017: 26.1% and exceeding our target of 30% reduction by 2018 against the 2015 baseline.
We achieved 82.1% 2017: 89% on-time payment by value to our suppliers, falling short of our public commitment of 85% for the first time.
This metric was affected by a change in systems which impacted performance during the year.
Colleague engagement in citizenship activities Our colleagues are central to the success of our citizenship strategy and in driving our societal impact.
Beyond the financial services we provide, our colleagues support the local communities in which we operate through volunteering, matched fundraising and payroll giving.
We provide the opportunity to engage via our Barclays programmes such as LifeSkills and Digital Eagles among others, but similarly support other charitable activities in which our colleagues participate.
We have active internal Environmental, Green Banking and Social Innovation networks.
We celebrate our colleague engagement and participation through our 21st annual Citizenship Awards, which saw almost 1,500 employees nominated.
87% of colleagues who responded to the annual Your View employee survey Access to financial and digital empowerment the UK and Europe, US and Asia.
are proud of Barclays contribution to the We continue to focus on empowering community and society, above the global Our programmes received a number of customers and providing dedicated products, Financial Services Companies norm.
Barclays was named on the Fortune tools and training to help enhance access to 2018 Change the World List for the first time Areas of continued focus financial services, manage digital security and for positive social impact connected to core Banks play a key role in connecting the improve financial health.
We helped support business strategy.
Additional awards include providers and users of capital.
Barclays around 260,000 people in 2018 2017: 205,000 the Business in the Community BITC recognises this role in serving society, and through initiatives such as Barclaycard Initial for Outstanding Employment Award for our our success as a business has always been those with a limited credit history: our Digital Connect with Work programme, and the inextricably linked to the progress of the Eagles network, comprised of specially trained Corporate Engagement Award for Best people and businesses that we serve.
Barclays employees working to provide free Environmental or Sustainable Programme and technology support to both customers and As societys expectations of businesses Better Society Innovation Award, both for non-customers alike.
See the Barclays UK continue to evolve, we aim to stay ahead Unreasonable Impact.
performance overview on pages 30 to 33 for of those expectations.
It is by focusing on further information on the support we provide Proactively managing the environmental our core products and services, and our to financially vulnerable customers, disabled and societal impacts of our business relationships, that we can make the people and older customer groups, and tools to We released statements in April 2018 on our greatest positive impact.
enhance financial health and tackle fraud.
approach to the coal sector and Ramsar So as we move forward into 2019, our Wetlands and World Heritage Sites.
This was Access to employment citizenship and sustainability work will evolve followed by a more comprehensive statement Barclays is committed to helping people gain to align with our new Purpose, and will go on our approach to energy and climate access to the skills they need to secure further towards improving the positive social change in January 2019 which strengthened meaningful employment, connecting job environmental impact of the business we do and replaced our Coal Statement, and which seekers and employers, and supporting every day.
includes a wider range of sensitive energy entrepreneurs to scale their businesses to sectors.
See the box on page 25 for more create new jobs.
We helped improve the skills information.
of over 2.4 million people in 2018 2017: 2.1 million, driven by a range of employability We published an updated Statement on partnerships around the world, our global Modern Slavery which includes additional Connect with Work programme and our information on the work our financial crime LifeSkills programme in the UK.
teams are doing in partnership with law enforcement agencies to identify suspicious We held programmes for the third year of the activity and support our customers.
The Unreasonable Impact programme, created in statement is available on our website partnership with the Unreasonable Group, home.
barclays citizenship our-approach focused on scaling innovative ventures that human-rights.
html solve environmental and societal problems and grow to create new jobs.
More than 90 ventures We continued to manage our operational have participated to date in programmes across environmental impacts, reducing global home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 23 Key performance indicators Measuring performance Capital and products challenges through our Unreasonable External ESG ratings and surveys We will continue to develop opportunities Impact accelerator by 2022 Barclays is evaluated on ESG factors by a wide to achieve positive outcomes through the range of external agencies.
Currently there is we will continue to support Barclays products and services we provide across significant variance between methodologies, Social Innovation Facility SIF to enable the diverse consumer and wholesale client with relatively opaque scoring models and colleagues to develop new products and segments we serve: limited consistency in the underlying data services that allow Barclays to generate We will facilitate 150bn of social and used at present.
We believe it is important both commercial and social value.
environmental financing by 2025, including that these agencies, working with companies, Environmental stewardship funding for sectors such as renewable investors and other market participants, Banks have an important role to play in energy, clean technology, education, continue to enhance consistency and ensuring the worlds energy needs are met affordable housing and national and transparency to support increasingly robust while helping to limit the threat that climate supranational development institutions.
ESG data and ratings in the future.
change poses to people and to the natural We remain committed to the green bond Across a set of ESG Ratings, our performance environment.
We are focused on three areas market as an investor and after meeting was broadly stable year-on-year with of activity at Barclays: our 2bn target, we now aim to double our methodology changes the primary drivers of financing the growth of renewable energy green bond investment to 4bn over time.
The FTSE4Good ESG Rating was flat sources and proactively supporting the at 4.3 5 2017: 4.3 5 with an 81st percentile Skills and employability development of businesses aiming to solve ranking against the global banks sector.
We will scale our partnerships with leading the worlds environmental challenges Barclays was rated BBB by MSCI ESG Ratings community organisations to address critical taking a responsible and sustainable 2017: BBB and scored 60 points in skills development and employability e approach to the necessary financing of Sustainalytics ESG Ratings 2017: 61 points.
opportunities: we aim to upskill ten million sources of energy that are more carbon f We saw a decline in our RobecoSAM scores people to support all generations across the intensive or those with higher due to changes in methodology, down by 4 UK through LifeSkills by 2022 environmental impact: and points to 75 points 2017: 79 points, against we will also use our networks to help reducing the carbon footprint of our own a sector average of 54 points.
Institutional provide pathways to employment using g Shareholder Services ISS released new operations and supply chain throughout the a demand-driven approach.
We will reduce operational scope 1 and environmental and social quality scores to place 250,000 people into work through assess corporate disclosures.
On a 1-10 scale 2 emissions by 80% by 2025 and commit our Connect with Work partnerships across to RE100 the worlds most influential where 1 is highest, Barclays was rated as the UK, US and Asia by 2022.
1 for social reporting and 2 for companies committed to 100% renewable Economic growth power to procure 100% of global operational environmental reporting.
Barclays was rated Barclays has been part of the fabric of the UK as Ain the 2018 CDP climate disclosure energy needs from renewable sources by for over 328 years.
In addition to our role in 2030, with an interim target of 90% by 2025. survey, up from B in 2017. the UK as a leading employer and provider of Contributing to global initiatives Enhancing disclosures financial services across all segments of the We recognise that markets and stakeholders We will continue to engage with industry economy, we will also pursue targeted local groups and policymakers on enhancing need clear, relevant and consistent economic growth initiatives working in information and will continue to focus sustainable finance flows and providing a partnership with stakeholders: supportive policy framework.
This includes on enhancing disclosures, particularly on climate change, and across wider ESG factors, we will support business growth across the supporting the Task Force on Climate-related UK through dedicated regional and industry Financial Disclosures, the IIF Sustainable including the recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures focused growth funds Finance Group and a range of Green Finance initiatives with the UK Government and the TCFD.
We have enhanced our TCFD aligned we will work with partners to identify disclosures in 2018 and set out a high-level Corporation of London.
the opportunities to Build Thriving Local implementation plan.
See pages 26 to 27 for Economies and run pilot schemes in four Barclays is one of the 28 founding banks of further information.
different local economies around the UK the Principles for Responsible Banking under by 2022. the United Nations Environment Programme Barclays publishes an annual Environmental Social Governance ESG Report as part of the Finance Initiative UNEP FI.
We support the Sustainable innovation finalisation of the Principles and will work to Annual Report suite of documents.
We have We recognise the role of innovation in solving provided additional detail on material ESG implement them over time.
We support the some of societys major challenges and the creation of national green finance strategies, themes in the 2018 Report available at part Barclays can play in supporting new ideas home.
barclays annualreport which specifically aim to support the to flourish and entrepreneurs and ventures to mobilisation of finance towards the lowgrow and thrive: Barclays PLC ESG Report 2018 is available at carbon economy.
we will support innovative business models home.
barclays annualreport and help to mentor over 250 high impact businesses solving social and environmental Notes a Eligible environmental and social transactions and relevant products are tracked through a use of proceeds framework.
Further detail is available in the ESG Report and online at home.
b Unique participants measures colleague involvement in eligible volunteering, matched fundraising, regular giving initiatives.
Data sourced from internal reporting systems including several manual sources and includes employee self-reported activity.
d Source: MSCI ESG Inc. e Source: Sustainalytics Inc. f Source: RobecoSAM.
24 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Our approach to sensitive energy sectors Barclays is committed to a considered The clients approach to health and safety Because of the nature of the business approach to energy and mining clients in of the workforce and local communities: activities and the associated social and sectors with higher carbon-related and, environmental impacts and risks, Barclays exposures or emissions from extraction or will apply further sector specific EDD and, The clients transparent corporate consumption, or those which may have an in some cases restrictions, to the following governance and oversight of climate impact in certain sensitive environments or sensitive energy sources: change issues and associated corporate on communities.
We conduct Enhanced Due risks, including disclosure against Coal Diligence EDD on a case-by-case basis on principles such as the Financial Stability Arctic Oil and Gas clients in these sensitive energy sectors, and Board FSB Taskforce on Climate-related will consider the following factors as a Oil Sands Financial Disclosures TCFD.
minimum: In order to assist and enhance the EDD Barclays external statements can be found The clients adherence to the Equator process, we operate a training programme in the Statements section of home.
barclays citizenship with further detail in Principles if a project finance or credit for credit teams.
the Barclays PLC ESG Report 2018 transaction is deemed to be in scope and External technical input may be obtained relevant International Finance Corporation to assist the business in reviewing and IFC performance standards: assessing whether certain client activities The clients adherence to local and meet our internal EDD criteria, or where national environmental regulation and there is uncertainty as to whether a certain standards and industry best practice: activity is within scope of our EDD criteria.
The clients management and Barclays will continue to align its implementation of procedures which approach to sensitive energy sectors minimise direct environmental impacts in with developments in government and the context of their operations: public policy.
The clients responsible public and stakeholder engagement with impacted local communities and indigenous people: home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 25 Key performance indicators Measuring performance Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD Barclays is a member of the Financial Stability The TCFD recommendations aim to improve Governance Boards Task Force on Climate-related the disclosure of information to allow Barclays Group Executive Committee is Financial Disclosures TCFD and signed the investors, regulators and other stakeholders responsible for managing the overall delivery Statement of Support for the TCFD to better assess and manage the risks and of environmental and social matters, which Recommendations, which were published opportunities resulting from climate change.
includes climate-related risks and in June 2017.
This disclosure outlines the We rely on appropriate disclosures from opportunities.
On behalf of the Board, the progress Barclays has made to date in clients to inform our own climate-related Board Reputation Committee RepCo reviews adopting these voluntary recommendations, sector risk management.
Clear understanding and approves Barclays overall approach to and presents our plan on how we will achieve and analysis of potential financial risks and environmental and social issues, including alignment to the recommendations by opportunities in short, medium and longerthe approach taken on climate change.
February 2021. term horizons is still at an early stage.
We The TCFD Implementation Forum, a senior anticipate that disclosures will continue to forum set up in 2017 to provide oversight develop over time, supported by improved and drive implementation of the TCFD analytical tools, data and market practice.
recommendations met three times in 2018.
This will support Barclays as a user of The Forum has representation from across climate disclosures across industry sectors the bank, including: Group CEO Office: Green and subsequently to inform our own Banking: Strategy: Compliance: Corporate disclosures as a preparer.
Relations, including Sustainability and We provide summary disclosures in the Reputation Risk: Credit Risk: Investor Strategic Report with additional detail, Relations and business teams from Barclays including results of pilot scenario analysis International and Barclays UK.
and wider activity in 2018, in the ESG Report.
26 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Strategy Metrics and targets Barclays has been integrating the As disclosures develop, we would expect management of climate-related risks and further dialogue over time between banks, opportunities for a number of years, advising corporates, investors and other market on, and developing green products.
The participants on appropriate, decision-useful Barclays Energy and Climate Change and robust metrics to assess material financial Statement focuses on financing the growth risks and opportunities.
Areas of focus of renewable energy sources, taking a include, among others, clarity over detailed responsible and sustainable approach to the definitions of carbon-related assets building necessary financing required, and reducing on the TCFD high-level guidance: the carbon footprint of our own operations standardised methods for the calculation and supply chain.
and presentation of credit exposure to carbon-related assets: definitions for Increasing funding needs for the energy climate-related and green financing transition and climate resilient infrastructure across product categories: and suitable will continue to provide opportunities to risk management metrics.
mobilise capital, advise clients and develop Financing: Barclays facilitated 5.3bn dedicated products.
We continued to build in environmental financing in 2018 2017: our platform for green and sustainable 4.82bn which includes green bonds and finance.
See page 25 for more information.
loans for renewable energy and low-carbon Taking an exploratory approach in 2018, technology.
Barclays assessed credit risk and opportunity Treasury Green Bond Investment: Barclays alongside 15 other banks as part of the United remains committed to the green bond Nations Environment Programme Finance market as an investor and has continued to Initiative UNEP FI pilot project on both expand our green bond portfolio to 2.27bn transition and physical risks.
This was our in 2018 2017: 1.56bn, meeting our target first iteration of how scenario-based climateof 2bn.
We now aim to double our related transition and physical risks could investment to 4bn over time.
potentially be integrated into the credit risk Operations: In 2018 we set a science-based process.
Testing of transition risk was reduction target for scope one and two undertaken in Electric Utilities and Oil and Gas greenhouse gas emissions of 80% by sub-set Exploration and Production up to 2025: this is in line with the level of 2030 and 2040: and physical risk in the UK decarbonisation required to keep global Mortgage Portfolio up to 2020 and 2040.
The temperature increases well below pilot testing of these scenarios proved a useful two degrees.
exercise, and also indicated the current challenges with data and applying climate scenario methods over long-term time horizons.
Risk management Through the TCFD implementation programme, Barclays is taking steps to identify the relative significance of climaterelated risks as they relate to the Principal Risks within the Barclays Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF.
Environmental risk is recognised as a credit risk issue and Barclays has a dedicated Environmental Risk Management team, within the central Credit Risk Management function.
An addition in 2018, resulting from both TCFD implementation and the UNEP FI pilot learnings, was to include the impacts of climate change in both the Environmental Risk Standard and the Client Assessment Standard.
See page 134 for information on environmental risk management within credit risk and the Pillar 3 disclosures available at home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 27
