LONG-TERM ASSETS LONG-TERM ASSETS This section outlines the acquisitions made by the Group in the year, as well as the tangible and intangible assets held by the Group.
The Group have made a number of acquisitions since inception.
Note 18 describes the acquisitions made in the current and previous years, as well as the key components of each acquisition.
Tangible assets include the physical assets which are used by the Group in the course of business which generate, or contribute to the generation of, revenue and profit.
Tangible assets are owned by the Group, or are leased under finance leases.
These assets include property and property improvements used by the divisions, equipment used by our employees, and our fleet of transporters and other motor vehicles.
The Group also uses other properties, equipment and vehicles which are controlled by the Group through operating leases, detailed in note 17.
Intangible assets are non-physical assets which generate, or contribute to, revenue and profit.
These assets include goodwill, customer relationships and brands, acquired through business combinations.
This also includes software, which can be purchased, acquired through business combinations, or generated internally based on bespoke requirements and demands in the business.
This includes a comprehensive suite of digital tools which are used by internal and external stakeholders to facilitate and coordinate our business activities.
Acquisitions Critical accounting estimates acquisition accounting For all acquisitions in the period, management are required to apply judgement and make estimates in relation to the identification and valuation of separable assets and liabilities arising on these acquisitions.
In determining the period over which the asset is to be amortised, management must also assess the likely economic life of the asset.
Management has estimated the fair value of contingent consideration likely to arise on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings by taking account of financial and market targets over the relevant period of time.
The time value of money was estimated using an appropriate discount rate.
The following step acquisition has been made by the Group in the year.
Life on Show On 21 December 2017 the Group acquired the remaining 49% of the shares in Life on Show Limited trading as AutosOnShow, specialists in vehicle imagery technology.
Consideration paid was 4.0m settled in cash.
The Group had previously acquired 51% of the shares in Life on Show Limited in August 2014 and had included the entity within the Group consolidation from this point.
Prior year acquisitions The Group made two acquisitions in the prior year.
In accordance with IFRS 3, there were no final measurement period adjustments required to the provisional values disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 relating to the acquisitions listed below.
Paragon On 18 July 2016 the Group acquired 100% of the Ordinary shares of Paragon Automotive Limited and subsidiary companies for initial consideration of 102.7m, which was subject to adjustment based on certain circumstances and contingent earn-out payments of up to a maximum of 30m, subject to achievement of financial and market targets over the two financial years ending March 2017 and 2018.
Following the year ended 1 April 2018 the second earn-out payment was paid in line with management estimations at the time of acquisition.
As the leading provider of outsourced vehicle services in the UK, Paragon supplements previous acquisitions and the Groups services in logistics, refurbishment, imaging, inspection and finance.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition represents the assembled workforce, geographical coverage and buyer synergies from combining the Paragon operations with those of the Group.
Supreme Wheels On 31 March 2017 the Group acquired 75% of the Ordinary shares of Supreme Wheels Direct Ltd for an initial consideration of 1.6m, which was settled in cash.
There is a put and call option to purchase the remaining 25% of the Ordinary shares three years after acquisition.
Management has provisionally estimated the amount to purchase the remaining shares which, with discounting for the time value of money, represents a fair value of 0.6m.
106 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance F Fiin na an nc ciial als s 19.
Further details of intangible assets acquired through business combinations are disclosed in note 18.
Critical accounting estimates impairment of goodwill and intangible assets An impairment review has been performed of all goodwill and intangible assets held by the Group.
The impairment review is performed on a value in use basis, which requires estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rate and an appropriate growth rate.
Specifically, the future cash flows are sensitive to the assumptions made about the revenue growth, EBITDA margin and the long-term growth rate of the relevant market.
Given the degree of subjectivity involved, actual outcomes could vary significantly from these estimates.
The detailed assumptions used and associated sensitivity analysis are discussed below.
Goodwill Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash generating unit CGU' or group of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies associated with that business combination.
These CGU groups represent the lowest level within the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes.
Goodwill is monitored by management at an operating segment level and has been allocated to operating segments as follows: Goodwill m UK Vehicle Remarketing 536.5 International Vehicle Remarketing 213.7 Vehicle Buying 115.9 Automotive Services 87.6 953.7 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 107 LONG-TERM ASSETS continued 19.
Intangible assets continued Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired, by comparing the carrying amount of these assets with their recoverable amounts which is derived from a value in use calculation.
Where the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount of the assets, the assets are considered as not impaired.
No impairment charges were incurred in the year ended 1 April 2018.
Cash flow forecasts cover a period of five years following the year end.
The first year of forecast is the Board approved budget.
The budget forms the basis of the cash flow projections for each CGU which are used to forecast the next four financial years.
The forecast reflects managements expectations of the medium-term operating performance of each CGU and growth prospects in the CGU's markets and regions, and are based on the strategic plan as approved by the Board.
The International Vehicle Remarketing forecast contains the highest growth rates amongst the CGUs due to the potential addressable market.
Other key assumptions in the value in use calculation are shown below: Vehicle Remarketing UK International Vehicle Buying Automotive Services Growth rate applied beyond approved forecast period 1.8% 1.0% 1.8% 1.0 1.8% Pre-tax discount rate 10.3% 11.1% 9.9% 9.5 12.4% Growth rates used do not exceed expectations of long-term growth in the local market.
The discount rate is estimated by the Group using a range of equity costs for similar companies and external market data, with samples chosen where applicable from the same markets or territories as the CGU.
The calculation of value in use for goodwill is sensitive to the following key assumptions: Operating cash flow Discount rate The Directors consider that there are no reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions made in their impairment calculations that would give rise to an impairment.
108 B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 S St tr ra ate tegi gic c r re ep po or rt t Governance F Fiin na an nc ciial als s 20.
Finance lease commitments Included in property, plant and equipment are land and building assets held under finance leases with a net book value of 3.9m 2017: 5.9m and accumulated depreciation of 0.8m 2017: 3.8m and plant, machinery and motor vehicle assets under finance leases with a net book value of 29.3m 2017: 31.8m and accumulated depreciation of 10.3m 2017: 10.5m.
B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 109
