108 Consolidated Financial Statements BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Accounting Policies of the Group Financial statements Basis of preparation On transition to IFRS 9 the Group has adopted the modified 103 Consolidated Income The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with retrospective approach, and therefore has not restated the Statement International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use prioryear comparative within this years financial statements.
104 Consolidated Statement in the European Union EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of ofComprehensive Income IFRS 15 the EU International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation and the IFRS 15 addresses the recognition of revenue from customer 105 Consolidated Balance Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Sheet contracts and impacts on the amounts and timing of the The financial statements have been prepared using the historical recognition of such revenue.
106 Consolidated Cash Flow cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain financial Statement The standard introduced a five-step approach to revenue instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out 107 Consolidated Statement recognition identifying the contract: identifying the performance below.
These policies have been consistently applied with the prior of Changes in Equity obligations in the contract: determining the transaction price: year except where noted.
allocating that transaction price to the performance obligations: 108 Accounting Policies oftheGroup New financial reporting requirements and finally recognising the revenue as those performance A number of EU-endorsed amendments to existing standards obligations are satisfied.
116 Notes to the and interpretations were effective for annual periods beginning Consolidated On transition to IFRS 15 the Group has adopted the modified Financial Statements on or after 1 January 2018 and have been applied in preparing the retrospective approach, and therefore has not restated the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
There is no impact 171 Company Balance Sheet prioryear comparative within this years financial statements.
on the Group Consolidated Financial Statements from applying Ontransition to IFRS 15 an impact assessment was performed: 172 Company Statement these standards.
ofChanges in Equity Within the Signature business, IFRS 15 did not have a material The Group adopted from 1 January 2018 two significant changes 173 Accounting Policies impact due to the nature of the services provided the cycle tothe IFRS framework being IFRS 9: Financial Instruments IFRS 9 oftheCompany fromorder through to delivery of these services is generally short.
and IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15.
175 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Within the Ontic and ERO businesses, the methodology adopted IFRS 9 for revenue recognition under IFRS 15 was not materially different IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition 182 Subsidiaries and Related from the previous standard, IAS 18 Revenue.
Undertakings of financial assets and financial liabilities, impairment and hedge accounting.
189 Five Year Summary Financial reporting standards applicable for future financial periods 190 Alternative Performance Classification and measurement: The number of categories of A number of EU-endorsed standards and amendments to existing Measures financial assets under IFRS 9 has been reduced compared to IAS standards and interpretations, which are described below, are 39.
The classification is based on the business model within which 195 Shareholder Information effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 theasset is held and the contractual cash flow characteristics of and have not been applied in preparing the Consolidated Financial theassets.
For financial assets that are debt instruments the classification The most significant change to the IFRS framework in these categories are amortised cost, fair value through other forthcoming standards and amendments to standards is IFRS 16: comprehensive income FVTOCI and fair value through profit Leases.
Equity investments that fall within the scope of the standard are usually measured at FVTPL unless an irrevocable IFRS 16 election is made to recognise them within other comprehensive IFRS 16 replaces existing leasing guidance, including IAS 17 Leases income.
On the transition the Group elected to recognise future and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
changes in the fair value of the equity investment in Fly Victor The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after Limited and Lider Taxi Aero S. A.
Air Brasil which are classified as 1January 2019. financial instruments within other comprehensive income.
The standard requires lessees to account for most contracts under Impairment: The impairment model under IFRS 9 reflects expected an on-balance sheet model, with the distinction between operating credit losses, as opposed to only incurred credit losses under and finance leases being removed.
exemptions from recognising leases on the balance sheet, including where the asset is of low value or the lease term is 12 months or Hedge accounting: On initial application of the standard, an entity less.
In addition, the standard makes changes to the definition of may choose, as its accounting policy, to continue to apply the hedge alease to focus on, amongst other things, which party has the right accounting requirements of IAS 39 instead of the hedge accounting to direct the use of the asset.
The Group adopted the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018.
The Group performed an assessment of the impact of adopting IFRS 9 based on the financial instruments and hedging relationships upon transition to IFRS 9 and management concluded that the impact of IFRS 9 on the Group was not material.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 109 Under the new standard, the Group will be required to: The Group will be adopting this expedient, pooling contracts by both geographical region and lease duration.
The weighted average Recognise right of use lease assets and lease liabilities on the discount rate at 1 January 2019 is 6.7%.
The right of use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost subject to certain Subleasing assessment exceptions less accumulated depreciation and impairment The Group has a number of contracts in place to rent space or losses, adjusted for any re-measurement of the lease liability.
assets to third parties, predominantly across its FBO portfolio.
Liabilities are measured based on the present value of future IFRS 16 requires an assessment of these contracts to determine lease payments over the lease term.
Subsequently, the lease firstly whether they constitute leases under the new standard, liability is adjusted for interest and lease payments, as well as and secondly, where they do, to assess whether these should be theimpact of lease modifications, amongst others.
accounted for as finance leases.
Recognise depreciation of the right of use lease assets and Where finance subleases exist the Right of Use asset is interest on lease liabilities over the lease term which will have derecognised and instead a receivable recognised from the lessee no overall impact on profit before tax over the life of the lease, also referred to as net investment in the sublease The lease however the result in any individual year will be impacted and liability pertaining to the master lease remains unaffected.
the change in presentation of costs will be material to the Groups key metrics.
Under IAS 17, the charge is booked in full A review has been undertaken on the Groups portfolio of contracts to operating profit.
Metrics impacted include operating profit, at year end by reviewing both the term of the master lease against interest, EBITDA, net debt and operating cashflow.
any subcontract and the present value of the master lease liability against the present value of the subcontract rental income stream.
Present the principal amount of cash paid and interest in the cash flow statement separately as a financing activity.
At 31 December 2018 there are four contracts which constitute Operating lease payments under IAS 17 would have been finance subleases.
The Group will be accounting for these in presented as operating cash flows.
There will be no overall accordance with IFRS 16, however in any one year the impact netcash flow impact.
ontheGroups results will not be material.
During 2018 the Group completed work to understand the impact Overall impact of the new standard.
Key components of this process have included: On 1 January 2019 an additional lease liability of $1.2 billion will be recognised on the balance sheet together with a corresponding A detailed review of contracts to establish lease classification Right of Use asset.
Any rent accruals or prepayments on the The Group has concluded all leasing contracts in its current balance sheet at 31 December 2018 are reclassified on 1 January portfolio meet the definition of a lease under IFRS 16.
2019 and adjusted against the Right of Use asset.
The asset is also Assessment of transition options adjusted for the impact of subleases.
The overall impact of these The Group has elected to transition to the new standard adopting adjustments is not material and as such it will broadly correspond the  approach and consequently the tothe lease liability on transition.
comparatives will not be restated.
The modified retrospective Information on the undiscounted amount of the Groups operating approach is a forward-looking computation looking at the impact lease commitments under IAS 17 Leases, the current leasing on any one lease over the remaining term from 1 January 2019. standard, is disclosed in note 15.
IFRS 16 will neither have any Subject to specific day one adjustments the new Right of Use economic impact on the Group nor any impact on the way the assetmatches the lease liability.
Discount rate assessment Metrics which are unaffected by IFRS 16 include the following: For new leases taken out post transition, the standard requires future lease payments to be discounted using the interest rate Financial Statement Area Impact implicit in the lease.
Where this rate cannot be readily determined Revenue No impact the standard provides a practical expedient to use Incremental Free cash flow No impact Borrowing Rate IBR.
Reported cash and cash equivalents No impact For the current lease portfolio the standard requires that, where Dividends per share No impact themodified retrospective transition option is taken, the IBR is No impact Banking covenants on the Groups existing usedfor all leases in place at 1 January 2019. loan facilities The Group has concluded that it is not possible to determine therate implicit in its portfolio of leases and so will adopt the IBR.
TheStandard specifies a discount rate needs to be calculated on a lease by lease basis.
However, as a practical expedient, the standard allows an entity to apply an IBR to a portfolio of leases with similar characteristics.
110 Consolidated Financial Statements BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Accounting Policies of the Group continued Financial statements IFRS 16 continued Going concern 103 Consolidated Income The estimated impact on the Groups key metrics is as follows: The directors have, at the time of approving the financial Statement statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and 1 2018 104 Consolidated Statement the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational Financial Statement Area Impact $m ofComprehensive Income existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt Total assets 1 Jan 2019 Increase c25% 4,271.2 105 Consolidated Balance the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial Sheet Total liabilities 1 Jan 2019 Increase c50% 2,327.0 statements.
Further detail is contained in the directors statement 106 Consolidated Cash Flow Net debt 1 Jan 2019 Increase c85% 1,332.2 of going concern on page 85 of the Directors Report.
Statement Operating profit FY 2019 Increase c12% 227.6 Business combinations 107 Consolidated Statement Finance costs FY 2019 Increase c100% 67.0 On the acquisition of a business, fair values reflecting conditions of Changes in Equity atthe date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable separable Profit before tax FY 2019 Decrease c10% 147.2 108 Accounting Policies assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Where the fair EBITDA FY 2019 Increase c30% 431.5 oftheGroup value of the total consideration, both paid and deferred, is different Operating cash flow FY 2019 Increase c35% 368.3 116 Notes to the to the fair value of the identifiable separable assets, liabilities Consolidated EPS FY 2019 Decrease c10% 13.4 and contingent liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as Financial Statements ROIC FY 2019 Decrease c20% 11.4% purchased goodwill and capitalised or a bargain purchase gain 171 Company Balance Sheet andrecognised in the Income Statement.
Acquisition-related 1 2018 metrics are provided for illustrative purposes.
costsare recognised in the Income Statement as incurred.
172 Company Statement ofChanges in Equity If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete Basis of consolidation 173 Accounting Policies The Group financial statements incorporate the financial bythe end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, oftheCompany the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the statements of the Company, BBA Aviation plc, and its subsidiary 175 Notes to the Company undertakings under the acquisition method of accounting.
These provisional amounts are adjusted Financial Statements during the measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities are The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial recognised, to reflect new information obtained about the facts and 182 Subsidiaries and Related statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Undertakings circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
189 Five Year Summary Control is achieved when the Company: When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business 190 Alternative Performance has the power over the investee: Measures combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement 195 Shareholder Information measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of with the investee: and the consideration transferred in a business combination.
Changes has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional more of the three elements of control listed above.
information obtained during the measurement period which All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date about facts andcircumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
cash flows relating to transactions between the members of the Group are eliminated on consolidation.
When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously held interest in the acquired entity is re-measured to Goodwill on acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value of the the acquisition date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, consideration paid, the non-controlling interest, and the fair value of is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in any previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been the identifiable net assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit Where goodwill can only be determined on a provisional basis for a or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest financial year, adjustments may be made to this balance for up to were disposed of.
12 months from the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is capitalised and presented as part of intangible assets in the Consolidated Balance The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the Sheet.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement and is tested for impairment on an annual basis.
period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration Associated undertakings are those investments other than is classified.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity isnot re-measured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsidiary undertakings where the Group is in a position to exercise a significant influence, typically through participation subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is rein the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity measured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, or IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Groups share of and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.
thepost-acquisition reserves of all such companies less provision for impairment.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 111 Foreign currencies IFRS 15 requires an entity to disaggregate revenue recognised Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the entitys from contracts with customers into categories that depict how the functional currency at the rate of exchange at the date of the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows transaction.
are affected by economic factors.
The Group has assessed that the disaggregation of revenue by operating segments is appropriate The individual financial statements of each Group company are in meeting this disclosure requirement as this is the information presented in the currency of the primary economic environment regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker CODM in in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of order to evaluate the financial performance of the entity.
the Consolidated Financial Statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in US dollars, the Signature presentation currency for the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Signature recognises revenue from the following major income The functional currency of the parent company is sterling.
streams: Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies Fuelling atthe balance sheet date are translated into the functional currency Property management at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss Ground handling arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date Technical services oftransaction is recognised in the Income Statement.
Fuelling revenue is recognised as a sale of goods when all of the The income statements of operations of which the functional performance obligations are completed, typically upon delivery.
currency is other than the US dollar are translated into US dollars Property management revenue is recognised over a period of time at the average exchange rate for the year.
The balance sheets of based on the performance obligations of the contract.
Ground these operations, including associated goodwill, are translated into handling revenue is recognised as the service is completed.
US dollars at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Technical service revenue is recognised at a point in time upon All exchange differences arising on consolidation are recognised satisfaction of the performance obligation in the contract.
initially in other comprehensive income and only in the Income Additionally, the Group acts as an agent when collecting certain Statement in the period in which the entity is eventually disposed of.
fees from customers on behalf of airport authorities.
All other translation differences are taken to the Income Statement, Ontic including discontinued Engine Repair & Overhaul with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowing Ontic recognises revenue from the following major income and derivative instruments to the extent that they are used to streams: provide a hedge against the Groups equity investments in overseas operations.
These translation differences are recognised in other System and sub-system support and maintenance comprehensive income, together with the exchange difference Repair and overhaul onthe net investment in those operations.
Engine and part sales Goodwill and intangible assets arising on the acquisition of a foreign Ontic revenue is recognised on engine and part sales once all of the entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and performance conditions are met, generally including delivery.
The translated at the closing rate of exchange.
revenue is recognised net of any discounts including an estimate for volume rebates.
Revenue recognition IFRS 15 addresses the recognition of revenue from customer Engine Repair & Overhaul revenue and associated profit on engine contracts and impacts on the amounts and timing of the overhauls are recognised over time once the terms of the contract recognition of such revenue.
The standard is based on a fivehave been agreed with the customer and the ultimate profitability step approach to revenue recognition identifying the contract: of the contract can be determined with reasonable certainty.
The identifying the performance obligations in the contract: recognition over time is based on hours incurred compared with determining the transaction price: allocating that transaction price managements best estimate of the total hours of production to the performance obligations: and finally recognising the revenue as this is the most faithful depiction of the progress of services.
as those performance obligations are satisfied.
Payment is typically received after an engine is shipped.
As a result a contract receivable is recognised on the balance sheet.
Revenue is measured based on the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in a contract with a customer and Within the Engine Repair & Overhaul business, revenue and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The Group associated profit are recognised on engine sales.
Where the engine recognises revenue when it transfers control of a product or service sold is subsequently leased back, the revenue and associated or service to a customer.
profit are only recognised where the lease can be categorised as an operating lease.
112 Consolidated Financial Statements BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Accounting Policies of the Group continued Financial statements Operating profit Property, plant and equipment 103 Consolidated Income Operating profit is stated after charging exceptional and other Property, plant and equipment is stated in the Balance Sheet at Statement items and after the share of results of associates and joint ventures cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
104 Consolidated Statement but before investment income and finance costs.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of property, plant and ofComprehensive Income equipment less estimated residual value and is calculated on Exceptional items are items which are material or non-recurring in 105 Consolidated Balance astraight line basis over the following estimated useful lives Sheet nature, and include costs relating to acquisitions which are material oftheassets: to the associated business segment, costs related to strategic 106 Consolidated Cash Flow Land Not depreciated disposals including those previously completed and significant Statement restructuring programmes some of which span multiple years.
Freehold buildings 40 years maximum 107 Consolidated Statement Other items include the amortisation of acquired intangibles of Changes in Equity Leasehold buildings Shorter of useful life or lease term accounted for under IFRS 3.
Fixtures and equipment including 108 Accounting Policies oftheGroup Underlying operating profit is the Groups key Alternative essential commissioning costs 320 years Performance Measure and is consistent with the way that financial 116 Notes to the performance is measured by management and reported to the Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are categorised Consolidated Financial Statements Board and the Executive Committee, and assists in providing a within fixtures and equipment.
meaningful analysis of the trading results of the Group.
Additionally, 171 Company Balance Sheet Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction exclusion of amortisation of acquired intangibles accounted for of major items of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as 172 Company Statement under IFRS 3 from the Groups underlying results assists with the ofChanges in Equity part of those assets.
The commencement of capitalisation begins comparability of the Groups underlying profitability with peer when both finance costs and expenditures for the asset are being 173 Accounting Policies companies.
incurred and activities that are necessary to get the asset ready oftheCompany Underlying operating profit is calculated as operating profit before for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially 175 Notes to the Company exceptional and other items see note 2. allthe activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use Financial Statements arecomplete.
Alternative Performance Measures APMs 182 Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings In the reporting of financial information, the directors have adopted Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant various Alternative Performance Measures APMs.
The Groups and equipment 189 Five Year Summary results are principally discussed on an adjusted and or underlying At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying 190 Alternative Performance basis.
Results on an adjusted basis are presented before exceptional value of its goodwill, intangible and tangible assets to determine Measures and other items.
APMs should be considered in addition to, and are whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered 195 Shareholder Information not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of All APMs have been defined, explained and reconciled to the nearest the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows GAAP measure as set out on pages 190 194. that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset Intangible assets belongs.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and whenever Licences and contracts, other than manufacturing licences within there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
the Ontic business, that are acquired separately are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Amortisation is The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell provided for on a straight line basis over the useful life of the asset.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future The Ontic business acquires licences from Original Equipment cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax Manufacturers OEMs to become the alternate OEM for that discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time product.
The useful life is based on the underlying contract where value of money.
The risks specific to the asset are reflected as an that is a determinable period.
Where the useful life is indeterminable adjustment to the future estimated cash flows.
and finite, a lifespan of 20 years is typically used.
An annual review is performed to assess the licences remaining useful life against the If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is vitality of the underlying platform.
estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the ofcomputer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible Income Statement.
Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying Amortisation is provided on the cost of software and is calculated amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to on a straight line basis over the useful life of the software.
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount Intangible assets, other than goodwill, arising on acquisitions are that would have been determined had no impairment loss been capitalised at fair value.
An intangible asset will be recognised as recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A long as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
legal rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Amortisation Impairment losses recognised in respect of goodwill are not is provided on the fair value of the asset and is calculated on a reversed in subsequent periods.
straight line basis over its useful life, which typically is the term of the licence or contract.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 113 Inventories Changes in the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts which Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised within operating comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate proportion profit in the Income Statement as they arise.
of labour and overheads in the case of work in progress and finished Fair value hedges are undertaken as part of the Groups policy goods.
Cost is calculated using the first-in first-out method in the for managing interest rate risk.
Changes in value of fair value Flight Support segment, and weighted average method in the hedges are immediately recognised within interest in the Income Aftermarket Services segment.
Provision is made for slow-moving Statement and are off-set by changes in fair value of the underlying or obsolete inventory as appropriate.
Any ineffectiveness on fair value hedges is recognised Associates and joint ventures immediately in the Income Statement.
Where the Group has the power to participate in but not control Other financial instruments the financial and operating policy decisions of another entity, it Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the is classified as an associate or joint venture.
Associates and joint Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the ventures are initially recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are at cost.
Subsequently associates and joint ventures are accounted accounted for at the trade date.
for using the equity method, where the Groups share of postacquisition profits and losses and other comprehensive income Cash and cash equivalents is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deemed Income except for losses in excess of the Groups investment in the deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments with associate or joint venture unless there is an obligation to make good original maturities of three months or less which are readily those losses.
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Profits and losses arising on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are recognised only to the extent Trade and other receivables of unrelated investors interests in the associate or joint venture.
Trade and other receivables excluding derivative assets are initially The investors share in the associates or joint ventures profits and recognised at fair value and do not carry any interest and are stated losses resulting from these transactions is eliminated against the at nominal value as reduced by appropriate loss allowances for carrying value of the associate or joint venture.
estimated irrecoverable amounts having considered expected losses as required by IFRS 9.
To measure the expected credit losses, Any premium paid for an associate or joint venture above the fair trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and characteristics, the days past due and anticipated changes in contingent liabilities acquired is capitalised and included in the economic conditions.
carrying amount of the associate or joint venture.
Where there is objective evidence that the investment in an associate or joint Financial liabilities and equity instruments venture has been impaired the carrying amount of the investment Financial liabilities and equity instruments are initially recognised is tested for impairment in the same way as other non-financial at fair value and classified according to the substance of the assets.
An equity instrument isany contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting oftheGroup after deducting all of its liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
All such Borrowings instruments are used for hedging purposes to manage the risk Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at profile of an underlying exposure of the Group in line with the fair value, which equates to proceeds less direct issue costs Groups risk management policies.
Recognition of gains or losses at inception.
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are on derivative instruments depends on whether the instrument measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate isdesignated as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed method, except where they are identified as a hedged item in a tohedge.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on settlement is recognised The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedges in the Income Statement over the term of the borrowings.
is recognised in other comprehensive income until the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement.
Trade and other payables The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised Trade payables, excluding derivative liabilities, are not interest immediately within other gains and losses in the Income Statement.
bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Hedges of net investments in non-US dollar territories are Equity instruments accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately, and is included within operating profit.
Gains and losses deferred in the foreign currency translation reserve are recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
114 Consolidated Financial Statements BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Accounting Policies of the Group continued Financial statements Other financial instruments continued Insurance 103 Consolidated Income Financial instruments measured through other comprehensive Provisions are recognised for self-insured risks as the cover is provided.
Statement income FVTOCI The provisions cover both known claims and claims incurred but not 104 Consolidated Statement Financial instruments measured through other comprehensive ofComprehensive Income reported.
Provisions are made for the associated costs based on an income FVTOCI are non-derivatives that are either designated as assessment of the specific risk or expected claims development for 105 Consolidated Balance FVTOCI or are not classified as a loans and receivables, b heldSheet risks that are incurred but not reported.
The estimates of current to-maturity investments or c financial assets at fair value through and ultimate risk exposure are made with the aid of an actuary or 106 Consolidated Cash Flow profit or loss.
other suitably qualified third party.
Statement The Group holds investments in unlisted shares that are not 107 Consolidated Statement Discontinued operations traded in an active market but that are classified as FVTOCI and of Changes in Equity Provisions for environmental and other liabilities relating to stated at fair value because the directors consider that fair value businesses that have been disposed of by the Group in prior years 108 Accounting Policies can be reliably measured.
Gains and losses arising from changes oftheGroup are classed as discontinued.
in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and 116 Notes to the accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve with the Restructuring Consolidated exception of impairment losses.
Where the investment is disposed A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has Financial Statements of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has 171 Company Balance Sheet previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the isreclassified to profit or loss.
restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing 172 Company Statement ofChanges in Equity its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a Impairment of financial assets restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditure arising 173 Accounting Policies Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each from the restructuring, and comprises those amounts that are both oftheCompany balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with 175 Notes to the Company objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that the ongoing activities of the entity.
Financial Statements occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
Environmental 182 Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings Environmental provisions relate to environmental liabilities Leases within continuing operations of the Group.
These liabilities relate 189 Five Year Summary Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease predominantly to the Groups current and historic property transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 190 Alternative Performance portfolios.
The liabilities have an expected life of up to 10 years.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Warranties 195 Shareholder Information Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised within Warranties provisions are recognised when the associated products property, plant and equipment and the capitalisation values written or services are sold.
Provisions are made for the associated costs off on a straight line basis over the shorter of the period of the lease based on an assessment of future claims made with reference to or the useful economic life of the asset.
Obligations to the lessors past experience.
relating to finance leases, net of finance charges, in respect of future periods are recorded as liabilities.
The interest element of Post-retirement benefits theobligation is allocated over the lease term to produce a constant Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are rate of interest on the outstanding capital payments.
charged as an expense as they fall due.
Operating leases are not recognised in the Groups Balance Sheet.
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost is The rental payments are charged to the Income Statement on determined using the projected unit credit method, with valuations astraight line basis over the life of the lease.
under IAS 19 revised being carried out annually as at 31 December.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in Provisions which they occur.
They are recognised outside of profit or loss Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal andpresented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
orconstructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle that The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees obligation and the obligation can be reliably estimated.
during the year is charged to operating profit in the year.
Any past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties vested.
The interest cost on the net defined benefit deficit is surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using included within finance costs.
thecash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is determined by discounting the expected The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet futurecash flows at an appropriate pre-tax discount rate.
represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and reduced by the When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation aprovision are expected to be recovered from a third party, the is only recognised to the extent that it is recoverable.
receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received on settlement of a related provision and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 115 Defined benefit scheme contributions are determined by valuations The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all Share-based payments orpart of the asset to be recovered.
The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled sharebased compensation plans.
The fair value of the compensation Deferred tax is calculated at tax rates which have been enacted is recognised in the Income Statement as an expense.
The total or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and that are amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income using the valuation technique most appropriate to each type of Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited award.
These include BlackScholes calculations and Monte Carlo to the Statement of Comprehensive Income, in which case the simulations.
For cash-settled options, the fair value of the option deferred tax is also dealt with in the Statement of Comprehensive is revisited at each balance sheet date.
For both cash and equityIncome.
settled options, the Group revises its estimates of the number of Assets and associated liabilities classified as held for sale options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of sheet date.
carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are classified Taxation as held for sale if their net carrying amount will be recovered The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
comprises current and deferred taxation.
Current tax is calculated Thiscondition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly at tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted as probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present atthe balance sheet date.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale Deferred taxation takes into account taxation deferred due to within one year of the date of classification.
temporary differences between the treatment of certain items fortaxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is accounted When the Group is committed to a sale plan involving loss of control for using the balance sheet liability method and is the tax expected of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary are to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying classified as held for sale when the criteria described above are amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the met, regardless of whether the Group will retain a non-controlling corresponding tax bases in the computation of taxable profit.
interest in its former subsidiary after the sale.
An uncertain tax provision is recognised for those matters for Critical accounting judgements and key sources of whichthe tax determination is uncertain but it is considered estimation uncertainty probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax In the application of the Groups accounting policies, the directors authority.
Theuncertain tax provisions are reported within current are required to make judgements other than those involving liabilities and measured using the most likely amount approach.
estimations that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised and to make estimates and assumptions about the Examples of activities for which the Group experiences tax carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily uncertainties include but are not limited to transfer pricing apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated underthe application of OECD transfer pricing principles and the assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors deductibility of interest payable resulting from the Groups financing that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from arrangements.
The Group is monitoring developments in relation these estimates.
to EU State Aid investigation including the EU Commissions announcement on 16 November 2017 that it will conduct a State The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an Aid investigation into the UKs Controlled Foreign Company regime ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised see note 2. inthe period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods The provision for uncertainties is established based on the ifthe revision affects both current and future periods.
management judgement of senior tax professionals within the Group supported by previous experience in respect of such Management has concluded that for 2018 there are no critical activities and in certain cases based on specialist independent accounting judgements.
A key source of estimation uncertainty is tax advice.
The methodology for establishing provisions for tax referred to within Income Tax note 4, where a contingent liability uncertainties has been consistently applied with the prior year.
has been identified in relation to the European Commissions ongoing State Aid investigation into the UKs Controlled Foreign No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted Company regime.
earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates where the Group has control and the reversal of the temporary difference is not foreseeable.
