BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 195 Shareholder Information Shareholdings Share price information As at 31 December 2018, there were about 3,600 shareholders The price of the Companys shares is available at onthe register of members.
Dividends For the purpose of Capital Gains Tax CGT calculations, the base Shareholders will receive their dividend payment in sterling unless cost of the old BBA Group plc shares held immediately before the they have elected to receive it in US dollars.
If you wish to receive demerger on 17 November 2006 has to be apportioned between your dividends in US dollars, your appropriate election must be BBA Aviation plc shares and Fiberweb plc shares.
The ratio is BBA received by the Companys registrar no later than 5.30 pm on Aviation plc shares 84.73%, Fiberweb plc shares 15.27%.
This is 30April 2019. based on the respective market values on 17 November 2006, determined according to CGT rules at that time, of 281.155p Please note that if you have previously made a valid election, that forBBA Aviation plc shares and 170.5p for Fiberweb plc shares.
election will cover all future dividend payments and a new election isnot required.
The dividend will be converted at a prevailing This information is provided as indicative guidance.
Any person exchange rate on 1 May 2019 and this exchange rate will be wishing to calculate their CGT should take their own financial advice announced shortly thereafter.
from their accountant or other authorised financial adviser and if they are in any doubt about their taxation position they should Dividend Reinvestment Plan obtain professional advice.
A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is available, giving ordinary shareholders the option to buy shares in lieu of a cash dividend.
Company registrar Dividend Reinvestment Plan terms and conditions are available Link Asset Services upon request from the Companys registrar via the registrars The Registry helpline on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus network 34 Beckenham Road extras : lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday: Beckenham overseas 44 0 371 664 0300, by email: shareholder.
com Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus network charges Share dealing service Lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday A share dealing service is available for UK shareholders from From outside the UK: 44 0 371 664 0300 Link Asset Services to either sell or buy BBA Aviation plc shares.
co. uk For further information on this service, please visit Website: www.
com online dealing or 0371 664 0445 telephone dealing.
Call costs vary by provider.
Lines are Please contact the registrar directly if you wish to advise a change open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
of name, address or dividend mandate or wish to participate in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan or wish to elect to take your dividend ShareGift inUS dollars rather than receive it in the default currency of sterling.
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating You can access general shareholder information and personal them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity shareholding details from our registrars website.
Further information is available by visiting provides a share portal through which you can view up-to-date www.
org or by telephoning ShareGift on 020 7930 3737. information and manage your shareholding.
You can register for this service via www.
You will require your Investor Financial calendar Code IVC, which can be found on your share certificate or dividend Date payable confirmation, to register for the share portal service or to access Dividend and interest payments other information from the registrars website.
Ordinary shares: Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the final 2018 May 2019 registered holder of those shares to receive information rights interim 2019 November 2019 under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their 5% cumulative preference shares February 2019 and August 2019 shares, not to the Companys registrar, or to the Company.
Date announced Announcement of Group results Half-year result August Annual results March Report and accounts Posted April 196 Consolidated Financial Statements BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Shareholder Information continued Financial statements Warning to shareholders boiler room share scams 103 Consolidated Income Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, Statement or offered an inflated price for shares that investors already own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are 104 Consolidated Statement mostly based abroad.
BBA Aviation plc isaware that, in common with other companies, a small number of our shareholders have received ofComprehensive Income unsolicited telephone calls concerning their investment in the Company, which may have been from fraudsters.
105 Consolidated Balance Sheet Callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are advised not to give details of their email addresses or other personal details to any third party that they do not know.
Further information can be found on the Companys website at 106 Consolidated Cash Flow www.
com under investors and shareholder information.
Statement 107 Consolidated Statement Table of information in compliance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4C of Changes in Equity Clauses Reference 108 Accounting Policies A statement of the amount of interest capitalised by the Group during the period under review with an indication of Note 3 to the oftheGroup the amount and treatment of any related tax relief.
Consolidated Financial 116 Notes to the Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Details of any contract of significance subsisting during the period under review: Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial a to which the listed Company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, is a party and in which a director of the listed 171 Company Balance Sheet Statements Company is or was materially interested: and 172 Company Statement b between the listed Company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, and a controlling shareholder.
ofChanges in Equity Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends, where a Note 21 to the 173 Accounting Policies shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends, details of such waiver together with those relating to dividends Consolidated Financial oftheCompany which are payable during the period under review.
Statements 175 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Any matters not listed above are not applicable.
182 Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings Registered office 105 Wigmore Street 189 Five Year Summary London W1U 1QY 190 Alternative Performance Telephone: 44 0 20 7514 3999 Measures www.
com 195 Shareholder Information Email: info@bbaaviation.
com Registered in England Company number: 53688 This Annual Report is addressed solely to members of BBA Aviation plc as a body.
Neither the Company nor its directors, employees, agents and advisers accept or assume responsibility to any person forthis Annual Report beyond the responsibilities arising from the production of this Annual Report under the requirements of applicable English company law.
Sections of this Annual Report, including but notlimited to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report may contain forward-looking statements about certain of BBA Aviation plcs current plans, goals and expectations relating to future financial condition, performance, results, strategy and objectives including, without limitation, statements relating to: future demand and markets of the Groups products and services: research and development relating to new products and services: liquidity and capital: and implementation ofrestructuring plans and efficiencies.
Statements containing the words believes, intends, targets, estimates, expects, plans, seeks and anticipates and any other words of similar meaning areforward-looking.
These forward-looking statements involve risksand uncertainties because they relate to events and depend oncircumstances that will or may occur in the future which may bebeyond BBA Aviation plcs control.
Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from those set out inthe forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors including, without limitation: changes in interest and exchange rates, commodity prices and other economic conditions: negotiations with customers relating to renewals of contracts and future volumes and prices: events affecting international security, including global health issues and terrorism: changes in regulatory environment: and the outcome of litigation.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement in this document orany other forward-looking statements it may make, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Consequently, such forward-looking statements should be treated with caution dueto the inherent uncertainties including, without limitation, both economic and business risk factors underlying such forward-looking statements or information.
Pages 1 to 95 inclusive consist of a Strategic Report and Directors Report including the Directors Remuneration Report that have beendrawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance uponapplicable English company law.
The liability of the directors inconnection with such reports shall be subject to the limitations andrestrictions provided by, and shall be no greater than is required by, applicable English company law.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
co. uk Photography by Martin Adolfsson Board photography by Anna Batchelor, Jo Hanley, The Headshot Guy & David Woolfall Printed by PureprintGroup BBA Aviation plc Registered Office Registered in England 105 Wigmore Street Company number 53688 London, W1U 1QY www.
